Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW for the year ended 30 September 2008 The Directors submit to the shareholders their business review, report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2008.
1. BUSINESS REVIEW Business and Tax Status The Company carries on business as an investment trust and as such it has received specific approval from the Inland Revenue under the provisions contained in Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Approval for the year ended 30 September 2007 is subject to there being no subsequent enquiry into our Corporate Self Assessment.
In the opinion of the Directors the Company has subsequently directed its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is managed by external parties in respect of investment management, custodial services and the day-to-day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Investment management services are provided by Baring Asset Management Limited Barings and details of the agreement with Barings are given in note 3 to the accounts.
The Custodian is State Street Bank & Trust Company Limited.
Secretarial services are provided by Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services UK Limited.
The Company has no employees.
The Directors are all non-executive.
Investment Objective The investment objective is to achieve long-term capital growth, principally through investment in securities listed on or traded on an Emerging European securities market or in securities of companies listed or traded elsewhere, whose revenues and or profits are, or are expected to be, derived from activities in Emerging Europe.
The primary objective of the Company as set by the Board is to outperform its competitors.
Investment Policy The policy of the Directors is that, in normal market conditions, the portfolio of the Company should consist primarily of diversified securities listed or traded on Emerging European securities markets including over the counter markets, which, in the Companys case, would include the Russian Trading System.
Equity securities for this purpose include equity-related instruments such as preference shares, convertible securities, options, warrants and other rights to subscribe for or acquire, or relating to, equity securities.
The Company may also invest in debt instruments such as bonds, bills, notes, certificates of deposit and other debt instruments issued by private and public sector entities in Emerging Europe.
In addition, Emerging European exposure may be obtained by indirect means.
Investments may, for example, be made in securities of companies listed on securities markets outside Emerging Europe that derive, or are expected by the Directors to derive, the majority of their revenues and or profits and or growth from activities in Emerging Europe.
The Company may also invest in other funds in order to gain exposure to Emerging Europe where, for example, such funds afford one of the few practicable means of access to a particular market, or where such a fund represents an attractive investment in its own right.
The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies including investment trusts.
The Company may from time to time invest in unquoted securities, but the amount of such investment is not expected to be material.
Furthermore the Board has agreed that the maximum exposure to unquoted securities should be restricted to 5% of the Companys net assets.
16 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued For the purposes of this investment policy the Board has defined Emerging Europe as the successor countries of the former Soviet Union, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Turkey, the States of former Yugoslavia, Romania, Bulgaria and Albania.
There is no restriction on the proportion that may be invested in these countries.
In addition the Board has agreed that up to up to 2% of the total assets may be invested in other countries provided that any investments made are companies listed on a regulated stock exchange.
In order to comply with the provisions contained in Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 no investment in a company should represent more than 15% by value of the Companys total portfolio except for subsequent market movements in the value of that investment.
Furthermore the Board has agreed that the maximum value of any one investment should not exceed 12% of the Companys total portfolio save with the prior written consent of the Board.
Where excess occurs due to market movement the manager will notify the Board of this and will reduce the holding to below 12% within six months.
In addition to the above restriction on investment in a single Company the Board seeks to achieve a spread of risk in the portfolio through monitoring the country and sector weightings of the portfolio.
There will be a minimum of 30 stocks in the portfolio.
The Companys Articles provide that the Company may borrow an amount equal to its share capital and reserves.
At 30 September 2008, the only loan facility in place was a US$10 million unsecured loan and overdraft facility with State Street Bank and Trust Company Limited which is used principally to cover timing differences on portfolio transactions.
The Board was negotiating a short-term gearing facility of up to US$60m, but the discussions have been put on hold until markets stabilise.
The Board believes that the markets in which the Company invests are too volatile to warrant long-term gearing.
Dividends The Board does not seek to target any particular level of dividend, and intends rather to distribute by way of dividend most of the net earnings available for this purpose.
The Board recommends an annual dividend of 9.00p per share compared with 0.50p for the previous period.
Subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting, the recommended annual dividend will be paid on 4 February 2009 to members on the register at the close of business on 9 January 2009.
The shares will be marked ex-dividend on 7 January 2009.
Discount The Directors have adopted a firm policy with regard to the market rating of the Companys shares.
At all times the Board will seek to limit the discount to NAV at which the Companys shares trade to a level significantly lower than the 12% trigger level referred to in the next paragraph, using as necessary the Companys share repurchase authority.
During the year ended 30 September 2008, 2,061,202 shares were repurchased at a cost of 18,491,000 1,782,199 shares were repurchased during the year ended 30 September 2007 at a cost of 13,713,000.
Any shares repurchased will either be held in treasury and may be issued at a later date at or above net asset value, or cancelled.
If the average closing mid-market price at which the Companys shares trade in the market in the period of ninety days prior to the publication of the Companys preliminary results each year represents a discount to NAV which exceeds 12%, the Company will offer to repurchase, by way of tender available to all shareholders, up to 15% of the outstanding issued share capital at 95% of NAV after taking account of any expenses including the costs of selling investments in order to fund the repurchase.
17 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Performance At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives of which the most important are as follows: Per formance against the peer group The Board monitors performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds, as defined by the S&P Micropal Equity Europe Emerging markets universe.
In the year ended 30 September 2008 the Company was ranked 32nd out of 130 funds in this universe.
Over three years to 30 September 2008 it was ranked 13th out of 126 funds and over five years it was ranked 9th out of 114 funds.
Per formance against the benchmark index A chart of NAV performance versus benchmark since inception total return is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 29.
Discount to N AV In the year ended 30 September 2008 the shares traded at an average discount of 8.1%.
TER The TER is an expression of the Companys management fees and other operating expenses as a percentage of average net assets over the year.
The TER for the year ended 30 September 2008 was 1.17% excluding performance fee 2007: 1.29%.
A performance fee of 128,000 is payable in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008 2007: no performance fee was payable.
The Board reviews each year an analysis of the Companys TER and a comparison with its peers.
Principal Risks The key risks to the Company fall broadly under the following categories: Investment and Strategy The Board regularly reviews the investment mandate and long-term investment strategy in relation to the market and economic conditions.
The Board also regularly monitors the Companys investment performance against the benchmark and the peer group and its compliance with the investment guidelines.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory In order to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must comply with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Section 842.
A breach of Section 842 in an accounting period could lead to the Company being subject to corporation tax on gains realised in that accounting period.
Section 842 qualification criteria are continually monitored by Baring Asset Management Limited and the results reported to the Board at its regular meetings.
The Company must also comply with the Companies Acts and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Board relies on the services of the administrator, Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services UK Limited and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules.
Loss o f Investment Team or Investment Manager A sudden departure of the Investment Manager or several members of the investment management team could result in a short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and the adoption of a teambased approach, as well as special efforts to retain key personnel.
18 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Discount A disproportionate widening of the discount relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount policy and has set parameters for the Companys broker to follow with regard to the buy-back of shares.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations Details of the Companys compliance with corporate governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 21 to 24.
Operational Like most other investment trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon the services provided by third parties and is dependent on the control systems of the Investment Manager and the Companys service providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, depend on the effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored.
The custodian and the Investment Manager also produce annual reports on internal controls which are reviewed by their respective auditors and give assurance regarding the effective operation of controls.
Financial The financial risks faced by the Company are disclosed in note 19 on pages 45 to 48.
DIRECTORS The present Directors are listed below and on page 2.
They are all non-executive and have all served throughout the year, except for Jonathan Woollett who was appointed on 23 July 2008.
Iain Saunders 61 spent 30 years with the Fleming group until his retirement in 2001, latterly as deputy chairman of Robert Fleming Asset Management.
He is at present chairman of the Czech & Slovak Investment Corporation, MB Asia Select and a number of JPMorgan UCITS funds.
He was appointed Chairman of Baring Emerging Europe PLC on 11 October 2002 and had been a director of the predecessor company, The Baring Emerging Europe Trust PLC, since 2001.
Steven Bates 51 spent 18 years with the Fleming group until 2002, latterly as co-head of emerging markets of JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management.
He has extensive experience in both emerging and developed markets.
He is a director of Zephyr Management UK Limited which is a specialist asset management business and is also on the board of a number of financial companies involved in emerging markets.
He was appointed a Director of Baring Emerging Europe PLC on 27 January 2003.
John Cousins 68 was formerly chief executive of BZW Puget Mah in Paris and managing director of BZW Equities in London.
Prior to that, he held various posts with Kleinwort Benson and has over 30 years of experience in international equity investment.
He is a former chairman of the International Equity Rules and Compliance Committee of the London Stock Exchange.
He was appointed a director of Baring Emerging Europe PLC on 11 October 2002 and had been a director of The Baring Emerging Europe Trust PLC since 1994.
Josephine Dixon 49 is a director of Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC, and is a Chartered Accountant who has previously held a number of senior executive positions, including that of finance director in a publicly quoted company.
She is also a member of the Greenwich Hospital Trust.
She was appointed a Director of Baring Emerging Europe PLC on 5 July 2004.
19 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Saul Estrin 56 is a Professor and Head of the Department of Management at the London School of Economics where he is a specialist on emerging markets.
He was formerly a Professor at the London Business School and Research Director of the Centre for New and Emerging Markets, which analysed the prospects for private sector development and business opportunities in emerging markets.
He has written numerous books and articles on emerging economies.
He was appointed a Director of Baring Emerging Europe PLC on 5 July 2004.
Jonathan Woollett 51 spent 10 years with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development EBRD in London until January 2008 where he was responsible for the EBRDs debt as well as equity activities with non-bank financial institutions in Central and Eastern Europe.
Prior to that he was a director at Credit Suisse Asset Management where he was responsible for the establishment of asset management and mutual fund businesses in Central and Eastern Europe.
Prior to Credit Suisse, he worked for UBS and started his banking career with Deutsche Bank in 1979.
He is on the supervisory boards of two privately owned insurance companies in Russia and Ukraine as well as the supervisory board of Allianz Slovenska poistovna AS in Slovakia.
He is also a partner of a private equity manager, Acoro Capital Partners LLP, which focusses on investments in unlisted financial services companies in Central and Eastern Europe.
In accordance with the Articles of Association John Cousins and Steven Bates retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Jonathan Woollett having joined the Board on 23 July 2008, will also seek election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors interests in the Companys shares, as shown in the register kept pursuant to Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, are stated below: 1 December 2008 30 September 2008 30 September 2007 Beneficial: Iain Saunders 30,000 30,000 60,000 Steven Bates 3,000 3,000 3,000 John Cousins Josephine Dixon 2,325 2,325 2,325 Saul Estrin 1,000 1,000 1,000 Jonathan Woollett appointed as a Director on 23 July 2008 There were no contracts or arrangements subsisting during or at the end of the financial year in which any Director is or was materially interested.
No Director held a shareholding in any of the investments in the Companys portfolio during the year ended 30 September 2008.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS At 1 December 2008, the Company had received notification of the following disclosable interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Sarasin & Partners LLP 4,035,371 shares 10.50% City of London Investment Management Ltd 2,962,625 shares 7.71% Legal & General Group plc 1,406,000 shares 3.66% 20 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued 4.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs and this statement describes how the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2006 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the Association of Investment Companies the AIC Code, which has established a framework of best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more appropriate for investment trust companies.
Applications of the Codes Principles The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and seeks to observe the principles and supporting principles identified in the Code and, where appropriate, the principles identified in the AIC Code.
It should be noted that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the Directors are all non-executive.
Thus not all the provisions of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
The Board The Board currently consists of six non-executive Directors and is chaired by Iain Saunders.
All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Investment Manager.
Their biographies are set out on pages 19 and 20.
Collectively the Board has the requisite range of business and financial experience which enables it to provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship of the Company.
The number of meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee held during the financial year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below: Board Audit Nomination Number of meetings in the year 42 2 Iain Saunders 42 2 Steven Bates 42 2 John Cousins 42 2 Josephine Dixon 32 1 Saul Estrin 42 2 Jonathan Woollett appointed as a Director on 23 July 2008 1 1 All of the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting held in January 2008, except Jonathan Woollett who was appointed as a Director on 23 July 2008.
The Board deals with the Companys affairs, including the consideration of overall strategy, the setting and monitoring of investment policy and the review of investment performance.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to asset allocation and the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Board papers circulated before each meeting contain full information on the financial condition of the Company.
Key representatives of the Investment Manager attend most of the Board meetings, enabling Directors to probe further or seek clarification on matters of concern.
21 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Matters specifically reserved for discussion by the full Board have been defined and a procedure adopted for the Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior non-executive Director has not been identified as the Board is comprised entirely of non-executive Directors.
In accordance with the Articles of Association new Directors stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and will seek annual re-election if they have already served for more than nine years or are aged over 70.
Performance Evaluation Re-election of Directors An appraisal process has been established in order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the Committees and individual directors.
This process involves the consideration by the Chairman and the Board of responses from individual directors to a questionnaire which is completed on an annual basis.
In addition the other directors meet collectively once a year to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
As a result of this evaluation, the Nomination Committee recommends the election of Jonathan Woollett and the re-election of John Cousins and Steven Bates who retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
John Cousins is required to seek annual re-election to the Board as he has served for more than nine years when his service on the board of The Baring Emerging Europe Trust PLC the predecessor company is included.
Mr Cousins continues to make a significant contribution to the Boards deliberations and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that his independence is not affected by his length of service.
The performance of the Company is considered in detail at each Board meeting.
Board Committees The Board believes that the interests of shareholders in an investment trust company are best served by limiting its size so that all Directors are able to participate fully in all the activities of the Board.
It is for this reason that the membership of the Audit and Nomination Committees is the same as that for the Board as a whole.
Audit Committee Miss Dixon is the Chairman of the committee which meets at least twice a year and is responsible for reviewing the annual and interim reports, the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, and the terms of appointment of the Auditors, including their remuneration and the provision of any non-audit services.
Non audit services provided by the Auditors mainly comprised work on the Companys taxation affairs.
The committee has considered the independence of the Auditors and the objectivity of the audit process and is satisfied that KPMG Audit Plc has fulfilled its obligations to shareholders.
It also regularly reviews the terms of the different service providers to the Company including contracts with the Investment Manager, the Company Secretary and the Custodian.
The Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager and its Compliance Officer who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external Auditors also attend this committee at its request and report on their findings in relation to the Companys statutory audit.
As the Company has no employees, section C. 3.4 of the Code, which deals with arrangements for staff to raise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting or other matters, is not directly relevant to it.
The Audit Committee has however, confirmed with the Investment Manager and the administrator that they do have whistle blowing policies in place for their staff.
22 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to deal with questions relating to the financial statements.
Nomination Committee The Committee, which meets at least annually, reviews the Boards size and structure and is responsible for Board succession planning.
During the year the Nomination Committee identified Jonathan Woollett as a suitable Director.
Mr Woollett has significant experience in the Emerging Europe region and the Nomination Committee concluded that he would be a valuable addition to the Board.
Remuneration The Board as a whole considers Directors remuneration and therefore has not appointed a separate remuneration committee.
As the Company is an investment trust and all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with the Code in respect of executive Directors remuneration.
Directors fees are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 28.
Internal Controls The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code The Turnbull guidance which was issued in September 1999 and revised in September 2005.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control which is designed to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
These systems of internal control are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Turnbull guidance recommends a risk-based approach to the assessment of internal controls.
The Board has completed a risk map for the Company and established procedures for the monitoring and review of the risks identified.
The Board as a whole is primarily responsible for the monitoring and review of risks associated with investment matters and the Audit Committee is primarily responsible for other risks.
As the Board has contractually delegated to external parties the investment management, the custodial services and the day-to-day accounting and company secretarial requirements, the Company relies significantly upon the internal controls operated by those companies.
Therefore the Directors have concluded that the Company should not establish its own internal audit function.
The Board continues to monitor its system of internal control in order to ensure it operates as intended and the directors review annually whether an internal audit function is required.
The risk map has been considered at all regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee.
As part of the risk review process, regular reports are received from the Investment Manager on all investment matters including compliance with the investment mandate, the performance of the portfolio compared with the benchmark and compliance with investment trust status requirements.
The Board also receives and reviews annual reports from the Investment Manager and the Custodian on their internal controls and their operation.
These reports are designed to provide details of the internal control procedures operated by the relevant entity and include a report by an independent reporting accountant.
23 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Board confirms that appropriate procedures to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control have been in place which cover all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
An assessment of internal control, which includes a review of the Companys risk map, an assessment of the quality of reports on internal control from the service providers and the effectiveness of the Companys reporting process, is carried out on an annual basis.
Accountability and Audit Set out on page 30 is a statement by the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the accounts.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts, as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
As noted earlier, an Audit Committee has been established consisting of independent Directors.
The Board as a whole regularly reviews the terms of the management and secretarial contracts.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors were covered by directors and officers insurance that was in place during the financial year and at the date of this report.
Relations with Shareholders The Board regularly reviews the Investment Managers contacts with the Companys shareholders and monitors its shareholder profile.
The Board supplements this with some direct contact with shareholders and is available to speak with any shareholder who wishes to do so.
The Board supports the principle that the Annual General Meeting be used to communicate with private investors.
The full Board attends the Annual General Meeting and the Chairman of the Board chairs the meeting.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Investment Manager attends to give a presentation to the meeting.
A quarterly newsletter is produced by the Investment Manager and is available to shareholders.
If a shareholder would like to contact the Board directly, he or she should write to the Chairman at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3XY and mark their letter private and confidential.
Evaluation of Performance of Investment Manager The investment performance is reviewed at each regular Board meeting at which representatives of the Investment Manager are required to provide answers to any questions raised by the Board.
The Board has instigated an annual formal review of the Investment Manager which includes consideration of: performance compared with benchmark and peer group: investment resources dedicated to the Company: investment management fee arrangements and notice period compared with the peer group: and marketing effort and resources provided to the Company.
The Board believes that Baring Asset Management Limited has served the Company well both in terms of investment performance and general support and will continue its appointment.
24 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Statement of Compliance The Board considers that it has complied with all the material provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
It did not, however, comply with the following provisions as explained above: due to the small size of the Board and nature of the business a separate remuneration committee has not been established: a senior non-executive Director has not been identified: and the Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee.
VAT ON MANAGEMENT FEES Details of the potential recovery of VAT on past management fees are set out in note 20 to the financial statements on page 48.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best possible terms for all business and therefore there is no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by the terms.
As an investment trust, the Company does not transact business of a trading nature.
There were no trade creditors at 30 September 2008.
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT The Board has delegated the investment management function to Baring Asset Management Limited.
The Investment Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns to investors.
It believes that over the long term sound social, environmental and ethical policies make good business sense and takes these issues into account when, in its view, they have a material impact on either the investment risk or the expected return from an investment.
EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS The Board has delegated authority to the Investment Manager to vote the shares held by the Company in accordance with current best practice.
Wherever practical the Investment Manager does vote the shares, but in the markets where the Company invests this is not always feasible.
The Investment Manager may refer to the Board on any matters of a contentious nature.
AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES Under Resolution 8 of the Annual General Meeting, the Directors seek a general power from shareholders to allot new securities up to an aggregate par value of 192,218 representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this document excluding shares held in treasury.
Such authority, if granted, will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 9 of the AGM will, if passed, empower the Directors to make allotments of shares including sales of shares held in treasury for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an aggregate of i 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company less the aggregate nominal value of the shares held in treasury as at the date of this document, and ii the aggregate nominal value of shares held in treasury as at that date.
These Resolutions will provide the Directors with flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders.
Under the requirements of the UK Listing Authority, unless authorised by shareholders, shares may not be issued for 25 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued cash at a price below the net asset value per share unless they are first offered pro rata to existing holders of shares of that class.
PURCHASE BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN SHARES AND TREASURY SHARES At the Annual General Meeting held on 15 January 2008 a special resolution was passed giving the Directors authority until the conclusion of the earlier of the 2009 Annual General Meeting, and 12 July 2009, to make market purchases of the Companys own issued ordinary shares up to a maximum of 6,096,757 ordinary shares.
During the year ended 30 September 2008, 1,436,008 ordinary shares were repurchased to be held in treasury 2007: 1,782,199 ordinary shares were repurchased to be held in treasury.
During the year 1,000,000 ordinary shares held in treasury were cancelled 2007: no ordinary shares held in treasury were cancelled.
A further 625,194 ordinary shares were repurchased for cancellation in the year ended 30 September 2008 2007: no ordinary shares were repurchased for cancellation.
The Board proposes that the Company should be given renewed authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market either for cancellation or to be held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Resolution 10 of the Annual General Meeting, which is a special resolution, is being proposed for this purpose.
The Board remains committed to exploring methods by which shareholder value can be enhanced.
The purchase and cancellation or holding in treasury by the Company of its shares at a cost below the net asset value of those shares enhances the net asset value of the remaining shares.
This additional demand for shares may reduce the discount at which the shares trade.
It is proposed that the Company be authorised to purchase on the London Stock Exchange up to 5,762,685 ordinary shares being 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of this document excluding shares held in treasury.
Any such purchases will be completed by the delivery to the Company of shares which will then be cancelled immediately or held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines set from time to time by the Board, and will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing net asset value attributable to a share and, in any event, the minimum price paid may not be below 0.10 per share.
Any exercise by the Company of the authority to purchase shares will occur only when market conditions are appropriate.
The authority to purchase shares will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010, or 12 July 2010, whichever is the earlier.
The authority may be renewed by shareholders at a General Meeting.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, debt or by selling investments.
Effect on Shareholders The effect of the implementation of this proposal will be to enhance the net asset value of the remaining shares, as shares will only be acquired in the market for less than their underlying net asset value.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, which came in to effect on 1 October 2008, introduced a duty for directors to avoid unauthorised conflicts of interest.
The new Articles of Association approved by Resolution 2 26 Baring Emerging Europe PLC REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued at the General Meeting held on 15 January 2008 allows the Directors to authorise such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate.
The Board has expanded the terms of reference of the Audit Committee to review conflicts and potential conflicts and make recommendations to the Board as to whether any such conflicts should be authorised.
AUDITORS The Companys Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution for their re-appointment and remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board M. J. Nokes Secretary 3 December 2008 27
