Board of directors Executive directors Andrew Horton Andrew Beazley Nicholas Furlonge aged 46 was appointed chief aged 55 is the deputy chairman aged 58 is responsible for the risk executive on 1st September 2008. of the company having been chief management of the Beazley group.
Previously he was finance director executive since 1986.
Andrew is Nicholas is a co-founder of Beazley and he joined the board in June a co-founder of Beazley Furlonge Furlonge Limited, and has 35 years 2003.
Prior to that he was UK chief Limited.
He has 32 years experience experience at Lloyds and has financial officer at ING and was at Lloyds.
recently been appointed as a nondeputy global chief financial officer executive director of the Lloyds and global head of finance for the Franchise Board.
He is also chairman equity markets division of ING of the Lloyds Community Programme Barings, having held various financial Management Board and a director of positions with ING Barings since the LMA.
He is also responsible for January 1997.
He qualied as a brand and communications and the chartered accountant with Coopers ceded reinsurance department.
Jonathan Gray Neil Maidment Clive Washbourn aged 55 is head of the groups aged 45 is head of the groups aged 48 is head of the groups property division.
Jonathan has 33 reinsurance division, chairman of marine division.
Clive has 24 years years of experience at Lloyds, the underwriting committee and has experience in the marine insurance joining Beazley in 1992.
He is an responsibility for the political risks industry and actively underwrites active underwriter in his area of and contingency group and accident marine hull, marine liability and expertise, open market commercial and life division.
Neil has 23 years of marine war risks.
He is a member property risks.
He joined Beazley of the LMA Marine Committee, the in 1990 and is the active underwriter LMA Underwriting & the Claims for the managed syndicates.
Committee and is the chairman of the Joint War Committee.
com Non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew Dudley Fishburn Andy Pomfret aged 67 is the chairman of the aged 62 is a non-executive of aged 48 was appointed chief company.
Jonathan was formerly a HSBC Bank plc.
He is an independent executive of Rathbone Brothers Plc managing director of Morgan Stanley director of Philip Morris International in 2004 having held the position of and subsequently chief executive of Inc.
In the US he is chairman of finance director since 1999.
He has been Henderson Smaller Companies to that, he held positions at Peat, chairman of Limit plc, Gerrard Group Investment Trust plc.
Marwick, Mitchell & Co now KPMG plc, and Nationwide Building Society.
He is currently chairman of Ashmore Global Opportunities Limited, The Cayenne Trust plc and LMS Capital plc and senior independent director of Rightmove plc.
He was a member of the Council of Lloyds from 1995 to 1998.
Gordon Hamilton Dan Jones aged 63 recently retired as a senior aged 57 retired in 2003 as viceaudit partner in Deloitte & Touche LLP chairman for Marsh, Inc. responsible after more than 30 years, principally for non-North American operations, involved with listed multi-national strategic planning, and mergers company audits and major forensic acquisitions, based in London.
He is currently a In 2006 he re-entered the broking director of the listed South African business as chief executive for group Barloworld Limited, and is a the broking operations of Fred A. member of the Financial Reporting Moreton & Co. a Salt Lake CityReview Panel FRRP.
based regional financial services concern focusing on the western United States.
