Directors Anthony W Lea Colin A M Buchan Chairman Aged 54, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He is Aged 60, was appointed to the Board in July 2005.
He is chairman of Standard Life Investments Limited and a nonchairman of The Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund, a nonexecutive director of Standard Life plc, National Westminster executive director of BSI Group and The Office of Fair Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Trading, and a trustee of the RAF Benevolent Fund.
He was Scotland Group plc and The Fettes Foundation.
He was the finance director of Anglo American plc in London from Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg before his 1999 to 2005, one of the worlds leading mining and natural retirement in March 2001. resources companies.
He was also a non-executive director of AngloGold Ashanti Limited, the worlds second largest Gordon H Sage gold producer, and fide Beers Investments SA.
Aged 61, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He is a director of Balfour Beatty plc.
He was an executive director of Ian C S Barby Rio Tinto plc until his retirement in 2001 and was deputy Aged 64, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
He chairman of ERM Holdings Limited, an environmental is non-executive chairman of Ecofin Water & Power consulting concern, until retiring in October 2006.
Opportunities plc and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, and a non-executive director of Pantheon International Participations PLC, Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC and SR Europe Investment Trust plc.
He was managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers now BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Trusts division until 2003.
Oliver A G Baring Aged 64, was appointed to the Board in November 2004.
He is executive chairman of Mwana Africa PLC and holds non executive chairmanships of Ridge Mining plc formerly Cluff Mining plc and First Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as directorships in Robert Fox Limited, Tilley International plc, Ferrexpo plc and is a council member of the Sentient Group, a private equity mining fund.
All the Directors are non-executive.
Member of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
16 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
