Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial It is intended that the Group will normally be fully invested, statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year which means at least 90% will be invested in stocks, shares ended 31 December 2008. and physical metals.
However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, or if the Investment Manager finds Business Review it difficult to identify attractively priced opportunities for Principal activity and business review investment, then up to 25% of the portfolio may be held in The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its cash or cash equivalents.
Risk is spread by investing in a principal activity is portfolio investment and that of its trading number of holdings, many of which themselves are subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company diversified companies.
The Group may also occasionally utilise derivative instruments such as options, futures and contracts, if it is Status of the Company deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted particular period, enhance the performance of the Group in its affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, so the pursuit of its objectives.
It is the Boards policy that the as to qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of aggregate exposure to such derivatives does not exceed 10% section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 of the gross assets of the Group.
Details of derivatives activity ICTA.
The last accounting period for which the Company is given in the Investment Managers Report on page 10 and has been treated as approved as an investment trust by HM note 19 on pages 49 to 56. in Revenue & Customs HMRC was for the year ended 31 December 2007.
It is the Companys intention to continue Although investments are principally in companies listed on to seek approval under section 842 of ICTA.
recognised stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 10% of its gross assets in unquoted securities.
As at The Company is an investment company and can take 31 December 2008, the Company held two unquoted advantage of section 832 of the Companies Act 2006 investments, Australian Energy and Ivanhoe Nickel & which allows an investment company to disregard losses Platinum Warrants.
The Company is also permitted to enter on the capital account when paying dividends out of the into stock lending arrangements.
It is the Boards current policy that the Company will not The Company is not a close company within the meaning of invest in any holding that would represent more than 10% of the provisions of ICTA.
its gross assets at the time of acquisition.
In addition, while The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks the Company may hold shares in other listed investment and shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
companies including investment trusts, the Board has agreed that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its Continuation of the Company gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for The Groups accounts are maintained in sterling.
Although the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual many investments are denominated and quoted in currencies General Meeting.
other than sterling, the Group does not intend to employ a hedging policy against fluctuations in exchange rates.
Investment policy The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversified Information regarding the Companys investment exposures investment in quoted mining and metal securities worldwide, is contained within the ten largest investments on pages 11 actively managed with the objective of maximising total and 12, the investments listing on pages 13 and 14, and returns.
Up to 10% of the gross assets of the Company and portfolio analysis on page 15.
Further information regarding its trading subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment investment risk and activity throughout the year can be found Company Limited the Group, may be invested in physical in the Investment Managers Report.
No material change will be made to the investment policy without shareholder approval.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 17 Directors Report continued Gearing which are comparable to those reported by other investment The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing trusts are set out as follows.
can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in 2008 2007 the form of an overdraft or short term loan facility, which can 1 Net asset value undiluted 331.39p 804.13p be repaid at any time.
1 Net asset value diluted 331.39p 752.28p Share price 252.50p 655.00p The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with 1 Discount to net asset value 23.8% 12.9% the Board regularly.
The Investment Manager generally aims Revenue earnings per share basic 5.64p 8.25p to be fully invested and it is anticipated that gearing will not 2 Total expense ratio 1.2% 1.1% exceed 15% of the Groups net assets.
Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines.
Discount calculated on diluted NAV.
Operating expenses excluding interest and after tax relief as a % of average daily date, gearing stood at 0.5% of shareholders funds.
Performance The Board monitors the above KPIs at each meeting.
In the year to 31 December 2008, the Companys undiluted Additionally, it regularly reviews a number of indices and net asset value per share declined by 58.5% compared with ratios to understand the impact on the Companys relative a fall in the HSBC Global Mining Index of 42.1% and the performance of the various components such as asset Companys share price declined by 61.1% all percentages allocation and stock selection.
calculated in sterling terms with income and warrant The Directors recognise that it is in the long term interests of proceeds reinvested.
shareholders that shares do not trade at a significant The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 10 includes discount to their prevailing net asset value.
During the year a review of the main developments during the year, together the shares traded at a discount to NAV of between 5.8% and with information on investment activity within the 29.7%, ending the year at 23.8%.
To enable the Board to take Companys portfolio.
action to deal with any overhang or shortage in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders each year to buy back Results and dividends and issue shares.
The consolidated loss for the year was 766,859,000 2007: profit of 471,058,000 of which 9,831,000 2007: Principal risks 13,391,000 is revenue profit.
The results for the Group are The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 33.
Board regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing each risk, as summarised below.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.50p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December Performance risk The Board is responsible for deciding 2008 2007: 3.00p and a special dividend of 2.50p.
The the investment strategy to fulfil the Companys objectives dividend will be paid on 30 April 2009 to shareholders on the and monitoring the performance of the Investment register of members at close of business on 20 February Manager.
An inappropriate strategy may lead to 2009.
The cost of the dividend amounts to 9,777,000. underperformance against the benchmark index.
To manage this risk the Investment Manager provides an Derivative transactions explanation of significant stock selection decisions and Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in the the rationale for the composition of the investment Investment Managers Report on page 10 and in note 19 on portfolio.
The Board monitors and mandates an adequate pages 49 to 56. spread of investments, in order to minimise the risks associated with particular countries or factors specific to Key performance indicators particular sectors, based on the diversification At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of requirements inherent in the Companys investment performance measures to assess the Companys success in policy.
The Board also receives and reviews regular achieving its objectives.
Amongst others, the key reports showing an analysis of the Companys performance indicators KPIs used to measure the performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index and progress and performance of the Company over time and 18 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc other similar indices, including the performance of major key staff could affect investment returns.
The Investment companies in the sector.
Manager has training and development programs in place for its employees and its recruitment and Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and remuneration packages are developed in order to retain future dividend growth will depend on the Companys key staff.
Any change in the tax treatment of the dividends or interest received by the Company Financial risks The Companys investment activities including as a result of withholding taxes or exchange expose it to a variety of financial risks that include market controls imposed by jurisdictions in which the Company price risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and invests may reduce the level of dividends received by liquidity and credit risk.
In addition, it should be noted shareholders.
The Board monitors this risk through the that the location of the companies in which the Company receipt of detailed income forecasts and considers the invests and shares of companies in the mining sector can level of income at each meeting.
prove to be more volatile and therefore present a greater degree of risk.
Any unquoted investments in the Regulatory risk The Company operates as an Companys portfolio are also subject to additional investment trust in accordance with section 842 of the liquidity risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 19 on Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
As such the pages 49 to 56, together with a summary of the policies Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the sale of for managing these risks.
The Investment Manager monitors investment movements, the level and type of forecast Future prospects income and expenditure and the amount of proposed The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns.
The dividends to ensure that the provisions of section 842 are future performance of the Company is much dependent upon not breached and the results are reported to the Board.
the success of the investment strategy and, to a large Operational risk Like most other investment trust degree, on the performance of financial markets.
The companies, the Company has no employees.
The outlook for the Company in the next twelve months is Company therefore relies upon the services provided by discussed in the Investment Managers Report on page 10. third parties and is dependent on the control systems of the Investment Manager and the Companys service Investment management and administration providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and BlackRock provides management services to the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, Company under a contract terminable on six months notice.
depend on the effective operation of these systems.
BlackRock also acted as the secretary and administrator of These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal the Company throughout the year.
BlackRock receives an control report, which includes an assessment of risks annual management fee of 1.3% of gross assets.
The value of together with procedures to mitigate such risks, is any investment in BlackRock managed funds is excluded prepared by the Investment Manager and reviewed by the when calculating the management fee.
Audit & Management Engagement Committee twice a No penalty on termination of the investment management year.
The custodian, The Bank of New York Europe contract would be payable by the Company in the event that Limited BNYE, a subsidiary of the Bank of New York six months written notice is given to BlackRock.
There are Mellon and the Investment Manager also produce annual no provisions relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
internal control reports which are reviewed by their respective auditors and give assurance regarding the BlackRock is a subsidiary of BlackRock Inc. which is a effective operation of controls.
publicly traded corporation on the New York Stock Exchange operating as an independent firm, with no majority Resource risk The quality of the investment shareholder and an independent-majority Board of directors.
management team employed by BlackRock Investment Following the acquisition of Merrill Lynch on 1 January 2009, Management UK Limited is a crucial factor in delivering Bank of America Corporation indirectly holds an interest of good performance and the loss by the management of approximately 49% in BlackRock Inc. and the PNC Financial Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 19 Directors Report continued Services Group owns approximately 33%.
The remaining In all situations the economic interests of our clients will be shares of approximately 18% are held by employees and paramount.
Going concern BNYE is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The BNYE The financial statements of the Company have been fee is payable at rates depending on the number of trades prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider effected and location of securities held.
The custodian this is the appropriate basis as the continuation vote, being agreement is subject to six months notice by either party.
an annual event, is considered to be a routine item, and the majority of the Companys assets are readily realisable.
The Appointment of the Investment Manager Company is able to meet all of its liabilities from its assets The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of and the ongoing expenses are 1.2% of the net assets.
investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The Directors Board believes that the continuing appointment of the The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2008, all of Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed on page 19, is whom held office throughout the year under review and their in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
interests in the ordinary shares and warrants of the As part of the annual review the Board considered the quality Company at the beginning and end of the financial year, are and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the shown in the table below.
Companys affairs, the investment process and the results 1 January 2008 31 December 2008 achieved to date.
The specialist nature of the Companys Ordinary Ordinary investment remit is, in the Boards view, best served by the Shares Warrants Shares Warrants Natural Resources team at BlackRock, who have a proven A W Lea 5,000 1,000 6,000 track record in successfully investing in the mining sector.
I C S Barby 5,000 76,000 25,000 O A G Baring C A M Buchan 20,000 4,000 24,000 Change of control G H Sage 10,000 2,000 12,000 There are no agreements which the Company is party to that might be affected by a change of control of the Company.
All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
Voting policy The Director retiring by rotation is Mr Lea, who offers himself The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys for re-election.
Mr Lea has considerable knowledge of the portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager, mining sector worldwide, as well as wider commercial whose voting policy states: experience.
Accordingly, his re-election is recommended to shareholders.
we intend to vote at all shareholder meetings of companies in which our clients are invested.
In cases None of the Directors has a service contract with where there are significant obstacles to voting such as the Company.
share-blocking or requirements for a power of attorney we will review the resolutions to assess the extent of the Directors indemnity restrictions on voting against the potential benefits: In addition to Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject we will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to to the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity enhance shareholder value, and on routine issues where for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of we are supportive of a companys management: any proceedings brought against them by third parties we will vote against proposals which we believe may arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are damage shareholders rights or economic interests: and acquitted or judgement is given in their favour.
The Company has entered into Deeds of Indemnity with Directors we will abstain on proposals where we wish to indicate to individually which are available for inspection at the the company issues over which we have some concerns.
20 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc registered office of the Company and will be available at the Share capital and share repurchases Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 on page 47.
Directors Remuneration Report During the year the Company repurchased and subsequently The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 24 placed in treasury 250,000 ordinary shares of 5p each, and 25.
An ordinary resolution to approve this report will be representing 0.2% of the called-up share capital excluding put to members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
shares held in treasury at the beginning of the year, for a total consideration of 1,399,000.
At 31 December 2008, the Substantial share interests Companys issued share capital was 178,317,729 ordinary As at 30 January 2009, the Company had received notification shares, excluding 14,692,800 shares held in treasury.
Since in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency the year end, a further 556,800 ordinary shares have been Rule 5.1.
2 R of the following interests in 3% or more of the purchased and placed in treasury.
Details of the voting rights voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
in the Companys shares as at the date of this report are given in note 11 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on Holding % page 64.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the Legal & General Group PLC 7,904,656 4.4 Rensburg Sheppards Investment shares or on the transfer of shares.
Management Limited 7,720,633 4.3 The latest authority to purchase ordinary shares for Credit Suisse International 7,010,833 3.9 Barclays PLC 6,022,510 3.4 cancellation or to be held in treasury was granted to the 0.5% held on behalf of clients.
Directors on 10 April 2008 and expires on 9 October 2009.
The Directors are proposing that their authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming Annual Donations General Meeting.
The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year.
The main objective of any buy back is to enhance the net asset value per share of the remaining shares and to reduce Payment of suppliers the absolute level and volatility of any discount to net asset It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle value at which shares may trade.
Although the Investment all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and Manager initiates the buy backs, the policy and parameters conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
are set by the Board and reviewed at regular intervals.
The Suppliers of goods and services are generally paid within Company intends to raise the cash needed to finance the 30 days of the date of any invoice.
The Company has no trade purchase of ordinary shares either by selling securities in the creditors.
Companys portfolio or by short term borrowing.
Warrants Treasury shares In March 2006, shareholders were issued with bonus The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury warrants on the basis of one warrant for every five shares Shares Regulations allow companies to hold shares held, exercisable over a three year period.
3,844,373 acquired by market purchase as treasury shares, rather than warrants were exercised on 28 February 2007 and 20,867,250 having to cancel them.
Up to 10% of the issued shares may warrants were exercised on 29 February 2008 at a price of be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled or 439p per share and 478p per share, respectively.
The final sold for cash in the market.
This would give the Company the opportunity for the remaining warrantholders to exercise ability to reissue shares quickly and cost efficiently, thereby their subscription rights is 27 February 2009, with the improving liquidity and providing the Company with exercise price being 565p per share.
At the year end, additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 21 Directors Report continued should result in a positive overall effect on shareholders if and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
shares are bought back at a discount and then sold at a price Unless renewed, this authority will expire on 22 October 2010. at or above the net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
Resolution 10 Authority to buy back shares The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will continue authority granted to Directors enabling the Company to to keep the matter of treasury shares under review.
Annual General Meeting Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming the maximum price which can be paid is the higher of 5% Annual General Meeting is important and requires your above the average of the market values of the ordinary immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action shares for the five business days immediately preceding the you should take, you should seek advice from your date of purchase, the price of the last independent trade, and stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other the highest current independent bid.
In addition, shares will financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and only be repurchased at prices below the net asset value per Markets Act 2000 as amended.
share, which should have the effect of increasing the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
In Resolutions relating to the following items of special making purchases, the Company will deal only with member business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General firms of the London Stock Exchange.
seeking authority to purchase up to 28,932,278 ordinary shares being 14.99% of the issued share capital.
Unless Resolution 7 Continuation of the Company as an renewed, this authority will expire on 22 October 2010. investment trust The resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders Resolution 11 Adopt new Articles of Association of the authority that the Company shall continue in being as an Company investment trust.
The Board is proposing that the Company adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Resolution 8 Authority to allot shares Companys existing Articles of Association the existing The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to Articles to reflect the changes in English company law do so by shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution which have been brought into force to date by the Companies seeks authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash up Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
As the 2006 Act is being to an aggregate nominal amount of 482,526 which implemented over a period of time, with the final stage represents 5% of the current issued share capital including coming into effect in October 2009, it is anticipated that treasury shares.
The Directors will use this authority when it shareholders may be asked to approve further changes to is in the best interests of the Company to issue shares for the New Articles at a future Annual General Meeting.
This authority, unless renewed at an earlier general meeting, will remain in effect until 22 April 2014.
The principal changes between the New Articles and the existing Articles are summarised in the Appendix to the Resolution 9 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Other changes, which are By law, Directors require specific authority from of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some shareholders before allotting new shares or selling shares minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the out of treasury for cash without first offering them to existing 2006 Act have not been noted in the Appendix.
shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
A copy of the proposed New Articles showing all the changes Resolution 9 empowers the Directors to allot new shares for to the existing Articles will be available for inspection during cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in normal business hours at the Companys registered office treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a profrom the date of posting this document up to the conclusion rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 482,526 of the Annual General Meeting.
which is equivalent to 9,650,526 ordinary shares of 5p each 22 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Audit information The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and that each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and resolutions proposing their reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Secretary 11 February 2009 Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 23
