Investment Managers Report investors dumping commodity futures positions into the Portfolio performance markets seemingly without regard to pricing impact.
After a satisfactory start to the year in which mining shares Currency movements also affected returns during the year, reached new highs, market conditions deteriorated sharply.
especially in the second half when the weakness of sterling From late May through to late November the HSBC Global flattered the Companys returns.
At the portfolio level, a Mining Index declined by 68.5% -76.1% in US dollar terms, number of the companies will have benefited from local one of the worst periods ever for the sector.
Against this currency weakness which is helping to soften the blow of background, the Companys net asset value NAV declined lower US dollar denominated commodity prices.
significantly, bringing to an end a run of seven consecutive years of growth.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, the 2008 % change % change % change % change % change Companys undiluted NAV and share price both with income US $ AUS $ CA $ SA Rand Brazil Real and warrant proceeds invested fell by 58.5% and 61.1% Iron Ore respectively.
These figures compare with the Thermal Coal HSBC Global Mining Index sterling terms which declined by spot 11.7 9.9 7.8 22.1 15.0 43.3% capital only and 42.1% with income reinvested.
Copper 56.8 45.6 46.0 41.6 43.4 Gold 3.1 29.9 29.0 39.5 35.1 Mining share overview 2008 percentage change in commodity prices in different producer currencies.
Mining shares set quite a number of records in 2008, both good and bad.
In the first half of the year mining shares In response to the economic crisis, governments called for reached all-time high levels spurred on by high commodity drastic action and monetary authorities began to stimulate prices, record earnings and eye catching contested M&A their economies with policies aimed at providing liquidity to battles, notably the BHP Billiton hostile bid for Rio Tinto.
A range of measures were introduced including 19 May 2008, the Companys NAV and share price reached record low interest rates, nationalisation of troubled assets 963.0p and 791.5p respectively, the highest levels since the and capital investment programmes.
Towards the end of the inception of the Company.
In the second half, market year, signs began to emerge that this unprecedented easing conditions could not have been more different with rapid falls of monetary policy by Central Banks was starting to have the in prices to levels not seen in several years.
The key to this desired effect on financial markets.
Credit spreads narrowed shift was the world economy which, though positive overall in somewhat and volatility subsided to lower levels, albeit still 2008, experienced rapid deceleration in the second half of very high.
As a measure of calm returned to the markets, it the year with Q4 perhaps being the worst quarter for global seemed that both commodities and the mining sector might growth in 50 years.
The catalyst for this deterioration was the have become oversold.
Investors started to take a fresh worsening credit crisis which was responsible for the look at the sector as companies began to announce their demise of several banks during the year, with the most proposed action to deal with the new economic environment.
damaging failure being Lehman Brothers in September This action has involved cutting future capital expenditure, which precipitated the near paralysis of the global banking trimming operating costs and the closure of high cost sector.
Many banks were forced to seek new capital production capacity.
This, coupled with the fact that the steep culminating in the virtual nationalisation of many household mining share price falls had in some cases pushed name banking institutions in Europe and the US.
With the valuations far below the replacement cost of the company banking sector stricken, a serious lack of credit availability assets, refocused attention on the sector.
helped to transmit the recessionary economic conditions from the developed world to the emerging economies which had hitherto seemed immune.
As the concept of economic decoupling came under increasing pressure, commodity prices crumbled and mining equities lost almost all investor support, ushering in the worst six months for the sector since records began.
The downward movement of commodity prices was exacerbated by disinvestment, with many Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 5 Investment Managers Report continued slowdown and as a result held too much portfolio exposure Commodity % production cut in commodity sensitive stocks and not enough in the more Aluminium production 13 defensive companies.
In particular, during the second half Nickel Mine production 17 Zinc Mine production 7 of the year, it became extraordinarily difficult for companies Copper Mine production 2 to refinance debt facilities and our exposure to companies Iron Ore production 10 such as Rio Tinto, Oz Minerals and Teck Corporation all of Ferrochrome production 37 Coking Coal production 6 which have financing challenges impacted our returns.
Production cuts as a % of annual production.
The Companys modest gearing also proved to be a drag on Sources: Alcoa, RBS, UBS & JBWere estimates.
As sentiment improved from the dismal levels of October, the On the positive side, our longstanding focus in the portfolio market witnessed a strong rally and from the low of the year on those companies with long life reserves and world class in November to the end of the year, the HSBC Global Mining assets has been helpful.
Similarly, the portfolios relatively Index rose by 41.6% in sterling terms 37.9% in US dollars, low exposure to exploration companies and to stocks with despite there being little or no significant improvement in small market capitalisations has saved a considerable underlying economic activity.
amount of capital, as these are the areas of the market which performed least well in 2008.
Nevertheless, these good Although powerful, the year end rally was not sufficient to decisions were not enough to save the Companys relative change the overall characteristics of 2008.
The year will be performance against its benchmark index.
Almost all of the remembered as one of high volatility, shocking corporate underperformance for the year came in the near news, dire equity returns generally, with poor absolute and catastrophic three month period September, October and relative performance from most mining shares.
November, the like of which we have never seen before.
HSBC Global Mining Index MSCI World Equity Index % change Price year ended % change 0.6 31 December 31 December average 2008 2008 2008 2007 0.5 Gold US$ troy oz 862.2 3.1 25.1 0.4 Platinum US$ troy oz 898.0 41.3 20.5 0.3 Nickel US$ tonne 10,807.5 59.0 43.4 Copper US$ tonne 2,901.5 56.8 2.6 0.2 Aluminium US$ tonne 1,454.0 38.3 2.8 0.1 Zinc US$ tonne 1,120.3 53.0 42.4 0.0 Uranium US$ lb 54.0 40.0 36.1 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Potash US$ tonne 775.0 94.0 181.0 Iron Ore lump Index % change sterling terms US$ tonne 201.7 96.4 year ended 31 December 2008 Coking Coal hard MSCI World Index 19.8 US$ tonne 300.0 315.8 FTSE 100 Index 31.3 Thermal Coal HSBC Global Mining Index 42.1 US$ tonne 130.0 134.2 Gold sub index 4.5 Sources: Datastream, UBS and Citigroup.
Base metals sub index 54.0 Annually negotiated price based on Japanese fiscal year.
Diversified mining sub index 51.6 Gold Bullion 42.8 MG Base Metals basket 35.7 Gold and precious commodities Source: Datastream.
Due to a powerful year end rally, gold equities were amongst the best performing mining equities of 2008 finishing the In such a fast changing and treacherous market, it has not year up 4.5% in sterling terms.
Gold itself was also one of the been easy to optimise the Companys portfolio strategy.
We best performing commodities and one of only a handful to be were slow to appreciate the full magnitude of the economic 6 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc in positive territory for the year as a whole.
The price of Buenaventura remained the largest gold investment in the gold proved to be something of a barometer of financial fear portfolio and is a top ten holding.
Important new gold share with the peaks and troughs coinciding with the banking cycle.
positions added during the year include Newcrest Mining Investors have been buying physical bullion either directly or 3.3% of the portfolio and Lihir Gold 0.5%.
These provided a through Exchange Traded Funds ETFs as a safe haven meaningful relative and small positive absolute return and in March gold reached an intraday all-time high of during the year.
US$1,031 oz, triggered by the collapse of Bear Stearns.
Like gold, platinum had a good start to the year, rising to a Subsequent banking sector problems also buoyed gold but new all-time high of over US$2,270 oz.
The strength had a more muted effect on the media headlines as dollar stemmed from some major constraints on the supply side strength was also important.
In certain other currencies, coupled with buoyant demand from autos and the ETF.
South such as sterling, gold reached a succession of new highs.
African supply has been particularly impacted by the slow rate of mine expansions, together with power shortages.
In Gold price the second half of the year platinum, palladium and rhodium prices crashed under the combined influence of slowing car 550 sales and forced selling by a distressed hedge fund.
The low 500 450 price environment means that the earnings outlook for the 400 portfolios four South African platinum equities, Impala 350 Platinum 6.1% of the portfolio, Anglo Platinum 2.3%, 300 Aquarius Platinum 0.8% and Ridge Mining 0.3% is bleak in 250 the near term.
However, we believe that the platinum metal 200 prices are unsustainably low at present and we are taking a 150 longer term view on this subsector.
The holding of Lonmin 100 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 was sold in the strength that surrounded Xstratas ill-fated Source: Datastream.
hostile offer for the company in August 2008.
In May 2008, the Mexican miner Industrias Penoles 4.3% of Although the ebb and flow of financial market demand the portfolio spun out its precious metals division into a new dictated the short term trends for gold in 2008, the company called Fresnillo, listed in London.
Our combined underlying supply demand balance remained favourable.
holding in the two companies stands at 6.3%.
Global mine output has been stagnant or falling since 2001 due to a lack of exploration success while jewellery demand The diamond market was weak again in 2008.
Our two seems to have become less sensitive to the fluctuating price.
diamond equity holdings remain unchanged and both were Investment demand for gold as measured by the success of disappointing investments.
Harry Winston Diamond Corp. the ETFs has surged.
Despite the positive tone to the gold 0.5% of the portfolio, formerly known as Aber Diamonds, market, investment in gold shares has not been quite so and which owns a 40% stake in the Diavik mine in Canada, fruitful.
For much of 2008, gold equities underperformed the with Rio Tinto holding 60%, saw its share price fall by 80.8% bullion price and it was only in the last few weeks of the year over the year in sterling terms.
Our other main investment that this situation changed for the better.
The reason for the is Gem Diamonds 0.8% of the portfolio which continued to early underperformance was the general equity malaise but recover exceptional quality diamonds from the Letseng mine additionally gold companies had struggled to control cost in Lesotho.
In September 2008, Gem sold the Leseli La inflation.
As regards cost inflation, the news is improving: Letseng diamond to Graff for US$18.4 million, but despite prices of many consumables have been falling sharply and this suffered a 73.6% fall in its share price over the year.
this means that industry cost control in the future may prove to be better than in the past.
As a result, we believe that the Base metals industry has restored its beta to the gold price making it a Some spectacular price strength early in the year, much more attractive opportunity for the portfolio.
At the underpinned by growth in Chinas demand, gave way to year end, gold exposure in the portfolio totalled 12.1% severe price weakness in the second half as investors lost compared to 5.9% at the end of 2007. faith in the concept of economic decoupling and focused on Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 7 troy oz Investment Managers Report continued awful global economic data.
Overall, the MG Base Metals therefore completely synchronised with the business cycle.
Index fell 53.5% during the year in US dollar terms.
As a result of the combination of oversupply and depressed Inventories in London Metal Exchange LME warehouses demand, prices weakened dramatically in the second half of rose significantly in the second half of the year, especially the year with a fall of 52.7% over 2008 in US dollar terms.
aluminium, indicating some oversupply despite hefty Some analysts believe that over 70% of the worlds production cuts.
productive capacity is now cash flow negative: clearly this is unsustainable in the long term.
In the meantime though, with Nickel continued to be the most volatile of the base metals in demand at a low ebb, inventories have built substantially and 2008, falling to a low of US$8,807 t in response to declining the low price has now led to some major closures of capacity stainless steel demand.
This is down 84% from the all-time around the world.
These closures of capacity in our view high of US$54,150 t seen in 2007.
During the year we cut the should now start to rebalance the market and we would be holding in Eramet, the portfolios only pure play producer, surprised if prices fell materially from here.
In this to 0.9% of the portfolio.
environment our aluminium investments delivered very poor Like most commodities, coppers early strength gave way to returns.
Alcoa embarked on a major restructuring of its extreme weakness in the second half of the year.
Between business but this was not enough to prevent the shares July and December the copper price fell by some 70%, falling by 57.3% over the year and Alumina by 74.4%.
In mid necessitating some big earnings downgrades for the copper year we participated in the Alumina rights issue which stocks in the portfolio.
Interestingly though, unlike recapitalised its balance sheet.
At the year end, aluminium aluminium, copper inventories remain below the levels seen stocks make up 4.5% of the portfolio 6.3% at the end in previous recessions.
This is probably due to the perennial of 2007. supply disruptions which have plagued the copper industry.
It Zinc and lead proved to be very weak in 2008, with zinc now is also worth noting that the new supply from the Democratic trading well below the marginal cost of production.
This has Republic of Congo DRC, which some commentators were caused severe problems for the world zinc mining and expecting to have become a reality by now, is unlikely to smelting industry, which is unsustainable at current levels.
come on-stream in the foreseeable future.
This is due to lack None of the zinc related equities in the portfolio did well.
The of availability of capital, together with ongoing title issues worlds largest zinc producer Teck Cominco 1.6% of the and political risk.
With prospective earnings declining portfolio endured an 87.3% drop from its 2008 peak of sharply, copper shares have been under severe pressure C$52 share.
This was due partly to weak commodity prices with second half share price falls of 49.1%, 71.1% and 71.5%, but was also due to its decision to buy out the minorities of respectively from our largest positions Cerro Verde, Freeport its Canadian metallurgical coal division, Fording.
The McMoran Copper & Gold and First Quantum Minerals.
The Fording acquisition led to a substantial debt burden which best performer was Antofagasta 1.8% of the portfolio which will need to be refinanced later this year.
only declined by 35.3% in the second half, helped by its US$3 billion cash mountain.
Another zinc producer to run into financial difficulties was Oz Minerals formed from a merger of Oxiana and Zinifex.
Oz In our view, coppers role as an emerging market Minerals 0.5% of the portfolio problems stemmed from a infrastructure metal will mean that it will be one of the most combination of low commodity prices and too much debt, the sensitive to economic recovery and could be one of the debt having been incurred in the acquisition of the nickel commodities to be first out of the slump.
We see the company Allegiance.
At the time of writing, Oz Minerals weakness of equity valuations as a long term investment shares are suspended pending an attempt by the company at opportunity and have been adding to positions such as refinancing its debt.
Equinox Minerals which has a brand new long life, low cost mine.
Copper remains an important part of the portfolio at Energy commodities 8.2% of the portfolio 9.8% at the end of 2007.
As expected, 2008 proved to be a consolidation year for Aluminium continued to disappoint, with overproduction in uranium with the price steady for much of the period.
Aluminium has major uses in Uranium equities were dismal investments and are now every segment of the world economy and demand is beginning to look good value.
The portfolio currently holds 8 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc only one uranium stock, UEX 0.7% of the portfolio.
UEX is potentially suggesting that investors might be too bearish one of the best exploration stocks and continues to progress about the diversified resources shares.
We have increased the holding in % change % change this company, taking advantage of some extreme share year ended from May high to price weakness.
31 December 31 December Stock figures in terms 2008 2008 As mentioned elsewhere, coal enjoyed a strong start to the BHP Billiton 16.3% 41.1% year with buoyant energy prices a feature of the market.
The Vale 47.3% 59.4% situation was much worse in the second half with demand Anglo American 49.8% 58.0% faltering and oil prices suffering record falls.
This led to Vedanta 70.1% 78.0% Rio Tinto 72.0% 79.0% share price weakness and Peabody Energy 2.0% of the Teck Cominco 81.2% 87.3% portfolio finished the year down by 48.9%.
One of our largest Xstrata 82.0% 85.5% coal investments was the Indonesian stock Bumi Resources HSBC Global Mining Index 44.1% 55.4% 1.3% of the portfolio, one of the worlds largest coal exporters.
This stock had a reasonable year from an BHP Billitons hostile bid for Rio Tinto dominated the news operational perspective but was particularly hard hit headlines for much of 2008.
The slow pace at which the following the financial difficulties of its largest shareholder, regulatory authorities move however, meant that by the time the Bakrie Brothers.
By the year end, Bumis share price had clearance was achieved business conditions had changed fallen by over 81.9%.
significantly and BHP Billiton no longer wished to proceed.
Rio Tintos share price reacted very negatively to the collapse Diversified mining companies and industrial of the bid and the stock finished the year down 72%, one of commodities the biggest single losses to affect the portfolio.
Key to BHP As was the case with other subsectors of the mining Billitons decision to withdraw the bid was the sharp industry, the year started off rather promisingly and then deterioration in both commodity prices and credit availability.
Bulk commodity prices were very strong in the Rio Tinto has a significant refinancing of debt in 2009 and as early part of the year with contract prices for thermal and credit conditions deteriorated this began to weigh on met coal reaching record high levels.
Iron ore negotiations sentiment, making Rio Tinto seem overly leveraged.
In the also ended favourably with a record high price and an aftermath of the failed bid, Rio Tinto sought to stabilise its increase of over 90%.
These prices boded well for the cash business announcing a 50% cut in global capex and a large flows and earnings of the diversified miners, helping to round of retrenchments.
In addition, Rio Tinto will have to propel share prices to record levels early in the year.
These press ahead with asset disposals that will go well beyond buoyant market conditions ended abruptly in October and non core businesses.
Teck and Xstrata were two other November with steel companies cutting production companies that found themselves in the midst of investor dramatically up to 30% to cope with the sharp slowdown of concerns regarding balance sheet strength.
In Xstratas case world demand for metals.
Almost overnight, demand for bulk the problem was self inflicted with the company embarking commodities evaporated and this led to drastic cutbacks of on a hostile all-cash bid for Lonmin just as credit availability mining production as steel customers refused shipments.
for the mining sector turned down.
In the event, Xstrata The implications of this for future earnings are clear with elected to withdraw its bid having accumulated a stake of possible falls of at least 40% in 2009 2010 contract prices 24.6% in its target.
Xstrata also suffered from persistent looming and analysts have made some big cuts to 2009 rumours about the financial health of its major shareholder forecasts a factor which sparked off some steep share Glencore.
At the year end, the Company did not have a price falls with only BHP Billiton outperforming the HSBC holding in Xstrata.
Currency movements have offset the The most disappointing investment in 2007 proved to be one negative price news to some degree with the Brazilian real of our best this year Iluka Resources, the Australian falling by 33% against the US dollar from its peak in August titanium mineral and zircon producer 2.5% of the portfolio.
and the Australian dollar falling by 28% from its peak.
We Iluka benefited from the weaker Australian dollar and its believe that these favourable currency movements will dominant position in the minerals sands sector.
Ilukas absorb about one third of the falls in commodity prices, Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2008 9 Investment Managers Report continued shares rose by some 24% during the year, one of the only of the downturn will be the more geared businesses with stocks to finish the year in positive territory.
The fertilizer stocks in the portfolio, Potash Corp. Agrium, We expect to see a continuation of the uptrend in the gold Mosaic and Sunkar Resources, struggled during the second price.
Mine supply is likely to remain constrained while half of the year as product prices deteriorated and farmers investment demand has grown and net Central Bank sales reacted to lower crop prices by deferring applications.
In of gold remain on a declining path.
This is a good aggregate, our four holdings comprise 4.1% of the portfolio.
environment for precious metals, especially as the dollar looks expensive at the moment.
Derivatives activity Our overall strategy therefore will be to maintain a fully The Group sometimes holds positions in derivatives invested fund with the majority of the portfolio in stocks that contracts, with virtually all of the activity focused on selling should be able to survive the downturn.
A somewhat smaller either puts or calls in order to increase or decrease position amount of the portfolio will be allocated to those riskier sizes.
These positions, which are small in comparison with companies that will eventually be in the vanguard of recovery.
the size of the Group, usually have the effect of obliging us to buy or sell stock or futures at levels we believe are attractive.
Graham Birch & Evy Hambro The volatility of the market during 2008 provided some good BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited opportunities for option writing.
However, at the end of 11 February 2009 December, all of the positions had matured or expired.
Gearing At 31 December 2008, the Company had virtually no net gearing.
Gearing, which can be drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility and opportunities.
Outlook and strategy for 2009 The year end rally in both mining shares and commodities which took shape in December 2008 has faltered as we enter 2009.
Plenty of uncertainty exists with regard to future macro economic trends and this is likely to mean that volatility is set to remain high for the moment.
With the notable exception of gold, commodity prices are on track to average much lower levels in 2009 compared with 2008 which suggests that the sector will lose all positive earnings momentum.
The companies that are most likely to do best in this environment are the same ones that were outperforming in the third and fourth quarters of 2008: specifically those with balance sheet flexibility and low operating costs.
A good example would be a stock like BHP Billiton.
Companies with urgent need of refinancing will continue to struggle until credit conditions improve.
Given the magnitude of the share price falls that have already been witnessed we would argue that much of this bad news is now in the price of the shares.
Aggressive investors will be on the lookout for early signs that the recessionary conditions are bottoming out.
The stocks that will lead us out 10 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
