BlueBay Asset Management plc Board of 28 Annual Report 2008 Directors 1.
Alan Gibbins 1 3 Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive, Senior Non-Executive, Independent Non-Executive, Independent 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 Independent Director Director Director Hans-Jrg Rudloff, aged 67, was Terence Eccles, aged 62, was Tom Cross Brown, aged 60, was Alan Gibbins, aged 58, was appointed Chairman of the appointed a non-executive appointed non-executive director appointed non-executive director Company on 3 July 2001.
Hansdirector of the Company upon of the Company upon the of the Company on 5 November Jrg is also Chairman of the listing.
He is currently a nonCompanys listing.
He has extensive experience Executive Committee of Barclays executive director of The Paragon was Chief Executive Officer of of public company reporting Capital.
He is Vice Chairman Group of Companies PLC.
He ABN AMRO Asset Management and financial services spanning of Novartis, is a Board member was formerly Vice Chairman of and prior to joining ABN AMRO 35 years with Price Waterhouse of Thyssen-Bornemiza Group JPMorgan Cazenove, having Asset Management in 1997, and  LLP, and Roseneft OJSC, sits previously been Vice Chairman of he was Chief Executive Officer having been a Partner since on the Advisory Board of Investment Banking at JPMorgan of Lazard Brothers Asset 1985 and an Audit and Business Landeskreditbank BadenChase, following the merger Management.
He is currently Assurance Partner until June Wrttemberg, and is a member between Chase Manhattan and non-executive Chairman of Pearl 2006.
His outside interests of the Beirat of Energie BadenJPMorgan.
He started his career Assurance plc, National Provident include Membership of Council Wttemberg.
at JPMorgan in 1970 and has Life Limited, NPI Limited, London and Chairman of the Audit worked in JPMorgans London, Life Limited and Just Retirement Committee of Queen Mary, New York and Hong Kong offices.
He is also a nonUniversity of London, and he executive director of Pearl Group is a trustee and the Treasurer Limited and of Artemis Alpha of Emmaus Medway.
1 Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman 1 2 3 4 Board of Directors 29 5.
Alex Khein Chief Executive Officer Chief Investment Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Hugh Willis, aged 48, is one of Mark Poole, aged 47, is one of Nick Williams aged 52, was Alex Khein, aged 39, is Chief the co-founders of the Company the co-founders of the Company appointed Chief Financial Officer Operating Officer of the and has been a director and and has been a director and of the Company in October 2001 Company with responsibility Chief Executive Officer of the Chief Investment Officer of the and an executive director of the for Operations, IT, Risk and Company since inception.
Performance, Treasury and spent eight years at JPMorgan, spent several years at Credit Prior to this he spent 15 years at Structured Products and was latterly as Co-Head of its Suisse First Boston and JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs, latterly as Chief appointed an executive director European Credit Arbitrage latterly as Co-Head of its European Financial Officer of Goldman of the Company on 1 November Group.
He has subsequently Credit Arbitrage Group.
He joined the Company in held senior positions within the subsequently held senior positions Europe.
He previously served as June 2004 as Head of Structured Global Credit Arbitrage Group of within the Global Credit Arbitrage Chief Financial Officer and was Products before taking up the Kleinwort Benson and the Fixed Group of Kleinwort Benson and a member of the Management role of Chief Operating Officer Income Management Groups of the Fixed Income Management Committee of Goldman Sachs & in October 2005.
Previously he both Banca della Svizzera Italiana Groups of both BSI and DSTB.
He qualified as spent seven years at Morgan BSI and Daiwa Securities Trust a chartered accountant with Stanley where he was an and Banking DSTB, London.
executive director within the Securitised Products Group.
