BlueBay Asset Management plc Inside the 02 Annual Report 2008 Business Who we are What we do Founded in 2001, BlueBay is one of We offer clients a diverse and award the leading fixed income credit managers winning range of credit products with a in Europe specialising in two major variety of different risk return profiles.
sub-asset classes of credit European The mix of long-only and long short corporate debt and emerging market management disciplines within a single debt.
Based in London with offices in asset class ensures we have sufficient Tokyo and New York, we manage in investment flexibility to deliver strong excess of $21 billion of assets and risk-adjusted performance over the credit employ over 230 staff globally.
BlueBays cycle with a continued focus on absolute specialisation in credit is a key feature returns.
We recognise that capital of our success we concentrate on preservation is key to our investors and managing assets within a single defined our active management style aims to asset class while applying an absolute produce consistency of returns rather return mind-set to a disciplined and risk than a series of highs and lows within controlled investment process.
03 How we do it Our Business Drivers We believe in relentless focus and Effective global distribution apply this to every area of our business.
Strong risk-adjusted We have built one of the most investment performance experienced teams of credit specialists Effective management of in Europe with the focus to deliver upper business risk quartile performance.
Alongside this we Recruitment, motivation have invested significantly in developing & retention of highly a comprehensive and highly scalable talented people infrastructure to provide best of breed systems, straight through operational processing and dedicated risk management.
We place a high priority Global Investment on maintaining a strong risk management Distribution Performance culture within the Group combining rigorous internal controls and effective risk management systems.
Combining the infrastructure of a mainstream asset manager and the investment focus of a boutique has ensured that our operational Talented Business capacity keeps pace with asset growth.
People Risk BlueBay Asset Management plc Our 04 Annual Report 2008 Opportunities Credit Markets and Global Assets Our Opportunities Fixed income markets satisfy the financing needs of the worlds governments, agencies, and corporations and have expanded significantly over the last decade, particularly in Europe and BlueBays business model is positioned developing markets.
to take advantage of strong secular European corporate debt markets have grown rapidly from growth trends in both the European a nominal size to an estimated size in excess of $2 trillion in the last decade, outpacing growth of their more established corporate and global emerging US equivalents.
Global emerging market debt, historically a hard-currency sovereign market, has grown rapidly in the last decade, driven by growth of global high yield issuance and local currency financing, and is now estimated at over $5 trillion in size.
Rapid growth of derivative instruments across corporate and emerging markets have provided additional liquidity and market depth.
BlueBays specialisation in credit, across the spectrum of European corporate credit and emerging market debt, has allowed us to benefit from the growth in debt markets and ensuing demand for specialist managers in this area.
Our expertise and ability to manage the full range of debt instruments enables us to offer products spanning both highly scalable long-only funds as well as higher-margin alternative investment products.
US vs. European corporate debt market US Europe $bn 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 76 78 81 84 86 89 92 94 97 20 02 05 08 Source: Merrill Lynch 05 Secular Opportunities Cyclical Opportunities BlueBays business model is positioned to take advantage of Credit markets have shown a historical cyclicality, generally strong secular growth trends in both the European corporate following a leverage and deleverage cycle, each portion of and global emerging debt markets.
which creates its own risks and opportunities.
The cycle historically gives rise to correlated behaviour between debt Over the last decade, the introduction of the Euro has created and equity markets.
a deep homogeneous debt capital market from what was once a small fragmented and illiquid market.
The European debt Market downturns typically precede periods of attractive market has experienced rapid growth and continues to exhibit investment conditions, which, if properly managed, allow faster growth momentum than its US counterpart.
for the generation of attractive risk-adjusted returns.
These conditions in turn are likely to attract interest from investors This growth has been fuelled by: seeking cyclical investment opportunities at the bottom of the cycle where it may be possible to earn equity type returns increases in investor demand from liability driven institutions from fixed income investments.
such as insurance companies and pension funds growing disintermediation of the banking sector from the In the first positive phase of the market, corporate profits are corporate lending process generally growing faster than debt and this creates a leveraged buyout LBO activity growth over the last decade favourable equity and credit environment that sees a rally in both markets.
In the second phase debt is found to be Emerging market debt has matured as an asset class in the last growing faster than profits which leads to falling credit markets decade such that it is now considered a mainstream asset class and still rising equity markets.
In the third phase, the leverage across sovereign and corporate issuers in a variety of hard and, bubble bursts and both credit and equity markets decline.
In the fourth and final phase, debt reduction occurs leading to a credit rally while equity markets continue to slump.
Over the last few years emerging market economies have experienced: sustained and robust domestic economic growth increased foreign exchange reserves the general adoption of floating foreign exchange rates The resultant market has seen a steady increase in tradable debt instruments and derivative contracts as well as upward momentum in the credit quality of issuers.
As these markets have grown, so has the demand for specialist managers such as BlueBay with the expertise to manage the full range of debt instruments on behalf of investors.
BlueBay manages a full range of European corporate debt instruments through funds specialising in investment grade, high yield and distressed debt.
Within the emerging market asset class, BlueBay manages funds across the range of sovereign and local currency denominated debt as well as emerging market corporate debt.
Global emerging market debt Market outlook The leverage cycle Total External Sovereign debt Total Local Sovereign debt Debt reduction $bn Total Private Corporate debt 10,000 Credit Equities 8,000 6,000 The bubble Profits growing faster bursts than debt 4,000 Credit Equities Credit Equities 2,000 0 Debt growing faster than profits 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08F 09F Source: JPMorgan Credit Equities BlueBay Asset Management plc Chairmans 06 Annual Report 2008 Statement
