BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED On the invitation of the Directors of the Company, this commentary has been provided by BlueCrest Capital Management LLP as investment manager of AllBlue Limited and is provided without any warranty as to its accuracy and without any liability incurred on the part of the Company, BlueCrest Capital Management L. L. P. or AllBlue Limited.
The commentary is provided as a source of useful information for shareholders of the Company but is not attributable to the Company.
Report on AllBlue Limited AllBlue by BlueCrest Capital Management LLP for the year ended 31 December 2008 AllBlue Limited Class A, USD made 10.04% in the period under review, calendar year 2008.
The majority of returns came from Q1 and Q4 with returns of 4.62% and 4.38% respectively: the fund returned 1.18% in Q2.
Perhaps most impressive was the drawdown of -0.40% in Q3.
Q3 represented one of the most dramatic periods in global financial history.
In September, the US government gave financial support to the beleaguered mortgage finance companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, shortly followed by the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the bailout of the insurer AIG and the subsequent moves by governments to provide rescue packages to tackle the ongoing economic turmoil.
Despite the almost unprecedented trading conditions and ensuing market panic, most of the underlying funds within AllBlue managed to limit losses to within a few basis points, with some funds posting positive returns.
At the AllBlue level, the returns during July, August and September were 0.36%, 0.66% and -0.69% respectively.
Despite a very volatile year in underlying markets, fund volatility has remained at or below 6% for the year measured quarterly on an annualised basis.
Annualised volatility during 2008 was 4.76% based on weekly estimate data with the highest quarterly volatility figure occurring during Q4 6%.
The widening of the credit crisis within the financial system and the ramifications for the real economy were considerable.
Policy actions and responses have all contributed to the volatility of prices in the instruments traded by the underlying funds throughout the year.
The chart on page 24 shows the evolution of the volatility of AllBlue and its components.
As the chart shows, the annualised volatility of AllBlue is below that of the majority of the strategies indicating high diversification during the year.
The correlation grid on page 21 12 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued reinforces this observation: the largest two capital allocations during 2008 Mixed Arbitrage and Systematic had a correlation of only 10.45%.
Throughout the course of the year, as volatility of underlying markets increased, the fund saw an increase in measured VaR.
For example, into the most volatile quarter of the year the VaR Monte Carlo 99% daily of the fund rose with the volatility of the underlying markets.
Q4 saw this measure of risk average around 1% of assets, up from around 0.7% in Q3.
The FOF correlation correlation of each pair multiplied by the capital allocation averaged 4% for the year as a whole.
This diversification paid off in terms of drawdown during 2008 and especially during Q4: the maximum drawdown observed weekly was just over 2% during the year and was a little less than 1% during Q4.
At the same time as volatility has increased, unencumbered cash levels in the underlying fund strategies have remained high.
Cash levels ended the year ranging from 17% in trade finance to 80% in systematic.
The imputed cash level for AllBlue was around 57%, down slightly from earlier in the year and within the targeted range.
For the calendar year 2008, the strategy contributions and detail are as follows: BlueCrest Capital International Mixed Arbitrage BlueCrest Capital International contributed 1.76% to AllBlue Limited during 2008, with the fund returning a steady 6.26% Class A, USD for the calendar year.
The Rates desk, led by CEO and Head of Trading Michael Platt, was the strongest performer during 2008, contributing 7.53% to BlueCrest Capital International: FX also performed extremely well with small positive contributions from Trade Finance, Credit RV and Venture Finance.
The returns from the Relative Value and Equity Derivatives desks were disappointing with contributions of -1.28% and -1.92% respectively.
Profitable trades focused on likely policy responses to the unfolding crisis and an emphasis on long volatility biased strategies were instrumental to strong performance from the Rates team.
BlueTrend Systematic Trading BlueTrend returned an outstanding 43.35% Class A, USD during 2008, contributing 8.89% to AllBlue Limited.
13 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued The model suffered only three drawdowns during 2008 -6.06%, -4.35% and -0.07% in April, July and August respectively.
BlueTrend posted a record high monthly performance of 11.13% in October, most remarkable in the context of record lows in margin to equity of below 6%.
In this month, like several others, the system responded rapidly to elevated volatility reducing positions even while trends were continuing in their primary direction.
This rapid reactivity was key to preserving P&L in the many short-term, counter-trend movements.
The system positioning anticipated recessionary forces, with a focus on equity market shorts and fixed income longs in bonds and short rates.
The dynamic nature of the capital allocation process within AllBlue is evident from the allocations made to BlueTrend during 2008.
AllBlue significantly decreased its allocation to BlueTrend and increased the amount held in cash 11% in April: given the performance of BlueTrend in April, this re-allocation was timely.
AllBlue subsequently increased its allocation to BlueTrend to 20% at the beginning of September, and to 25% in October.
This was clearly helpful to the performance of AllBlue with BlueTrend returning an aggregate of 24.45% from September through December month end.
In an environment with heightened anxiety around counterparty risk, the dispassionate algorithmic approach to trading in exchange-traded markets is something we believed could have particularly fruitful results at these inflection points.
BlueTrend UCITS Systematic Trading BlueTrend UCITS contributed 0.04% to AllBlue Limited.
The allocation to this fund began in December 2008.
This product showed very strong growth in its first month of operation, registering positive returns in all sectors except for crops.
Fixed Income, in particular, had a strong final month with most instruments traded by the fund benefiting from central bank actions.
BlueHaven Low Beta Systematic BlueHaven returned 47.02% Class A, USD for the year with a contribution of 0.31% to AllBlue: the allocation to BlueHaven remained small throughout the year circa 1%.
We felt that BlueTrend was a superior program because of the wider diversity of instruments and, given the improvements made to the system in 2008, it was decided to remove BlueHaven from the capital allocation process in December.
14 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued Emerging Markets 2008 was a turbulent year for emerging markets with the universe seeing deterioration in credit and a severe reduction in liquidity: during the latter half of 2008 we reduced risk considerably within the fund and reduced the AllBlue holding in Emerging Markets.
Despite reducing risk throughout the year and aiming to maintain a highly liquid portfolio, the Emerging Markets Fund returned a disappointing -17.29% Class A, USD, contributing -2.75% to AllBlue Limited.
The majority of this loss came during August, September and October 2008 with drawdowns of -2.17%, -6.53% and -13.71% Class A, USD respectively.
During October, positions where we were long high-grade Russian corporate credit versus country hedges elsewhere in Emerging Markets were particularly hard hit.
General market fide-levering was widespread and hurt us in foreign exchange, where markets like the Romanian leu rallied strongly, despite exceptionally poor fundamentals.
Some of these losses were recouped during December 2008 5.52% with the fund benefiting from a focus on tactical trading, liquid positioning and techniques to limit downside.
Multi Strategy Credit Relative Value 2008 was dominated by negative sentiment, extreme volatility and poor credit market liquidity.
Volumes remained low and market participants were cautious as liquidation outflows continued.
Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the bailout of the insurer AIG and the subsequent moves by governments to provide rescue packages to tackle the ongoing economic turmoil, basis remained wide bonds remained cheap to CDS, and the skew remained close to the wides.
Risk positioning remained cautious as the team focused on waiting for an improvement in liquidity.
In this context the BlueCrest Multi Strategy Credit Fund Class A, USD returned 8.12% for the year, contributing 0.61% to AllBlue Limited.
Mercantile Trade Finance Mercantile contributed 0.73% to AllBlue Limited with the fund returning 6.86% Class A, USD.
The fund showed considerable negative correlation to emerging markets distress and the long-short nature of the book meant that it demonstrated positive convexity as a result of the performance of the hedges employed.
While long assets experienced losses over the 15 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued year, these were exceeded by profits made on hedges which included purchases of CDS protection typically on sovereigns, commodity hedges and equity puts purchased to cover systemic risk.
BlueMatrix High Frequency Equity High frequency equity trading posted a positive 8.81% return on an allocation that was increased to 7% of AllBlue at year end, contributing 0.44% in total to AllBlue for the year.
This strategy is a net beneficiary of higher volatility in equity markets as dislocations which it can access are more frequent and larger.
It does, however, face higher volatility of returns during these periods: for example, in the fourth quarter annualised volatility was 33% in BlueMatrix, when the VIX index averaged about 60%.
The diversification of this programme relative to other components of AllBlue was particularly high in Q4, when it was strongly negatively correlated to four of the five other strategies whilst delivering positive returns please see page 21 and the correlation grids for details.
West Harbor and BlueMountain Both WestHarbor and BlueMountain were removed from the capital allocation in April 2008.
The decision was taken to remove these funds because of the need for greater transparency given the prevailing market conditions.
The contribution from both WestHarbor and BlueMountain during January, February and March was flat with West Harbor contributing -0.26% and BlueMountain contributing 0.27%, resulting in a net gain of 0.01% for the two strategies.
16 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued Disclaimer This communication is issued by BlueCrest Capital Management LLP BCML.
BCML is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom FSA.
"This communication constitutes a financial promotion for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 the Act and the handbook of rules and guidance issued from time to time by the FSA the ""FSA Rules""."
BCML is registered with the U. S. Securities Exchange Commission SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
The information contained herein is directed exclusively at persons who are professional clients or eligible counterparties for the purposes of the FSA Rules, or to Qualified Purchasers, as defined in the U. S. Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Any of the funds described herein each a Fund and other investments and investment services to which this communication relates are only available to the persons referred to above and other persons should not act or rely on the information contained herein.
The information contained herein is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and or privileged material.
Any retransmission, dissemination or other unauthorised use of this information by any person or entity is strictly prohibited.
If you have received this communication in error, please contact the sender immediately and delete this material in its entirety.
This communication is not intended to constitute, and should not be construed as, investment advice.
Potential investors in the Funds should seek their own independent financial advice.
"BCML neither provides investment advice to, nor receives and transmits orders from, investors in the Funds nor does it carry on any other activities with or for such investors that constitute ""MiFID or equivalent third country business"" for the purposes of the FSA Rules."
This communication has been provided to you for informational purposes only and may not be relied upon by you in evaluating the merits of investing in any securities or interests referred to herein.
This communication is not intended as and is not to be taken as an offer or solicitation with respect to the purchase or sale of any security or interest, nor does it constitute an offer or solicitation in any jurisdiction, including those in which such an offer or solicitation is not authorised or to any person to whom it is unlawful to make such a solicitation or offer.
Any decision to purchase securities or interests with respect to any of the Funds described herein must be based solely upon the information contained in the Prospectus or Private Placement Memorandum for that Fund, including any supplements thereto, which must be received and reviewed prior to any investment decision.
Any person subscribing for an investment must be able to bear the risks involved and must meet the suitability requirements relating to such investments.
Some or all alternative investment programs may not be suitable for certain investors.
Certain of the performance results provided herein were not achieved from the actual management of the Fund, but are instead simulated results achieved by means of the retroactive application of the advisers investment methodology, or the real-time application of a hypothetical capital allocation to such strategy.
This approach has inherent limitations, including that results may not reflect the impact that material economic and market factors might have had on the advisers decision-making if the adviser actually had been managing client money.
Although the information in this communication is believed to be materially correct, no representation or warranty is given as to the accuracy of any of the information provided.
Certain information included in this communication is based on information obtained from sources considered to be reliable.
However, any projections or analysis provided to assist the recipient of this communication in evaluating the matters described herein may be based on subjective assessments and assumptions and may use one among alternative methodologies that produce different results.
Accordingly, any projections or analysis should not be viewed as factual and should not be relied upon as an accurate prediction of future results.
Furthermore, to the extent permitted by law, neither the Funds nor any of their agents, service providers or professional advisers assumes any liability or responsibility nor owes any duty of care for any consequences of any person acting or refraining to act in reliance on the information contained in this communication or for any decision based on it.
Past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results.
The actual performance realised by any given investor will depend on, amongst other things, the Fund invested into, the class of shares interests subscribed for, the period during which such shares interests are held and in what currency such shares interests are held.
This communication may include returns for various indices.
These indices are not intended to be direct benchmarks for a particular Fund, nor are they intended to be indicative of the type of assets in which a particular Fund may invest.
The assets invested in by the Funds will likely be materially different than the assets underlying these indices, and will likely have a significantly different risk profile.
Target returns, volatility and Sharpe ratio figures quoted are targets only and are based over 17 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT BY THE MANAGER OF ALLBLUE LIMITED continued the long term on the performance projections of the investment strategy and market interest rates at time of modelling and therefore may change.
Among the risks we wish to call to the particular attention of prospective investors are the following: 1 Each Fund's investment programme is speculative in nature and entails substantial risks: 2 The investments of each Fund may be subject to sudden and large falls in price or value and there could be a large loss upon realisation of a holders investment, which could equal the total amount invested: 3 As there is no recognised market for many of the investments of the Funds, it may be difficult or impossible for a Fund to obtain complete and or reliable information about the value of such investments or the extent of the risks to which such investments are exposed: 4 BCML has total trading authority over the Funds, and the use of a single adviser could mean a lack of diversification and, consequently, higher risk, and BCML is dependent upon the services of key personnel, and if certain or all of them become unavailable, the Funds may prematurely terminate: 5 An investment in a Fund is illiquid and there is no secondary market for the sale of interests in a Fund and none is expected to develop: 6 There are restrictions on transferring interests in a Fund: 7 BCML will receive performance-based compensation, which may result in riskier investments, and the Funds fees may offset trading profits: 8 The Funds are subject to certain conflicts of interest: 9 Certain securities and instruments in which Funds may invest can be highly volatile: 10 The Funds may be leveraged: and 11 A substantial portion of the trades executed for the Funds take place on non-U.
Changes in rates of exchange may also have an adverse effect on the value, price or income of the investments of each Fund.
