BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal Activity The Company is a self-managed closed-ended investment company incorporated in Guernsey on 21 April 2006 with an unlimited life.
The Company has three classes of shares in issue being Sterling Shares, Euro Shares and US Dollar Shares.
On 19 June 2008 all three classes were admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Investment Objective and Investment Policy The investment objective and policy of the Company is as stated on page 1.
Shareholder Information The Company announces the confirmed net asset value of each share class on a monthly basis and a commentary on the investment performance provided by BlueCrest.
The estimated net asset value of each share class is announced weekly to the London Stock Exchange.
The daily market closing prices of Shares are available on Reuters, Bloomberg, Proquote and on-line on the internet.
A copy of the Registration document of the Company can be found at www.
All Shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
The buying and selling of Shares may be settled through CREST.
The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by Anson Registrars Limited in Guernsey and they can be contacted on 44 0 1481 711301.
Share Issue Pursuant to the Security Note issued by the Company in June 2008 the Company issued 86,411,419 Sterling C Shares, 9,544,950 US Dollar C Shares and 1,930,000 Euro C Shares.
Effective 1 August 2008 these were converted into 71,997,994 Sterling Ordinary Shares, 8,086,481 US Dollar Ordinary Shares and 1,663,467 Euro Ordinary Shares.
Between 25 November and 16 December, the Company purchased 450,000 Sterling Shares which are currently held in treasury.
27 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Results The results for the year are set out in the Statement of Operations on page 38.
The Directors do not propose a dividend for the year.
Directors Of the Directors shown on page 6 Richard Crowder, Paul Meader and John le Prevost all held office throughout the reporting period.
Jonathan Hooley and Andrew Dodd were appointed as directors on 7 May 2008.
All directors remain in office as at the date of signature of these financial statements.
According to the Combined Code, all directors should submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
As a result of this, Richard Crowder and Paul Meader offer themselves for re-election.
Due to his association with the Manager of AllBlue, Andrew Dodd is subject to annual re-election by shareholders and, therefore, offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming General Meeting to be held under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
No Director is under contract of service with the Company nor are any such agreements proposed.
The interests of the directors in the Ordinary Shares of the Company are as follows: Jonathan Hooley 159,104 Sterling Shares Andrew Dodd 166,640 Sterling Shares Related Party Transactions Anson Fund Managers Limited is the Administrator and Secretary of the Company, Anson Registrars Limited is the Registrar, Transfer Agent and Paying Agent of the Company and Anson Administration UK Limited is the UK transfer Agent of the Company.
John R Le Prevost is a director and controller of Anson Fund Managers Limited, Anson Administration UK Limited and Anson Registrars Limited.
Andrew Dodd is a limited partner of BlueCrest, the Manager of AllBlue Other than the above mentioned interests none of the Directors nor any persons connected with them had a material interest in any of the Companys transactions.
28 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Substantial Shareholdings The Directors have been notified of the following substantial interest in the Companys relevant share capital as at 31 March 2009.
Name Number of Voting Rights % of Voting Rights Rathbone Brothers Plc 33,156,576 14.25% Quilter & Co Limited 20,632,271 8.87% Investec Asset Management 14,805,964 6.36% Newton Investment Management Limited 13,961,740 6.00% Michael Platt 11,661,386 5.01% Net Asset Value The Net Asset Value for accounting purposes, of the Companys Ordinary Shares, including Revenue Reserves as at 31 December 2008 was GBP 1.2525, EUR 1.2068 and USD 1.2171.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
29 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code As a Guernsey incorporated company, the Company was not required to comply for the year with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UKs Financial Services Authority.
However, the directors place a high degree of importance on ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained and have adopted the spirit of the Code, which sets out principles of good governance and a code of best practice for listed companies.
In addition, with effect from 1 January 2009 the Company was required to comply with the UK Financial Services Authoritys Transparency Rules DTR7 and, in accordance with the requirements of DTR7, the Board of directors has resolved voluntarily to apply the Code.
Corporate Governance Principles The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and, having reviewed the Code, considers that it has established procedures since Admission to ensure that going forward it complies subject to the exceptions explained below and its special circumstances as an offshore investment company.
For the reasons set out in the preamble to the Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Companys position and has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Other areas of non-compliance with the Code by the Company, other than stated elsewhere in this report, are as follows: The Board comprises five non-executive directors all of whom are independent for the purposes of the Code and Listing Rule 15.2.
12A except for Andrew Dodd, who is a director of the Manager of AllBlue Limited.
Biographies of the directors appear on pages 6-7 demonstrating the wide range of skills and experience they bring to the Board.
There is no Chief Executive position within the Company, which is not in accordance with provision A.
Being a self managed investment company the Company has no employees and therefore no requirement for a Chief Executive.
30 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The independent members of the Board will consider new Board appointments although there is no separate nomination committee which is not in accordance with provision A.
The Chairman, the Directors and the Secretary or other appropriate persons will give new appointees to the Board a preliminary briefing on the workings of the Company.
The Combined Code is available on the following website: www.
The Board has four scheduled meetings a year, ad hoc meetings as necessary and between these formal meetings there is frequent email communications together with regular contact with the Secretary.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available from the Secretary upon request.
The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Jonathan Hooley, Mr Paul Meader and Mr Richard Crowder.
Jonathan Hooley has been appointed as Chairman.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual and half-yearly financial reports, the interim management statements, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
Under the provisions of the Code, Richard Crowder, Chairman of the Company, is not considered to be independent.
However, the Board considers that excluding the Chairman from membership of the Committee would not be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Management and Remuneration Committee A management and remuneration committee has been established consisting of Paul Meader, Jonathan Hooley and Richard Crowder.
Paul Meader has been appointed as Chairman.
The function of the management and remuneration committee is: 31 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: and b to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
In addition the chairmanship of the above two committees is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
In addition each Directors performance will be assessed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman will be assessed by the remaining Directors.
During the year ended 31 December 2008 the number of meetings attended was as follows: Director Quarterly Ad-hoc Board Audit Management and Board Committee Remuneration Committee Richard Crowder 4 4 16 22 3 3 1 1 Paul Meader 4 4 7 22 3 3 1 1 John Le Prevost 4 4 16 22 n a n a Jonathon Hooley 2 2 5 18 n a 1 1 Andrew Dodd 2 2 2 18 n a n a The figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held in the period in respect of which the individual was a Board member.
32 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Internal Controls The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Board will carry out an annual review of internal controls.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Company is a self-managed investment Company with no separate Investment Manager.
BlueCrest is Manager to AllBlue.
Administration and Secretarial duties for the Company are performed by Anson Fund Managers Limited.
The Directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors.
The appointment of agents and advisers is conducted by the Board after consideration of the quality of the parties involved and the Board monitors their ongoing performance and contractual arrangements.
Internal Audit The Company does not have an internal audit department.
All the Companys management and administration functions are delegated to independent third parties and it is therefore felt there is no need for the Company to have an internal audit facility.
However, this matter is reviewed periodically.
33 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Dialogue with Shareholders All holders of Shares in the Company have the right to receive notice of, and attend, the Annual General Meeting during which the Board and the Manager are available to discuss issues affecting the Company, although only holders of Class Shares are entitled to vote at the meeting.
The directors are always available to enter into dialogue with shareholders and make themselves available for such purpose whenever required.
The Company believes such communications to be important.
The Manager and its Corporate Broker meet regularly with the Companys major shareholders and reports are provided at least quarterly to the Board of Directors on those shareholders views about the Company and any issues or concerns they might have.
The Manager also convenes quarterly conference call for shareholders Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as Auditor.
A resolution proposing their reappointment will be submitted at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going Concern In light of the anticipated requirement for continuation votes to be put to all classes of shareholders, there is uncertainty as to whether any or all classes of shareholder would vote to discontinue their share class.
Notwithstanding such uncertainty, the financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis with reference to the Directors present assessment of: o shareholder appetite to discontinue the Company: o the subsequent level of redemptions which might result if such an offer was made: o the continuing viability of the Company on both a reduced net asset and cost base: and o the expectations of the Directors are that the Company will continue for the foreseeable future.
34 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued By order of the Board Richard Crowder Jonathan Hooley Director Director 35
