Board of Directors William Thomson ` Lynn Ruddick ` Chairman age 56, was appointed in age 68, was appointed a 2004.
She was previously a Director in 1974 and Managing Director of Merrill Chairman in 1995.
He is Lynch Investment Managers also Chairman of where she headed the E. G. Thomson Holdings companys investment trust Ltd, John Menzies plc and Fidelity Japanese Values business unit.
She is a non-executive director of plc.
Fidelity Special Values plc and Gartmore Smaller Companies Trust plc, a member of the Investment James Long ` Committees of The Pearson Group Pension Plan age 53, was appointed in and Western Provident Association, Chairman of the 2006.
He is Director of WPA Pension Scheme Board and a trustee of the Risk and Compliance for Scottish & Newcastle Pension Scheme.
AstraZeneca Europe and was formerly Corporate Ian Russell ` Finance Director of Inchcape age 55, was appointed on plc and Managing Director, Asia and Emerging 1 June 2008.
He was Markets, for the ESAB Group.
He is Chairman of formerly Chief Executive of JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
He is currently a non-executive James MacLeod ` director of Johnston Press Chairman of the Audit plc and The Mercantile Investment Trust plc, nonCommittee executive Chairman of Remploy Ltd, the Advanced age 67, was appointed Power AG advisory board, and the University of in 1998 and was a partner Edinburgh campaign board, and an adviser to 3i of Ernst & Young and its and Clyde Bergemann Power Group Inc. predecessor firms for 25 years until his retirement in 1998.
He is a director James West ` of Scottish Investment Trust plc, Invesco Perpetual Senior Independent Director AIM VCT plc and Invesco Perpetual Recovery Trust age 61, was appointed in 2011 plc.
1995 and was formerly Managing Director of Lazard Dr Christopher Masters ` Brothers and Co Ltd and age 61, was appointed in Chief Executive of Lazard 1990 and was, until 2002, Asset Management Ltd.
He is Chairman of Gartmore executive Chairman of Fledgling Trust plc, New City High Yield Fund Ltd, Aggreko plc.
He is currently Jupiter Second Enhanced Income Trust plc, Chairman of Sagentia Canaccord Adams Ltd and Rurelec plc.
He is also a Group plc and the Festival director of JPMorgan Income & Capital Investment City Theatres Trust.
He is also a non-executive Trust plc, Shires Smaller Companies plc, UK Select director of John Wood Group plc, Alliance Trust plc, Trust plc, GNE Group plc and IPSA Group plc.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee ` Member of the Nomination Committee Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19
