Managers Review Introduction Asset Allocation After five years of gains, global stockmarkets fell Towards the end of the year financial markets were back sharply in 2008.
Weakening global growth, the rocked by a wave of bankruptcy filings and bailouts.
widening credit crunch, high oil and foods prices Even in the emerging markets, which up until then and related rising inflation all served to send had been largely immune from direct repercussions stockmarkets lower.
from the global credit crunch, contagion occurred.
Against this background, in the year to In this highly charged environment, interbank interest 30 September 2008, the Companys net asset value rates climbed to unusually high levels.
Institutions total return was 26.8 per cent, which compared to became unwilling to lend cash as a result of extreme a negative return of 20.3 per cent for its composite caution over counterparty solvency risks.
Central benchmark index 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index banks attempted to provide some relief by adding and 25% FTSE World ex UK Index.
The sizeable injections of liquidity and offering emergency Companys share price total return was 24.8 per funding to banks.
At the same time as panic hit money markets, Despite market weakness, 2008 has been another equities across the globe fell sharply.
With risk good year for dividends.
Income from the aversion increasing, investors moved into cash or Companys UK portfolio is ahead of expectation and government bonds.
Unsurprisingly, financial stocks the dividend is covered again this year.
On 30 September 2008 the Companys borrowings net of cash were 20.5 per cent of which 11.6 per cent was invested in equities and 8.9 per cent was invested in corporate bonds.
Local Stockmarket Total Returns Year to 30 September 2008 Currency % % FTSE All-Share Index 22.3 22.3 FTSE World ex UK Index 14.4 24.7 FTSE North America Index 9.8 20.7 FTSE Europe ex UK Index 19.7 29.1 FTSE Pacific ex Japan Index 27.1 30.0 FTSE Japan Index 15.4 31.7 Source: Datastream figures stated are total returns Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Managers Review continued Asset Allocation The asset allocation of the Company is shown in the table below: 30 September 2008 30 September 2007 ShareShareBenchmark holders Total holders Total 30.09.08 Funds Assets Funds Assets Asset Class % % % % % UK Equities 75.0 74.8 59.0 77.2 62.0 Overseas Equities North America 14.4 17.0 13.4 12.9 10.3 Europe ex UK 5.7 7.6 6.0 8.1 6.5 Pacific ex Japan 2.4 7.3 5.8 6.1 4.9 Japan 2.5 4.9 3.8 4.1 3.3 Total Overseas Equities 25.0 36.8 29.0 31.2 25.0 Total Equities 100.0 111.6 88.0 108.4 87.0 Corporate Bonds 8.9 7.0 6.6 5.3 Net current assets 5.0 7.7 Actual Gearing 20.5 15.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Potential Gearing 26.8 24.6 The table below shows the equity weightings by sector in the benchmark and the portfolio as at 30 September 2008: Total UK Overseas Benchmark Equities Equities Equities FTSE Sector % % % % Oil & Gas 15.8 15.7 12.6 3.1 Basic Materials 8.2 5.9 4.4 1.5 Industrials 8.4 10.5 5.5 5.0 Consumer Goods 10.9 8.4 4.6 3.8 Health Care 8.5 9.7 7.3 2.4 Consumer Services 9.3 7.7 4.8 2.9 Telecommunications 5.8 7.4 6.3 1.1 Utilities 5.0 6.6 5.3 1.3 Financials 24.7 24.1 16.0 8.1 Technology 3.4 4.0 4.0 Total 100.0 100.0 66.8 33.2 8 British Assets Trust plc Sub-Portfolio Reports UK Major Holdings Market % Total Company Nature of Business Value m Investments BP Oil & Gas Producers 22.5 5.6 Vodafone Group Telecommunications 16.6 4.1 GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotech 15.7 3.9 HSBC Holdings Banks 14.6 3.6 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers 13.3 3.3 AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals & Biotech 11.6 2.9 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Banks 9.8 2.5 Centrica Utilities 9.7 2.4 Imperial Tobacco Group Tobacco 8.6 2.2 BG Group Oil & Gas Producers 8.1 2.0 The UK portfolio returned 23.8 per cent over the crisis engulfing HBOS raised fears of contagion in year compared with a return of 22.3 per cent from the wider economy, although investors found the FTSE All-Share Index.
reassurance in the Governments swift facilitation of a potential rescue by Lloyds TSB and a massive Following a period of improved performance in the injection of liquidity by the monetary authorities.
first six months of the financial year, the portfolio was affected in the second half of the year by the Economic fundamentals deteriorated, with many events in financial markets.
Deteriorating economic commentators forecasting an imminent recession news and frozen money markets weighed heavily on after data indicated that GDP growth had ground to investor sentiment, as did the collapse of some of a halt in the second quarter of 2008.
News flow on the best known and longest established names on inflation and unemployment has been disappointing.
Wall Street followed by a number of European However, we are optimistic of an easing in casualties.
The main detractors to performance were inflationary pressures given the sharp correction in HBOS, Royal Bank of Scotland and Cattles in the commodity prices coupled with weaker demand as financial sector and Yell and Findel in the consumer growth slows.
While market conditions are likely to sector.
remain turbulent, the indiscriminate nature of the market sell-off has left shares in a number of sound The headline event was the near-collapse of HBOS, companies trading at attractive valuations.
the countrys largest mortgage lender, in the wake of concerns over its core mortgage business.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 Managers Review continued North America Major Holdings Market % Total Company Nature of Business Value m Investments Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals & Biotech 3.9 1.0 Exxon Mobil Oil & Gas Producers 3.8 0.9 Microsoft Software & Computer Services 3.3 0.8 Anheuser-Busch Beverages 3.1 0.8 Southwest Airlines Travel & Leisure 3.1 0.8 The North American portfolio returned 10.2 per three-year low.
A corollary of this weakness was a cent over the year compared with a return of reduction in commodity, including oil, prices, which 9.8 per cent from the FTSE North America Index has led to a strengthening in the value of the both expressed in sterling.
US dollar, from which the Companys US portfolio has benefited.
The North American portfolio benefited from the sharp rally in the dollar towards the end of the However, the structural problems in the housing period.
market persist and a weakening employment market In the final weeks of the period, the parlous state of will compound the pressures on the US consumer.
the US financial system was exacerbated by a The US economy looks set to remain fragile and number of well-publicised business collapses, in companies will continue to find the environment a particular, the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, challenging one.
With wage growth slowing and which led to unprecedented Government unemployment increasing we expect consumer intervention and a fall in equity values to a near spending to slow down.
10 British Assets Trust plc Europe ex UK Major Holdings Market % Total Company Nature of Business Value m Investments ACP Mezzanine General Financial 1.4 0.3 F Secure Software & Computer Services 0.8 0.2 Zurich Financial Non-Life Insurance 0.8 0.2 Roche Holding Pharmaceuticals & Biotech 0.7 0.2 Societe Generale Banks 0.7 0.2 The Europe ex UK portfolio returned 27.7 per cent supported by growth in construction and property: over the year compared with a return of 19.7 per the well-documented downturn in these areas has cent from the FTSE Europe ex UK Index.
led to an inevitable fall in share prices.
The past year has been a turbulent period for The financial crisis claimed several European victims.
European equities which have declined sharply The Belgian-Dutch banking giant Fortis was partreflecting both difficulties in the credit markets and a nationalised by the Benelux governments.
broad based slowdown in growth.
Eurozone GDP Germanys second-biggest commercial property contracted in the second quarter of 2008 as higher lender Hypo Real Estate received a k35 billion loan oil prices squeezed consumer spending.
Household guarantee from the German government to fend off spending contihnues to slow down across the insolvency and Brussels and Paris based Dexia, the region.
worlds biggest lender to local governments, was bailed out in a k6.4 billion state-backed rescue.
The underperformance is primarily attributable to the exposure to small and medium sized companies, The dislocation in the banking sector is dominating where a lack of liquidity has led to dramatic falls in sentiment in equity markets as its effect on share values.
We believe, however, that as markets economies is expected to be severe.
Against this begin to stabilise, low valuations will once again backdrop, corporate earnings will remain under drive stock prices and the Companys investments pressure.
Strategic merger and acquisition activity, will benefit.
which had been reasonably buoyant in the early We have seen a growing differential across Europe, part of the summer and was providing support to as the markets in Germany and France have equity prices, is also constrained.
The latest bout demonstrated far more resilience than the Spanish of financial distress has crippled confidence and and Irish markets, both of which have suffered constrained the funding required to complete many similarly to the UK.
Spain and Irelands boom was corporate transactions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Managers Review continued Pacific ex Japan Major Holdings Market % Total Company Nature of Business Value m Investments Shanghai Industrial General Industrial 1.1 0.3 Cnooc Oil & Gas Producers 0.9 0.2 Hang Lung Properties Real Estate 0.9 0.2 Samsung Electronics Technology Hardware & Equipment 0.8 0.2 Perusahaan Gas Negara Gas, Water & MultiUtilities 0.8 0.2 The Pacific ex Japan portfolio returned 31.1 per The emerging markets in India and China have fallen cent over the year compared with a return of sharply.
As the year progressed, China shifted from 28.6 per cent from the FTSE AW Pacific ex Japan, focussing on fighting inflation to supporting growth.
Falling inflation and lower global commodity prices have created some scope for China to cut interest The underperformance in the main reflects the rates, effectively ending its five-year long credit Companys exposure to commodity and basic tightening policy.
In India, growth has averaged material stocks, particularly in China, as the 9 per cent in the past three years resulting in high slowdown in demand and the subsequent fall in inflation and rising interest rates, affecting both commodity prices was greater than expected.
business investment and consumer spending.
Both markets continue to face difficulties, namely global As concerns over the fundamental health of the risk aversion and decelerating profit growth.
global economy increased, investors looked to reduce exposure to the Asia Pacific region.
Some Asian markets have fallen much more than we markets were nevertheless surprisingly resilient to anticipated, and by more than developed markets, stalling growth rates elsewhere, with exports actually despite the arguably stronger financial systems.
accelerating in Korea and Taiwan.
In Hong Kong, Given the relatively low valuations, we consider that however, rumours of high exposure to toxic assets significant earnings downgrades are priced in, and forced the central bank to inject around an easing of financial tensions combined with more US$500 million into the Bank of East Asia to stimulatory economic policies can lead to a rebound staunch a run on its deposits.
12 British Assets Trust plc Japan Major Holdings Market % Total Company Nature of Business Value m Investments Toyota Motor Automobiles & Parts 0.8 0.2 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Banks 0.7 0.2 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Banks 0.7 0.2 KDDI Mobile Telecoms 0.6 0.1 East Japan Railway Travel & Leisure 0.6 0.1 The Japan portfolio returned 17.4 per cent over the Bank of Japan kept interest rates fixed at 0.5 per year compared with a return of 15.4 per cent from cent but the government announced an 11.7 trillion the FTSE Japan Index.
stimulus package designed to breathe life into the faltering economy and stave off recession.
The portfolio benefited from the appreciation of the yen which gained 24 per cent versus sterling over The outlook for equities in Japan has been the year.
tempered by the recent financial crisis and the Investor sentiment in Japan was damaged by further effects of slowing global growth are likely to affect signs of weakness in the world economy and progress over the shorter term.
However, it is clear indications of a deceleration in growth domestically.
that the domestic financial system in Japan has In August, Japan registered a rare trade deficit as been affected less significantly than that of many exporting companies, already hurt by the strength of developed countries, and financial companies such the yen, suffered weakening demand from the US, as Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group are now seeking Europe and Asia.
Although commodity prices have to take advantage of market falls and capitalise eased recently, rising input costs have pushed on the opportunities afforded by share-price inflation to its highest level for fifteen years.
As elsewhere, investor sentiment Japans inflation is expected to slow into 2009.
Corporate Bonds The corporate bond portfolio returned 7.3 per cent We remain cautious on the outlook for corporate over the year, outperforming the 65 per cent Merrill bonds over the next few months as fundamentals Lynch Sterling Non-Gilts 35 per cent European continue to deteriorate.
The good news is that one Currency High Yield composite benchmark index of the prerequisites of good absolute returns lower which returned 7.6 per cent.
The Merrill Lynch inflation may be in sight, assuming that commodity Sterling Non-Gilts Index returned 3.2 per cent and prices do not increase sharply again.
Defaults are the European Currency High Yield Index returned likely to rise, albeit from low levels.
investment grade bonds are likely to remain our favoured market well into next year.
The portfolio remains defensively positioned with Valuations have moved a long way and the premium 5.2 per cent in government bonds and 16.8 per in interest rates over government bonds is currently cent in high yield bonds.
This has benefited the at a level that looks attractive on a longer term view.
portfolio in what has been another difficult year in We expect that as the next year progresses, the credit markets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Managers Review continued market will stabilise, with attractive opportunities to Consumers will not borrow so long as incomes are invest in new bond issues.
threatened and banks will be unwilling to lend as efforts to rebuild their capital bases are ongoing.
Dividends Central banks have signalled a renewed After several years of strong dividend growth, 2009 determination to address the risks to global growth will certainly be more of a challenge.
If we look and it seems likely that we will see an aggressive specifically at the UK, we have seen double digit series of interest rate cuts over the coming months.
This is expected to slow Indeed, since the year end, UK base rates have sharply next year but it is very unlikely we will see already been cut by 2.0 per cent.
Further initiatives, widespread dividend cuts.
Whilst sharp dividend such as fiscal stimulus, to help limit the global cuts, indeed in some cases no dividends, are now economic downturn are also expected.
The expected from the major banks, oil stocks are improving inflation outlook is also helpful with oil and expected to see good dividend growth as are food prices significantly lower.
Normalisation in credit markets is also key, With over 20 per cent of UK dividends denominated particularly interbank lending rates LIBOR.
60 per in US dollars, sterling weakness is good for cent of corporate funding in Europe and sub-prime dividends.
The US dollar ended the year some mortgages in the US for example are linked to 13 per cent higher versus sterling compared with LIBOR rates.
Encouragingly, rates have at last the start of the year and this dollar strength has started to fall as the steps taken by central banks to continued since the year end.
Payout ratios have inject liquidity and guarantee unsecured wholesale fallen to historically low levels as profitability has funding take effect.
boomed on the back of five of the fastest years of global GDP growth on record.
Todays payout ratio Whilst equities are now clearly pricing in a global of 40 per cent is the lowest it has been since the recession and are, in our view, attractively valued at 1970s.
Companies have maintained a sensible level current market levels, any sustained rally in the short of dividend payout during the profit boom, term is unlikely as the fears of a deep downturn are suggesting that even if profits slow, dividends are unlikely to be dispelled soon.
In short, the worst of unlikely to have to be cut significantly.
the financial storm may have passed but the economic storm has not, requiring further economic Overall Outlook stimulus in the months ahead.
Confidence should In recent weeks we have seen fear and panic grip begin to return once these measures are equity markets.
We are now firmly in the phase where market and government activity will drive consolidation within the Julie Dent financial sector.
Unfortunately, the deleveraging Investment Manager process will not be resolved quickly.
Credit will F&C Investment Business Limited continue to be expensive and constrained.
14 November 2008 14 British Assets Trust plc
