Report of the Directors The Directors submit the Annual Report and Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are Accounts of the Company for the year ended non-executive, can be found on page 19.
Company has no executive Directors or employees.
Objective Results and Dividends The Companys investment objective is to achieve a The results for the year are set out in the Income total return in excess of a composite index, Statement on page 31. weighted as to 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index First, second and third interim dividends, each of and 25 per cent FTSE World ex UK Index, by 1.4p per Ordinary Share, were paid on 11 April, investing principally in a diversified international 11 July and 10 October 2008 respectively.
The portfolio of equities and equity related securities.
Board recommends a final dividend for the year of Within this overall objective, the Company aims to 1.734p per Ordinary Share payable on 9 January maintain a progressive dividend policy which will be 2009 to shareholders on the register at close of dependent upon, inter alia, the rate of revenue business on 12 December 2008. growth within the portfolio and the level of dividend cover.
Principal Activity and Status Investment Policy The Company is registered as a public limited The Company invests worldwide in companies company in terms of the Companies Act 1985 and which the Managers believe will generate a is an investment company as defined by combination of long-term growth in capital and Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Its shares income for shareholders.
are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has not set maximum exposures for The Company has been approved by HM Revenue any geographical regions.
However, it would normally & Customs as an investment trust under be expected that most of the Companys Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes investments will be in UK equities.
The Company also Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2007. invests in the markets of North America, Europe ex As a result, it is not liable to corporation tax on UK, Pacific ex Japan, and Japan although it may capital gains.
In the opinion of the Directors, the invest in the markets of other countries or regions.
It Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so also invests in a portfolio of corporate bonds.
There as to enable it to continue to obtain approval as an is no maximum exposure to any industrial sector but investment trust.
no individual investment in the portfolio may exceed 10 per cent of the Companys total assets.
The Company is required to comply with company law, the rules of the UK Listing Authority, UK It would normally be expected that most of the Financial Reporting Standards, and its Articles of Companys investments will be equities and fixed Association.
interest securities including corporate bonds.
However, the Company is not prohibited from The Company is a member of the Association of investing in other types of securities.
It will, however, Investment Companies the AIC.
not normally invest in unlisted securities.
No more than 10 per cent of the Companys total Capital Structure assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended The Companys capital structure is set out on page 18. investment companies unless such investment companies themselves have published investment policies to invest no more than 15 per cent of their Business Review total assets in other closed-ended investment The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall companies, in which case the limit is 15 per cent.
stewardship of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, The Company may use derivatives, principally, but corporate governance, and risk management.
not exclusively, for efficient portfolio management 20 British Assets Trust plc i. e. to reduce, transfer or eliminate investment risk in part of this process the Managers are cognisant of its investments, including protection against currency the Companys requirement for an above average risks.
level of investment income, which is generated principally from UK equities and corporate bonds.
The Company uses gearing to enhance income and capital returns over the long term and may borrow in The Companys performance in meeting its sterling or other currencies.
The Companys Articles objectives is measured against key performance of Association contain a borrowing limit equal to the indicators as set out below.
Reviews of the value of its adjusted total of capital and reserves.
Companys returns during the financial year, the However, equity gearing represented by equity position of the Company at the year end, and the investments as a percentage of shareholders funds outlook for the coming year are contained in the would not normally be expected to exceed 20 per Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and the cent of shareholders funds.
Managers Review on pages 7 to 14, both of which form part of this Business Review.
Investment of Assets At each Board meeting, the Board receives a Principal Risks and Risk Management presentation from the Managers which includes a The Companys assets consist mainly of listed review of investment performance, recent portfolio securities and its principal risks are therefore marketactivity and market outlook.
The Company is also exposed to currency compliance with the investment policy and other risk in respect of overseas markets in which it investment restrictions during the reporting period.
More detailed explanations of these risks Investment risk is spread through holding a wide and the way which they are managed are contained range of securities in different countries and in note 18 to the accounts.
As at 30 September 2008, the Other risks faced by the Company include the portfolio was made up of 446 investments following: in 30 different countries.
The Managers make use of third party risk systems to monitor investment risk External events such as terrorism, and the Board receives quarterly risk reports.
An protectionism, inflation or deflation, economic analysis of the portfolio as at 30 September 2008 is recessions and movements in interest rates and contained in note 9 to the accounts and in the exchange rates could affect share prices in Managers Review on pages 7 to 14.
investments are shown on pages 16 and 17.
The Companys borrowings are described in notes 11 Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, and 12 to the accounts.
asset allocation, stock selection and the use of gearing could all lead to poor returns for Strategy shareholders.
As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead delegated the management of the investment to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange portfolio, and other services, to F&C Investment listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit Business Limited FCIB.
Breach of Section 842 of the Income and The investment strategy employed by the Managers Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could lead to the in meeting the investment objective focuses on Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
asset allocation, in particular between UK and overseas equities, corporate bonds, cash and Operational failure of the Managers accounting gearing, coupled with active stock selection in the systems or disruption to the Managers business, various sub-portfolios.
The selection of investments or that of third party service providers, could lead is based on analysis of, amongst other things, to an inability to provide accurate reporting and market positioning and competitive advantage, monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders financial strength and cashflow characteristics.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 Report of the Directors continued Financial inadequate controls by the Managers objectives.
The key performance indicators are as or third party service providers could lead to follows: misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate Net asset value total return against the accounting policies or failure to comply with benchmark index and comparable investment accounting standards could lead to misreporting trusts.
Breaching bond covenants could lead to a loss of shareholders Discount of share price to net asset value.
confidence and financial loss for shareholders.
Earnings and dividend per share.
The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
through continual review, policy setting and A historical record of these indicators is contained in enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also the Financial Highlights for the Year on page 2 and regularly monitors the investment environment and in the Ten Year Record on page 18.
Additional the management of the Companys investment comments are provided in the Chairmans portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the Statement on pages 3 to 5. internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Details of the Companys internal controls are described in more detail on page 26.
Charitable Donations During the year the Company made donations to various local charities totalling 10,000 2007 Shareholder Value The Board and Managers recognise the importance 10,000. of both marketing and share buy-backs in enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, Directors the Managers offer a range of private investor On 1 June 2008 Mr I S M Russell, whose savings schemes, details of which can be found on biographical details are shown on page 19, was page 53.
In addition, meetings are held regularly appointed a Director.
In accordance with the with current and prospective shareholders and Companys Articles of Association he will retire at stockbroking analysts covering the investment trust the Annual General Meeting, being the first such sector.
Share buy-backs help reduce the volatility of meeting following his appointment and, being the discount and enhance the net asset value per eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
Communication of up-to-date portfolio information is made through the As explained in more detail under Corporate Companys website.
Governance on page 24, the Board has agreed that Directors who have served on the Board for more than nine years will retire annually.
Accordingly, Environment Mr J S MacLeod, Dr C Masters, Mr W R E Thomson The Companys Managers are leaders in the field of and Mr J G West will retire at the Annual General socially responsible investment and, with the support Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for of the Board, actively engage with investee re-election.
Environmental factors are, therefore, where appropriate, taken into consideration with The Board confirms that, following formal regard to investment decisions on behalf of the performance evaluations, the performance of each Company.
of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Key Performance Indicators The Board believes, therefore, that it is in the The Board uses a number of performance measures interests of shareholders that these Directors are to assess the Companys success in meeting its re-elected.
22 British Assets Trust plc The Directors who held office at the end of the year Substantial Interests in Share Capital and their interests in the shares of the Company at As at 14 November 2008 the following holdings the beginning and end of the year were: representing 3 per cent or more of the Companys 2008 2007 issued share capital had been reported: Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage W R E Thomson Beneficial 9,600 9,600 Held Held J M Long Beneficial 11,041 8,160 AXA Investment Managers 50,132,097 17.1 J S MacLeod Beneficial 35,000 35,000 Friends Provident Group 20,046,928 6.9 Non-Beneficial 9,500 9,500 Legal & General Group 12,257,596 4.2 Dr C Masters Beneficial 20,470 19,825 L C Ruddick Beneficial 33,761 33,501 Management and Management Fees Non-Beneficial 1,227 FCIB provides management and secretarial services I S M Russell Beneficial 20,000 to the Company.
A summary of the management J G West Beneficial 12,000 12,000 agreement between the Company and FCIB in respect of those services is provided in note 3 to the or subsequent date of appointment accounts.
Since 30 September 2008, Mr J M Long, Since the end of the year, the Board has reviewed Dr C Masters and Ms L C Ruddick have acquired the appropriateness of the Managers appointment.
beneficial interests in a further 95 shares, 241 shares In carrying out its review the Board considered the and 96 shares respectively.
Ms L C Ruddick has past investment performance of the Company and acquired a non-beneficial interest in a further the capability and resources of the Managers to 125 shares.
These transactions included the quarterly re-investment of dividends.
There have been no other deliver satisfactory income growth and investment performance.
It also considered the length of the changes in the interests of the Directors in the notice period of the investment management Ordinary Shares of the Company between agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, 30 September 2008 and 14 November 2008. together with the standard of other services In addition to the above interests, Mr J S MacLeod provided which include company secretarial, had a beneficial interest in 50,000 units of the accounting and marketing.
No other Director had an interest in the Following this review the Directors are satisfied with Companys Bonds as at 30 September 2008 or the Managers ability to deliver satisfactory income 30 September 2007. growth and long term investment performance, and the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore No Director has a contract of service with the Company or any material interest in any contract to their opinion that the continuing appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of which the Company is a party.
Directors Deeds of Indemnity Corporate Governance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in Arrangements in respect of corporate governance, favour of each of the Directors.
The deeds give each appropriate to an investment trust, have been made Director the benefit of an indemnity to the extent by the Board.
The Board has considered the permitted by the Companies Act 1985 against principles and recommendations of the AICs Code liabilities incurred by each of them in the execution of their duties and the exercise of their powers.
A copy of Corporate Governance issued in May 2007 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate of each deed of indemnity is available for inspection Governance Guide for Investment Companies the at the Companys registered office during normal AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC business hours and will be available for inspection at Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Report of the Directors continued Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate recruitment of a new Director and Mr I S M Russell, Governance issued by the Financial Reporting who is considered by the Board to be independent Council in June 2006 the Combined Code, as of the Companys Managers, was appointed as a well as setting out additional principles and Director on 1 June 2008. recommendations on issues which are of specific New Directors receive an induction from the relevance to investment trusts.
Managers on joining the Board, and all Directors The Board considers that reporting against the receive other relevant training as necessary.
principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, Mr W R E Thomson, Mr J S MacLeod, Dr C Masters and by reference to the AIC Guide which and Mr J G West have served on the Board for incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better more than nine years and, as recommended by the information to shareholders than if it had adopted AIC Code and the Combined Code will seek the Combined Code.
The Board subscribes to the Except as disclosed below, the Company has view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving complied throughout the year with the Directors should not be prevented from forming part recommendations of the AIC Code, and the relevant of an independent majority.
It does not consider that provisions of the Combined Code.
The Company a Directors tenure necessarily reduces his or her has also complied throughout the year with the ability to act independently and, following formal minor revisions made to the Combined Code in performance evaluations, believes that each Director June 2008.
Since all Directors are non-executive, is independent in character and judgement and that and in accordance with the AIC Code and the there are no relationships or circumstances which preamble to the Combined Code, the provisions of are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
the Combined Code on the role of the chief The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and executive and, except in so far as they apply to nonexperience are considered to add significantly to the executive Directors, on Directors remuneration are strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the not relevant to the Company and are not reported overall length of services of any of the Companys on further.
Directors, including the Chairman, has been In view of the requirement in the Articles of imposed.
Association that all Directors retire by rotation, the The Company has no executive Directors or Board considers that it is not appropriate for the employees.
A management agreement between the Directors to be appointed for a specified term as Company and its Managers, FCIB, sets out the recommended by principle 3 of the AIC Code and matters over which the Managers have authority provision A.
However, and the limits beyond which Board approval must the Board has agreed that each Director will retire be sought.
All other matters, including strategy, and, if appropriate, seek re-election after each three investment and dividend policies, gearing, and years service, and annually after serving on the corporate governance procedures, are reserved for Board for more than nine years.
the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board The Board consists solely of non-executive currently meets seven times a year and receives Directors.
Mr W R E Thomson is the Chairman and full information on the Companys investment Mr J G West is the Senior Independent Director.
All performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant Directors are considered by the Board to be information in advance of Board meetings.
The independent of the Companys Managers.
During Managers, in the absence of explicit instructions the year the Board reviewed its composition taking from the Board, are empowered to exercise into account not only the need for refreshment over discretion in the use of the Companys voting time but also the balance of skills, experience and rights.
All shareholdings are voted at all meetings tenure.
It subsequently employed the services of an worldwide where practicable in accordance with the external search consultant to assist with the Managers own corporate governance policy, which 24 British Assets Trust plc is to seek to maximise shareholder value by of such non-audit services is not a threat to the constructive use of votes at company meetings and objectivity and independence of the conduct of the by endeavouring to use their influence as investors audit.
A description of the main features of the with a principled approach to corporate Companys internal control and risk management governance.
systems is contained on page 26.
Throughout the year a number of committees have The Management Engagement and Remuneration been in operation, namely the Audit Committee, the Committee, chaired by Mr W R E Thomson, Management Engagement and Remuneration comprises the full Board and reviews the Committee, and the Nomination Committee.
appropriateness of the Managers continuing appointment, together with the terms and conditions The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J S MacLeod, thereof, on a regular basis.
operates within clearly defined written terms of reference, which are available upon request, and The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr W R E comprises all of the Directors except Mr W R E Thomson, comprises the full Board and is convened Thomson.
The duties of the Audit Committee in for the purpose of considering the appointment of discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the additional Directors as and when considered Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of internal appropriate.
In considering appointments to the controls, and the terms of appointment of the Board, the Nomination Committee takes into auditors together with their remuneration.
It is also account the ongoing requirements of the Company the forum through which the auditors report to the and the need to have a balance of skills and Board of Directors.
It meets at least twice yearly.
The experience within the Board.
objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which During the year the performance of the Board, they are appointed to perform non-audit services.
committees and individual Directors was evaluated The Committee reviews the scope and results of the through a formal process which was conducted by audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence a third party advisor.
This involved interviews with and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard each of the Directors followed by the production of a to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 7,000 for formal report to the Board.
the year ended 30 September 2008 2007: 12,000 and related principally to the provision of taxation The following table sets out the number of Board services.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit and Committee meetings held during the year ended Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be 30 September 2008 and the number of meetings independent of the Company and that the provision attended by each Director.
Management Engagement and Remuneration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended W R E Thomson Chairman 7 7 n a n a 1 1 2 2 J M Long 7 7 2 2 1 1 2 2 J S MacLeod 7 7 2 2 1 1 2 2 C Masters 7 7 2 2 1 1 2 2 L C Ruddick 7 7 2 2 1 1 2 2 I S M Russell 2 2 J G West 7 7 2 2 1 1 2 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Report of the Directors continued Individual Directors may, at the expense of the misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Company, seek independent professional advice on Board monitors the investment performance of the any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of Company in comparison to its stated objective, the their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate benchmark index, and against comparable Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since the last Board meeting to Going Concern ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the nature investment policy and approved investment of the Companys business and assets, the Directors guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to consider that the Company has adequate resources the guidelines.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable The Board has reviewed the need for an internal future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the audit function.
The Board has decided that the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
systems and procedures employed by the Managers, which are reported on by a firm of Internal Control external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a The Board is responsible for the Companys system sound system of internal control, to safeguard the of internal control and for reviewing its Companys assets, is maintained.
The Board has therefore established function specific to the Company is therefore an ongoing process designed to meet the particular considered unnecessary.
needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with the internal Relations with Shareholders control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting The Company places great importance on Council in October 2005.
The process relies communication with shareholders and welcomes principally on the Managers existing risk-based their views.
The Managers hold meetings with the approach to internal control whereby a test matrix Companys largest shareholders and report back to is created that identifies the key functions carried the Board on these meetings.
The Chairman and out by the Managers and other service providers, other Directors are available to, and do, meet the individual activities undertaken within those shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting of the functions, the risks associated with each activity Company provides a forum, both formal and and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss A residual risk rating is then applied.
The test matrix issues with the Directors and Managers of the is regularly updated and the Board is provided with Company.
The notice for the forthcoming Annual regular reports highlighting all material changes to General Meeting, to be held on 18 December 2008, the risk ratings and confirming the action which has is set out on pages 54 to 56.
The Annual Report been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of and Notice of Annual General Meeting are, where these procedures is carried out by the Audit practicable, sent to shareholders at least 20 working Committee and includes consideration of internal days before the Meeting.
control reports issued by the Managers and other service providers.
Financial Instruments Such review procedures have been in place The Companys financial instruments comprise its throughout the financial year and up to the date of investment portfolio, bonds, bank loan, foreign approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is exchange currency contracts, cash balances, satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures overdrafts and debtors and creditors that arise are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk directly from its operations such as sales and and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
but not absolute, assurance against material The financial risk management objective and policies 26 British Assets Trust plc arising from its financial instruments and the of the last independent bid and the highest current exposure of the Company to risk are disclosed in independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
This power will only be exercised if, in the opinion of the Directors, a purchase will result in an Directors Authority to Allot Shares increase in net asset value per share and is in the The Directors are seeking authority to allot shares.
Any shares Resolution 10 will, if passed, authorise the Directors purchased under this authority will be cancelled.
to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal This authority will expire on the later of 18 June amount of 7,315,307, being 10 per cent of the total 2010 and the conclusion of the next Annual issued shares as at 14 November 2008.
General Meeting of the Company.
Resolution 11 will, if passed, authorise the Directors to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal Amendments to the Articles of Association amount of 3,657,653, being 5 per cent of the total Over the past year, and since the Articles of issued shares as at 14 November 2008, for cash Association the Articles of the Company were last without first offering such shares to existing updated, company law in the United Kingdom has shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
These undergone major reform through the coming into authorities will continue until the conclusion of the force of parts of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Accordingly, the Board considers it prudent to only allot new shares pursuant to these authorities if replace the Companys Articles with new Articles of they believe it is advantageous to the Companys Association which take account of these shareholders to do so and will not result in a dilution of developments the New Articles.
net asset value per share.
The Directors consider that the authorisations proposed in resolutions 10 and 11 The 2006 Act is being brought into force in stages, are necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not which began in January 2007, with full intend to exercise the powers conferred by these implementation scheduled by October 2009.
At this authorisations at the present time.
years Annual General Meeting, the Company proposes to adopt provisions which reflect changes Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares in the law brought about by the 2006 Act in respect During the year the Company purchased for of, amongst other things, electronic cancellation 8,400,000 Ordinary Shares with an communications, notice periods for meetings, proxy aggregate nominal value of 2,100,000 for a total voting and Directors conflicts of interest.
consideration of 10,607,000, representing 2.8 per cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue at the previous A copy of the New Articles will be available for year end.
inspection at Royal London House, 2225 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX and the registered office Resolution 12, as set out in the notice of the of the Company during normal business hours on Annual General Meeting, seeks renewal of the any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public Companys share buy-back authority.
The renewed holidays excepted from the date of the notice of the authority to make market purchases will be in Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the respect of a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the meeting and on the date of the Annual General issued Ordinary Shares of the Company on the Meeting at the offices of F&C Asset Management date of the passing of the resolution approximately plc, 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU from 44 million Ordinary Shares.
The price paid for 11.45 am until the conclusion of the meeting.
shares will not be less than the nominal value of 25p per share nor more than the higher of i 5 per A summary of the material changes proposed to be cent above the average of the middle market brought about by the adoption of the New Articles is values of those shares for the five business days set out in the Appendix to the notice of the Annual before the shares are purchased and ii the higher General Meeting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Report of the Directors continued Disclosure of Information to Auditors Creditor Payment Policy The Directors confirm that, so far as each of them is The Companys payment policy is to settle aware, there is no relevant audit information of investment transactions in accordance with market which the Companys auditors are unaware and the practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did have taken as Directors in order to make themselves not have any trade creditors at the year end.
aware of any relevant audit information and to Recommendation establish that the Companys auditors are aware of The Board considers that the resolutions to be that information.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole and Auditors recommends that they vote in favour of such Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness resolutions as the Directors intend to do in respect to continue in office as auditors and a resolution of their own beneficial holdings.
proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Individual Savings Accounts G R Hay Smith The Companys shares are qualifying investments as Secretary defined by HM Revenue & Customs regulations for Individual Savings Accounts.
It is the current 80 George Street intention of the Directors that the Company will Edinburgh EH2 3BU continue to conduct its affairs to satisfy this 14 November 2008 requirement.
