39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 17 11 08 17:01 Page 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Review During the year, British Empires NAV fell 21.1% to 396p and the share price fell 15.6% to 396p on a total return basis.
This compares with a decline of 19.1% on the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index and 15.0% on the MSCI World Index on a total return basis.
The credit crisis which has been stalking the markets all year took a nasty turn for the worse in September, the last month of the Companys financial year.
The U. S. Treasury Department allowed Lehman Brothers to fail and the consequences were a loss of confidence in markets generally and forced selling by those geared investors who found themselves cut off from access to borrowing.
Discounts on the Companys universe of stocks were already at historically wide levels before September and widened further during the month as markets panicked.
The Company has held net cash throughout the year and is in a strong position to take advantage of opportunities that present themselves as a result of extreme market conditions.
We do not consider it advisable to sell stocks in these conditions and investors with a long-term investment horizon should be looking to gradually increase exposure to the equity markets.
Aker ASA is a Norwegian holding company that owns 100% of Aker Drilling.
The Aker Spitsbergen rig shown in photo as of 17th October 2008 was commissioned by Aker Drilling, which has arranged to lease it out on completion to StatoilHydro on a long term contract.
9 39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 08 07:08 Page 10 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued Mitsubishi Estate Co develops, manages and leases a portfolio of high quality properties in central Tokyo, including the Maranouchi Park Building, right.
Occupancy rates remain high and rents are rising in Central Tokyo.
1 0 39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 08 07:10 Page 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Portfolio Review Performance was poor across the board in equity markets as almost all countries and all sectors were affected by the drying up of formerly abundant debt and equity funding.
Resource companies and emerging markets held out the promise of growth for longer but succumbed to selling pressure by the end of the Companys financial year.
Investment Holding Companies 35.6% The weighted average discount to NAV on the investment holding companies held was 35%, up from 24% last year.
Although it is difficult to get hard figures, it is clear in some cases that hedge fund and other investors are liquidating long positions in holding companies and this is putting pressure on discounts.
This phenomenon is, perhaps, most clear in IFI, where the discount widened from ca.
50% to over 70% following a merger proposal unpopular with investors.
The discount widening hurt the Companys performance last year but is creating some Orkla ASA manufactures branded very interesting opportunities.
consumer goods to the Nordic food market.
Its other holdings GBL Pargesa include investments in The discounts on these two companies controlled by Albert Frre continue to be above the renewable energy 30%.
We sold out of our holding in the top company in the group, Compagnie sector.
It owns a 40% stake in REC, a Nationale Portefeuille, on a discount to NAV of less than 10%.
Frere has built up Norwegian company cash in GBL and has been using it to increase his ownership in French cement that specialises in harnessing solar energy.
company, Lafarge, in which he now holds a stake of over 20%.
At the same time Pargesa has been adding to its stake in GBL.
With minimal administration and head office expenditure, this is an efficient way to gain exposure to companies such as Total, Suez and Lafarge, alongside Albert Frre who is actively pursuing value creation strategies in his portfolio companies.
Aker ASA Aker ASA is a Norwegian holding company with exposure to the oil and gas services industry as well as marine-based industries.
Akers recent market cap was NOK12bn, despite the company having NOK8.9bn of net cash.
The assets that an investor in the company is effectively paying NOK3.1bn for are estimated to be worth NOK11.9bn.
The assets include a 41% stake in Aker Solutions, a NOK16bn market cap company that provides engineering and construction services primarily to the oil and gas industry, and 100% of Aker Drilling.
Aker Drilling owns two of the worlds largest semi-submersible drilling rigs designed for deep sea use.
Aker should benefit from any increase in activity in offshore deep sea drilling.
1 1 39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 08 07:10 Page 12 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued IFI IFIL IFI and IFIL are the holding companies through which the Agnelli family hold their 30% interest in Fiat.
Fiat makes up almost half the value of the holding companies, and other investments include stakes in Juventus Football Club, SGS and Intesa Sanpaolo.
In September of this year, it was announced that the family would merge IFIL into IFI, thereby simplifying the ownership structure and making the holding company more transparent and efficient.
The market has not reacted positively thus far to the proposals and IFI has traded recently on a discount to NAV of over 70%.
Investment Trusts and Funds 12.0% Discounts on our investment trust holdings average 19%, which is almost twice last years 10% level.
Electra Electra is an investment trust that invests directly into private equity.
It has recently traded on a discount of almost 50% to its last published NAV.
The trust itself is not overly geared and, in fact, has 25% net cash.
The trust has a very good long term track record of investing.
It has raised cash from sales into a strong market in recent years and is now in a position to re-invest in a more distressed environment.
Forth Ports Plc owns and operates ports in strategic Japan 12.2% locations around the UK.
The company also comprises a property Japan has been disappointing this year in that, despite a plethora of companies trading business owning 400 acres of land available below net asset value and a financial system in relatively good shape, it has not for development and managed to outperform the falling global equity markets.
Stock price declines in forming the major Sterling terms have been offset by the stronger Yen.
part of the waterfront in Leith.
NTT Urban A high quality Japanese office leasing business that trades on an implied cap rate of ca.
This is too high in the Japanese context and a more normal cap rate of 4.25% would put the company on a discount of well over 50%.
Other 23.1% The Company invests in listed companies globally that are trading on significant discounts to net asset value and are neither investment holding companies nor investment trusts.
1 2 39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 08 07:10 Page 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 TpraTurkiye Petrol Rafinerileri A. S. owns and operates the only four refineries in Turkey, enjoying a geographic position engendering strategic advantages in sourcing crude oil.
It trades on very low multiples, at around a third of the cost of building comparable facilities, and has a high dividend yield.
Vivendi A diversified telecoms and media company currently trading on a discount of 33% to its sum-of-the-parts valuation.
The group is defensive as much of its revenues are Sofina SA holds a subscription-based.
The discount may be too wide given that the company has E23bn diversified portfolio of predominantly European of tax losses to offset capital gains tax on any disposals, and cash flow from underlying stocks.
Its largest investments is good leading to a dividend yield on Vivendi of over 6%.
holding is in GDF Suez, a global energy provider, specialising Tpra in the provision of Tpra is a Turkish petroleum refinery business with a very strong domestic position.
natural gas, but also involved in the supply Tpra currently owns the only four refineries in Turkey and potential competitors of other energy plans to build refineries are being hit by high costs and the difficult credit environment.
Tpra is currently valued in the market well below the replacement cost of its assets.
The company trades at less than 4x earnings with a forecast dividend yield above 20%.
Liquidity 17.1% Liquidity stood at 17.1% of gross assets at the end of the year.
The bulk of the Companys liquidity is held in short-dated UK Gilt Bonds.
1 3 39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 15 11 08 07:10 Page 14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued Geographical Profile Gross Assets of 672 million were distributed on a look-through basis as follows: Continental Europe 36.6%, UK 16.8%, Asia Pacific 10.4%, Japan 12.2%, Canada 2.8%, Other 4.1%.
Outlook Your companys portfolio of investments is as cheap as it has ever been with a weighted average discount of 29%.
Discounts levels tend to have an inverse relationship with investor confidence so this is no surprise given the current extreme negative market sentiment.
As contrarian investors, we take some encouragement from the valuation levels and the depressed sentiment in markets.
Another positive factor is that central Jardine Matheson Holdings and Jardine Strategic Holdings are listed holding companies controlled by the Keswick family.
Their diversified holdings cover the retail, motor, real estate and insurance industries, as well as the hotel industry through its 74% stake in Mandarin Oriental Hotels.
1 4 39172 Best Report 1-21:BEST p1-23 P2 17 11 08 17:01 Page 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA is a Belgian holding company that takes an active interest in its portfolio companies.
GBL owns 19.8% of Lafarge, a cement company, and has board representation.
Lafarge has been expanding its presence in emerging markets, the picture above shows a bridge built using Lafarge cement.
banks and governments have recognised the seriousness of the financial crisis and are taking unprecedented actions to deal with it, including recapitalising banks and guaranteeing bank deposits and bank borrowing.
Undoubtedly, other measures will need to be taken to stabilise the economy but the authorities have clearly signalled their intent to take all necessary measures.
As conditions normalise, borrowing rates should come down and equity markets should find their footing.
Some of the distressed valuations will come to be seen as a good entry point into the market.
The situation remains precarious as many countries economies slip into recession and profit levels come under pressure at the corporate level.
The slowing global economy, however, should have a moderating effect on commodity prices and allow for further reductions in interest rates.
Equity markets continued to fall for the first few weeks of the Companys 2009 financial year.
Stockmarkets now represent good value but it will take time for confidence to be rebuilt in the face of a recessionary economic environment and extreme risk aversion.
John Pennink Asset Value Investors Limited 17 November 2008 1 5
