BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 22 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2008.
Status The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
It is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
The Company has been approved as an investment trust company under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2007.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 30 September 2008 so as to be able to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 for that year.
The Company is a qualifying trust for the purposes of Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts.
Investment Objective, Policy, Restrictions and Business Review The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment holding companies, investment trusts and other companies assessed to be trading inexpensively compared to their estimated net asset value or intrinsic worth.
Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio the Company may also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Board.
The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge exposures through the use of derivative instruments and may also hedge its foreign currency exposures.
There are no geographic limits on exposure as the Company invests wherever it considers there are opportunities for capital growth.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversified companies.
The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more than 15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and opportunities within equity markets at any particular time.
The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may vary substantially over time according to market conditions but will not exceed three times the nominal capital and reserves of the Company.
Reviews of the Companys NAV performance in comparison to the benchmark the Companys key performance indicator during the year are contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Investment Managers Review on pages 9 to 15.
The principal financial risks facing the business and how these are managed are set out in note 19 in the Notes to the Accounts on pages 44 to 48.
The non-financial risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key personnel especially within the investment management team : regulatory principally breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules or Section 842 ICTA 1988 : and failure of systems or controls.
In managing these the Company reviews staffing and activity levels of the Investment Manager and Administrator at least annually to ensure there are adequate qualified staff capacity available, and in particular requires the Investment Manager to promptly notify the Board of any changes in senior staff.
The Company also reviews the systems of the Investment Manager and Administrator as part of its half yearly compliance checks: which is additionally reported on by the Companys independent auditor as part of the annual audit.
The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the Company cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate in value.
2 2 BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Results and Dividends Group loss for the year was 171,904,000, which included a profit of 13,548,000 attributable to revenue 2007: profit of 122,797,000 of which 9,046,000 was attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: 000 000 Revenue available for dividends Company and Group 13,553 13,548 Interim dividend of 1.75p per Ordinary Share paid on 6 June 2008 2,801 2,801 Recommended final dividend payable on 9 January 2009 to Shareholders on the Register as at 12 December 2008 ex dividend 10 December 2008 : - Final dividend of 4.00p per Ordinary share 6,403 6,403 - Special dividend of 1.50p per Ordinary share 2,401 2,401 11,605 11,605 Directors The current members of the Board are listed on page 21.
Mr PR Allen and Mrs R Blomfield-Smith retire by rotation in accordance with Article 100 2 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Having conducted a review of their performance during the year, the Board considers that they have provided both commitment and a full contribution to the affairs of the Company throughout the year.
On 11 August 2008 Mr Andrew Robson, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed as a Director of the Company and joined the Audit Committee on 7 October 2008.
In accordance with Article 71 Mr Robson, having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, retires and being eligible offers himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Mr Robsons nomination was approved by the Board as a whole in its capacity as Nomination Committee, following an indepth research of available candidates using a third party search and selection consultancy.
The Board recommends that shareholders vote in favour of Mr Robsons election and the re-election of Mr Allen and Mrs Blomfield-Smith.
The interests all beneficial of the current Directors and their connected persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2008 are set out below: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 08 1 10 07 30 9 08 1 10 07 PSS Macpherson 40,000 40,000 PR Allen 5,000 5,000 SAR Bates 20,000 20,000 - R Blomfield-Smith 3,100 3,100 JM May 6,900 6,900 ARobson - n a There were no changes to the above interests between the year end and date of this report.
Mr JM May is a Director of Caledonia Investments plc which owned at 1 November 2008 18.15 per cent of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Save as aforesaid, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company.
Information on the appointment of Directors and their compensation for loss of office, as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on page 49.
Subsidiary Companies The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2008, BEST Securities Limited made a loss after taxation of 4,678 2007: loss 219.
2 3 BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 24 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued The Investment Manager Asset Value Investors Limited is the Companys appointed Investment Manager Manager, engaged under the terms of an Investment Management Agreement IMA effective from 1 October 2003.
The IMA is terminable by one years notice from either party, other than for cause.
The Manager has complied with the terms of the IMA throughout the year to 30 September 2008.
Under the IMA the Manager is entitled to a base management fee of 0.55% of the net assets of the Company at the end of the preceding financial period, increasing to 0.6% where the Company outperforms the benchmark, or underperforms by not more than 5% in a financial period.
A performance fee at 4% is also payable for any outperformance in the net asset value on a total return basis over the benchmark at the year end, with a cap on aggregate fees of 1% of net assets of the Company per annum.
Any underperformance or outperformance in excess of the cap is carried forward for use in the next 3 years fee calculations.
The Management Engagement Committee in conjunction with the Companys broker advisor, Winterflood Investment Trusts, reviewed the IMA during the year and recommended that the management fee structure be simplified to reduce the possibility that the Manager might take undue risk to achieve the maximum performance fee payable.
The Management Engagement Committee also recommended a change to the benchmark the Company uses.
The Board accepted the Management Engagement Committees findings and agreed a new benchmark and fee structure, as explained below, with effect from 1 October 2008, which it believes will incentivise the Manager better but ensure that risk taken is not excessive.
With effect from 1 October 2008 the Company has adopted the Fundamental Data Global Growth Investment Trust Index as the new benchmark against which the Companys performance is to be measured.
This index has substantially the same elements as the Thomson Financial Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index but adopts the FTSE Actuaries methodology in computing the index, which the Board considers to be a robust method, and is not survivor biased.
The new investment management fee structure, also effective from 1 October 2008, will comprise a base management fee of 0.6%, with no change for performance, and a performance fee at 6% on all outperformance of the index.
Annual aggregate fees will remain subject to a cap at 1% of the Companys net asset value at the preceding year end, with any underperformance or outperformance in excess of the cap being available to carry forward for use in the next 3 years fee calculations.
Half the base management fee will be charged to revenue and the remainder, plus any performance fee, will be charged to capital.
Interests in Share Capital Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital, as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on pages 19 and 20.
At 30 September 2008 and 1 November 2008 the following holdings representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital had been reported to the Company: Number held at Number held at Percentage 30 September 2008 1 November 2008 Held Caledonia Investments plc 29,228,979 29,053,979 18.15 Funds managed by Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd 10,330,936 9,848,856 6.15 Legal and General 7,238,472 6,943,829 4.34 Axa Group 4,942,072 - - F&C Asset Management 4,782,437 - - 2 4 BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration for the ensuing year.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 9 - Authority to allot Shares Under Resolution 9 the Company seeks to renew the general and unconditional authority already granted to it to allot up to 2,400,000 in nominal value of Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing approximately 15 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
Resolution 10 - Change of Articles of Association The Articles of Association have not required review for some years and the Companies Act 2006 has introduced a number of new requirements.
As many of these are already in force the Board considers it prudent to amend the Articles immediately to accommodate these, although they may require further amendment in 2010 after the Act is fully implemented.
Principal changes proposed from the current Articles can be found on page 56.
Resolution 11 - Authority to issue Shares outside of pre-emption rights The Directors seek to renew their limited authority to allot, other than on a pre-emptive basis, new Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 800,400, being approximately 5 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital currently in issue, and to the transfer or sale of Shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they believed it to be advantageous to the Company.
Resolution 12 - Share Buy-Back Facility This Resolution is to renew the authority granted to the Directors each year to make market purchases of up to 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules representing approximately 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital at the date of this Report.
Ordinary Shares bought back up to a ceiling of 10 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital then in issue Ceiling, may be held in treasury for cancellation or re-sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
Ordinary Shares bought back in excess of the Ceiling would be cancelled.
The Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this Resolution unless they considered it to be in the best interests of Shareholders or would result in an increase in net asset value per Share.
Treasury shares would not be re-sold at a discount greater than 5% below the net asset value per Ordinary Share for the day preceding such sale.
Corporate Governance The Terms of Reference for all Committees of the Board are available from the office of the Company Secretary.
By adherence to the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance for Investment Trusts AIC Code available at www.
co. uk, which carries the endorsement of the Financial Reporting Council, the Company has complied with the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code throughout the period except as follows: as all Directors are non-executive the principles of the Combined Code on Directors remuneration are not required to be applied: the Board has elected not to designate a senior non-executive Director, as it considers that each Director has different strengths and qualities on which they may provide leadership: instead of reading out proxy voting figures at General Meetings after Resolutions have been voted on, printed details of proxy voting will be provided to attendees.
Details of proxy voting will also be made available on the Companys website after the relevant meeting.
2 5 39172 Best Report 22-56:BEST p24-54 P2 17 11 08 12:33 Page 26 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued The Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors all of whom, with the exception of Mr John May who is a Director of a major shareholder, are considered to be independent.
Mr PSS Macpherson is Chairman of Close Brothers plc which is the ultimate parent of Winterflood Securities Limited, the Companys Corporate Broker.
The Board is aware that Mr Macpherson and Mr Robson are both non-executive Directors of JPMorgan Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, but does not consider that this affects their impartiality or independence in relation to the affairs of either Company.
The Board meets regularly and receives full details of the Companys income, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of meetings.
The Investment Manager and Company Secretary are in regular contact with Directors on a less formal basis and individual Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary.
Directors may seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them, at the expense of the Company, in the furtherance of their duties.
The number of meetings attended during the year by each Director is shown on page 21.
The Company has a defined list of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board of Directors which was reviewed during the year.
The Management Agreement between the Company and AVI sets out the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and the limits above which Board approval must be sought.
Because the Investment Manager conducts extensive research into companies the Company invests in, the Board considers the Investment Manager to be most appropriately qualified to exercise voting rights attaching to investee company shares in the best interests of the Company.
However, where an investee company proposes a contentious or sensitive issue, the Investment Manager will seek instruction from the Board before using a vote.
As the Company has no employees and invests in diverse corporations and intermediate holding companies it has no direct impact on social, economic or environmental matters.
However, where the Board deems an issue to be of importance or sensitivity it may, through the Investment Manager, use its voting rights and contact with senior executives of an investee company to make its views known.
The Management Engagement Committee, comprises three independent Directors, Mr PSS Macpherson Chairman, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith and Mr SAR Bates.
The Management Engagement Committee reviews both the terms of the Management Agreement to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and compliant with good industry practice, and the remuneration of the Investment Manager.
It also reviewed the services and performance of the Companys other third party service providers and found all services provided to the Company to be satisfactory.
The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes to consider the appointment of Directors in accordance with its defined terms of reference.
Candidates for nomination may be sourced from outside of the Company using third party search and selection services as well as potential candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge of the industry.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year.
Newly appointed Directors receive such tailored training and induction as they consider are suited to their needs.
The Board considers that, in view of its non-executive nature, it is not appropriate for Directors to be appointed for a specified term of not more than three years as recommended by the Code.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and that each Director stands for re-election at least every three years.
The Board considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations, and is not of the view that serving as a Director for nine or more years automatically results in that Director losing his her independence.
However, after nine years of service a Director will be subject to annual re-election.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference, copies of which are available from the office of the Company Secretary and are reviewed annually.
The Committee comprises Mr PR Allen Chairman, Mr SAR Bates, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith, Mr PSS Macpherson and Mr A Robson.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
2 6 BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The Audit Committees main functions are: To monitor the internal financial control and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: To consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: To monitor the integrity of the half-year and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager: To meet with the external Auditor to review their proposed audit programme of work and their findings.
The Committee also uses this opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process: To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external Auditor, and to negotiate their remuneration and terms of engagement on audit and non-audit work: To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The Committee confirms that the external auditor satisfies the tests of independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
In assessing the independence of the auditor the Committee has particular regard for the extent and levels of fees paid in respect of both audit and non-audit work.
The key components which the Company has in place to provide effective internal control are: The Board has agreed a clearly defined investment criteria, which specifies levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these and performance statistics, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers procedures for investment evaluations include detailed appraisals and due diligence: The Investment Manager and Administrator prepare forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: Written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: As a matter of standard practice the Investment Managers compliance department continually reviews the Investment Managers operations: At its October and November meetings, the Audit Committee carried out assessments of internal controls for the year by considering documentation from the Investment Manager and Administrator, including their compliance functions, and events during the year.
The results of these assessments are reported to the Board.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place at the Investment Manager and Administrator, it is satisfied that reliance can be placed on their systems and procedures.
Also, as neither the Company nor the Group has any employees the Board does not feel that whistleblowing procedures need to be put in place.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
They do not eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement and loss.
Since the year end, evaluations of the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors were undertaken using structured questionnaires.
The evaluations were led by the Chairman who, after receiving analyses of the results of the questionnaires, discussed the findings with each Director individually.
The Board is satisfied from the results of the evaluation that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Company.
2 7 BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 28 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued Amendments to the Companys constitution or Articles of Association and material changes to the Companys Investment Policy require the approval of Shareholders in general meeting.
A resolution to adopt new Articles of Association is to be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Information on the principal changes to the Articles is given on page 56.
After making enquiries and bearing in mind the nature of the Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors welcome the views of all Shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with Shareholders.
Board representatives and the Investment Manager meet with the Companys major Shareholders throughout the year.
The Board recommends that Shareholders attend the Companys Annual General Meeting on 18 December 2008 and use the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and Investment Manager, either formally at the Meeting or informally at the buffet luncheon afterwards.
At the Annual General Meeting the Investment Manager will make a brief presentation to Shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
Owing to the short period of time between the Companys financial year end, the annual report and accounts becoming available and the calendar year end, the Company is unable to comply with the recommendation in the Code that the accounts be sent out at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards which have been adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company and the financial performance and cash-flows of the Group and Company for the relevant period.
The Companies Act 1985 Act provides, in relation to such financial statements that, references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the Group and Company financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared in compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained therein: provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions on the financial position and performance: and prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act and Article 4 of International Accounting Standards.
The Directors also have a general responsibility for 2 8 BEST p22-56 08 P8:BEST p24-54 P2 15 11 08 07:34 Page 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 taking such steps as are reasonably available to them, and for ensuring their third party service providers take similar reasonable steps, to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable laws and regulations the Directors are responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement which comply with those laws and regulations.
Auditor Information Each Director has taken all steps he she ought to have taken in order to: make himself herself aware of any information relevant to the audit: establish that the Group and Companys auditors are aware of that information: and ensure that, as far as the Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Group and Companys auditors are not aware.
Directors Confirmation The Directors listed on page 21, being the persons responsible within the Company, hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the Chairmans Statement, Business Review and Investment Managers Report collectively comprise the Management Report and includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business, and the position of the Company together with the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
By Order of the Board, Registered Office: For and on behalf of Bennet House Phoenix Administration Services Limited 54 St Jamess Street, London Secretary 17 November 2008 2 9
