20 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report We work closely with management Business review teams to understand and help them achieve their business objectives.
This approach is ideally suited to backing growing asset management businesses.
Business highlights Polar Capital Eddington Capital Caledonia has enjoyed a long and profitable relationship with Polar Caledonia has built a close relationship with the successful Capital, the successful fund manager, and we continue our support management team at Eddington Capital.
We helped establish the by seeding new fund launches.
During the year, Polar Capital business in 2003 and provided 15.0m of seed capital for their launched its long-only Healthcare Opportunities fund, in which we flagship product, the Eddington Triple Alpha Fund ETAF.
is a fund of hedge funds, offering a diversified multi-strategy product, We originally helped the management team establish Polar which aims to outperform the mainstream competition without Capital in 2001 and have worked closely with them ever since to using portfolio-level leverage.
The ETAF has been highly successful facilitate an ownership structure and entrepreneurial culture which and has returned 82.8% since its launch in August 2003. enables them to attract top quality fund managers to expand their In June 2007, Eddington Capital launched, and Caledonia business, which now manages some $3.2bn of assets.
seeded, the Eddington Macro Opportunities Fund EMOF, a fund The culmination of this stage in Polar Capitals development of macro-based or macro-related hedge funds with a variety of styles was its successful flotation on AIM in February 2007.
Our current and strategies, which has returned 22.8%.
More recently, Eddington holding is valued at 8.7m, compared with our equity investment has launched the Eddington Equity Opportunities Fund EEOF, a cost of 0.7m.
fund of hedge funds looking to maximise returns from opportunities in the global equity markets.
Eddington has adopted some imaginative marketing initiatives, with the issue of the Nomura Eddington Notes performance linked notes issued by Nomura and giving indirect exposure to the ETAF, EMOF and EEOF.
The notes are listed on the London Stock Exchange and were designed to be eligible for Capital Gains Tax treatment in the UK.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 21 Our strategy in Asia has been to work alongside local partners who have a profound knowledge of the marketplace, to seek opportunities that would benefit from our long term investing model.
Vietnam India and China We have extended the range of our activities in Asia through Our Indian portfolio is now well established and we continue to selectively building a portfolio of 9.7m in four companies in build relationships with the managements of the Indian companies Vietnam, two quoted and two traded over the counter OTC.
We now have direct and indirect Indian In each case, we co-invested alongside our local partner and investments totalling 87.5m.
adviser, Dragon Capital, which is one of Vietnams leading Our established Indian quoted investments included Alok investment management groups.
Industries, a textile manufacturer, Varun Shipping, a shipping Our quoted investments were in Sacombank, Vietnams company transporting gas and oil products, and Dewan Housing second largest and fastest growing non-state banking group, Finance, a provider of housing finance.
During the year, we invested and SaigonTel, an information technology group providing a range in Arihant, a developer of commercial and residential buildings.
of telecommunications products and building hi-tech business parks.
We also hold interests in two AIM listed funds investing in Our OTC investments comprised Hoang Anh Gia Lai, a diversified India.
The India Capital Growth Fund is a strategic investor in small manufacturer and one of the largest residential property to mid-cap Indian companies and Eredene Capital is a specialist development businesses in Vietnam, and An Phu Binh Duong, Indian property and infrastructure fund.
a food irradiation business treating seafood for export.
We have been more cautious about the pace at which we develop our investment activities in China.
We have developed our relationship with the team of Capital Today, which manages a $280m growth fund in which we are a cornerstone investor, and retain our investment in Kingdom Holdings, a manufacturer of linen yarns.
