28 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Directors report: statutory information Customers and suppliers provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the terms requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
The group will impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the abide by those terms on condition that it is satisfied that the supplier has entitys financial position and financial performance.
provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that conditions.
The group does not follow any code or statement on payment disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the practice and Caledonia itself does not have any trade payables.
company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the Charitable donations preparation of the directors report: statutory information and directors Group companies support chosen community and charitable causes remuneration report in compliance with the requirements of the local to their areas of operation.
Overall, the group made charitable Companies Act 1985. donations during the year amounting to 110,000.
During the year, The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Caledonia Group Services Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the made political donations amounting in total to 45,000 to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Conservative Party.
Statement of directors responsibilities Going concern The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the The directors are satisfied that the company and the group have financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
statements for the group in accordance with International Financial For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial preparing the financial statements.
statements for the company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance Auditors with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general meeting to re-appoint International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the company and to authorise the statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial directors to agree their remuneration.
A description of how the Audit position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful Committee ensures the objectivity and independence of the auditors representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions is set out on page 62 within the corporate governance report.
in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, The directors who held office at the date of approval of this liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting directors report confirm that, so far as each is aware, there is no relevant Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware and each Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors will to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish also be required to: that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
properly select and apply accounting policies By order of the board present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that G P Denison provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Company Secretary 29 May 2008 Responsibility statement by the directors We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge: 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the directors report, includes a fair review of the development and 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, performance of the business and the position of the company and the give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
in the consolidation taken as a whole Signed on behalf of the board: Tim Ingram Jonathan Cartwright Chief Executive Finance Director
