Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 03 Operational review 07 Financial review 08 15 largest investments 11 Valuation policy 12 The Board of directors 14 Report of the directors 20 Corporate governance 25 Directors remuneration report The Board of directors Candover Investments plc Board Mr Gerry Grimstone Mr Antony Hichens MBA Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Gerry Grimstone was appointed to the Antony Hichens joined the Board of Candover in Candover Board in July 1999.
He is the Senior Independent Deputy Chairman in May 2004 and Chairman in Director and Chairman of the nominations May 2006.
Formerly an Assistant Secretary at committee and was Deputy Chairman of the HM Treasury, he latterly held a number of senior Board from January 1991 to May 2004.
He is appointments in the Schroders group, including a non-executive director of JPMorgan Income Vice Chairman of worldwide investment banking & Capital Trust plc and WaterRower Holdings activities.
He is Chairman of Standard Life plc.
Limited and is a member of the Takeover Panel.
He has previously been a Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of Consolidated Gold Fields and Chairman of a number of public companies including Lasmo plc, Caradon plc and DS Smith plc.
Mr Chris Russell FSIP FCA Mr Richard Stone FCA Non-executive Non-executive Chris Russell was appointed to the Candover Richard Stone joined the Candover Board in Board in May 2004 and is Chairman of the May 2005 and is Chairman of the remuneration audit committee.
Until 1998 he was Deputy Chairman director of Investec High Income Trust plc, of Coopers & Lybrand and chairman of the firms the Korea Fund Inc, Enhanced Index Funds European Corporate Finance activities.
From pcc, JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Smaller 1998 to 2000, he served as a member of the Companies Investment Trust plc, Schroders global board of  LLP.
C. I. Ltd and the Association of Investment He is Chairman of Drambuie Limited and a nonCompanies.
He was formerly a director and Head executive director of Halma plc, Trustco Finance of Overseas Businesses at Gartmore Investment plc, TR Property Investment Trust PLC and Management plc.
Prior to Gartmore, he was a Gartmore Global Trust plc.
Member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Holding Board director of the Jardine Fleming Member of the nominations committee Group in Asia.
Candover 12 Report and accounts 2008 Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG Mr Nicholas Jones Mr Jan Oosterveld Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Michael Jay joined the Candover Board in Nicholas Jones was appointed to the Candover Jan Oosterveld joined the Candover Board in January 2008.
He was formerly the Permanent Board in April 2008.
He is a senior adviser to October 2008.
He spent over 30 years with Royal Under-Secretary at the Foreign Office and Head Lazard in London, having formerly been vice Philips Electronics, where he was CEO of Philips of the Diplomatic Service, having previously chairman.
He was previously a director of Asia Pacific, chairman of LG Philips LCD and a served as British Ambassador to France.
He is J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co. Ltd and, prior member of the Group Management Committee a non-executive director of Associated British to that, a chartered accountant with Peat, with responsibility for Corporate Strategy.
He is Foods plc, Credit Agricole SA and Valeo SA Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He is a non-executive Chairman of Crucell NV Netherlands and a nonand Chairman of the international aid agency director of Ladbrokes plc and Newbury executive director of Cookson Group plc UK Merlin, a registered charity.
He is Chairman of Racecourse plc.
Nicholas Jones is 62. and Barco NV Belgium.
Jan Oosterveld is 65. the House of Lords Appointments Commission.
Senior management Mr Colin Buffin ACA Mr Marek Gumienny ACA Colin Buffin is a Managing Director of Candover Marek Gumienny is a Managing Director of Partners Limited, the manager of various Candover Partners Limited, the manager of investment funds and Managing Director various investment funds and Managing of Candover Services Limited, the principal Director of Candover Services Limited, the operating company in the Candover Group.
principal operating company in the Candover He joined Candover in September 1985 from Group.
Prior to joining Candover in January Deloitte Haskins & Sells after qualifying as a 1987 he qualified as a chartered accountant chartered accountant.
Colin Buffin is 51. with Price Waterhouse.
