Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 03 Operational review 07 Financial review 08 15 largest investments 11 Valuation policy 12 The Board of directors 14 Report of the directors 20 Corporate governance 25 Directors remuneration report Valuation policy Investments have been valued by The fair value of an investment in a company Where appropriate, a marketability discount the directors in compliance with the which has not been valued by reference in the range of 10% to 30% may be applied principles of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: to a recent transaction will be valued on to the investment valuation, based on the Recognition and Measurement and one of the other bases described above, likely timing of an exit, the influence over that the International Private Equity and and generally the earnings multiple basis exit, the likelihood of achieving conditions Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as of valuation will be used unless this is precedent to that exit and general market recommended by the BVCA.
inappropriate, as in the case of certain conditions.
Principles of valuation of When investments have obtained an unlisted investments When valuing on an earnings multiple basis, exit after the valuation date but before Investments are stated at amounts profits before interest and tax of the current finalisation of Candovers relevant accounts considered by the directors to be a year will normally be used, depending interim or final, the valuation is based reasonable assessment of their fair value, on whether or not more than six months on the exit valuation, adjusted where subject to the requirement to apply a of the accounting period remain and the appropriate for changes in circumstances degree of caution in making the necessary predictability of future profits.
Such profits and discounting for the time value of money.
Fair value is the amount at which will be adjusted to a maintainable basis, an asset could be exchanged between taxed at the full corporation tax rate and In arriving at the value of an investment, knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms multiplied by an appropriate and reasonable the percentage ownership is calculated length transaction.
In estimating fair value, price earnings multiple.
This is normally after taking into account any dilution the directors use a methodology which related to comparable quoted companies through outstanding warrants, options is appropriate in light of the nature, facts or recent transactions, with adjustments and performance related mechanisms.
and circumstances of the investment and made for points of difference between its materiality in the context of the total the comparator and the company being Principles of valuation of listed investment portfolio.
valued, in particular for risks, earnings investments growth prospects and surplus assets or Investments are valued at the bid price All investments are valued according to excess liabilities.
Where a company is last recorded on the balance sheet date one of the following bases: loss-making, or the value is derived mainly without discount.
transaction value less any provision from the underlying value of its assets rather required than its earnings, the valuation may be Valuation review procedures earnings multiple calculated with regard to the underlying net Valuations are initially prepared by the net assets assets.
Where there has been a subsequent relevant investment executive.
These price of recent investment recent investment by a third party in a valuations are then subject to review by sale price new financing round that is deemed to be senior management and external auditors, at arms length this may be used as the prior to approval by the directors.
Investments are only valued at transaction basis of valuation.
In cases where an exit is value for a limited period after the date of actively being sought, then any offers from acquisition.
In the light of current financial potential purchasers would be relevant in conditions we have departed from industry assessing the valuation of an investment guidelines in respect of new investments.
and are taken into account in arriving at the Rather than maintaining at cost for 12 valuation.
months we have either applied a significant discount on cost or used public market comparables.
Candover Candover 11 R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 08 8 11
