Overview Business review Financial statements and notes 03 Operational review 07 Financial review 08 15 largest investments 11 Valuation policy 12 The Board of directors 14 Report of the directors 20 Corporate governance 25 Directors remuneration report Report of the directors The directors present their report together the relevant fund and other parties.
Each Future investments will be in line with the with the audited financial statements for the agreement requires Candover Investments policy outlined above, however as referred year ended 31st December, 2008. plc to contribute its proportionate share of to in the Chairmans statement on page any investment made by the relevant fund, one the Companys focus for the time Principal activities but allows Candover Investments plc to being will be on preserving the value of Candover Investments plc is an investment limit its share of any investment to 15% by its existing investments.
In the short term company within the meaning of Section 833 value of its overall investments, if holding the Company is unlikely to make further of the Companies Act 2006 as well as an more than 15% would risk jeopardising investments except in relation to its existing investment trust under section 842 of the Candover Investment plcs status as an investments, and does not currently expect Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988. approved investment trust.
As referred to to make further investments alongside in the Chairmans statement on page one the 2008 Fund other than in relation to its The principal business of the Candover Candover Investments plc has concluded existing holding in Expro International.
As Group is the identification, implementation that it is not currently in a position to make referred to in the Chairmans statement, the and monitoring of mid-to-large buyouts and any further commitment to invest alongside Company is in discussions with the Limited buyins.
Candover Investments plc makes the Candover 2008 Fund beyond its Partners of the Candover 2008 Fund investments either alongside third party existing holding in Expro International.
regarding a restructuring of the Fund, which funds managed by Candover Partners is likely to include a temporary suspension Limited or on its own account.
Candover Investment policy of the investment period.
As part of the Partners Limited, which is regulated by Candover Investments plcs principal restructuring of the Candover 2008 Fund the Financial Services Authority and is investment focus has been investing Candover Partners Limited may adjust the wholly-owned by Candover Investments alongside funds managed by Candover Candover 2008 Funds investment focus.
plc, manages funds established with Partners Limited, its wholly-owned commitments from a wide range of subsidiary.
In recent years these funds Application of investment policy international institutional investors.
have focussed on mid-to-large European The summary information on the inside buyouts with an enterprise value typically cover, the Chairmans statement on Candover Investments plc participates in excess of m500 million, although page one, the operational and financial in the profits from the funds managed by investments have also been made in both reviews on pages three and seven and the Candover Partners Limited, subject to an larger and smaller businesses.
Typically, the descriptions of the 15 largest investments overall minimum return having first been Company has invested between m25 million on pages eight to ten explain and generated for investors in the funds.
In and m100 million in each of these buyouts.
demonstrate how Candover has invested its accordance with agreements entered From time to time the Company has also assets with a view to spreading investment into by it, Candover Investments plc will made direct investments, and commitments risk in accordance with its investment policy.
be entitled to between 2% and 5% of to other funds, inside and outside Europe.
any profit made by the Candover 2005 Results and review of business and 2008 Funds.
The exact percentage The funds managed by Candover Partners The Group profit for the financial year received by Candover Investments plc Limited have a strategy to invest in a wide after taxation was 3,755,000 2007: will be determined by a ratchet based on range of industries and countries, mainly 14,119,000.
Revenue was 41,187,000 the investment multiple achieved by the in Europe, to ensure there is diversity in 2007: 59,288,000.
However, as referred to in the portfolio.
As a result, at any given time, expenses charged to revenue were the Chairmans statement on page one, Candover Investments plcs portfolio will 33,207,000 2007: 37,920,000.
The Candover Investments plc is not currently in contain a risk profile that is balanced both changes in fixed asset investments are a position to make any further commitment by geography and industry sector.
described, together with a review of to invest alongside the Candover 2008 Candover Investments plc will not invest, the Groups activities, in the Chairmans Fund beyond its existing investment in on acquisition, more than 15% by value statement, operational review and financial Expro International and is in talks with of its investments in a single business or review on pages one to seven.
the Limited Partners of that Fund about a company or more than 15% of its total restructuring of the Fund, which is likely assets in any other listed closed-ended The key performance indicators KPIs used to include a temporary suspension of the investment funds.
to measure the progress and performance investment period.
of the Company are as follows: Candover Investments plcs policy has been Net asset value growth Co-investment arrangements to manage its balance sheet and levels Profit and dividend growth.
Candover Investments plcs commitment of gearing.
Net gearing is not expected to co-invest alongside the funds managed to exceed 20% of net assets over the Details of the financial KPIs are shown in the by Candover Partners Limited is set out investment cycle and will not be greater financial review on page seven.
Candover in the co-investment agreement for each than 40% of net assets at the time any does not use KPIs other than financial KPIs.
fund entered into between Candover gearing is taken out.
Investments plc, Candover Partners Limited as general partner or manager of the various partnerships making up Candover 14 Report and accounts 2008 Dividend and proposed transfer Directors Market conditions for exits and the to reserves availability of well-priced debt finance all Except where otherwise indicated the The directors do not recommend the directors listed below served on the Board have an impact not only on the Groups payment of a final dividend for 2008 2007: valuation of its portfolio but also on the throughout the year and were in office at final dividend of 8,743,000, equal to 40.0p the end of the year.
All directors are nonGroups ability to exit from its underlying per ordinary share.
Taking into account the portfolio, and therefore on the management executive.
interim dividend paid on 15th October, 2008 of the balance sheet and the levels of the total dividend for the year is 4,808,000, gearing of the Company.
Mr Gerry Grimstone Chairman equal to 22.0p per ordinary share 2007: Mr Antony Hichens 13,115,000, equal to 60.0p per ordinary The Groups sensitivity to valuation risk will Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG share.
The interim dividend details are appointed 1st January, 2008 be affected by changes in the Groups levels shown in note seven on page 42. of borrowing and liquidity.
Any reduction in Mr Nicholas Jones appointed 14th April, 2008 the value of the portfolio will be amplified Factors affecting future development by our balance sheet gearing, which was Mr Jan Oosterveld The main trends and factors likely to affect appointed 29th October, 2008 29% as at 31st December, 2008.
It will also the future development, performance be affected by leverage in the companies Mr Chris Russell and position of Candovers business, Mr Richard Stone in which we invest and the local currency and the principal risks and uncertainties denomination of such investments.
Mr Jimmy West that Candover faces, are described in retired 14th May, 2008 the Chairmans statement on page one, Liquidity risk the business review on page three and in In accordance with the Companys Articles This is the risk that the Group will encounter the paragraph headed Financial risk difficulty in meeting obligations associated of Association and in compliance with the factors below.
Combined Code Jan Oosterveld will seek with uncalled commitments and financial liabilities.
The Group invests from its own election at the forthcoming Annual General Financial risk factors Meeting and Gerry Grimstone, Antony balance sheet using cash generated from The Groups investment activities expose its investing activities.
It is anticipated Hichens and Richard Stone will retire and, it to a variety of financial risks: market risk being eligible, will offer themselves for rethat over the longer term, and in normal including currency risk, price risk and circumstances, commitments would be election at the Annual General Meeting.
interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity financed by distributions received on the risk.
Risk management is embedded in the realisation of existing investments.
However, The biographical details of the serving operating committees in the business and directors and those seeking election or over the second half of 2008, the effects of is overseen by the Board in conjunction with the global economic crisis have meant not re-election appear on pages 12 and 13. senior management.
The main risks are Each of those seeking election or re-election only a delay in expected realisations but considered to be valuation and liquidity risk, a major decrease in net asset valuations has a letter of appointment, the terms enhanced by gearing both at the Company of which are described in the directors caused primarily by continued falling public and the portfolio level.
The Board therefore remuneration report on page 27. reviewed the Groups financing strategy Valuation risk and announced that it is not currently in a Share capital structure The Groups exposure to valuation risk Note 18 to the accounts, on page 49, position to make any further investment comprises mainly movements in the value in the Candover 2008 Fund.
Instead the sets out details of the Companys capital of its underlying investments.
There are no shares in issue Boards main priority is to ensure that it has of the Groups portfolio is given in note the capital required to fund its commitment other than ordinary shares.
78,035 ordinary ten on page 44 and a detailed analysis of shares are held by the Company in treasury.
of 90.4 million for follow-on investments in the 15 largest underlying investments is the Candover 2005 Fund and to maintain given on pages eight to ten.
All underlying Notifiable interests in the headroom in the bond covenants.
investments are valued at fair value by the Companys shares Directors in accordance with the Groups The names of those persons who, insofar Further information on other financial valuation policy set out on page 11.
It risks and on financial risk management is as the Company is aware, are interested should be noted that at 31st December, directly or indirectly in 3% or more of the contained in note 25 on page 53.
2008, 78% of the Groups underlying issued share capital of the Company as at investments have been valued on the 19th March, 2009 are shown in note 18 to multiple of earnings basis.
Hence, future the accounts on page 49. changes in public market comparables which we use to value our unquoted holdings, and changes in the trading results of portfolio companies, will impact the valuations of the portfolio companies.
Candover 15 Report and accounts 2008 Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Report of the directors continued Directors interests Focus on the market - our businesses The Guidelines also place enhanced The statements in respect of directors need healthy markets to grow, and reporting requirements on portfolio interests in the share capital of the healthy markets in turn need healthy companies meeting certain criteria Company are contained in note 18 to societies.
Our management teams including having more than 50% of the accounts on page 50.
Other matters will look in depth at trends and social revenues generated in the UK, and requiring disclosure by the directors are concerns relevant to their market.
more than 1,000 full-time equivalent contained in the directors remuneration Focus on the positive - we believe in the UK employees.
Two of our portfolio report on page 26. power of business to solve problems, companies, Gala Coral and DX Group, including social and environmental ones.
meet these criteria and have produced full Corporate responsibility Our management teams will be alert to year and interim year reports that satisfy the Candover takes care to comply with all opportunities to develop new products required standard.
relevant legislation and to ensure that we are and services that benefit society and the a reasonable and fair employer.
Political and charitable donations good relationships with our business Integrity - our management teams will During the year the Company made partners and portfolio companies, and run their companies honestly and fairly, donations totalling 500 to various Candover Partners Limited has developed ensuring that they and those who charities 2007: 21,000.
In addition, an active charitable programme.
work for them are free from damaging Candover Partners Limited committed conflicts of interest, corruption or 125,000 to the Private Equity Foundation Our principal social impacts, and the nepotism.
There were no political consequent risks and opportunities, arise Appropriate reporting - many of our donations made during the year 2007: nil.
in our portfolio companies which operate businesses are relatively small, and most in a diverse range of sectors and countries.
are business to business operations.
Share buyback We do not manage these businesses In larger businesses, or those whose At the Annual General Meeting on 14th May, directly, but nevertheless we recognise operations have a significant public face, 2008 shareholders granted the directors the responsibilities that accompany our our management teams will ensure that authority to buy back up to 3,276,306 of the ownership and our strategic involvement they report publicly on suitable nonCompanys ordinary shares of 25p each at through the companies boards.
financial topics following sector and a minimum price of 25.0p per share.
maximum price excluding expenses that Portfolio company principles may be paid by the Company for any such Candover backs management teams to The Walker Guidelines shares is 5% over the average mid-market run the businesses we invest in.
We do During 2007 Sir David Walker published price of the ordinary shares of the Company not intervene directly in their executive his Guidelines for Disclosure and based on the London Stock Exchange responsibilities, but we do expect them Transparency in Private Equity, aimed Daily Official List for the five business days to consider the social and environmental at helping to improve the understanding immediately before the day on which the impacts of how they operate.
of the role of private equity within the UK Company buys the ordinary shares.
The Guidelines oblige private We have adopted seven principles which equity firms to comply, or to explain clearly Between 25th November, 2008 and we expect each management team to why they have not.
Candover supports 12th December, 2008 the directors consider at least annually with us, and to the Guidelines and believes that it is fully exercised this authority to buy back use to stimulate ideas and action within compliant with the Guidelines in its 2008 78,035 ordinary shares of 25p each for their company.
The Guidelines also stipulate an aggregate consideration excluding Invest and build - our aim is to create that well-established valuation guidelines broker commission of 633,000 at an value, and creating value often requires should be used by private equity firms to average price per share of just over 811p.
Our management teams value their assets, and that firms should The shares purchased represent 0.36% will actively find ways to invest in the provide data to the BVCA in support of its of the total issued share capital.
All shares technology, facilities and people in their role in data gathering and economic impact purchased are now held in treasury.
companies to make the businesses analysis.
Candover is fully compliant in both profitable and sustainable.
Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Respect the law - management teams Meeting on page 61 will be proposed as a will ensure they understand the laws and special resolution to renew the directors regulations that relate to their companies, authority to buy back shares.
and that they are fully compliant.
Tackle waste - our management teams will understand how their businesses use resources and ensure that consumption and waste are controlled.
In companies that use significant amounts of energy, it will be measured and managed.
Candover 16 Report and accounts 2008 Annual General Meeting Resolution 10 will be proposed as an Resolution 12, if passed, authorises the The Annual General Meeting of the ordinary resolution to grant new authorities Company to purchase up to 3,264,609 of Company will be held on Wednesday to allot shares.
In particular, it will grant its ordinary shares.
This authority will expire 13th May, 2009 at 12 noon at Founders new authorities to allot relevant securities at the next Annual General Meeting of the Hall, 1 Cloth Fair, London EC1A 7HT.
up to an aggregate nominal value of Company, or on 30th June, 2010 if earlier.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting 1,814,881 and equity securities up to an This resolution also sets out the highest appears on page 60. aggregate nominal value when added to and lowest price at which the shares can allotments under part a of the resolution be bought.
Resolutions 3-6 concern the election or of 3,629,763 where the allotment is in re-election of certain directors.
Biographical connection with a rights issue.
In the event that ordinary shares are details for those directors are given on purchased, they would either be cancelled pages 12 and 13.
Each of the directors These amounts represent approximately and the number of shares in issue reduced standing for re-election, namely Gerry one-third and approximately two-thirds accordingly or, subject to the Companies Grimstone, Antony Hichens and Richard respectively of the total issued ordinary Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Stone, has demonstrated a strong share capital of the Company excluding Shares Regulations 2003 S. I.
2003 1116 commitment to Candover and the ability treasury shares as at 19th March, 2009. the Regulations, be retained as treasury to bring a wide ranging and valuable set If given, these authorities will expire at the shares.
The Regulations permit companies of skills, knowledge and experience to conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to hold shares repurchased as treasury the Company, the Board and the various in 2010 or on 30th June, 2010 whichever is shares with a view to possible re-sale committees to which they belong and each the earlier.
Where usage of these authorities at a future date rather than having to such director has been the subject of an exceeds the thresholds suggested by the cancel them.
Association of British Insurers the ABI in their December 2008 guidance, all the The Company would consider holding any In addition to the ordinary business of the directors will stand for re-election at the of its own ordinary shares repurchased Annual General Meeting, the following following Annual General Meeting to the pursuant to the proposed resolution in special business will be put to shareholders: extent required by the ABI.
The directors treasury rather than cancelling them, have no present intention of issuing shares subject to a maximum of 10% of the Resolution 9 seeks shareholder approval pursuant to this authority.
issued share capital immediately prior to to increase the authorised share capital such purchase.
By holding its shares in of the Company from 7,250,000 to As at 19th March, 2009 the Company held treasury, the Company is afforded the ability 9,250,000 by the creation of 8,000,000 78,035 treasury shares representing 0.36% to reissue treasury shares quickly and cost ordinary shares of 25p each representing of the total ordinary share capital in issue effectively, and gains additional flexibility an increase in the authorised ordinary share excluding treasury shares.
in the management of its capital base.
It capital of approximately 27.6%, so that should be noted that no dividends would should the directors decide to make use of Resolution 11 will be proposed as a special be paid on shares while held in treasury, any authorities granted under resolutions 10 resolution to grant authority to disapply no voting rights would attach to them and and or 11 as described below, they will be pre-emption rights.
Apart from offers or the shares would be treated as if cancelled.
invitations in proportion to the respective The resolution follows the rules set down number of shares held, the authority will be by the Companies Act 1985 and the UK Resolutions 10 and 11 seek shareholder limited to the issue of shares and sales of Listing Authority.
approval in relation to the allotment treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate of securities and the disapplication of nominal value of 273,207 being 5% of the The directors are committed to managing pre-emption rights.
Directors may only Companys issued ordinary share capital at the Companys capital efficiently and will allot shares or grant rights over shares 19th March, 2009.
If given, this authority keep under review the possibility of buying if authorised to do so by shareholders.
will expire on 30th June 2010, or at the back the Companys shares.
However, they Directors require additional authority conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in will only do this if they believe that it is in from shareholders to allot shares or grant 2010, whichever is the earlier.
This authority shareholders best interests.
rights over shares or sell treasury shares is in line with the revised December 2008 where they propose to do so for cash and guidance issued by the ABI.
otherwise than to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
As the relevant The directors will have due regard to authorities granted to the directors of the institutional guidelines in relation to any Company at the Annual General Meeting in exercise of this authority, in particular the 2004 are due to expire at this years Annual requirement for advance consultation and General Meeting, new authorities are now explanation before making any such issue being sought.
which exceeds 7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling three year period.
Candover 17 Report and accounts 2008 Overview Business review Financial statements and notes Report of the directors continued Tax status Voting at general meetings There were 653,437 options outstanding at 19th March, 2009 to subscribe for The board of Her Majestys Revenue and Subject to any restrictions below, on a show Customs has approved the Companys of hands every member who is present at a ordinary shares, as set out in note two to the accounts on page 39.
Those represent 3% status as an investment trust, under general meeting and each person present section 842 of the Income and Corporation as a duly appointed proxy of a member has of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 19th Taxes Act 1988, for the year ended 31st one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, December, 2007.
In the opinion of the every member who is present has one vote March, 2009 and would represent 3.53% of such issued share capital excluding directors, the Companys affairs since on each resolution for every share of which that date have been conducted so as to he is the registered member.
treasury shares if the full authority to buy back shares pursuant to resolution 12 enable it to continue to be treated as an investment trust.
A resolution put to the vote of a general was used.
meeting is decided on a show of hands Rights attaching to shares unless before or on the declaration of Resolution 13, if passed, will allow the Company to continue calling general The rights attaching to the Companys the result of the show of hands, a poll is shares are set out in the Companys Articles demanded by the chairman of the meeting, meetings on 14 clear days notice.
There are no special control or by at least five members present in rights in relation to the Companys shares.
person and having the right to vote on the The directors consider the passing of the above resolutions to be in the best interests resolution, or by any members present Subject to any restrictions referred to in in person having at least one-tenth of the of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
the next section, members may attend any total voting rights of all members having general meeting of the Company.
Voting the right to vote on the resolution, or by any Supplier payment policy rights attaching to the ordinary shares are members present in person holding shares described in the next section.
on which an aggregate sum has been paid The Company negotiates payment terms with its suppliers on an individual basis, up of at least one-tenth of the total sum paid Members can declare final dividends by up on all shares.
with the normal arrangements being within 14 to 30 days from receipt of invoice.
passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the A member may vote personally or by proxy Trade creditor days of the Company for t he year ended 31st December, 2008 were amount recommended by the Board.
Any form of proxy sent Board can pay interim dividends provided by the Company to members in relation to 21 days based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the distributable profits of the Company any general meeting must be delivered to justify such payment.
The Board may, if the Company not less than 48 hours before the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
authorised by an ordinary resolution of the the time appointed for holding the meeting members, offer any member the right to or adjourned meeting at which the person ISA status elect to receive new shares, which will be named in the appointment proposes to credited as fully paid, instead of their cash vote.
No instrument of proxy shall be valid The Board has considered the ISA status of Candovers shares and for the time dividend.
Any dividend which has not been after the expiration of 12 months from the claimed for 12 years or more after becoming date of its deposit or receipt, except at an being considers that a decision to make Candovers shares eligible for inclusion due for payment will be forfeited and will adjourned meeting originally held within then revert to the Company.
A corporation which in an ISA will impose constraints on the Companys investment criteria that will not is a member of the Company may authorise If the Company is wound up the liquidator a person or persons as it thinks fit to act as be in the overall interests of shareholders.
can, with the sanction of the members, its representative or representatives at any divide among the members all or any part general meeting of the Company.
Auditors Grant Thornton UK LLP offer themselves for of the assets of the Company and can value any assets and determine how the In the case of joint holders, the vote of reappointment as auditors in accordance with section 485 of the Companies Act divisions shall be carried out as between the the senior holder who votes, whether in members or different classes of members.
person or by proxy, shall be accepted to 2006 and an appropriate resolution will be put to the shareholders at the Annual The liquidator can also transfer the whole or the exclusion of the votes of the other joint any part of the assets to trustees upon any holders.
For this purpose seniority shall General Meeting.
trusts for the benefit of the members.
No be determined by the order in which the members can be compelled to accept any names stand in the register of members.
asset which would give them any liability.
No member shall be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting in respect of any share if any call or other sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of such share remains unpaid.
Candover 18 Report and accounts 2008 The Board may direct that a member shall no transfers of Default Shares as defined takeover bid, other than i certain financing not be entitled to attend or vote either in the section entitled Voting at general agreements, under which borrowings may personally or by proxy at a general meeting meetings above shall be permitted if the become prepayable and ii in relation to the in respect of some or all of the shares held Default Shares represent at least 0.25% in employee share schemes referred to in the by him the Default Shares if he or any nominal value of the issued shares of the directors remuneration report on page 25. person with an interest in shares has been relevant class the Transfer Restrictions.
Awards and options under those schemes sent a notice under section 793 of the The Transfer Restrictions end not more than will vest or become exercisable upon or Companies Act 2006 which confers upon seven days after receipt by the Company shortly after a change of control, although public companies the power to require of all information required by the relevant the number of shares comprised within information with respect to interests in their section 793 notice or, in the case of a those awards or options may be reduced.
voting shares and he or any interested Permitted Transfer, upon receipt by the person fails to supply the Company with the Company of notice of such a transfer.
There are no agreements between the information requested within 14 days after Company and its directors or employees delivery of that notice.
These restrictions There are no other restrictions on the providing for compensation for loss of office end not more than seven days after receipt transfer of ordinary shares in the Company or employment that occurs because of a by the Company of all the information other than restrictions imposed from takeover bid.
required by the relevant section 793 notice.
time to time by laws and regulations e. g. insider trading laws or pursuant to the The Board may exercise all the powers of Restrictions on the transfer of shares Listing Rules of the Financial Services the Company, including the power to issue The Board may refuse to register a transfer Authority whereby certain employees of and buy back shares and to borrow money, of a share which is not fully paid, provided the Company require the approval of the subject to the provisions of the Companys that such discretion may not be exercised in Company to deal in ordinary shares.
Memorandum and Articles of Association, a way which the Financial Services Authority relevant statutes and any special resolutions or the London Stock Exchange regards Employees and Employee adopted by members in general meeting.
as preventing dealings in the shares of the share schemes relevant class or classes from taking place Information regarding the Groups The Companys Articles of Association on an open and proper basis.
The Board employees is given in note two to the provide that each director will seek remay decline to recognise any instrument of financial statements on pages 38 and 39 election at the Annual General Meeting at transfer unless i it is lodged, duly stamped and in the directors remuneration report least every three years.
Additionally, new if stampable, at the registered office of the on page 25. directors may be appointed by the Board Company or any other place decided by the but are subject to election by members at Board, accompanied by the certificate for Shares in the Company may be held, from the first opportunity after their appointment.
the share to which it relates and such other time to time, by the trustee of the Candover The Articles of Association limit the number evidence as the Board may reasonably Investments SMP Trust the SMP Trust of directors to not less than two and not require to show the right of the transferor to established in connection with the share more than 12 save where members decide make the transfer and if the instrument of matching plan referred to in the directors otherwise.
Members may remove any transfer is executed by some other person remuneration report on page 25, which is director subject to the giving of special on behalf of the transferor, the authority of an employees share scheme.
The trustee notice and, if desired, replace such that person to do so : and ii it is in respect of the SMP Trust may not vote shares that removed director by ordinary resolution.
of only one class of shares.
The Board may are held in the trust.
As at 31st December, also refuse to register any transfer of a share 2008 no shares were held by the trustee of The Articles of Association of the Company in favour of more than four transferees.
may be amended by special resolution.
There are no conditions contained in the Transfers of uncertificated shares must be Additional information memorandum in relation to the alteration of carried out using CREST and the Board No agreements between the holders of the Articles of Association of the Company.
can refuse to register a transfer of an securities are known to the Company uncertificated share in accordance with the which may result in restrictions on the By order of the Board regulations governing the operation transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Philip Price There are no significant agreements to Company Secretary The Board cannot suspend the registration which the Company is a party that take 20 Old Bailey of transfers of any uncertificated shares effect, alter or terminate upon a change of London EC4M 7LN without gaining consent from CREST.
control of the Company following a 20th March, 2009 The Board may direct that, subject to certain exceptions set out in the Articles of Association a Permitted Transfer, Candover 19 Report and accounts 2008
