DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 The directors submit their Annual Report together with the to be determined.
However, the Board believed that such a audited Financial Statements of the Company and the Group provision would result in the Group reporting a significant loss for the year ended 31 December 2008. before tax for the year ended 31 December 2008 and in the requirement to restate the Groups financial statements for the PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES year ended 31 December 2007.
The principal activities of the Group during the year ended On 1 April 2009, the Board also reported that it was considering 31 December 2008 were the provision of consumer credit to whether to include an additional IBNR provision consistent with non-standard customers in the UK, the provision of debt accounting standard IAS39.
Based on work carried out to that recovery services to external clients and the Groups consumer date, the Board believed that the adoption of such a policy would credit business and the provision of working capital finance for result in an IBNR impairment provision of approximately small and medium sized businesses.
A list of principal operating 150 million with respect to the value of customer loans held as at subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2008 is set out in 31 December 2008.
The financial statements from pages 37 to 90 note 36 to the financial statements.
include an IBNR provision of 150 million at 31 December 2008. BUSINESS REVIEW On 23 April 2009, Cattles announced it was not in a position to A review of the businesses of the Group, a description of the publish its report and accounts for the year ended 31 December principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group during the 2008 by 30 April 2009 as required by DTR 4.1.
In those year ended 31 December 2008 and an indication of likely future circumstances, the Company believed that the FSA would developments in the businesses of the Group are included in ordinarily require the suspension of trading of the Companys the Executive Chairmans Statement and the Business and shares and bonds with effect from 1 May 2009.
order to avoid a disorderly market and to protect investors, Cattles requested an immediate suspension of trading in its RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS securities pending publication of its audited report and accounts Total revenue for the year amounted to 847.0 million for the year ended 31 December 2008, which was granted.
2007 restated: 912.2 million and loss before taxation was On 30 April 2009, the Group closed its car retail operation, 745.2 million 2007 restated: 96.5 million as set out in the Welcome Car Finance.
Group Income Statement on page 38.
An analysis of income and loss before taxation, by segmental activity, is set out in note 4of On 2 September 2009, Cattles announced the closure of the financial statements.
Details of the taxation charge for the 30 Welcome branches to better align the network with reduced year are set out in note 11 of the financial statements.
levels of lending and deliver efficiencies in line with Cattles commitment to manage the business through cost-efficient The pre-close trading statement issued on 18 December 2008 operations and improved cash collection processes.
510 stated that the directors, in light of the then current market and employees received notice that they were at risk of redundancy economic conditions, had decided that it would be prudent not and subsequently 266 left the business.
to propose a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008, nor pay an interim dividend in respect of the On 14 September 2009, the Group sold Cattles Invoice Finance six months ended 30 June 2009.
Given the losses reported by to ABS FS Limited for 70.4 million.
the Group no final dividend can be proposed for the year ended On 29 October 2009, the High Court of Justice heard the 31 December 2008. application of Cattles to seek a determination in relation to An interim dividend of 6.51p per share was paid in October 2008 whether the terms contained within certain cross-guarantee in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008. documentation operate to subordinate the Companys claims against its subsidiaries, including WFS, to the claims of certain The trustee of the Cattles employee benefit trust has agreed to bank creditors.
This application was brought as part of consensual waive the right to receive dividends over and above 0.01p per discussions between all parties.
On 14 December 2009, the High share on all shares it holds for the purpose of the Long-Term Court delivered a decision that interpreted the cross-guarantee Incentive Plan, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the Management documentation to mean that the Company will be prevented from Share Plan and the Restricted Share Award.
In respect of the making claims against relevant trading company subsidiaries for total dividend for 2008 of 6.51p per share, the trustee waived money lent until the claims of the relevant bank creditors against dividends of less than 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million on the those subsidiaries and the Company have been satisfied in full.
shares held during the year ended 31 December 2008.
After judgement was handed down permission was sought to appeal this decision to the Court of Appeal.
The High Court POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS granted such permission to the Royal Bank of Scotland plc and The Board reported on 10 March 2009 that, based on Party A being a representative member of the Bondholders.
The information received to that date, and subject to completion Court of Appeal hearing is presently listed for 12 or 13 May 2010. of its external audit, it believed that the Group had incurred a significant loss before tax for the year ended 31 December 2008, On 25 November 2009, Cattles announced that it had agreed and that it would be necessary to restate the Groups financial the SEA with its key financial creditors which became effective statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Further details of the SEA are set out in also reported on 10 March 2009 that it believed Cattles was the Business and Financial Review.
in breach of covenants under its borrowing arrangements.
On 16 December 2009, Cattles announced that it was unable to On 1 April 2009, the Company announced that a report by recommend a business plan to financial creditors which would Deloitte estimated that the Group would need to make a allow Welcome to lend to existing or new customers.
The Board provision of around 700 million in excess of that originally therefore recommended a plan which would focus on collecting anticipated with respect to the value of customer loans held as out Welcomes customer loans.
It is envisaged that the collection at 31 December 2008.
At that date, the amount of this provision of the Welcome loan book could take two to three years and, that should be reected in the profit and loss account for the during this period, the Groups cost base will contract to reect year ended 31 December 2008 versus earlier years still remained the reducing size of the book.
Annual Report and 31 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued re-appointment.
A person will cease to be a director in various POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS continued circumstances, including if he or she is requested to resign by On 5 February 2010, Cattles announced the closure of circa 70 written notice signed by all of the other directors.
Local Management Branches and Local Collections Units nationwide.
Welcome entered into a consultation process from The directors have general power to manage the Companys that date with staff affected by the proposals, of whom business and may exercise all such powers of the Company as are approximately 450 received notice that they were at risk of not required by the Companies Act or the Articles of Association redundancy and subsequently 382 will leave the business.
to be exercised by the shareholders in general meeting, subject nevertheless to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Articles On 7 May 2010, Cattles announced a proposal to close 18 of Association and to any directions given by the shareholders in branches nationwide and a contraction in the current operations general meeting by special resolution.
management and their support staff in line with the smaller number of branches.
Welcome entered into a consultation Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles process from that date, with staff affected by the proposals, of of Association, the unissued shares of the Company are at the whom approximately 155 received notice that they were at risk disposal of the Board, which may offer, allot, grant options over of redundancy.
or otherwise dispose of them to any such persons, at such times and for such consideration and upon such terms and conditions DIRECTORS as the Board may determine.
Pursuant to resolutions passed at In 2008, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, four the 2008 Annual General Meeting, as at 31 December 2008 the executive directors and four independent non-executive directors had authority to issue up to 120,934,920 ordinary directors, details of whom are set out on page 13. shares.
This authority has now expired.
The Companys Articles of Association require that one-third, or Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles as near as possible but not less than one-third, of the directors of Association and to any conrmation or consent required by excluding, for this purpose, any director who has been law, the Company may from time to time purchase its own appointed by the directors since the last Annual General shares.
Pursuant to the resolution passed at the 2008 Annual Meeting retire by rotation each year.
Directors due to retire by General Meeting, as at 31 December 2008 the Company had the rotation include any director who wishes to retire and not offer power to purchase up to 36,280,476 ordinary shares, subject to himself or herself for re-election and otherwise are those who compliance with the limits set out in that resolution, and the have been longest in ofce since they were last elected and so directors could have exercised this power on behalf of the that, as between persons who were last elected on the same Company under their general power to manage the Companys day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among business.
This power has now expired.
themselves be determined by lot.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES All directors are re-elected at intervals of not more than three The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity years, in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code provisions for the benefit of its directors which remain in force on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting at the date of this report.
Details of the directors remuneration, share incentives and options, and pension arrangements for the year ended DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS 31 December 2008 are set out in the Directors Remuneration The directors named on page 13 were in ofce for the whole Report.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as dened of the year ended 31 December 2008, except where stated.
The in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 have been made by interests of the directors in the shares of the Company, all of the Company for the benefit of all the directors in ofce in 2008 which were beneficial interests, as notied pursuant to rule 3.1.
2 indemnifying them to the maximum extent permitted by law of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules, were as follows: against liabilities attaching to them as directors of the Company and of its subsidiary undertakings and such provisions continue 11 May 31 December 31 December 2010 2008 2007 in force at the date of this report.
No director had a contract of signicance, other than a service contract and a qualifying N N Broadhurst resigned 30 June 2009 n a 6,450 1,000 D J Postings resigned 30 June 2009 n a 90,000 third-party indemnity provision, with the Company or any M W G Collins removed 30 June 2009 n a 149,900 90,877 subsidiary undertaking during the year ended 31 December 2008.
J J Corr removed 30 June 2009 n a 183,832 76,601 I S Cummine removed 30 June 2009 n a 221,971 137,280 The Companys shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint D A Haxby 12,059 12,059 8,317 any person to be a director and may by special resolution or by F R Dee 24,500 24,500 10,000 ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given, A J McWalter remove any director before the expiration of his or her period of M A Young 7,250 7,250 5,000 ofce and may by ordinary resolution appoint another person in Total 43,809 695,962 329,075 his or her place.
No person other than a director retiring at the meeting shall, unless recommended by the Board, be appointed GOING CONCERN BASIS as a director at any general meeting unless, not less than seven On 25 November 2009, Cattles announced that it had agreed and not more than 28 clear days before the date of the meeting, the SEA with its key financial creditors, and that this should there has been given to the Company Secretary written notice improve the likelihood of Cattles achieving its restructuring by a shareholder not being the person proposed to be objectives, namely: appointed as a director who is entitled to attend and vote at the relevant meeting of his or her intention to propose such person to stabilise the financial position of Cattles and its for appointment and also written notice signed by the person subsidiaries: and to be proposed of his or her willingness to be appointed.
against this background, to continue discussions with Cattles The Board also has the power to appoint a person as a director, key financial creditors with a view to agreeing a consensual although any such director shall only hold ofce until the next restructuring of the Cattles group.
Annual General Meeting, at which he or she will be eligible for 32 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 Further details of the SEA are set out in the Business and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, Financial Review.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting Cattles, WFS and other members of the Cattles group do assumptions or qualications as necessary.
not anticipate that the key financial creditors will demand repayment from Cattles, WFS or other members of the Cattles The directors confirm that they have complied with the above group because the key financial creditors have agreed in the SEA requirements in preparing the financial statements.
not to do so while the agreement continues.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Cattles and WFS are engaged in discussions with their key financial records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the creditors and others in order to progress proposals for a consensual financial position of the Group and the Company and enable restructuring of the Cattles group.
While these discussions are them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors progressing a material uncertainty exists as to their outcome.
The Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2008 complexity and number of issues on which it is necessary to reach comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group agreement, the interests which must be taken into account in financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are doing so and the number of stakeholders with whom those also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and agreements are necessary make achieving a consensual the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the restructuring uncertain.
However, the directors presently believe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
that a reasonable prospect of restructuring so as to avoid insolvent Each of the following directors liquidation exists.
The directors belief is primarily based on the level of support that continues to be provided by the financial Margaret A Young, Executive Chairman creditors of the Cattles group and the progress being made with James R Drummond Smith, Finance Director them and others in furtherance of the achievement of a Robert D East, Director and Chief Restructuring officer consensual restructuring.
However, as these discussions are David A Haxby, non-executive Director ongoing there is a material uncertainty that may cast significant Frank R Dee, non-executive Director doubt upon the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Alan J McWalter, non-executive Director In addition, the directors continue to believe the Company and confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: the Group will not cease trading in the foreseeable future, as the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, Welcome focuses on collecting out its customers loans, with give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial Shopacheck and The Lewis Group continuing to trade as normal.
position and loss of the Company and the undertakings WFS owes an inter-company liability to Cattles of 2.9 billion.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole for the year However, Cattles is also party to the standstill contained within ended 31 December 2008: and the SEA and Cattles has agreed not to demand repayment of the the Directors Report and the Business and Financial Review inter-company liability while the SEA continues.
include a fair review of the development and performance After making enquiries regarding the circumstances outlined of the business and the position of the Company and the above, the directors have concluded that there is a reasonable undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole expectation that Cattles and its subsidiaries can continue to pay for the year ended 31 December 2008, together with a their operational debts as they fall due for the foreseeable future description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they taking into account the expectations of Cattles and its faced as at 31 December 2008. subsidiaries in relation to the ongoing discussions with key These financial statements will be published on the Companys financial creditors, as referred to above.
Accordingly, they website, in addition to the paper version to be posted to those continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the shareholders who receive printed documents.
and integrity of the Cattles plc website is the responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES involve consideration of these matters.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS have prepared the Group and parent Company financial This document and, in particular, the Business and Financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Review contained in this report contains certain forward-looking Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The statements with respect to certain of the Groups objectives and financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair expectations relating to its future financial condition and view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and performance as at 31 December 2008.
These forward-looking of the profit or loss of the Group for the period.
statements can be identied by the fact that they do not relate In preparing those financial statements, the directors are only to historical facts.
Forward-looking statements sometimes required to: use words such as aim, anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of similar meaning.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Examples of forward-looking statements include, among others, consistently: statements regarding the Groups future financial position, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and impairment charges, business strategy and plans and objectives prudent: for future operations.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to state that the financial statements comply with IFRS as future events and circumstances, including, but not limited to, adopted by the European Union: and Annual Report and 33 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued where in certain circumstances a certicated share has not FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS continued been paid up or on which the Company has a lien: UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, the effects of continued volatility in credit markets, market related where in certain circumstances a shareholder or other person risks such as changes in interest rates and exchange rates, the appearing to be or to have been interested in any shares fails policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, to comply with a disclosure notice issued by the Company changes in legislation, the further development of standards requiring the disclosure of information in relation to those and interpretations under IFRS applicable to past, current and shares: or future periods, evolving practices with regard to the where law or regulation for example, insider trading laws or interpretation and application of standards under IFRS, the the Model Code which applies to the directors and certain outcome of pending and future litigation and the impact of other senior executives prevents dealings in shares.
competition a number of which factors are beyond the Groups control.
As a result, the Groups actual future results may differ During 2008, the issued ordinary share capital of the Company materially from the objectives and expectations set out in the increased by 163,262,142 to 526,066,902.
Details of the changes Groups forward-looking statements as at 31 December 2008. are shown in note 28 to the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2008, the Company was empowered to The Company does not undertake to update forward-looking purchase up to 36,280,476 of its own shares.
This power has statements to reect any changes in its expectations with now expired.
regard thereto or any changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS should, however, consult any additional disclosures that the As at 11 May 2010, the Company had been notied of the Company has made or may make in its further announcements following interests pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and which can be found on its website, www.
Transparency Rules representing 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS So far as each director who held ofce on 11 May 2010 the date Barclays plc 17.88% of the approval of this report is aware, there is no relevant audit UBS Global Asset Management 6.75% information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and F&C Asset Management PLC 3.04% he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS any relevant audit information and to establish that the The agreements relating to the Companys bank facilities and debt Companys auditors are aware of that information.
securities in issue and other borrowings, details of which are set out in note 23 of the financial statements, contain provisions FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT entitling the other parties to the agreements to terminate the Details of the Groups financial risk management policies are set agreements on a change of control of the Company.
All of these out in the Business and Financial Review in the sections entitled bank facilities, debt securities in issue and other borrowings Credit risk, Liquidity risk, Market risk and Capital risk.
became repayable immediately when the Group believed in March 2009 that it had breached its lending covenants.
However, SHARE CAPITAL as set out in the Business and Financial Review, the Company and Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the certain of its subsidiaries agreed a SEA on 25 November 2009. rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
All of the Companys share plans and schemes, which are described in the Directors Remuneration Report, contain provisions in As at 31 December 2008, Cattles Trustee Limited, the trustee relation to a change of control of the Company.
Outstanding of the employee benefit trust, owned 540,434 shares in the options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable Company for the purpose of satisfying any future vesting of on a change of control, subject, where relevant, to the satisfaction awards under the LTIP, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the of any applicable performance conditions at that time.
Management Share Plan and the Restricted Share Award.
Cattles Trustee Limited holds the voting rights in respect of such shares.
DONATIONS To vote by proxy at general meetings, shareholders must lodge Charitable donations during 2008 amounted to 0.4 million their forms of proxy with the Companys registrars by no later 2007: 0.4 million of which 0.3 million 2007: 0.3 million than 48 hours before the start of the relevant meeting.
There are were made to organisations seeking to improve the financial no restrictions on shareholders exercising their voting rights in skills and general welfare of young people and 0.1 million respect of their shares in the Company, except where calls or 2007: 0.1 million were made to organisations addressing other sums payable in respect of the shares have not been paid the issues of social disadvantage in the communities served by or a shareholder or other person appearing to be or to have been the Groups businesses.
interested in any shares fails to comply with a disclosure notice There were no political donations in either year.
issued by the Company requiring the disclosure of information in relation to those shares.
SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the During 2008 Cattles established a Volunteer Educator Company, except: programme in collaboration with its money education partner, the financial literacy project Debtcred.
This programme where certain technical requirements for the transfer have not supported the Groups commitment to promote financial been complied with: education, while helping employees to learn new skills by to certain specified categories of persons such as minors, delivering money management education in secondary schools bankrupts and persons suffering from mental illness: across the UK.
60 employee volunteers from across the Group were recruited and trained and passed on their expertise in 2009.
34 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2008 In 2008 the Group continued to support and work with Credit As a consequence, carbon dioxide CO emissions generated by 2 Action, the national money education charity that helps people the Group remained at similar levels to 2007 at 8,617 tonnes to manage their money better.
In particular, the Group delivered 2007: 8,594 tonnes as increased emissions from building over 250,000 Money Manuals to 17-18 year old students energy were offset by a reduction in emissions from Company preparing for University.
In September 2008 Cattles teamed up with Credit Action and 2008 saw the full implementation of hand-held computers ABCUL, the Association of British Credit Unions, at the party across Shopacheck.
It improved the way customer information conferences to debate whether the withdrawal of credit is recorded and handled and reduced paper use by 1.3 million products and the tightening of borrowing criteria by sheets per year.
mainstream lenders were making affordable credit less During 2008, the Group generated 1,643 tonnes of waste, accessible for those who needed it most.
Although the Groups focus in 2008 was to support money management and financial education initiatives, Cattles SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY AND PRACTICE continued to work with local communities through its It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made well-established programme of community activities.
This in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between included Hands Up, the Groups volunteering initiative through the Company and its suppliers when a binding purchase which employees provided 3,528 hours to a variety of local contract is entered into, provided that all trading terms and community projects 2007: 2,664 during 2008. conditions have been complied with.
The trade creditor days gure has not been stated as the measure is not considered In 2008 the Group had a further two internal community to be appropriate to the business.
programmes: 14% of employees participated in the Cattles 50 50 Club, a Give As You Earn GAYE scheme where employees INDEPENDENT AUDITOR vote for their choice of charities and their contributions were  LLP commenced the audit of the matched by the Company: and CashMatch which gave financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008. employees the opportunity to double their fundraising for However, on 20 February 2009 the Company announced a delay charitable and community activities.
in the release of its preliminary results announcement for the Through these and other community activities, the Group year ended 31 December 2008 pending the completion of the invested 0.6 million 2007: 0.6 million in community Impairment Review.
Subsequently, the Impairment Review activities and initiatives during 2008.
This included financial commissioned by the Audit Committee, confirmed the Boards donations and the value of donations of time.
belief that there had been a breakdown of internal controls which resulted in the Groups impairment policies being applied EMPLOYEES incorrectly.
 LLPs work on the audit of The Group gives sympathetic consideration to applications the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 for employment from disabled persons wherever practicable.
was put on hold pending the completion of the Impairment Successful applicants and employees who become disabled are Review and the Forensic Review and in November 2009 the given appropriate assistance and training and have the same Board asked  LLP to resign as auditors.
career and promotion prospects as other employees.
Given the accounting issues faced by the Company, the Board did not consider it appropriate for  LLP In 2008, 19,216 days of training were delivered to employees to audit the Companys 2008 accounts.
and the leadership development programme was strengthened, enrolling over 1,300 colleagues, more than double the 575 The external auditors are appointed annually by the enrolled in 2007. shareholders.
However, Grant Thornton UK LLP, was appointed by the Board on 7 December 2009 to ll the casual vacancy In 2008, Welcome Car Finance gained Investors in People IiP following the resignation of  LLP in accreditation for the first time.
Shopacheck were also reaccredited and so some 90% of employees were working under the IiP Standard.
Grant Thornton UK LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofce and resolutions proposing their re-appointment as ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS auditors and authorising the directors to determine the auditors The Groups approach to environmental management is remuneration will be proposed at the 2010 Annual General pragmatic, ensuring that environmental impacts are minimised Meeting.
while achieving other business benets, such as cost and By order of the Board efficiency savings.
The Group uses energy to power its computers, to light its buildings and to fuel a company car fleet.
In 2008, Cattles used 5.7 million kWh of electricity, an increase on 2007 in part reecting new ofces being opened during the year 2007: 4.9 million kWh.
One of the largest impacts relates to fuel use by the Company Roland Todd car fleet.
During 2008, fuel consumption reduced by 7% to Company Secretary 2.2 million litres.
This improvement was achieved through the introduction of more efficient vehicles and increasing awareness 11 May 2010 of fuel consumption.
Employees were also driving less as teleconferencing was increasingly being used for internal meetings.
Annual Report and 35 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc
