DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY The directors and secretary at 11 May 2010 are set out below: David A Haxby, LLB, FCA.
From 1991 until his retirement in 1995 Appointed to the Board in February 2006.
Appointed Executive he was the managing partner of the London ofce of Arthur Chairman on 30 June 2009.
of Uniq plc and Royal Numico NV and a managing director of Credit Suisse First Boston and a director of NatWest Markets Frank R Dee.
a non-executive director of Eaglet Investment Trust plc, Leeds Building Society and Speedy Hire plc and held senior executive James R Drummond Smith, FCA.
Joined and non-executive roles in a variety of companies in the retail the Company in March 2009 and appointed to the Board as sector.
Interim Finance Director in April 2009.
Previously held interim roles at New Star Asset Management Limited and Barbon Alan J McWalter.
Insurance Group Limited and prior to that was a partner at Non-executive chairman of Trafcmaster plc and Constantine Deloitte LLP.
Non-executive director of Barbon Insurance Group Group plc and non-executive director of Alphameric plc, Dignity Limited.
plc and Haygarth Group Limited.
Previously marketing director of Marks & Spencer plc.
Joined the Company in June 2008 as Banking Director.
Roland C W Todd, MA Oxon, Solicitor.
Company Secretary and Appointed to the Board as Chief Restructuring officer in July Legal Counsel.
Joined the Company and appointed 2009.
Previously integration and risk director and integration Company Secretary and Legal Counsel 2004.
Prior to joining the director for Absa Group and prior to that held a variety of roles Company was a partner in the Leeds ofce of the law rm DLA.
James R Drummond Smith was appointed to the Board on 24 April 2009 and Robert D East was appointed to the Board on 29 July 2009.
All the other directors named above were also directors for the whole of the year ended 31 December 2008.
In addition, the following were also directors for the whole of the year ended 31 December 2008 and ceased to be directors on 30 June 2009: Norman N Broadhurst, Chairman: David J Postings, Chief Executive: James J Corr, Finance Director: Mark W G Collins, Treasury & Risk Director: and Ian S Cummine, Chief Operating officer.
Member of the Nomination Committee Independent non-executive director and member of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Risk Committees Annual Report and 13 Financial Statements 2008 Cattles plc
