Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 16 16 Divisional Performance The diversity of our business combined with the professionalism of our underwriting teams provided a solid foundation for Chaucer during the challenging times of 2008.
Looking forward, these same attributes will enable us to prosper as the market hardens.
The strength of Chaucer lies in our diversified book of leader in syndicate management.
Through this service, we provide business, which balances marine and non-marine classes a practical solution for those investors seeking a Lloyds presence, along with UK motor and nuclear insurance.
In total, we have but without having a standalone managing agent.
specialist underwriters in 28 major classes of business.
Our Looking forward, we have increased our underwriting capacity two main syndicates, Chaucer Syndicate 1084 and Nuclear premiums for 2009 to take advantage of the hardening market.
Syndicate 1176, have between them an underwriting capability Chaucer is a strong and well-balanced underwriting business and we exceeding 600m for 2009. believe that our prospects for the coming years are very encouraging.
Our underwriting operations proved their resilience during 2008 and contributed a profit of 33m.
Throughout the year, our underwriting teams performed well in difficult conditions and worked hard with brokers seeking to place or renew business.
Equally, our claims teams continued to provide highly efficient support.
Bruce Bartell In addition to our own underwriting, Chaucer is also the market Active Underwriter, Chaucer Syndicate 1084 Table 1 provides a summary of divisional level underwriting performance.
Table 2 provides a summary of divisional level claims, expense and combined ratios.
The claims ratio shown comprises four components, all calculated in relation to net premiums earned in the current reporting period: 1.
Best estimate current year, which is based on the best estimate of ultimate net claims in respect of net premium earned during the period: 2.
Best estimate prior years, which is based on the movement in the best estimate of ultimate claims booked at the end of the previous reporting period: 3.
Reserve risk loading current year, which is based on the movement in the current year net reserve risk loadings: and 4.
Reserve risk loading prior years, which is based on the movement in the prior years net reserve risk loadings Best estimate reserves represent the Groups estimate of the expected value of claims reserves.
The Group includes reserve risk loadings where it believes that there is a particularly high uncertainty inherent in the best estimate reserve.
This ratio includes consolidation adjustments and reclassifications but excludes both finance costs and expenses that are not attributable to underwriting.
This is in line with the policy adopted by the Group in previous years 3 Acquisition costs includes commission paid to brokers and other expenses related to obtaining insurance business 4 Other expenses includes all expenses incurred in insurance activities that are not acquisition costs 5 The in-house total includes all of the divisions listed in the table, and therefore excludes the impact of Syndicates 4000 and 4242 participations and run-off 6 The divisional analysis excludes the effect of premiums and reserves relating to the reinsurance to close RITC of third party syndicates into Syndicate 1084 and the Groups increased ownership of the RITC of Syndicates 1084 and 1176 following the closure of their 2005 years of accounts.
The total ratios include the run-off movement in the year of third party syndicates reinsured to close into Syndicate 1084 in the past, and participations on syndicates 4000 and 4242 Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
