Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 52 52 Board of Directors Mark Graham Robert Stuchbery Executive Directors Chief Financial Officer Chief Underwriting Officer Ewen Gilmour Chief Executive Mark Graham age 45, has been a director of Robert Stuchbery age 52, has been a director Chaucer Holdings PLC since September 2002. of Chaucer Holdings PLC since July 1998.
Ewen Gilmour age 55, has been a director of Mark is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries Robert is a Fellow of the Chartered Insurance Chaucer Holdings PLC since July 1998.
Ewen and joined the Chaucer Group in January 1999.
Institute and joined the Chaucer Group in is a chartered accountant and joined the 1988.
Marks main responsibility is the overall Ewens main responsibilities include the direction of the financial and operational health His main responsibilities include managing all general oversight and management of both of the Chaucer Group.
He sits on the Lloyds underwriting functions within the Chaucer Chaucer Syndicates Limited and the Chaucer Investment Committee, is a member of the Group and the services provided to Third Party Holdings Group.
He is responsible for Lloyds Market Association Finance Committee Syndicates.
Robert is also a member of the developing, promoting and implementing the and chairs the Lloyds Market Association Lloyds Market Association Board and is strategy agreed by the respective boards as Solvency II Working Group.
He is a former currently the Chairman of its Underwriting well as his normal duties, both as a director of Chairman of the Committee of Actuaries in the Committee.
a managing agency and of a listed company.
Prior to his appointment as Chief Underwriting He is also Deputy Chairman of Lloyds and a Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer in October 2005, Robert was the Active member of the Council of Lloyds.
Officer in July 2006, Mark was Group Actuary Underwriter of Lloyds Syndicate 1096.
Before joining Chaucer, Ewen was a corporate and a director of Chaucer Syndicates Limited Before joining Chaucer, Robert was with financier with Charterhouse Bank from 1980 to which appointment continues.
the UK subsidiary of a large US insurance 1993.
In 1993, he joined the Corporation of Before joining Chaucer, Mark was Company company from 1977 to 1987, working in Lloyds to help facilitate the introduction of Actuary with Ashley Palmer Limited from 1997 London and the USA.
corporate capital into the Lloyds market.
Prior to that, he was a Commercial Lines Actuary with London & Edinburgh Insurance Group.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008 Front-End-Final-AW 17 4 09 14:33 Page 53 53 Board of Directors Non-executive Directors Christopher Forbes Richard Scholes Senior Independent Director Martin Gilbert Richard Scholes age 63, has been a director Chairman Christopher Forbes, Senior Independent Director of Chaucer Holdings PLC since March 2003. age 55, has been a director of Chaucer Richard is a chartered accountant, is Chairman Martin Gilbert age 53, has been a director of Holdings PLC since September 2001. of the Audit Committee and a member of both Chaucer Holdings PLC since October 1993 and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Martin is a chartered Christopher is a barrister and a chartered accountant and is Chairman of the Companys accountant.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Richard is also currently a non-executive Nomination Committee.
Committee and a member of both the Audit and director of Marshalls Plc and Keller Group Plc, Nomination Committees and is the non-executive for both of which he chairs the Audit Committee.
Martin is currently the Chief Executive of Chairman of Chaucer Syndicates Limited.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and is From 1986 to 2001, Richard was a director Chairman of FirstGroup Plc.
He is also a director Christopher is also a director of Aegis Managing at what was Dresdner Kleinwort, Investment of a number of listed investment trusts managed Agency Limited.
Bankers, and has served as a non-executive by Aberdeen Asset Management, and of director of British Vita Plc, RCO Holdings Plc, Christophers involvement in the Lloyds market Aberdeen Football Club plc and Primary Health Bodycote International Plc and Crest Nicholson began in 1981.
In 1991, he was appointed Properties Plc.
Finance Director of Charman Underwriting.
He joined DP Mann now Faraday Underwriting as Finance Director in 1992 and was appointed Managing Director in 1996.
During his time in Lloyds he has served on a number of boards and committees, including the Board of Additional Securities Limited and the Lloyds North American Board.
Chaucer Holdings PLC Annual Report 2008
