The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 13 Directors Simon fide Zoete Chairman Anita Frew is a nonRichard Hextall Angus Russell Sir Keith Stuart is an was Deputy Chairman of Credit executive Director of is the Group Finance is the Chief Executive adviser to The Gas & Suisse First Boston Europe Aberdeen Asset Director of Amlin plc and Officer of Shire Limited.
Electricity Markets Limited until June 2001.
He is Management plc, IMI a director of the Lloyds He is a chartered Authority, having been a an adviser to BAE Systems 2000 plc, Securities Trust of Market Association accountant, having Member of the Authority Pension Plan.
He is an Scotland plc and Board.
Prior to joining qualified with Coopers & from 2000 to 2006.
He investment banker specialising Northumbrian Water Ltd. Amlin, he was employed Lybrand and is a Fellow was Chairman of in the equity market and was She is also Chairman by Deloitte & Touche.
He of The Association of Associated British Ports Vice Chairman of Barclays fide Designate of Victrex plc.
joined the Board on Corporate Treasurers.
He Holdings plc from 1983 Zoete Wedd prior to its sale to Prior to this, she was an 1 November 2007. joined the Board to 2002 and he has also Credit Suisse First Boston in executive Director of in 2003. served as non-executive 1998.
He joined the Board in Abbott Mead Vickers, Chairman of SEEBOARD 2000.
Director of Corporate plc and as a nonDevelopment at WPP executive Director of Group plc and Head of BAA plc and RMC Group UK Equities at Scottish plc.
He joined the Board Provident.
All directors are independent of the Investment Manager and are members of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by Simon fide Zoete.
The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Richard Hextall and Angus Russell.
Management Job Curtis has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke and James Henderson.
Deborah Trickett acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: front row Deborah Trickett, Job Curtis back row Alex Crooke, James Henderson
