14 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Company A review of the investment activities for the year ended and their report for the year ended 30 June 2008.
30 June 2008 and the outlook for the coming financial year are given in the Portfolio Managers Report on pages 6 to 9.
Status The Company is an investment company as defined in Section a Investment objective and policy 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and Section 833 of the Objective Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust in The Companys objective is to provide long term growth in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation income and capital, principally by investment in UK equities.
It is required to seek approval from HM Revenue The Board continues to recognise the importance of dividend & Customs HMRC of its status as an investment trust under income to shareholders.
the above-mentioned Section 842 every year, and this approval Policy will continue to be sought.
HMRC approval of the Companys Asset allocation status as an investment trust has been received in respect of the While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is the year ended 30 June 2007 although this approval is subject to flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as convertibles, there being no subsequent enquiries under Corporation Tax Self corporate bonds or government debt, if it is deemed that Assessment.
The directors are of the opinion that the Company these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner that will enable enhance the performance of the Company in the pursuit of it to continue to gain such approval.
With effect from 6 April 2008: The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in larger the annual Individual Savings Account ISA investment companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by value will allowance has been increased to 7,200: and be invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
The all existing PEP accounts have automatically become Stocks remainder of the portfolio will be invested in a combination of and Shares ISAs and are subject to ISA rules and UK listed medium sized and small companies and up to 15% regulations.
The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and the component of an ISA.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom-up value-based investment process to identify Business Review suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to cash The following review is designed to provide information generation and dividends.
primarily about the Companys business and results for the year ended 30 June 2008 and covers: The dividend yield of the portfolio will usually be between 10% and 30% above the average dividend yield for the UK a Investment objective and policy equity market.
There may be some holdings, selected for their b Performance for the year and dividends above average growth potential, which have a dividend yield c Performance measurement and key performance indicators lower than the market.
d Management arrangements e Principal risks and uncertainties Gearing f Bank facilities The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both short g Share capital and long term, in order to enhance performance.
The gearing h Future developments range normally averages between 0% and 20%.
Other than in exceptional market conditions, gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the net assets can be held in cash.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 15 Report of the Directors continued Selling traded options where the underlying share is held in Investment Manager, the directors take into account the the portfolio can be used for the purposes of efficient following key performance indicators portfolio management.
Buying and selling FTSE 100 Index Performance measured against the benchmark Futures can be used to increase or reduce gearing.
The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the Diversification performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment value and share price for the Company and its risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio, which at benchmark, which is the FTSE All-Share Index 4% 30 June 2008 contained 103 individual investments.
The Board considers this to be its most 30 June 2008, the largest single investment was BP, which important key performance indicator and has determined accounted for 5.5% of total investments, while the top that it should also be used to calculate whether a 20 holdings totalled 61.3%.
performance fee is payable to the Investment Manager as set out below.
The benchmark was changed with effect The Company will not invest more than 15% of its portfolio from 1 July 2005 from the FTSE All-Share Index following in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it invest more the Boards concerns about the increased weightings of than 15% of the portfolio in any other UK listed investment the largest stocks in the FTSE All-Share Index.
The current trusts or investment companies.
benchmark index is calculated and maintained by FTSE and is available both on the Companys website, b Performance for the year and dividends www.
com Total net assets at 30 June 2008 amounted to 568,720,000 compared with 718,657,000 at 30 June 2007, and the netDiscount premium to net asset value NAV asset value per ordinary share decreased from 345.62p to At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of 274.39p.
This figure is calculated by valuing the Companys the Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews the long term debt at its nominal value.
With long term debt average discount premium for the Companys relevant calculated at its fair, or market, value year-on-year the net AIC sector.
asset value decreases from 338.87p to 269.09p.
The Board considers that the use of share buy backs can enhance shareholder value.
Shares are only purchased at At 30 June 2008 there were 103 2007: 96 separate a price below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby investments, as detailed on pages 10 and 11. increasing the NAV of the remaining shares.
Net revenue after taxation for the year was 28,068,000, an The Company publishes a NAV per share figure on a daily increase of 16.2% from the previous year.
basis, through the official newswire of the London Stock 2008 2007 % Change Exchange.
This figure is calculated in accordance with the Net assets as at 30 June 568.7m 718.7m 20.9 AIC formula which since 1 June 2008 includes current Revenue return for the year 28.07m 24.15m 16.2 year revenue items.
Prior to that date, the AIC formula Dividends payable per share and the daily NAV excluded current year revenue items.
for the year 11.60p 10.30p 12.6 Performance against the Companys peer group The Board aims to make progressive increases in annual The Company is included in the AIC UK Growth and dividend payments.
For the financial year under review, two Income sector.
In addition to comparison against the quarterly interim dividends of 2.84p and two of 2.96p have stated benchmark, the Board also considers the been declared, providing a total dividend of 11.60p per performance of its AIC peer group at each Board ordinary share, an increase of 12.6% over the previous year.
c Performance measurement and key performance Total expense ratio TER indicators The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the 16 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors continued the Company including those charged to capital, closely to shareholders actual returns.
Whilst the performance expressed as a percentage of the average shareholders fee continues to be calculated according to existing practice funds over the year.
Where applicable, a TER is shown outlined above and, if sufficient performance has been including and excluding performance fees.
The Board achieved, the cap of 0.5% will be applied.
In the event of a regularly reviews the TER and monitors all Company significant movement in the share price, the performance fee expenses.
will be decreased or increased in line with a sliding scale.
At 30 June At 30 June Should the Companys share price decrease over the year in 2008 2007 question by between 10.00% and 14.99%, the performance NAV total return -18.3% 21.0% fee element would be decreased by 10%: a fall of between FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped total return the benchmark -14.0% 20.3% 15.00% and 19.99% in the share price would result in a FTSE All-Share Index total return -13.0% 18.4% reduction of 15% of the performance fee: and a decline of AIC Sector NAV total return -20.8% 20.6% 20.00% or more in the share price would create a decrease of 20% in the performance fee.
This arrangement is symmetrical Share price total return -18.0% 17.2% and, should the share price increase over the period, the same AIC Sector share price total return -20.7% 17.9% thresholds and increases to the performance fee would apply.
Discount 13.2% 12.6% This could mean that the total fee paid may exceed the 0.5% cap by up to 20% of the performance fee.
Total expense ratio, excluding performance fee 0.37% 0.42% Underperformance in any accounting year must be made Total expense ratio, including performance fee 0.37% 0.42% good in full before a performance fee is payable in any AIC Sector average total expense subsequent accounting year whilst any outperformance in ratio, excluding performance fee 0.8% 0.8% excess of the cap may be carried forward solely for the As at 30 April 2008 2007: 30 April 2007 purpose of making good subsequent underperformance for a d Management arrangements maximum of the next two accounting years.
Investment management, UK custodial, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services are provided to the All publications of the Companys net asset value take account Company by wholly owned subsidiary companies of of any performance fee owing or potentially owing.
Henderson Global Investors Holdings plc Henderson and During the year under review the Manager used certain by BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited under a services which were paid for, or provided by, various brokers.
Management Agreement which is reviewed annually and has In return it placed business, which may have included a six months notice period.
transactions relating to the Company, with these brokers.
The base management fee is calculated at the rate of 0.30% e Principal risks and uncertainties on the first 400 million of assets under management and The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company 0.25% on assets under management in excess of 400 and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and million.
Such fees are payable quarterly in arrears based on restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment the level of assets at the relevant quarter end.
In addition, a objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as performance fee is payable annually equivalent to 0.1% for practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and every 1% outperformance against the Companys benchmark the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: subject to a cap of 0.5% of the average assets under management during the year including the base management fee over the Companys accounting year.
With effect from 1 July 2005, an adjustment to the performance fee was introduced in order to align it more The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 17 Report of the Directors continued Portfolio and market Operational Although the Company invests almost entirely in Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, securities that are quoted on recognised markets, share dealing or payment systems or the Custodians records prices may move rapidly.
The companies in which could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail the Companys financial position.
The Company is also entirely.
A fall in the market value of the Companys exposed to the operational risk that one or more of its portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders suppliers may not provide the required level of service.
The Board reviews the portfolio each month and Details of how the Board monitors the services provided mitigates this risk through diversification of investments by the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key in the portfolio.
elements designed to provide effective internal control, are explained further in the internal control section of the Investment activity and performance Corporate Governance Statement on page 27.
An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in f Bank facilities terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may The Board has in place facilities which allow it to borrow as result in underperformance against the Companys and when appropriate.
At 30 June 2008 the Company had a benchmark index and the companies in its peer group.
committed short term facility of 30m.
The facility is subject The Board monitors investment performance at each to regular review.
Actual gearing at 30 June 2008 was 10.1%.
Board meeting and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
g Share capital The Companys share capital comprises: Tax and regulatory risks A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation i ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each.
The voting Taxes Act 1988 could lead to a loss of investment trust rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for status, resulting in capital gains realised within the every 15 shares held.
At the beginning of the year, there portfolio being subject to corporation tax.
A breach of were 207,930,040 ordinary shares in issue.
During the the UKLA Listing Rules could result in suspension of the year, 355,172 shares representing 0.17% of the number Companys shares, while a breach of the Companies Acts of shares in issue at the beginning of the year were 1985 and 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings, or bought back and cancelled for a total consideration financial or reputational damage.
The Company must also excluding stamp duty and commissions of 1,036,423. ensure compliance with the listing rules of the New A further 308,090 shares representing 0.15% of the Zealand Stock Exchange.
The Manager has contracted to number of shares in issue at the beginning of the year provide investment, company secretarial, administration were bought back during the year for a total and accounting services through qualified professionals.
consideration excluding stamp duty and commissions of The Board receives internal control reports produced by 867,907 and are being held in treasury.
The shares held the Manager on a quarterly basis, which confirm in treasury are not included in the number of shares regulatory compliance.
At 30 June 2008 the number of ordinary shares in issue with voting rights was Financial 207,266,778.
By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business activities are exposed to market risk including ii cumulative first preference stock.
The voting rights of the currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, first preference stock on a poll are one vote per 10 of liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk.
At 1 July 2007 and at 30 June 2008 there was these risks and how they are managed are contained in 301,982 of first preference stock in issue.
Note 16 to the Accounts on pages 42 to 46.
18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors continued iii non-cumulative second preference stock.
Second The Board may appoint directors to the Board without preference stockholders have no rights to attend and vote shareholder approval.
Any director so appointed must stand at general meetings except on the winding-up of the for election by the shareholders at the next AGM in Company or if dividends are in arrears.
At 1 July 2007 accordance with the Articles of Association.
Mr Hextall, who there was 996,151 of second preference stock in issue.
was appointed by the Board during the year, will therefore During the year 488,949 units of second preference stock stand for election at the 2008 AGM.
The total number of were bought back and cancelled for a total consideration directors shall not be less than three nor more than seven.
excluding stamp duty and commissions of 452,278.
At In addition, under the Articles of Association, shareholders 30 June 2008 there was 507,202 of second preference may remove a director before the end of his term by passing stock in issue.
an ordinary resolution at a meeting.
An ordinary resolution is iv non-cumulative preferred ordinary stock.
The voting passed if more than 50% of the votes cast, in person or by rights of the preferred ordinary stock on a poll are one proxy, are in favour of the resolution.
At 1 July 2007 and at 30 June The Combined Code requires that every director retires by 2008 there was 589,672 of preferred ordinary stock in rotation at least every three years and the Companys Articles issue.
of Association provide that one third of directors retire by Further details on the first and second preference stock and rotation each year.
Directors may then offer themselves for rethe preferred ordinary stock together the Preferred Stock election.
The director retiring by rotation at the forthcoming are contained in note 15 on page 41.
Mr Russell, being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
Since 30 June 2008 and up to the date of this document, the Company has bought back 50,000 ordinary shares, which are Directors Remuneration being held in treasury.
A report on directors remuneration is on page 23.
Directors Interests in Shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys Ordinary shares of 25p share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry 30 June 2008 1 July 2007 specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
Beneficial: Simon fide Zoete 177,323 175,664 h Future developments Anita Frew 5,000 While the future performance of the Company is dependent, Richard Hextall Angus Russell 6,460 5,191 to a large degree, on the performance of international Sir Keith Stuart 167,835 161,986 financial markets, which, in turn, are subject to many external As at date of appointment, 1 November 2007 factors, the Boards intention is that the Company will The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the continue to pursue its stated investment objective in Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are accordance with the strategy outlined above.
Further shown in the table above.
Since the year end, the following comments on the outlook for the Company for the next 12 directors have become interested in further shares: Simon fide months are set out in both the Chairmans Statement on Zoete 380, Angus Russell 279 and Sir Keith Stuart 319 shares.
page 3 and the Portfolio Managers Report on pages 6 to 9.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the Directors year in which a director of the Company is or was materially The names and biographies of the directors holding office at interested and which is or was significant in relation to the the date of this report are listed on page 13.
retired from the Board on 10 October 2007 and Richard Hextall was appointed a director on 1 November 2007.
All the Directors Indemnity other directors served on the Board throughout the year.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 19 Report of the Directors continued respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association to 58.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity business will be proposed at the AGM, for which shareholder for directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to approval is required in order to comply with the Companies the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising Acts 1985 and 2006. out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or Resolution 7 Authority to allot shares ordinary resolution judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
At the AGM on 10 October 2007 the directors were granted Substantial Share Interests authority to allot a limited number of authorised but unissued Shareholder % of voting rights ordinary shares.
No shares have been allotted under this Legal & General Group plc 4.7% authority.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM in Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 4.6% October 2008.
An ordinary resolution to renew this authority Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company, will be proposed at the 2008 AGM to authorise the directors at 29 August 2008, are set out above.
to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 2,590,209 being 5% of the issued share capital The Board is aware that, as at 29 August 2008, 22.8% of the excluding shares held in treasury as at the date of the Notice issued ordinary shares were held on behalf of participants in of the AGM.
The resolution is set out in full in the Notice of Itshenderson and other Henderson ISAs.
The participants in the AGM on page 55. these plans are given the opportunity to instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise the voting rights appertaining Resolution 8 Power to disapply pre-emption rights special to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the resolution Company.
In accordance with the revised terms and At the AGM on 10 October 2007, the directors were also conditions of Itshenderson, issued by Henderson recently, empowered to allot securities of a limited value for cash Henderson has stated that it will instruct its nominee company without first offering them to existing shareholders in to exercise the voting rights of any shares held through accordance with statutory pre-emption procedures.
Since the Itshenderson that have not been exercised by the individual 2007 AGM, the directors have not used this power, which will participants in Itshenderson.
It will do so by voting for or expire at the 2008 AGM.
Resolution 8, which is a special against all resolutions to be put at all general meetings of the resolution, will be proposed to give the directors power to Company or by withholding votes on such resolutions pro allot securities for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a rata to the aggregate voting instructions for each resolution maximum aggregate nominal amount of 2,590,209 being received from those participants who have chosen to exercise 5% of the issued share capital excluding shares held in their voting rights.
treasury as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
Preemption rights under the Companies Act apply to the resale Annual General Meeting AGM of treasury shares for cash, just as they do for the allotment of The following information is important and requires new shares.
The Boards intention is that resolution 8 will your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about relate to either new issues or to the resale of treasury shares.
the action you should take, you should consult an independent financial adviser, authorised under the The directors do not intend to allot shares pursuant to these Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in sold or transferred all of your voting rights in the the market as they arise and only if they believe it to be Company, please forward this document with its advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do so accompanying form of proxy at once to the purchaser or and when it would not result in any dilution of net asset value transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent per share, that is at a premium to net asset value, the net through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for asset value being calculated with debt at fair value.
If onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
renewed, both of these authorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2009.
The AGM will be held on Thursday 16 October 2008 at 3.00pm.
The formal notice of the AGM is set out on pages 55 20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors continued Resolution 9 Authority to make market purchases of the suitable basis for determining an appropriate maximum Companys own shares special resolution purchase price: the minimum purchase price per 1 of stock On 10 October 2007 the directors were granted authority to would be 1p.
The directors would only make such purchases if repurchase 31,115,472 ordinary shares with a nominal value they were considered to be in the best interests of of 7,778,868 for cancellation or to be held in treasury: shareholders generally and any Preferred Stock repurchased 358,090 shares have been repurchased and are being held in would be cancelled.
treasury under this authority and the Company therefore has Resolution 11 Adoption of new articles of association remaining authority to purchase 30,757,382 shares.
This special resolution authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM in October The Company proposes to adopt new articles of association, 2008. which incorporate amendments to the current articles of In Resolution 9 the Board is seeking shareholder approval to association to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act renew the authority to purchase on the London Stock 2006 the 2006 Act which came, or will come, into effect Exchange up to a maximum of 14.99% of the Companys in 2007 and 2008.
As the 2006 Act will not be fully in force ordinary shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury at until October 2009, and so it is not yet possible to fully reflect the date of the AGM equivalent to 31,061,795 ordinary the 2006 Act changes, it is anticipated that shareholders will shares of 25p, with a nominal value of 7,765,448, at be asked to approve further changes to our articles of 8 September 2008, the date of the Notice of the AGM.
The principal changes in the new articles of association proposed to be adopted at the The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to do 2008 AGM relate to electronic communication with so would result in an increase in the net asset value per shareholders and shareholder meetings and resolutions, ordinary share and would be in the best interests of transfers of shares and directors conflicts of interest.
The authority being sought provides an additional source of potential demand for the Companys The provisions of the Companies Act 1985 which allowed shares.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase companies to communicate with their shareholders shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases electronically have been repealed and replaced by provisions in when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising the 2006 Act which operate differently and use different the benefit to shareholders.
The Board considers the use of definitions.
The new articles will permit the Company to use treasury shares is beneficial to the Companys shareholders electronic communications for all notices, documents and and would expect, if shareholder approval is renewed, to hold information to be sent to shareholders, in accordance with any ordinary shares repurchased in treasury up to the individual shareholder preference.
In addition, the new articles maximum permitted, 10% of the issued share capital.
will reflect the ability for companies to use website communication with shareholders as the default position.
The Resolution 10 Authority to repurchase Preferred Stock Company can ask individual shareholders to consent to special resolution receiving communications from the Company via the The Board wishes to renew the authority to make market Companys website.
If a shareholder does not respond to the purchases of the Preferred Stock.
488,949 of Second request for consent within 28 days, the Company may treat Preference Stock has been repurchased under the authority that as deemed consent to receiving documents in this way.
A granted at the AGM in October 2007.
As previously, the shareholder who receives a document via the website can ask maximum price payable for each 1 of Preferred Stock would for a hard copy at any time and shareholders can also revoke not be more than 10% above the prevailing middle market their consent to receive documents via the website at any value of the relevant class of Preferred Stock for the business time.
This new regime will enable the Company to take day preceding the date of purchase which, given that the advantage of the efficiencies, cost-savings and environmental stock is lightly traded, the directors believe represents a benefits of electronic communications.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 21 Report of the Directors continued The provisions of the 2006 Act regarding shareholder meetingsto the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no and resolutions came into force in October 2007, replacing the information relevant to the preparation of their report of corresponding provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
The new which the Companys auditors are unaware: and articles incorporate amendments in relation to meetings and they have taken all the steps a director might reasonably resolutions to ensure consistency with the 2006 Act.
From be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit 1 October 2008, under the 2006 Act a director has a statutory information and to establish that the Companys auditors duty to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or are aware of that information.
indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Corporate Governance Companys interests.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public A statement on Corporate Governance is on pages 24 to 28. companies to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision allowing this Environmental Policy authorisation.
It is proposed that the Companys new articles of The Company has no employees and outsources its investment association should include such a provision.
management and company secretarial services to subsidiaries of Henderson Group plc Henderson.
Henderson has For a more detailed explanation of these and other implemented environmental management practices, which amendments please refer to the Appendix to this document include systems to limit the use of non-renewable resources and on pages 59 and 60. minimise the impact of operations on the environment, and is A copy of the current articles of association and the proposed focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising new articles of association that reflect these amendments will waste, where possible.
be available for inspection during normal business hours Payment of Suppliers Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the It is the payment policy for the financial year to 30 June 2008 registered office, 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA up until to obtain the best possible terms for all business and, the close of the meeting.
Copies will also be available for therefore, there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In inspection at the registered office on the day of the meeting general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on from 9.00am until its conclusion.
which business will take place and it is the Companys policy Recommendation to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the 30 June 2008. above items of special business are in the best interests Going Concern of shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the unanimously recommends to shareholders that they going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the assets of the vote in favour of the above resolutions to be proposed Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable at the forthcoming AGM.
and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources Auditors to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors D J Trickett ACIS The directors who were members of the Board at the time of For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited approving this Report are listed on page 13.
Each of those Secretary directors confirms that: 8 September 2008
