6 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Portfolio Managers Report FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped from 30.06.07 to 30.06.08 Investment Background rebased to 100 UK Equity Market Performance 105 During the year under review, the UK stockmarket produced a disappointing negative return of 14% as 100 measured by the FTSE All-Share 4% Capped Index.
There were two key global economic factors that caused the 95 downward move in share prices.
90 First, the crisis in the banking system emanating from imprudent lending to US consumers for house purchases.
85 Bad US mortgage debts were spread across the international banks.
As a result, banks became reluctant to 80 J J A S O N D J F M A M J lend to each other, leading to problems for banks, such as Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Price Index Northern Rock, who relied on borrowing in the wholesale markets to fund their lending to customers.
The overall reduction in credit available had significant deflationary London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Price Index from implications for the economy that are continuing to be felt.
30.06.07 to 30.06.08 The second key negative economic factor was the rise in 160 the oil price from $70 to $141 a barrel.
This was caused by 140 the increased demand for oil from the emerging countries, 120 such as China, and the difficulty in finding and extracting 100 oil to meet the increased demand.
Given the wide uses of 80 oil, for example in transportation, electricity and plastics, 60 the doubling of the oil price had a marked impact on inflation and put pressure on consumers expenditure 40 which was also being adversely affected by the rise in 20 food prices.
0 J J A S O N D J F M A M J Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream London Brent Crude Oil Index US$ BBL Gearing at the start of the financial year was 5.5%.
As Price Index share prices fell, the gearing was increased by buying into companies that, in our opinion, offered potential for medium term share price appreciation.
By the end of the Base Rates, 10 Year UK Government & FTSE All-Share Index financial year the gearing had increased to 10.1%.
Overall, 4% Capped Yields from 30.06.07 to 30.06.08 gearing had a negative effect on performance after having 7 been a positive factor in the previous four years.
6 5 Interest Rate, Fixed Interest and Equity Yields 4 The combination of the banking crisis and the rise in the price of oil and other commodities was a particularly 3 difficult one for the Bank of England.
After a 25 basis 2 point rise in July 2007 to 5.75%, the base rate was cut in 1 three stages to 5.0% by April 2008 to counter the effect of the banking crisis.
However, it was not possible to cut 0 J J A S O N D J F M A M J further due to the effect on inflation of the oil price.
Ten UK Base Rate 10 Year Gilt FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Yield Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream year yields of British Government bonds declined in the The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 7 Portfolio Managers Report continued first nine months of the period but then rose to 5.13% by most important investment theme during the period under the end of June 2008 on concerns about inflation.
The worst performers in the sector were those banks dependent on wholesale funding, such as Northern Equity dividend yields rose due to the fall in share prices Rock, Alliance & Leicester and Bradford & Bingley.
These and dividend growth from the majority of the companies.
stocks were not held in City of Londons portfolio.
In The average increase in the dividend rate in companies in contrast, our largest holding HSBC, which has a very which City of London has shares was 12.3% excluding strong deposit base, was an outperformer relative to the special dividends over the twelve months.
In addition, HSBC benefited from having around half of its business in the Far East and Emerging markets.
Performance of Higher Yielding compared with The second largest bank holding in the portfolio, Lloyds Lower Yielding Shares TSB, was also a sector outperformer benefiting from The chart below compares the return of the FTSE 350 conservative lending in recent years and no exposure to US Higher Yield Index the higher dividend yielding half of the subprime debt.
Barclays, the third largest bank holding in largest 350 shares of the UK with the FTSE 350 Lower the portfolio, suffered from concerns about the Yield the lower dividend yielding half of the largest 350 performance of its investment banking subsidiary, Barclays shares in the UK.
Capital, although its operating performance was good Return on FTSE 350 Higher Yield and Lower Yield Indices when compared with most of its competitors.
The smallest from 30.06.07 to 30.06.08 rebased to 100 bank holdings in the portfolio, Royal Bank of Scotland and 110 HBOS, were the worst performers and both announced 105 dividend cuts at the same time as they raised new equity.
100 Although a slightly lower than average index weighting 95 was maintained in the banks sector throughout the year, 90 and the portfolio was biased towards the better 85 performing banks, it would have been beneficial to have 80 had less overall exposure to the sector.
75 70 The tightening of conditions for credit had a marked effect 65 on companies with a high level of debt.
Four companies in 60 J J A S O N D J F M A M J the portfolio that had high levels of debt, ENEL electricity FTSE 350 Higher Yield FTSE 350 Lower Yield Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream utility, Mitchells & Butlers pubs group, Johnston Press regional newspaper publisher and Wolseley builders As can be seen, the lower yielding shares did significantly merchant were sold.
Subsequently their share prices fell better than higher yielding shares over the year.
City of significantly from the levels at which they had been sold.
Londons portfolio has a bias towards higher yielding shares in order to achieve its income objectives.
There was Takeover activity was much reduced due to the difficulty in a significantly below average exposure to the low yielding financing deals.
However, the holding in brewer Scottish & mining sector which was costly in terms of performance Newcastle was taken over at a good price by a consortium relative to the benchmark index.
On the other hand, the of Heineken and Carlsberg.
On the other hand, Imperial exposure to the oil sector grew to slightly above the Tobacco took over Altadis, the Spanish French tobacco benchmark and the holdings in ENI and Statoil were company, at what seemed to be, in our opinion, an particularly positive contributors to performance.
expensive price and therefore the holding was sold.
The credit crisis had an adverse effect on the shares of Portfolio Review housebuilding companies and retailers which fell sharply as The problems of the banks and their implications for other investors anticipated a downturn in their profitability.
A companies and the economy in general was the single holding in Marks & Spencer was purchased after the 8 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 Portfolio Managers Report continued shares had declined some 40% from their peak.
Although Kazakhstan, next to its key markets of China and Russia.
trading is currently tough for the company, the shares In the electricity sector, profits were taken in British Energy seem underrated given the strength of its franchise in the and Fortum which had benefited from the strength of the UK and the fact that it owns many of the stores from electricity price.
Some of the proceeds were reinvested in which it operates.
In addition, a holding was purchased in RWE which offered, in our view, better relative value.
William Morrison, which also is a significant owner of its stores, and has been increasing its market share within the In the fixed line telecommunications sector, British Telecom UK supermarket sector.
was a disappointing holding having been a strong performer the previous year.
This was due to a general Medium-sized and small companies were notable derating of telecommunications stocks as well as specific underperformers over the twelve month period relative to concerns about BTs competitive position and pension fund companies in the FTSE 100.
Given the portfolios overall liabilities.
We believe that the likely profits progression of bias towards larger companies, we felt there was an BTs global services division was being overlooked and opportunity to buy into the share price weakness of a maintained the holding given its attractive dividend.
In select number of good quality medium-sized companies.
addition, a new holding was purchased in Deutsche The holdings that were purchased were: BBA Aviation Telekom where there is substantial scope for cost cutting in international airport services, Hays recruitment agency, its fixed line operation in Germany as well as growth Holidaybreak leisure sector, Inchcape international motor opportunities for its international mobile division.
retailer, Interserve building services and PFI work, Prosafe oil services and Renishaw specialist manufacturer of high In the media sector, we avoided stocks, such as regional precision measuring equipment.
newspaper companies, exposed to the decline in advertising revenue due to the economic downturn and Another area for new investment was the pharmaceutical the move by advertisers away from traditional media sector where shares had been derated to levels which, in towards the internet.
A new holding was purchased in our view, more than discounted the problems with BSkyB where the revenues are predominantly based on the defending patents on existing medicines and discovering subscriptions to its services.
We believe that BSkyB has a new drugs.
In addition, demand for healthcare products very strong franchise in the UK and Ireland for satellite TV and services should hold up relatively well in an economic as well as growth opportunities in broadband.
New holdings were purchased in AstraZeneca and Novartis.
In the real estate sector, exposure was reduced through the sale of Corio, the European shopping centre owner, Value also emerged, in our opinion, in the technology which had held up relatively well.
Two new holdings were purchased.
Sage develops accounting software and provides support services for many of its customers.
Misys also has a strong installed Outlook base of customers for its banking software with growth Given the amount of new equity capital raised by banks in opportunities in emerging markets.
the UK and overseas and the actions taken by central banks in the UK, Europe and the USA to help bank Although valuations of the mining companies looked funding, it is hoped that the worst of the crisis for the reasonable if commodity prices maintained existing levels, banking sector is over.
However, the downturn in there was considerable downside risk if commodity prices economic activity will lead to an increased level of bad fell.
This was certainly possible if the downturn in global debts for banks.
Overall, there is considerable recovery economic activity led to a reduced demand for potential in the share prices of the stronger banks which commodities.
Overall, the strategy in the mining sector can take market share on improved profit margins.
was to take some of the significant profits on our holdings.
In addition, the return from our holdings was The wider effects of the credit crisis are still being felt with reduced availability of mortgage finance leading to a improved through some successful selling of option premia.
One new holding was purchased, ENRC, which is significant downturn in the housing market.
Consumer spending also faces pressure from the rise in the prices of the worlds largest producer of ferrochrome and is based in 5.2% The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2008 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued oil, electricity, gas and food.
The portfolio is therefore If the recent decline in the oil price is maintained, it will biased towards companies which have, in our view, sales reduce inflationary pressure and allow the Bank of England that will hold up well in an economic downturn, such as to cut interest rates.
This could trigger a rally in those those in the electricity, utility and telecoms sectors as well cyclical stocks that are already discounting profit as the beverages, tobacco and food retail sectors.
There is scope going forward to increase exposure to good quality cyclical companies at attractive Large holdings have also been maintained in the oil valuations.
companies, BP and Royal Dutch Shell.
These companies will remain highly profitable and cash generative even after the recent decline in the oil price to $115 a barrel.
This reflects market concern about the future reduced demand for oil, especially in developed economies.
Job S Curtis Distribution of the Portfolio Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis at 30 June 2008 for the year to 30 June 2008 total returns relative to the FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Large companies constituents of the FTSE 100 Index 2008 2007 Medium-sized companies Overseas listed companies Stock Selection -2.14% 0.38% Gearing -2.07% 0.64% Expenses -0.37% -0.41% Share Buy Backs 0.04% 0.04% VAT reclaim 0.25% 0.00% 16.4% Total -4.29% 0.65% Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited 78.4%
