Governance Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 21 Report of the Directors The directors present their report and the audited financial applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: properly statements for the year ended 31 July 2008. select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides Business Review and Principal Activities relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Close Brothers Group plc is the parent company of a group information: provide additional disclosures when of companies engaged in financial services.
The principal compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is subsidiary undertakings as at 31 July 2008 and their insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of principal activities are listed in note 22 on page 68 to particular transactions, other events and conditions on these financial statements.
the groups financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, The information that fulfils the requirements of the having assessed the ability of the group to continue as a Business Review can be found in the following sections of going concern, management either intends to liquidate the Annual Report, which are incorporated into this Report the group or to cease trading, or have no realistic of the Directors by reference: alternative but to do so.
a A review of the development and performance of the In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are business of the company and its subsidiary undertakings required to prepare financial statements for each financial during the financial year is presented in the Chairman and year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Chief Executives Statement on pages 4 to 7 and the of the company and of the profit or loss of the company Business Review on pages 10 to 20. for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make b Principal risks and uncertainties facing the company and its subsidiary undertakings and how they are judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether all applicable accounting standards controlled are described on pages 18 to 20. have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and c Information relating to the environment and staff matters are given in the Social Responsibility statement prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the on pages 29 to 30. company will continue in business.
Results and Dividends The consolidated results for the year are shown on The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors recommend a final dividend for 2008 of 25.5p 2007: 25p on each ordinary share which, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy together with the interim dividend of 13.5p 2007: 12p, makes an ordinary distribution for the year of 39p 2007: at any time the financial position of the group and the company and to enable them to ensure that the group 37p per share.
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Statement of Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Regulation and that the company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare accounts for the group in accordance Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare company financial statements hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the In the case of IFRS accounts, IAS 1 requires that financial Companies Act 1985, each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that so far as the director statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the companys auditors are unaware: and the director has the effects of transactions, other events and conditions taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the information and to establish that the companys auditors International Accounting Standards Boards Framework are aware of the information.
Words and phrases used in for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial this confirmation should be interpreted in accordance with Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. presentation will be achieved by compliance with all 22 Governance Report of the Directors Directors Indemnity The directors may suspend the registration of transfers of shares or of transfers of any class of shares at such times The companys Articles of Association provide that each director and the secretary of the company shall be and for such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the board may determine, except that they may not indemnified by the company to the extent permissible under UK company law against any costs incurred by them suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without the consent of CREST.
in defending proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as director or secretary in which they The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if a are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour or relief from liability for negligence, default, breach of duty or shareholder has not supplied information to the company in default of a request duly served under section 793 of the breach of trust is granted to them by the court.
Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least 0.25% of the class of shares concerned.
Share Capital As at 31 July 2008 the company had 149.4 million ordinary The company is unaware of any arrangements between its shares in issue with a nominal value of 25p each.
Details of changes in the companys ordinary share capital during the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares and or voting rights.
year are given in note 19 on page 65 to these financial statements.
During the year the company issued New issues of share capital 2.1 million ordinary shares of 25p each in satisfaction of option exercises.
Full details of the options exercised, Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, within certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity including the year of grant, option exercise price and average market price on day of exercise can be found in securities without express authorisation, which may be note 27 on page 73.
Each share carries the right to one contained in a companys Articles of Association or given vote at general meetings of the company.
No person has by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in any special rights of control over the companys share either event cannot last more than five years.
Under the capital and all shares are fully paid.
Companies Acts, the board may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share During the year ended 31 July 2008, the company made scheme without first making an offer to existing market purchases of 2.1 million of its own shares Treasury shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or Shares, representing 1.4% of the issued share capital and for more favourable terms in proportion to their respective an aggregate consideration excluding stamp duty of 11.7 shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a million.
All purchases of Treasury Shares were market special resolution of the shareholders.
The companys policy is to hold Treasury Shares for the purpose of satisfying option grants Purchase of own share capital and share awards under the companys employee share At the companys 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM plans.
In addition, during the year ended 31 July 2008, 0.1 shareholder authority was given to purchase up to 15% of the million Treasury Shares were transferred out to satisfy issued share capital.
The directors intend to seek shareholder share option awards, for a total consideration of 0.4 approval to renew this authority.
The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at any time during the year was 2.0 million with a nominal Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the value of 0.5 million.
company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back Restrictions on the transfer of shares may be held as Treasury Shares or, if not so held, must be There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, companys shares, although the Articles of Association thereby reducing the amount of issued share capital.
The contain provisions whereby the directors may refuse to directors currently have shareholder authority to buy back register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully up to 22.0 million ordinary shares during the period up to the paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent dealings forthcoming AGM.
The minimum price which must be paid in the share from taking place on an open and proper basis.
for such shares is 25p and the maximum price is the higher of: The directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a i an amount equal to 5% above the average of the middle certificated share unless it is: i lodged, duly stamped, at market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the the registered office or at such other place as the directors London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business may appoint, accompanied by the certificate for the shares days before the purchase is made: and ii an amount equal to to which it relates and such other evidence as the directors the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor highest current independent bid on the London Stock to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of Exchange Daily Official List at the time the purchase is shares: and iii in favour of not more than four transferees.
Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 23 Significant Contracts c The directors interests in the share capital of the A change of control of the company following a takeover bid company were: may cause a number of agreements to which the company is Ordinary shares party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include certain 31 July 1 August insurance policies, bank facility agreements and employee 2008 2007 share plans.
B. N. Carnegie-Brown 10,000 J. M. B. Cayzer-Colvin The group has committed facilities totalling 1.2 billion as at S. R. Hodges 693,469 455,462 31 July 2008 which contain clauses which require lender J.
A. G. Howell consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be C. D. Keogh 571,405 386,251 given, a change of control would trigger mandatory P. S. S. Macpherson prepayment of the facility.
D. G. J. Paterson 12,000 10,000 or date of appointment if later All of the companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and Mr. J. M. B. Cayzer-Colvin is a director of Caledonia options may vest and become exercisable on change of Investments plc, which had an interest in 19.6 million control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction of any ordinary shares of the company at 31 July 2008 1 August performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of 2007: 18.0 million.
In the context of the company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
Details of the options to subscribe for shares held by the directors are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Substantial Interests Remuneration on pages 31 to 41.
The beneficial interests At 15 September 2008 the following shareholders had of the directors in the share capital of the company have notified the company that they were interested in 3% or more remained unchanged since 31 July 2008. of the issued share capital of the company: d With regard to the appointment and replacement Ordinary shares Voting rights of directors, the company is governed by its Articles of million % Association, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
Caledonia Investments plc 19.6 13.5 The Articles of Association may be amended by special Prudential plc 15.1 10.4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 8.4 5.8 resolution of the shareholders.
Aviva plc 7.8 5.4 Lloyds TSB Group plc 7.4 5.1 e Directors may be elected by members in general Legal & General plc 6.4 4.4 meeting or appointed by the board of directors in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Directors and Interests Association.
At each AGM at least one third of the The directors are responsible for the management of the directors, representing those directors who have been in business and may exercise all powers of the company office the longest since their election and, in addition, any subject to UK legislation, any directions given by special directors appointed by the board of directors since the last resolution and the Memorandum and Articles of AGM are required to resign and are then reconsidered for Association.
election, assuming they wish to stand for re-election.
Accordingly, Messrs. C. D. Keogh and B. N. Carnegie-Brown, a The present directors of the company, all of whom retire by rotation.
Biographical details of these directors served throughout the year except for Messrs. J. M. B. are given on pages 8 and 9.
A. G. Howell who were appointed on 1 January and 4 February 2008 respectively, are shown on Messrs. Keogh and Carnegie-Brown, being eligible, offer pages 8 and 9. themselves for re-election.
Mr. Keogh has a service contract which can be terminated upon twelve months b The directors who left the company during the course notice.
Mr. Carnegie-Brown is a non-executive director of the year were: and, as such, does not have a service contract.
The Date of leaving chairman of the board confirms that following formal P. N. Buckley 31 December 2007 performance evaluation, Mr. Carnegie-Brown continues to M. A. Hines 31 July 2008 be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role R. D. Kent 2 June 2008 including time for board and committee meetings and M. G. A. McLintock 29 May 2008 other duties.
Consequently, the board recommends his D. C. Pusinelli 30 June 2008 re-election.
J. P. Williams 1 November 2007 P. L. Winkworth 28 September 2007 Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background 24 Governance Report of the Directors Messrs. J. M. B. Cayzer-Colvin and J.
A. G. Howell, having on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: been elected since the last AGM, retire in accordance with and ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer last independent trade of a share as derived from the themselves for re-election.
Mr. Cayzer-Colvin is a nonLondon Stock Exchange and the highest current executive director and as such does not have a service independent bid on the London Stock Exchange Official contract.
The board does not consider Mr. Cayzer-Colvin List at the time the purchase is carried out.
The minimum independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
price will be the par value.
The authority will expire on Mr. Howell has a service contract which can be terminated whichever date is the earlier of the date 18 months from upon twelve months notice.
the date the special resolution is passed and the date of the 2009 AGM.
Details of shares purchased pursuant to the e The company has established an employee benefit trust authority will be notified to the London Stock Exchange in which all employees of the group, including executive and to the Registrar of Companies and will be disclosed in directors, are potential beneficiaries.
The trust currently the 2009 Annual Report.
owns 3.0 million 2007: 2.4 million shares in the company, all of which are conditionally earmarked for share awards.
Directors authority to allot shares The trust acquired these shares at an average cost of A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to grant the 722.1p 2007: 726.4p per share compared to a market directors authority to allot unissued shares of the company value of 597.5p per share at 31 July 2008.
Dividends up to a nominal amount of 12.0 million, which represents have been waived on these shares.
The trustees of the approximately one third of the issued share capital.
Other employee benefit trust retain the voting rights over than in respect of options in issue, the directors do not have the shares held in the trust and exercise these rights any present intention to allot unissued shares pursuant to independent of the interests of the company.
The authority, if granted, will last for a period of five years from the date of passing of the resolution.
Full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe are open to inspection in the Register of Waiver of pre-emption rights Directors Interests at the companys registered office.
It is proposed to renew, until the next AGM, the directors flexibility to issue shares for cash other than strictly pro rata to existing shareholders.
This authority will be limited Supplier Payment Policy All banking, securities and investment transactions are to a nominal amount of 1.8 million which represents settled in accordance with applicable terms and conditions approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
The directors of business agreed with the counterparty.
Average creditor intend to comply with the guidelines of the investment days for all other approved expenses was 22 2007: 24. committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds to the effect that no Auditors more than 7.5% of the issued share capital should be Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the allotted for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling companys auditors and to give the directors the authority three year period.
to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Articles of Association The companys Articles of Association can only be Special Business at the Annual General Meeting amended by special resolution at a general meeting of Authority to purchase own shares shareholders.
At the last AGM the company was given authority to make market purchases of up to approximately 15% of its issued It is proposed to adopt new Articles of Association at the share capital.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of AGM.
Since the directors are proposing a large number the AGM.
The board considers it would be appropriate to of changes, to take account of developments in law and renew the authority.
Share purchases would only be made practice applicable to companies since the current where the directors believed that they were in the best Articles of Association were adopted in 2000, it is more interests of the company and would enhance earnings per appropriate to adopt new Articles of Association, rather share, taking into account other available investment than amend the existing ones.
opportunities and the overall financial position of the group.
Accordingly, a special resolution will be proposed at A circular to shareholders will be sent with the Notice of the AGM to authorise the company to purchase not more Annual General Meeting containing a summary of principal than 21.7 million of its 25p ordinary shares, being changes proposed and the reasons for these changes.
approximately 15% of the issued share capital of the company.
By order of the board The maximum price which may be paid will not be more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle R. D. Sellers market quotations of an ordinary share of the company as Company Secretary derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day 29 September 2008 Three colour section : PMS 7463 C text PMS 511 C top panel 10% CYAN background
