DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS MANAGERS REPORT and short financials were heavy detractors from several In 2008, the NAV of Dexion Absolute managers portfolios.
Not surprisingly, the geographic Limiteds sterling share class fell specialists experienced the steepest declines as investors -22.31%, net of fees and expenses.
shunned riskier assets amid a flight to quality and fears of a global recession.
Positions in India and China fell The following provides the significantly across a range of sectors, including consumer, Investment Advisers overview of the telecom, and automotive, while devaluation in the Indian Companys investment performance Rupee and other currencies led to further losses.
In Europe, in 2008 in U. S. dollar terms by managers also recorded negative performance with notable hedge fund strategy performance is losses in commodity, infrastructure and telecom companies.
However, their aggregate results were markedly better than shown net of underlying managers the Asian specialists due in part to meaningful positive fees and expenses only.
contributions from the short side, primarily in European financials.
Entering the final months of the year, company From 14 November 2008 Dexion Absolute suspended currency fundamentals continued to give way to macro concerns, hedging for the sterling, euro and Australian dollar share leading to further portfolio declines.
Accordingly, performance for the sterling, euro and collectively reduced exposures across their portfolios Australian dollar classes includes the effects of currency throughout the year, but the backdrop of record volatility movements in the period from that date to the year end, and proved overwhelming, and the long short equities strategy contributes to the differences between the performance of finished 2008 with a substantial loss.
Multi-strategy opportunistic Long short equities The Companys multi-strategy opportunistic managers Long short equities, the largest strategy allocation in the incurred a loss of -38.57% for 2008.
As was the case with Companys portfolio, fell -25.37% in 2008.
The year began several of the strategies in the Companys portfolio, the bulk inauspiciously for these managers amid steep losses for of the losses for the year occurred in the latter part of 2008. equities worldwide, which resulted from increasing concerns Starting in June, the multi-strategy opportunistic managers over the U. S. economy, severe strains in the credit markets posted negative performance during each remaining month and inflationary pressures from rising commodities prices amid one of the most chaotic periods in modern financial and wages.
In April and May, each of the sub-strategies history.
Continued fallout from the bankruptcy of Lehman advanced with most managers benefiting from a stock rally Brothers and the initial failure by U. S. lawmakers to pass a in April, and deft portfolio manoeuvring helped sustain profits $700 billion financial bailout package pushed the capital amid an intense global market sell-off that began in May.
The ongoing process of deleveraging Throughout much of the remainder of 2008, severe global and fide-risking accelerated and recessionary concerns market dislocations dominated, which proved painful to the weighed heavily on global markets well into December.
More Companys long short equities managers as fundamentals directly impacting multi-strategy opportunistic managers, gave way to sentiment and macro-economic factors.
Across declining commodity prices and a breakdown in hedging the world, government responses intended to stem relationships fuelled a perfect storm that negatively widespread market panic, including several unprecedented impacted their portfolios during the year.
A prominent theme bans on short selling, only served to exacerbate market for several managers was that certain mining and basic volatility and presented unforeseeable challenges for materials companies would benefit from a secular shift in portfolio hedging.
This was evidenced by the level of intrainternational trade and rapid economic development across stock correlation, which reached historic highs and emerging markets.
However, once commodity prices started contributed to a lack of differentiated performance among their descent from historic highs, market participants individual equities, resulting in challenging conditions for the disregarded the favourable long-term dynamics and sought managers fundamental approach.
In the midst of this severe to lock in short-term commodity-driven gains.
Selling market dislocation, core themes in long natural resources 5 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS pressures intensified as hedge funds and other financial the year unfolded, they suffered heavy losses from ill-timed institutions monetised their most liquid holdings in order to contrarian long and short positions in equities, commodities, deleverage their portfolios, many of which included largeforeign exchange and fixed income.
Conversely, a capitalisation mining and materials companies held by the commodities manager endured a slow start amid an managers in the Companys portfolio.
Elsewhere, unprecedented influx of capital entering the asset class that considerable losses were incurred as a result of the bans on resulted in severe dislocations in historical price short selling, which hampered the managers ability to relationships, negatively impacting the managers structure hedges effectively in convertible bond arbitrage, fundamental approach.
As the year progressed, however, risk arbitrage and other trading strategies.
In addition, commodity prices experienced a massive reversal, and their market fears over counterparty risk contributed to a massive emphasis on relative value and tactical trading over dislocation in the CDS-bond basis, resulting in losses for directional exposure led to solid returns for much of the certain managers who were positioned for a normalisation of remainder of the year.
Finally, the heavy sell-off in emerging this spread.
Additional losses came from long cash bond market equities, fixed income and currencies were the positions exposed to the credit sell-off as CDS hedges were primary reasons for the poor performance of the Companys rendered less effective.
In the face of this onslaught, emerging markets specialist during 2008.
More specifically, managers prudently reduced position concentrations, overall this managers significant exposure to oil and gas and basic portfolio exposure levels, and rapidly raised unencumbered materials, which endured outsized losses, was a notable cash throughout the final months of the year.
Nevertheless, contributor to their disappointing results.
losses were unavoidable as market conditions worsened in the midst of a notable acceleration in global deleveraging.
Long short credit The long short credit strategy posted a negative return of Macro -28.26% during an extraordinarily challenging environment The macro strategy delivered a positive return of 4.17% for the asset class.
A rapid evaporation of liquidity, escalating during 2008.
Opportunities and risks abounded in global selling pressures, and fears of further portfolio liquidations markets, leading to a wide range of results among individual dominated the credit markets, overwhelming the merits of managers.
In aggregate, the macro strategy began the year the managers fundamental credit approach.
To put the well as several managers correctly gauged the U. S. Federal strategys results in context, the Lehman U. S. High Yield Reserves policy response to deteriorating economic Loan Index was down -29.5% during the period, while the conditions and positioned their portfolios in order to profit Lehman U. S. Corporate High Yield Bond Index suffered a - from continued interest rate easing.
Similar trades were also 26.2% loss.
Given the indiscriminate selling in credit, the highly profitable towards the end of the year as the global only safe haven was cash, and the managers who held recession took a firmer hold.
Supported by rising larger cash balances outperformed those who were fullyunemployment figures and contracting consumer spending invested or leveraged.
In the first quarter, forced fiderates, these managers profited from long positions in the leveraging by a number of market participants led to a short end of the U. S. U. K. and European yield curves as general widening of credit spreads and lower valuations central banks substantially lowered interest rates with a view across the equity and debt markets.
While strategic actions to combating the global recession.
A sceptical view of global by the U. S. Federal Reserve helped temporarily extinguish inflation was another source of profits for these managers as some of the concerns, they also whipsawed the market and inflationary pressures weakened sharply, due in part to the led to a difficult trading environment.
Starting in the second retrenchment in international commodity prices and quarter, the debt markets began showing signs of stabilising subdued wage dynamics.
Elsewhere within the strategy, one and the loan market rallied strongly, buoyed by the rescue of manager delivered robust returns in the first half of 2008 Bear Stearns and the U. S. Federal Reserves liquidity plan.
only to experience considerable losses in the second half of However, the upheaval in the credit markets gained the year that mitigated their earlier gains.
This manager momentum in September in the wake of Lehman Brothers started 2008 by exploiting a long-term theme of buying bankruptcy filing, and the difficult environment continued unlevered assets and shorting highly-levered assets, but as well into December, with many credit indices posting their 6 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED worst quarterly performance ever during the fourth quarter.
their abilities to realise the intrinsic value of their Notable detractors from managers performance included investments.
In addition, the managers activism proved less exposure to bank loans and corporate bonds, which traded effective in 2008 as the abysmal macro environment down considerably as many highly-levered investors and overwhelmed many opportunities for unlocking shareholder institutions were forced to reduce their balance sheets.
For example, despite constructive efforts to alter the certain other managers, holdings in automakers and strategic direction of a telecommunications equipment automotive financing companies resulted in outsized losses.
company, one activist experienced a steep decline in the The pessimistic sentiment surrounding the U. S. automotive companys shares due to weak customer demand.
The industry accelerated during the third quarter, resulting in a manager suffered further losses in the shares of an internet sharp sell-off in the equity and debt of these companies.
search provider, whose stock price deteriorated as merger speculation faded despite the managers best efforts to Portfolio hedge finalise a deal.
The poorest-performing manager suffered Providing much needed support in a difficult year, the from their exposure to small-cap U. S. financial stocks, which Companys portfolio hedge strategy ended 2008 with a saw valuations plummet amid overwhelmingly negative 29.16% return.
Global equity markets were left reeling developments in the sector.
In addition, volatile commodity from a lacklustre finish to 2007, and the short sellers took markets led to violent movements in this managers core advantage of a plethora of opportunities to start 2008 off on holdings in alternative energy, airline and steel companies, a high note.
Diligent research in the financials sector, and while positions in engineering and construction stocks consequent short equity and credit positions in regional declined precipitously as the weakened U. S. economy banks, mortgage originators and large investment banking battered these industries.
Elsewhere, significant exposure to firms, continued to reap rewards as the stocks of these consumer discretionary companies in several underlying companies declined precipitously.
Another primary theme portfolios contributed to the strategys disappointing that provided considerable opportunities, across many performance.
Dismal U. S. retail holiday sales, weak portfolios, was the over-stretched U. S. consumer, who finally consumer confidence and a torrent of selling in the out-ofshowed some cracks after many years of impressive favour sector proved too much to overcome, despite resilience.
Short positions in the consumer discretionary considerable successes by managers in pressuring their sector, primarily in retailers and manufacturers, generated portfolio companies to improve their cost structures.
substantial returns as the realities of tightening consumer Meanwhile, the global economic recession left no sector or spending emerged following earnings announcements.
Slack demand resulted in Despite the strong return for the year, the strategy had its sagging valuations for the managers business services share of challenges, most notably the unprecedented holdings, while the Companys Nordic-focused activist government intervention in the U. S. equity markets.
Although experienced heavy losses, although performance was the equity markets still declined during the third quarter, the noticeably better than that regions equity markets.
restrictions placed on short selling activity in September produced substantial volatility and erratic price action across Investment outlook sectors.
Fortunately, all but one of the short sellers generally The Company began 2009 with approximately 1.19 billion navigated this difficult period well, producing solid gains of net assets allocated to 44 investment managers across from their identification of and positioning in companies six investment strategies.
most affected by the hostile market conditions and most Cash and liquidity are scarce resources in the current market susceptible to significant price declines.
environment and will likely command premiums for the foreseeable future.
In light of this, the Companys managers Activist enter 2009 focused on these portfolio attributes, while The Companys activist strategy posted a -37.30% loss remaining committed to capital appreciation.
The managers long-biased strategies were term, the Investment Adviser anticipates that global financial heavily exposed to the sharp sell-off in global equity markets will remain volatile as investors seek equilibrium markets, and the dearth of deal activity continued to hamper among competing economic forces.
While irrational 7 Premium or discount DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS behaviour and overreaction has the potential to hinder the Strategy Allocation as at 1 January 2009 Companys  and opportunistic Macro Long Short managers over the near term, these conditions should also 15% 4 Credit 16% 5 present attractive entry points for new investments.
At the same time, the Investment Adviser expects the portfolio Activist Portfolio 10% 5 hedge strategy to reduce overall volatility through short Hedge 11% 6 exposure to the equities of poorly positioned and inefficiently run companies.
Furthermore, the reorganisation of capital across asset classes should foster additional opportunities Multi-Strategy Long Short Opportunistic Equities for our macro managers.
The current state of the financial 19% 9 29% 15 world has the potential to expand greatly the Investment Numbers in brackets indicate number of managers as at 1 January 2009.
Advisers long short credit strategy universe of stressed and Note: Manager count excludes any manager holding less than 0.5% of Dexion Absolute Limiteds assets from which the Company is withdrawing 100% of its investment.
distressed companies, and, over a longer time horizon, Allocations are net of cash effect and includes, for portfolio hedge only, the delta-adjusted support the activist managers efforts to generate alpha exposure delivered from certain hedges, if any.
Source: Aurora Investment Management LLC.
through operational, financial and corporate governance reforms.
The Investment Adviser is confident that the Share Net Asset Value Performance Companys managers have the ability to navigate the current 250 market environment successfully, and they continue to scour 230 the landscape for uncorrelated sources of alpha to add to the 210 190 Companys portfolio.
170 150 130 110 90 70 Dec 02 Jun 03 Dec 03 Jun 04 Dec 04 Jun 05 Dec 05 Jun 06 Dec 06 Jun 07 Dec 07 Jun 08 Dec 08 Dexion Absolute NAV MSCI World Index Gross TR US$ HFRI Fund of Funds Index US$ JPM Global Government Bond Index TR US$ Note: Based on weekly data for Dexion Absolute, MSCI World Index Gross TR and JPM Global Government Bond Index TR and monthly data for HFRI FOF Index weekly data not available.
Dexion Absolute's Share NAV is expressed in whilst the comparative indices are expressed in US$.
Except for a short period between November 2008 and January 2009, Dexion Absolute's Share NAV has been hedged from US$ to using currency forwards: these hedging arrangements had a positive effect on the NAV performance when interest rates were higher than US$ interest rates, and vice versa.
Dexion Absolutes Share NAV was not hedged in this way between 13th November 2008 and 27th January 2009, and in the period from 13th November 2008 to the end of 2008, currency exposure had an overall impact of approximately 3.7%.
Source: Bloomberg data 8 Total Return Base 100 NAV or Share price p DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Performance by strategy for 2008 -28.26% Long Short Credit Activist -37.30% Long Short Equities -25.37% Multi-Strategy Opportunistic -38.57% Portfolio Hedge 29.16% Macro 4.17% -50% -40% -30% -20% -10% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% Note: Strategy returns are in US$ and net of underlying manager fees only, and not inclusive of Dexion Absolutes fees and expenses.
3 The equivalent exposure in respect of 2007 totalled 22.26% of the Companys net assets.
Whilst it is generally considered best practice to disclose the full portfolio of an investment company, the composition of the Company's investment portfolio is the subject of confidentiality provisions with the Investment Adviser.
Accordingly, in common with several other funds of hedge funds, the Company intends to disclose only its ten largest investments.
Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited 24 April 2009 10
