DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited financial professionally selected hedge funds that are managed by statements for the year to 31 December 2008. experienced portfolio managers employing, as a group, a variety of investment techniques and strategies.
Principal Activity Dexion Absolute Limited the Company is a Guernsey There are a number of portfolio managers implementing registered closed-ended investment company listed on the alternative investment strategies whose services are not London Stock Exchange.
Trading in the Companys ordinary generally available to the investing public.
Such portfolio shares since reclassified as shares commenced on managers often impose high minimum investment 19 December 2002. requirements and place stringent restrictions on the number of investors whose money they will manage.
By investing Changes in Company Law with these and other portfolio managers, the Company seeks On 1 July 2008, the Companies Guernsey Law, 1994 was to provide investors with access to the varied skills and superseded by the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The expertise of such portfolio managers which may not Directors have adopted the transitional provisions of the otherwise be available to such investors, while at the same Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 in preparing these time attempting to lessen the risks and volatility associated financial statements and as such these financial statements with investing through any single hedge fund or portfolio have been prepared under the Companies Guernsey Law, manager.
The Company also enables investors to avoid, to a 1994 regime.
significant extent, the high minimum investment requirements typically imposed on individual investors Investment Objective investing in hedge funds directly.
The Companys investment objective is to generate consistent long-term capital appreciation with low volatility Although the Investment Adviser allocates the Companys and little correlation with the general equity and bond assets among underlying portfolio managers employing one markets through a portfolio having a diversified risk profile.
or more of the strategies described on page 44, the The Companys investment objective is consistent with that Investment Adviser does not follow a rigid policy and, subject of Aurora LP Aurora, which is the Investment Advisers to maintaining an appropriate spread of funds and investment flagship fund.
strategies, the Companys assets may be deployed in whatever funds and investment strategies the Investment Although not forming part of the Companys investment Adviser deems appropriate.
The Company is not restricted objective, the Companys investment rationale, methodology from participating in any market, strategy or investment, and and portfolio management is consistent with that of Aurora.
the Investment Adviser may alter or modify some or all of the Companys underlying investment strategies in light of However, it has not been, and may continue not to be possible available investment opportunities and prevailing economic for the Company always to invest in the same underlying and market conditions if the Investment Adviser determines funds that Aurora is invested in to the same extent or at all that such alterations or modifications are consistent with the and the fees and expenses payable by Aurora may differ Companys investment objective, subject to what the materially from those payable by the Company.
Accordingly, Investment Adviser considers an acceptable level of risk.
The the Companys performance will not mirror that of Aurora.
Company will invest and manage its assets in a way which is consistent with its objective of spreading investment risk.
Investment Policy The Companys investment policy is to invest in an actively The initial allocation of assets to a fund managed by a managed portfolio of hedge funds which is diversified by particular portfolio manager may be based, in part, on the investment strategy, style and manager, to achieve attractive Investment Advisers contact and experience with the portfolio risk-adjusted returns with low correlation to equity and fixed manager.
Allocations are also a function of the degree of risk interest benchmarks.
The Investment Adviser seeks to that the Investment Adviser seeks i to include funds managed achieve this by allocating the Companys assets among by at least two portfolio managers utilising a particular 12 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED investment strategy, ii not to invest more than 10% of the million and 20% of its net assets for short-term or temporary Companys total assets in any one fund, iii not to invest more liquidity purposes as may be necessary to facilitate than 40% of the Companys total assets in any single strategy, investment and withdrawals from underlying funds or to although it may deviate from any such guidelines from time to meet ongoing expenses, and to implement the Companys time and or for sustained periods, subject always to the currency hedging strategy.
On 4 November 2008 this facility investment restrictions set out below.
agreement was temporarily increased to the lower of 404 million and 30% of its net assets.
This temporary facility The portfolio managers selected by the Investment Adviser expired on 31 January 2009. have complete discretion to purchase and sell securities for their respective hedge funds consistent with the relevant Following the natural decrease in issued share capital investment advisory agreements, partnership agreements or resulting from the Companys own share buy backs and other governing documents.
Such agreements and share redemptions with effect from 1 February 2009 the governing documents generally allow the portfolio managers facility was reduced to up to the lower of 220 million and to change the kinds of investments they make and their 20% of its net assets, on a rolling basis with three months techniques for making investments if they believe that such notice.
changes are appropriate in view of the then current or expected, market, business or economic conditions.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to give guarantees, mortgage, Although it does not currently do so, the Investment Adviser hypothecate, pledge or charge all or part of its undertaking, may allocate part of the Companys assets to portfolio property or assets and uncalled capital and to issue managers affiliated with the Investment Adviser provided debentures and other securities whether outright or as that such allocations are permitted by applicable law.
Such collateral security for any liability or obligation of the allocations, if any, will generally not, in the aggregate, exceed Company or of any third party.
The Companys Articles do not 10% of the Companys total net assets as of the date any specify a borrowing limit.
such allocation is made although the Investment Adviser may deviate from the foregoing policy under unusual The Company does not have any long-term or fixed circumstances.
The Company would pay such affiliated structural gearing and it is not intended that it should have, portfolio managers management and performance fees on the introduction of any such gearing would be subject to the terms no more favourable than the terms generally offered prior approval of Shareholders.
The Company may be to unaffiliated investors.
indirectly exposed to gearing to the extent that investee funds or portfolio managers are themselves geared.
The The hedge funds in which the Company invests are or may Investment Adviser expects such underlying gearing to be in be permitted to borrow and invest in long and short positions the range 1.5 : 1 to 2.5 : 1. in equities, fixed income securities, options, warrants, futures, commodities, currency forwards, over-the-counter Investment Restrictions derivative instruments such as swaps, securities that lack The Company has adopted the following investment active public markets, repurchase and reverse repurchase restrictions which include certain restrictions set out in the agreements, preferred stocks, convertible bonds and other Listing Rules: financial instruments as well as cash and cash equivalents.
Not more than 20% of the total assets of the Company will be invested in any one fund at the time the It is the intention of the Company to be substantially fully investment is made.
invested at all times, although the Investment Adviser may The Company will not make further investment s in any use its discretion to hold cash or equivalent investments single investment strategy where, immediately from time-to-time.
following such further investment s, that investment strategy represents 60% or more of the total assets of The Company started 2008 with a facility agreement with the Company.
Northern Trust Guernsey Limited for up to the lower of 305 13 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS The Company will not borrow more than 40% of its net Significant Events assets for short term or temporary liquidity purposes, On 8 February 2008, in response to significant interest in the including as may be necessary to facilitate investment Companys shares from a range of investors the Company and withdrawals from underlying funds or to meet announced a placing for cash of new ordinary shares ongoing expenses and to implement the Companys representing in aggregate up to 9.99% of each class of the currency hedging strategy.
Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In aggregate, The Company will avoid cross-financing between 84,860,882 new shares were placed with investors raising businesses forming part of its investment portfolio.
approximately 134.2 million of new monies before The Company will avoid the operation of common expenses.
treasury functions as between the Company and investee companies.
On 16 May 2008, the Company issued a circular containing Any material change in the investment policies of the notice of the Companys annual general meeting on 16 June Company will only be made with the approval of 2008 and setting out a special resolution to be put to Ordinary Shareholders by ordinary resolution.
shareholders of the Company resolving to adopt new articles Not more than 10% of the total assets of the Company of association, including amendments to the discount in aggregate will be invested in other closed-ended management provisions, the introduction of quarterly investment funds except for those which themselves conversions between currency classes and the introduction have stated investment policies to invest no more than of pre-emption rights for new share issues for cash.
The 15% of their gross assets in other closed-ended resolution was passed.
Dividends will not normally be paid and in any event will On 4 November 2008 the Company issued a trading update only be paid if they are covered by income received which noted that the Companys currency hedging from underlying investments.
arrangements were resulting in significant utilisation of its The distribution as dividend of surpluses arising from credit facility.
Accordingly, the Company announced that it the realisation of investments is prohibited.
had agreed with Northern Trust Guernsey Limited a temporary increase in its credit facility from the lower of In the event of any breach of these investment restrictions, 305 million and 20% of NAV to the lower of 404 million the Board will as soon as practicable make an and 30% of NAV, the purpose of which was solely to cover announcement on a regulatory information service provider and fund forward foreign exchange hedging losses and subsequently write to Shareholders if appropriate.
including cash margin and expenses.
The Company also announced that the Investment Adviser had initiated Shareholder Information a programme of portfolio redemptions, the proceeds of The Company announces its NAV on a monthly basis which were expected to exceed the Companys together with commentary on investment performance.
Estimated NAVs are normally provided weekly.
Share price, NAV and performance information can also be found by On 11 November 2008 the Company announced a series of eligible shareholders on the Companys website measures designed to address the wide discounts to NAV at www.
However information on that which each class of the Companys shares have been website does not form part of, nor is it incorporated by trading.
These measures included a redemption offer of up reference into this document and that information is not to 150 million in aggregate which settled on 27 February available to certain overseas shareholders.
Shareholder web 2009 and the resumption of the Companys share buyback conferences also take place and are announced via RNS.
programme by the end of January 2009 each following receipt of sufficient portfolio realisation proceeds over and Results above that required to fund the redemption offer noted above The results for the year are set out in the Income Statement.
and allowing for sufficient headroom under the Companys The Directors do not propose a dividend for the year 2007: Nil.
credit facility to allow the Company to reinstate its currency 14 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED hedging arrangements.
At this time it was noted that in view 340,880 A$ Shares, representing 1.31% of the issued A$ of the wide discount to NAV at which the Companys shares Shares as at the time of the Annual General Meeting held in had been trading in recent weeks, in the Boards opinion it June 2008 when Shareholders provided authority for the was likely that the rolling 12 month discount floor provision Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of its for the Companys shares would be triggered at the end of own Shares.
December 2008 requiring a continuation vote to be proposed by way of ordinary resolution.
Pursuant to the Of the Ordinary Shares repurchased, 59,297,066 Shares, Companys articles of association, the Directors would be 6,006,000 Shares, 5,952,916 US$ Shares and 340,880 required to put forward a continuation vote within 4 months A$ Shares are currently held in treasury with the balance of the discount floor provision being triggered.
On 14 November 2008 the Company announced the The Board posted a circular to shareholders on 13 March temporary suspension of its currency hedging arrangements 2009 to convene separate class meetings for the purpose of following a further significant appreciation in the value of the considering continuation votes on 8 April 2009.
At those US dollar against sterling, euros and Australian dollars.
The meetings the continuation vote of the Shares was passed Directors noted their intention to reinstate the currency and the continuation votes of the US$, and A$ Shares were hedging arrangements as soon as practicable, which was not passed.
anticipated to be in January 2009 assuming receipt of portfolio realisation proceeds required to provide sufficient The Board will now formulate Redemption Proposals to be headroom under the Companys credit facility.
put forward to US$ Shareholders, Shareholders and A$ Shareholders within the next 2 months.
On 22 January 2009, the Board determined that the Company had sufficient available liquidity to reinstate its In seeking to formulate indicative proposals which are fair currency hedging arrangements in full through the use of and equitable between redeeming and non-redeeming monthly rolling forward foreign exchange contracts.
Hedging Shareholders and between classes which vote to continue arrangements re-commenced by the end of January 2009. and classes which vote to discontinue, the Board and the Companys advisers give consideration to what amounts On 24 March 2009 the Company issued a shareholder might be received by Shareholders on a return of capital, the circular convening an Extraordinary General Meeting seeking difficulties associated with using a single NAV Calculation a new authority to make market purchases of own shares by Date for the purposes of calculating redemption amounts way of an ordinary resolution.
The resolution was passed and and what alternative proposals might have a substantially since that date the Company had repurchased in aggregate equivalent economic value to a redemption offer.
18,573,193 Shares, representing 3.41% of the issued Shares, 1,888,155 Shares, representing 3.29% of the The valuations of the Companys investments as set out in its issued Shares, 1,236,954 US$ Shares, representing weekly and monthly NAV releases assume a present value of 2.31% of the issued US$ Shares and 31,859 A$ Shares, those investments based on estimates received from representing 0.14% of the issued A$ Shares excluding underlying funds or their managers or administrators and treasury shares as of 17 April 2009. assuming no Settlement Obstructions rather than the amount which those investments might realise were they to As at 16 April 2009 excluding the Ordinary Shares be redeemed.
Such redemptions may be subject to 3, 6 or redeemed pursuant to the redemption offer put forward on 12 months or even longer notice periods and some may 19 December 2008, the Company had repurchased in be incapable of redemption at the present time or in the aggregate 97,203,098 Shares, representing 13.52% of future, by which time the value of such investments may the issued Shares, 14,260,597 Shares, representing have changed up or down.
Accordingly, the realisation value 13.48% of the issued Shares, 12,225,935 US$ Shares, of those investments will only be known once they are representing 14.63% of the issued US$ Shares and redeemed.
Certain irredeemable or side-pocket 15 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS investments or investments that have imposed gates or Corporate Governance suspended realisations may have a value ascribed to them Introduction which is difficult or even impossible to verify.
Accordingly, the As a closed-ended investment company registered in realisation value will only be known once they are realised.
Guernsey, the Company is eligible for exemption from the requirements of the Combined Code the Code issued by Management Arrangements the UK Listing Authority.
The Board has however put in place The Company has an agreement with Dexion Capital a framework for corporate governance which it believes is Guernsey Limited for the provision of investment suitable for an investment company and which enables the management services.
Management fees as disclosed in Company to comply voluntarily with the main requirements note 9 are based on an annual amount of 1.5% of the total of the Code, which sets out principles of good governance assets of the Company plus a performance fee as outlined in and a code of best practice.
The Management Engagement Committee have reviewed the performance of the Manager in managing the The Board considers that the Company has complied with portfolio.
The Committee has also reviewed the the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code throughout appropriateness of the terms of the investment management this accounting period except where indicated below.
The agreement, in particular, the length of the notice period and following statement describes how the relevant principles of the fees payable to the Manager.
governance are applied to the Company.
Following their review, it is in the opinion of the Directors that AIC the continuing appointment of the Manager on the terms In June 2008 the Board determined, as a closed-ended agreed is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
investment company registered in Guernsey, that it was appropriate to become a member of the Association of Directors Interests Investment Companies the AIC and has carefully The Directors, as stated on page 11, all served throughout considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC the year under review.
The Directors had no beneficial Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code and to follow interest in the Company other than shown below: the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
31 December 2008 shares The Company Secretary has undertaken a review of the P P Walsh 25,000 corporate governance principles of the Board and T C Ash Nil Committees of the Board of the Company.
The Directors R M J Bowie 56,624 J E Hallam 22,806 confirm compliance to the AIC Code without exception.
P Sharman 12,280 Guernsey Regulatory Environment There have recently been a number of changes to the Substantial Interests regulatory regime for Guernsey funds.
A number of Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now comprised in the provisions which were contained in the Control of Borrowing Financial Services Authority handbook.
Such rules require Bailiwick of Guernsey Ordinance, 1959 to 2003 COBO substantial shareholders to make relevant holding which governed closed-ended funds have been notifications to the Company and the UK Financial Services consolidated into the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Authority.
The Company must then disseminate this Guernsey Law, 1987, as amended the POI Law which information to the wider market.
governed open-ended funds and licensees so that the POI 16 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Law now governs both open-ended and closed-ended funds The Articles of Association provide that one third of the as well as licensees.
Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number Closed-ended funds are now Category 1 controlled nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from investments under the POI Law.
The changes have also office.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting codified in the POI Law a number of standard conditions and may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not ongoing notification requirements imposed on the licensees subject to automatic re-appointment.
All non-independent of funds which were listed on the funds COBO consent, but directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election were not explicitly set out in COBO.
It is intended that the at every Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the changes will simplify Guernseys investment fund regime by listing rules Mr R Bowie is put forward for re-election categorising all funds whether open-ended or closedannually.
ended as either registered schemes or authorised schemes.
The Board meets at least four times a year and between The Directors have determined that the Company will these formal meetings there is regular contact with the continue as an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Manager, the Secretary and the Companys Broker.
Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business The Board of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, Directors.
The Directors also have access to the Secretary all of whom are independent of the Investment Adviser and, and, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to with the exception of Mr Bowie, are independent of the independent professional advice at the expense of the Manager and the Investment Consultant.
appointed as Senior Independent Director during August 2007.
The attendance record of Directors is set out below: Ad hoc & Quarterly Committee Management board board Audit Engagement Remuneration meetings meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 18 3 1 1 Meetings attended: P P Walsh 4 18 2 1 1 T C Ash 4 16 3 1 1 R M J Bowie 4 13 n a n a 1 J E Hallam 4 15 3 1 n a P Sharman 4 12 3 n a 1 In accordance with the most recent Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council during 2008, Mr Walsh, Chairman of the Company, retired from the Audit Committee.
17 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Directors Duties and Responsibilities Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which Boards composition can be managed without undue establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major disruption.
With any new Director appointment to the Board, duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: consideration will be given as to whether an induction process is appropriate and upon any such appointment the new director Statutory obligations and public disclosure: would be available to meet shareholders upon request.
Strategic matters and financial reporting: Oversight of management and personnel matters: The Board considers agenda items laid out in the Notice and Risk assessment and management, including reporting, Agenda which are formally circulated to the Board in advance monitoring, governance and control: and of the Meeting as part of the Board Papers and therefore Other matters having a material effect on the Company.
Directors may request any Agenda Items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or the Directors to clearly demonstrate the seriousness with actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness The Board has not currently considered it necessary to have of its actions.
formal strategy sessions, as the investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys prospectus, is reviewed regularly and Committees of the Board the Investment Adviser advises on the adoption of appropriate The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a strategies to employ under prevailing market conditions at nomination committee as, being comprised wholly of nonany particular time within the overall investment restrictions of executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
Remuneration Committee The primary focus at Board Meetings is a review of investment A Remuneration Committee has been established with defined performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset terms of reference and duties.
The Committee is chaired by allocation, as well as marketing investor relations, risk Mr Ash and the members are Mr Hallam and Dr Sharman.
management, general administration and compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure of reference and duties, has been established to review of each Director on an annual basis, and believes that the mix annually the terms of the management agreement between of skills, experience, ages and length of service are appropriate the Company and the Manager, the investment advisory to the requirements of the Company.
The Chairman is agreement between the Company, the Manager and the supported by the other independent directors in recommending Investment Adviser, and the Investment Consultant agreement re-election of those directors retiring and offering themselves agreement between the Company, the Manager and the for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Investment Consultant and the Company secretarial agreement with the Secretary.
The Management Engagement The Board of Directors meets at least four times a year and Committee consists of Mr Ash Chairman, Mr Walsh and Mr more when necessary.
The number of ad hoc-meetings during 2008 amounted to 18 Audit Committee where the Board regularly reviewed and considered inter alia An Audit Committee has been established consisting of the market conditions and the effect on the assets, liquidity Mr Hallam Chairman, Mr Ash and Dr Sharman.
In accordance and going-concern position of the Company.
with the most recent guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council during 2008, Mr Walsh, 18 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Chairman of the Company, retired from the Audit Committee.
independent calculation of the Companys NAV and the The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the production of the Annual Report and Financial Statements Companys internal control systems, the annual report and which are independently audited.
Whilst the Board delegates accounts and interim report, the auditors remuneration and responsibility, it retains accountability for the functions it engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any delegates and is responsible for the systems of internal non-audit services provided by them.
Formal contractual agreements have been put in receives information from the Company Secretary and the place between the Company and providers of these services.
compliance department of the Administrator and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at each year to review the audit timetable, annual and interim quarterly board meeting from the Administrator.
accounts and other risk management and governance matters.
Corporate Responsibility The Companys business is concerned with investment.
It Internal Controls considers the ongoing concerns of investors by open and The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system regular dialogue with and through the appointed Manager, of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board Investment Consultant and the Companys Broker.
confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory Company.
The Directors conduct at least annually a review of changes and takes appropriate action.
The Company is the Companys system of internal control, covering all controls, advised that carbon disclosure is set to become mandatory including financial, operational, compliance and risk by April 2012.
As previously referred, all daily operations are management.
The Company itself does not maintain premises, have any employees or produce incidental carbon emissions.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the On an annual basis the Chairman assesses the performance process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks of each Director that includes a review of Board and affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks Committee meeting attendance.
The Company does not have any employees.
As there is a delegation of daily operational activity as described below, the Audit Committee and Board have Going Concern determined that there is no requirement for a direct internal In January 2009 the Company announced that the rolling 12 audit function.
The internal control systems are designed to month discount floor provision of the Companys shares had meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it been triggered.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of is exposed.
Association, a continuation vote to be proposed by way of ordinary resolution of each currency class meeting was called Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to for 8 April 2009.
Details concerning the results and expected manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve redemption process are contained on page 15 in the business objectives and by their nature can only provide Directors Report.
Following the passing of the Share Class reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and after making enquiries and given the nature of the and loss.
Company and its investments, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis The Board has delegated the responsibility for the in preparing the Financial Statements, and, after due management of the Companys investment portfolio, the consideration, the Directors consider that the Company is able provision of custody services and the administration, to continue in the foreseeable future.
registrar and corporate secretarial functions including the 19 DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2008 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS Relations with shareholders Change of Secretary The Manager, the Investment Consultant and the Companys On 1 January 2008, Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited Broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional replaced Northern Trust International Fund Administration shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the Services Guernsey Limited as Company Secretary.
In addition, Board members will be available to registered office of the company is now situated at 1, Le respond to shareholders questions at the Annual General Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey.
The Company now offers Investorweb conferences with the Investment Advisor.
Three such conferences took Auditors place during 2008.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual The Directors meet with Shareholders upon request and had General Meeting.
a number of such meetings in 2008.
By order of the Board The Board monitors the trading activity and shareholder profile on a regular basis.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained Peter P Walsh John E Hallam by the careful monitoring of the discount premium at which Director Director each class of shares is traded in the market against the NAV 24 April 2009 per share when compared to the discounts premiums experienced by the Companys peer group.
The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year and a proxy voting card is sent to shareholders with the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Additionally, the introduction of Interim Management Statements and the current information provided to shareholders on an ongoing basis through the Company website and newsletter assist in keeping shareholders informed.
The Registrar monitors the voting of the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary.
