Corporate Summary fully qualifying for inclusion within tax efficient ISA wrappers The Company see page 48.
The Company is an investment trust and its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is a member of Management Agreement the Association of Investment Companies.
The Company has an agreement with EFM for the provision of management and secretarial services the Management Investment Manager Agreement, details of which are shown in note 3 to the Edinburgh Fund Managers plc EFM or the Manager, a financial statements.
subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC AAM.
The Directors review the terms of the Management Capital Structure Agreement on a regular basis and have confirmed that, due At 31 August 2008 the Company had a capital structure to the investment skills, experience of the Manager and its comprising 230,954,375 Ordinary shares of 20p.
long-term relative performance, in their opinion the continuing appointment of Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, on Total Assets and Net Asset Value the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a The Company had total assets of 423.3 million and a net whole.
asset value of 163.6 pence per Ordinary share at 31 August 2008.
com Company Secretary Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday Friday, 9am 5pm Email: inv.
com Principal Risk Factors Investment in Far East securities or those of companies that derive significant revenue or profit from the Far East involves a greater degree of risk than that usually associated with investment in the securities in major securities markets.
Further details of the risks are disclosed in the Business Review contained within the Directors Report on page 21.
Duration Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company at every third annual general meeting.
The next continuation vote will be held in 2009.
Share Dealing ISA Status Shares in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through the Aberdeen savings scheme and are 2 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
