Investment Objective and Policy group and business prospects.
Top-down investment factors Investment Objective are secondary in the Managers portfolio construction, with The investment objective of the Company is to achieve longdiversification rather than formal controls guiding stock and term capital growth through investment in the Far East.
The Manager is authorised to invest up to Investments are made in stock markets in the region, with 15% of the Companys gross assets in any single stock, the exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large calculated at the time an investment is made.
When appropriate, the Company will utilise gearing to maximise long term returns.
A detailed description of the investment process and risk controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 10.
Benchmark A comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio by The Companys benchmark index is the MSCI All Country country and by sector is disclosed on pages 12 to 17, Asia ex Japan Index.
including a description of the ten largest investments, the full investment portfolio by value, sector geographical analysis Investment Policy and currency market performance.
At 31 August 2008, the The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio Companys portfolio consisted of 52 holdings.
of securities in quoted companies spread across a range of industries and economies in the Asia Pacific region excluding The Board is responsible for determining the gearing strategy Japan.
The shares that make up the portfolio are selected for the Company and has set a maximum gearing limit of from companies that have quality management and whose 20%.
Gearing is used selectively to leverage the Companys shares are considered to be under-priced.
The Company portfolio in order to enhance returns where and to the extent invests in a diversified range of sectors and countries.
this is considered appropriate to do so.
At 31 August 2008, Investments are not limited as to market capitalisation, the Companys actual gearing was 0.1%.
sector or country weightings within the region.
In addition, it is the investment policy of the Company to The Companys policy is to invest no more than 15% of gross invest no more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
at 31 August 2008, the Company had no such holdings.
The Company complies with section 842 of ICTA and does not invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares of any one company.
When appropriate the Company will utilise gearing to maximise long term returns which is subject to a maximum gearing level of 20% imposed by the Board.
The Company does not currently utilise derivatives but keeps this under review.
Achieving the Investment Policy The Directors are responsible for determining the investment policy and the investment objective of the Company.
Day to day management of the Companys assets has been delegated to the Manager who invests in a diversified range of companies throughout the Asia Pacific investment region in accordance with the investment policy.
The Manager follows a bottom-up investment process based on a disciplined evaluation of companies through direct visits by its fund managers.
Stock selection is the major source of added value.
No stock is bought without the fund managers having first met management.
The Manager estimates a companys worth in two stages, quality then price.
Quality is defined by reference to management, business focus, the balance sheet and corporate governance.
Price is calculated by reference to key financial ratios, the market, the peer Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 3
