Managers Review shipbuilders, as well as countries such as China, where we Overview were very wary about inflated valuations and company The year under review marked the end of the strong rise in quality, ultimately paid off.
These high beta areas had Asian equities that had begun in 2003.
After peaking in driven the last stage of the bull market, and we had taken the October 2007, all markets in the region saw sustained selling opportunity to further increase the portfolios underweight pressure throughout the rest of the review period, positions.
Once the correction began, it was these sectors punctuated by the occasional relief rally.
Although Asian that had led the market up which then led it down, and our markets had initially ignored the turmoil that erupted in the portfolio outperformed significantly as a result.
financial system in early August, for the most part they tracked the movements of Western markets, which The funds largest country overweight, Singapore, was themselves mirrored the fears surrounding the unwinding of particularly resilient.
Although it has an open economy that the credit bubble.
Indeed, falls in Asian markets from their is exposed to growth in developed countries, it is home to peaks were greater that those of developed markets, many high-quality companies that are well managed and reflecting in part the extent to which they had risen in the strongly capitalised.
The strength of the Singapore dollar also preceding five years, and also the extent to which they boosted performance.
remain sensitive to foreign portfolio flows.
At the other end of the spectrum sat South Korea, which By the end of the review period, equities in Asia had fallen turned in a poor performance.
This was largely a reflection of 8.8% in sterling terms as measured by the MSCI All Country its deteriorating external balance and the resulting weak Asia ex Japan Index, with China and South Korea among currency, and the cyclical nature of many of its largest the top losers.
In comparison, Indonesia was the only market companies.
to post a gain, while Singapore proved resilient.
Performance Attribution Analysis During the period, inflation rates across the region rose to Gross assets rose 4.1% on a total return basis during the their highest levels in many years, driven by rising twelve months to the end of August, while the benchmark commodity prices.
This rapid rise in prices was felt most in MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index fell 8.8%.
6.8 the developing economies in Asia, where food and fuel percentage points of the outperformance came from asset account for a major portion of household expenditure.
allocation and 6.2 from stock selection, and - 0.2 from currency.
Meanwhile, the weakening of developed economies started to take its toll in the region.
Economies dependent on The portfolios overweight to Singapore was the largest asset exports to the West, such as South Korea and Singapore, saw allocation including currency contributor 1.7 percentage the sharpest falls in their growth rates.
In contrast, those points as the market weathered the sell-off better than with more diversified export markets, such as Indonesia, or others.
The underweight to South Korea added a further 1.5 those less reliant on exports, such as India, were better percentage points, aided by the weakness in the won.
insulated against the global slowdown.
However, growth prospects across the region have dimmed significantly, and On the stock selection front, the portfolios holdings in downgrades in official forecasts became more frequent as Singapore added 1.6 points to relative performance.
comprised contributions from conglomerate Jardine Strategic Holdings, retailer Dairy Farm, which reported solid results Governments and policymakers were thus caught in a and has a business spread across the region, Singapore conundrum: whether to tighten monetary policy to curb Telecom, as well as our banking sector stocks, United inflation or loosen to address falling growth.
Responses were Overseas Bank and Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation, as varied as the situation was complex.
At one end of the which are conservatively managed and have little exposure spectrum, Indias highly independent central bank to the toxic assets that are afflicting many Western banks.
aggressively raised rates, while at the other end countries Jardines performance was itself aided by its holdings in Dairy maintained accommodative stances, hoping that weaker Farm and Indonesias Astra, while Singapore Telecoms stable growth globally would eventually cause inflation pressures to cash flows in markets such as Australia as well as good ease.
growth prospects in emerging markets saw the counter outperform.
Amid the turmoil in financial markets, the portfolios performance was significantly better than that of its Our Chinese and Hong Kong holdings also contributed benchmark.
The key reason for this lies in the portfolios positively to relative performance.
Notables included defensive qualities, which came to the fore during the CNOOC, which benefited from record oil prices during the downward correction.
Our decisions to remain underweight year under review, and Hong Kong utility CLP Holdings, in cyclical sectors such as commodities and Korean Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 7 Managers Review continued which proved defensive during the period.
The Chinese Royal Bank of Scotland was implemented on 30 September mainland markets, which we had been wary of for some 2008, and to date there have been no drawdowns on this time, saw very sharp corrections.
Our holdings in South Korea were the main detractors from Outlook relative performance.
Regional lenders Daegu and Pusan The turmoil in the worlds financial system and resulting banks came under pressure despite posting good results economic slowdown appears to have gathered pace.
Although they are conservatively managed developed economies on the cusp of recession, Asia is and have insignificant exposure to debt derivatives such as unlikely to escape unscathed.
That said, in recent years, intraCDOs, their stock prices could not escape the poor sentiment Asian trade and exports to other emerging markets have that plagued the entire market.
increased as a percentage of the total and this, combined with the recent easing of inflationary pressures, should Positive contributions to stock selection also came from not provide some cushion for regional economies.
holding large index constituents such as POSCO, Hon Hai Precision and Shinhan Financial, which all posted sharp falls.
As for the upheaval in the worlds financial system, there is no doubt that this will continue to cause distress to Asian Portfolio Activity markets.
But it is important to note that Asias banks are in During the review period, one new name was added to the better shape, having strengthened their capital ratios in the portfolio: Singapore-based Fraser & Neave.
The companys wake of the 1997 financial crisis.
Loan-to-deposit ratios core businesses are food and beverages and property, and, generally stand in the 70-80% range and asset quality is with strong sales in Singapore, Malaysia and Indochina, it is good, reflecting lower leverage among Asian corporates.
considered a play on growth in the ASEAN region.
Its food Furthermore, government finances generally are in good and beverage unit, whose brands include Tiger Beer, has been shape, and there is wide scope to pump prime economies in growing strongly in regional markets.
the event that they weaken significantly.
On the sell side, we exited our holding in Maybank.
Although We remain cautious, given the current backdrop.
Our this had been a fairly recent addition to the portfolio, disciplined approach to investing in decent businesses, run by meetings with the companys senior management left us management teams that have demonstrated a commitment unconvinced that purchases of stakes in banks in Indonesia, to shareholders is one which is more pertinent than ever.
We Pakistan and Vietnam were at decent prices, nor that the expect corporate earnings to weaken in the year ahead, but company had the resources to manage the acquisitions.
We the portfolio comprises quality businesses that are among also sold a small position in Sinopac Holdings, on concerns of the best at what they do.
On a longer term basis, we remain a deterioration in the quality of its assets.
optimistic about the prospects for Asia.
The markets volatility presented us with opportunities to Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Limited take partial profits in the latter part of 2007 from holdings 16 October 2008 that had seen strong run-ups.
Among these were Chinese holdings China Mobile, PetroChina, CNOOC and Zhejiang Expressway: Indian lenders HDFC and ICICI Bank: and Korean retailer Shinsegae.
Later in the review period we took profits from defensive holdings which had held up during the on behalf of Edinburgh Fund Managers plc.
turmoil, such as Malaysias British American Tobacco and Both companies are subsidiaries of Aberdeen Asset Hong Kongs CLP Holdings.
We added to existing positions whose valuations had fallen to more attractive levels, including Hong Kong-listed Standard Chartered Bank: Indian IT services companies Satyam Computer Services and Infosys: and Singapores Venture Corp, Singapore Telecom, ST Engineering and Jardine Strategic.
Gearing As highlighted in the Chairmans Statement, the Companys US$80 million Loan Notes are due to be repaid by the end of 2008.
A 40 million multi-currency loan facility with The 8 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
