Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial Future Trends statements for the year ended 31 August 2008.
The regions economies have high rates of growth, strong trade and fiscal surpluses and rapidly developing capital Business review markets.
Nevertheless the past has demonstrated regional With the rest of the Report and Accounts, this review is risks and the outlook of the region are provided in the intended to provide shareholders with the information and Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
measures that the directors use to assess, direct and oversee the Manager in the management of the Companys portfolio.
Risk Management The Business Review is prepared in accordance with the The major risks associated with the Company are detailed requirements of Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985. below: Resource risk: The Company is an investment trust and has Principal Activity no employees.
The responsibility for the management of The Company is registered as a public limited company and the Company has been delegated to Edinburgh Fund is an investment company as defined by Section 833 of the Managers plc the Manager under the management Companies Act 2006. agreement.
The terms of the management agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions expected of the The Company carries on business as an investment trust and Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the the directors do not envisage any change in this activity in Manager on a regular basis and their compliance with the the foreseeable future.
The Company has received requisite management contract formally on an annual basis.
approval of investment trust status from the Inland Revenue for accounting periods up to and including 31 August 2007.
Investment and market risk: The Company is exposed to the effect of variations in share prices due to the nature of its The directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the business.
Investment in Asian equities involves a greater Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 degree of risk than that usually associated with investment August 2008 so as to be able to obtain approval as an in the major securities markets.
These include a greater risk investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and of social, political and economic instability including Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for that year, although approval changes in government which may restrict investment for the period would be subject to review were there to be opportunities and have an adverse effect on economic any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
Changes in legal, regulatory and accounting policies can also affect the value of the Companys investments.
The Company has conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the The lower volumes of trading in certain securities of requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings emerging markets may result in lack of liquidity and price Accounts.
The directors intend that the Company will volatility.
In addition, currency fluctuations and high continue to conduct its affairs in this manner.
interest rates may affect the value of the Companys investments and the income derived therefrom.
Investment Objective and Policy The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital The Board continually monitors the investment policy of growth through investment in the Far East.
The Companys the Company, taking account of stockmarket factors, and benchmark is the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index.
reviews the Companys performance compared to its Investments are made in stock markets in the region with the benchmark index and peer group.
Further details on other exception of Japan and Australasia, principally in large risks relating to the Companys investment activities, companies.
including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks, are provided in note 20 to the financial statements.
Details of the Company's investment policy and strategy are provided in the Investment Objective and Policy section on Gearing risk: The Company currently utilises gearing in the page 3. form of US$80 million Loan Notes see note 11 to the financial statements.
Gearing has the effect of exacerbating market falls and gains.
In order to manage the Review of Performance level of gearing, the Board has set a maximum gearing ratio An outline of the performance, market background, of 20%.
investment activity and portfolio strategy during the year under review, as well as the investment outlook, is provided Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Review.
regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
Serious breaches of regulations, such as section 842 of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 21 Directors Report continued the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, the UKLA has one vote and, on a poll, every ordinary shareholder Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a present in person has one vote for each share held and a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
proxy has one vote for every share represented.
The Audit Committee monitors compliance with regulations by reviewing internal control reports from the There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer Manager.
of the Company's shares and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which may result in Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at restriction on the transfer of shares or the voting rights.
a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Board monitors the discount level of the Companys shares and The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of has in place a buyback mechanism whereby the Manager is Directors, amendments of the articles of association and authorised to buy back shares within certain limits.
powers to issue or buy back Company's shares are contained in the articles of association of the Company and the Monitoring Performance Key Performance Companies Acts 1985 and 2006.
There are no agreements Indicators which the Company is party to that might affects its control At each Board meeting, the directors consider a number of following a takeover bid: and there are no agreements performance measures to assess the Companys success in between the Company and its directors concerning achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators compensation for loss of office.
KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: Dividends Net asset value total return The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 1.6p per Share price total return ordinary share 2007 1.1p be paid on 19 December 2008 Performance attribution to shareholders on the register on 21 November 2008.
Discount to net asset value Directors A record of these measures is disclosed on page 4.
Performance is measured against the Companys benchmark, Details of the current directors of the Company are shown the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index and the Board on pages 18 to 20. also considers peer group comparative performance.
In accordance with the corporate governance procedures Socially Responsible Investment Policy endorsed by the Board, all directors who have attained more than nine years service or are aged over 70 years will retire Details of the Companys Socially Responsible Investment from the Board and submit themselves for re-election on an policy are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Messrs Cassidy, Frame, Gairns, Tyrie and Watt will retire and be proposed for re-election at the annual Share Capital general meeting.
During the year ended 31 August 2008, the Company purchased for cancellation 6,122,500 ordinary shares at The directors interests in the shares of the Company are prices ranging from 131.75p to 164.25p per share at a shown in Table 1. discount to the prevailing net asset value.
The total consideration for these purchases was 9.5 million inclusive 31 August 2008 1 September 2007 of stamp duty.
There have been no buybacks since the year end.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Tony Cassidy 9,538 9,538 At 31 August 2008 the Company capital structure consisted Frank Frame 8,500 8,500 of 230,954,375 ordinary shares of 20p each 2007- David Gairns 237,076,875 ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a Tony Lowrie right to receive dividends which are declared from time to time by an ordinary resolution of the Company up to the Allan McKenzie amount recommended by the Board and to receive any Peter Tyrie 11,000 11,000 interim dividends which the Company may resolve to pay.
A A Iain Watt 17,789 17,789 On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Table 1 Directors and their interests in the Company A Company, the surplus assets will be paid to ordinary of which 625 2007 625 Ordinary shares are held in trust shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person, or by proxy, 22 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc The Company has not been notified of any subsequent relevant audit information and to establish that the changes in directors interests.
None of the directors had any Companys auditors are aware of that information.
non-beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company.
No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in Annual General Meeting which any of the directors was materially interested.
No Among the resolutions being put at the annual general director had a service contract with the Company.
meeting of the Company to be held on 17 December 2008, the following resolutions will be proposed: Directors Liability Insurance The Company maintains insurance in respect of directors i Section 80 authority to allot shares and officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of Resolution 11, which is an ordinary resolution, will, if the Company.
approved, give the directors a general authority to allot new securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 15,396,958, representing approximately 33.33 per Substantial Share Interests cent.
of the total ordinary share capital of the Company At 16 October 2008, the substantial interests in the ordinary in issue as at the date of this Directors Report such share capital which had been notified to the Company during authority to expire on 28 February 2010 or, if earlier, at the period are shown in Table 2. the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or No of extended by the Company in general meeting.
Ordinary Holder shares % ii Limited disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions Lazard Freres Asset 18,551,677 8.0 As noted above, resolution 11 will, if approved, give the Management directors a general authority to allot securities up to an City of London Investment 12,229,650 5.3 aggregate nominal amount of 15,396,958.
Resolution Management 12, which is a special resolution, will, if approved, give Asset Value Investors 12,006,470 5.2 the directors power to allot unissued ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of Derbyshire County Council 12,000,000 5.2 2,309,544, being 5% of the current issued share capital Rensburg Sheppards 9,436,773 4.1 of the Company, for cash other than to existing Investment Management shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
A maximum of Advance Developing Markets 7,042,500 3.0 15,396,958 of unissued ordinary share capital may also Table 2 Substantial share interests be allotted for cash, pursuant to a rights issue made pro rata to shareholders in the future.
Ordinary shares would Payments Policy only be issued for cash pursuant to a rights issue at a price not less than the net asset value per share.
This It is the Companys policy to settle all investment authority will expire on 28 February 2010 or, if earlier, at transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the relevant markets in which it operates.
All other expenses the Company unless previously revoked, varied or are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
extended by the Company in general meeting.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
The directors consider that the powers proposed to be granted by the above resolutions are necessary to Auditors provide flexibility to issue shares should they deem it to The Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The continue in office, and resolutions will be proposed at the directors do not have any intention of exercising such forthcoming annual general meeting to re-appoint them, and powers at present.
to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Nonaudit fees of 3,500 were paid to the auditors during the iii Purchase of the Companys own ordinary shares period, which related to their review of the interim report Resolution 13, which is a special resolution, will be and regulatory reporting.
The directors who held office at proposed to authorise the Company to make market the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so purchases of its own shares.
The maximum number of far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to the Company as at the date of the passing of the have taken as a director to make himself aware of any resolution approximately 34.6 million ordinary shares.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 23 Directors Report continued The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be 20p.
The maximum price for an ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an amount being not more than the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid relating to an ordinary share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would enhance the net asset value per share and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Shares so repurchased will be cancelled.
This authority will expire on 28 February 2010 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
Recommendation The directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings totalling 46,827 ordinary shares, and representing 0.02% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
By order of the Board, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Secretary Edinburgh, 16 October 2008 24 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
