Marketing Strategy of investment products.
He is supported by a team of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc contributes to the marketing marketing professionals.
programme run by the Aberdeen Group AAM on behalf of a number of investment trusts under its management.
Under this agreement the Companys contribution is matched by Internet AAM.
This contribution is reviewed annually.
The AAM Investment Trust website contains details of closed funds and investment companies managed or advised by the The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively Aberdeen Group.
with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc has its own dedicated website at: rating of the Companys shares.
This allows web users to access information on the Companys share price performance, These aims can be met in several ways: capital structure, stock exchange announcements and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for Investor relations programme improvement.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist the month institutional investors and prospects receive a Company to increase and maintain its Shareholder base, Managers report on your Company that includes detailed improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
The Company is committed to the close monitoring of the Group schemes Programme.
The Marketing Director provides a written AAM runs a group Share Plan and ISA.
These schemes allow summary quarterly to the Board.
investment free of dealing costs and, with only nominal exit charges, have proved popular with private investors.
If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager or performance, please telephone AAMs Investor Services Direct response advertising Department on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users AAM advertises the packaged product availability of the may e-mail AAM at inv.
com or write Company in the specialist financial press.
to AAM at Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP Direct mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is distributed free of charge.
Public relations AAM undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
Shareholder services AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Group Head of Marketing who has extensive experience in the marketing and communications Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 47 How to Invest in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of How to Invest capital gains tax.
Investors can buy and sell shares in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through a ISA Transfer lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Alternatively shares can be bought directly through us which can be invested in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc while Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children and Aberdeens retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an Investment Note Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the number of investment companies under its management future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause including Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc.
Anyone can invest in the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well the Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and as rise and investors may not get back the amount they family friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on originally invested.
the initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently market makers spread.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax common with other schemes of this type, all investments are treatment of ISAs, may be changed by future legislation.
Trust Information Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan If investors would like details of Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in or information on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan, ISA or ISA Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc can be purchased.
There are no Transfers please telephone 0500 00 00 40 or write to dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP or e-mail at occasions, be a significant amount.
Details are also available on start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per www.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Keeping you Informed Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by The Companys share prices appears daily in the Financial instructing Aberdeen in writing at any time.
In common with Times and Daily Telegraph.
Investors can also obtain the other schemes of this type, all investments are held in latest share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 4608. nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights All calls cost 60p per minute.
For internet users, detailed data on Edinburgh Dragon Trust Stocks and Shares ISA plc, including price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is available on the Companys website An investment of up to 7,200 in Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website can be made in the tax year 2008 2009. www.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 40 for trust information.
There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a Equiniti also have a website www.
co. uk which significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp includes a page entitled Shareholder Services, which gives Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 Shareholders an insight into their shareholding.
The annual ISA management charge is 24 VAT, also has information about how to register a change of name calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under 48 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc and what to do if you have lost your share certificate.
For information concerning your shareholding, please contact: Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0871 384 2499 Fax: 0871 384 2100 Shareview enquiry line: 0871 384 2020 Textel hard of hearing line: 0871 384 2255 Website: www.
co. uk Calls to these numbers will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other telephony providers costs may vary Literature Request Service For literature and application forms for the Managers investment trust products, please contact: Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 Email: aam@lit-request.
com For information on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan and ISA, please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration Block C, Western House Lynchwood Business Park Peterborough, PE2 6BP Telephone 0500 00 00 40 The above information has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
