Review Investment Portfolio Analysis In the year to 30 September 2008, Electras net asset value per share fell from 2,001p per share at the beginning of the period to 1,801p per share at 30 September 2008, a decline of 10%.
Electras performance in terms of net asset value movement must be viewed against the background of falling stock markets and other negative factors.
In the year under review, the FTSE All-Share Index fell by more than 25% and significant problems A key part of our present strategy emerged in the financial system which affected many banks and other institutions.
is, therefore, to protect the existing Considering these circumstances Electras performance was relatively good.
This portfolio from the current financial performance resulted from the fact that the significant reductions in value recognised turbulence in order to ensure that in respect of the retained portfolio were substantially offset by gains either realised these value creating opportunities on the sale of investments or recognised in relation to specific events.
The reduction are maximised when conditions in value of the retained portfolio mainly reflected lower multiples of comparable improve.
companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange.
Apart from the reduction in value of investments retained at the end of the year, the turbulent conditions in the financial markets impacted other aspects of Electras investment activities.
These effects primarily related to the rate of new investment and the rate of realisations.
New investment fell significantly from the previous year with 114 million invested compared to 322 million, and the number of realisations fell sharply with only two realisations being completed in the year compared to 11 in 2007.
Year ended 30 September 2008 2007 2006 m m m Opening portfolio 620 380 353 Investments 114 322 131 Realisations 192 303 257 Net capital decrease increase 37 221 153 Closing portfolio 505 620 380 Excludes accrued income on the investment portfolio.
Prospects The crises in the financial markets which have prevailed throughout the past year have made it a difficult period in which to make tangible progress.
As previously mentioned, the level of additions to and realisations from the investment portfolio has reduced significantly as a result of the uncertainties of the past year, so that changes to the composition of the portfolio have been well below those experienced in recent years.
However, the underlying trading performance of the retained portfolio has continued to be sound, with many individual investments performing both ahead of the previous year and in line with or above budget for the current year.
This augurs well for future value creation when markets return to more stable conditions.
A key part of our present strategy is, therefore, to protect the existing portfolio from the current financial turbulence in order to ensure that these value creating opportunities are maximised when conditions improve.
Looking forward, it is likely that current market conditions will give rise to exceptional buying opportunities as potential vendors seek to raise cash to overcome the difficulties caused by the reductions in available credit.
With a high level of liquid resources, Electra is in a good position to take advantage of these opportunities which will be taken to augment the existing portfolio and further enhance value growth in the future.
12 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
