Investment Portfolio Review Investments In the year to 30 September 2008 investments totalled 114 million compared to 322 million in the previous year.
This significant fall in investment rate reflected the change in conditions in the private equity market which prevailed throughout the year.
Deal flow has remained strong and Electra has continued to bid on a variety of potential transactions at pricing levels considered to be realistic given the change in market conditions.
In almost every transaction however, there were one or two offers at much higher levels with the result that only one new unlisted investment was added to the portfolio during the year.
We continue to believe that current conditions demand the exercise of caution in acquiring new investments.
Going forward we believe that prices will eventually adjust to more appropriate levels reflecting the uncertainties in future profitability and the reduced availability of lending from the banking sector.
Company Activity Cost m New Investment Labco Medical diagnostics 24 London & Stamford Property Property investment 20 Funds MBO investments 46 Other InvestmentsVarious 24 114 The investment of 114 million included 68 million in direct investments and This significant fall in 46 million drawn down under commitments to third party funds.
The most significant investment rate reflected direct investments included 24 million in Labco and 20 million in London & the change in conditions in Stamford Property.
In addition to these investments, and in accordance with the policy the private equity market to support the existing portfolio, Electra invested a further 7.9 million in SAV Credit which prevailed throughout to facilitate the purchase of the Marbles credit card portfolio from HSBC and invested the year.
a further 7.5 million in Baxi as part of a 40 million additional financing for the company.
Labco is one of the top three participants in the European medical diagnostics market and the leading company in the 7 billion clinical laboratory blood testing market.
With the largest network of private clinical laboratories in Europe, the group has some 3,000 employees and over 200 biologists in 153 laboratories.
The investment made by Electra to support a significant refinancing of Labco is thought to be attractive in view of the fact that healthcare spending is not directly related to consumer GDP growth and the company has many further consolidation opportunities.
London & Stamford Property is an AIM listed company set up to take advantage of opportunities in the property investment market.
Electra invested 20 million as part of a 285 million capital raising to back a management team who on two previous investments have made excellent returns for Electra.
In another transaction, Forthpanel acquired an equity interest in Promontoria in exchange for all its existing properties.
In this complex transaction Electra disposed of its interests in Deutsche Woolworth and Forthpanel acquired an equity investment in Promontoria with an initial value of 26 million.
Promontoria itself acquired 110 freehold properties for a total consideration of 385 million, all of which were leased to Deutsche Woolworth at a yield in excess of 10%.
Since the deal was completed the underlying operations of Deutsche Woolworth have been significantly restructured.
In the event that this restructuring is successful, Promontoria will benefit from an option under which it can acquire 75% of Deutsche Woolworth for a nominal consideration.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 Review Investment Portfolio Analysis Investment Portfolio Review Review Realisations The total proceeds realised from the investment portfolio during the year amounted to 192 million.
This compares to a valuation of the investment portfolio at the beginning of the year of 620 million.
The proceeds thus represented some 31% of the opening value of the investment portfolio.
While the proceeds were well down on the previous year it still represented a more than satisfactory result in view of the financial crisis which persisted throughout the financial year.
Realisations in the private equity market have generally been at a much reduced level primarily as a result of the lack of availability of adequate bank finance.
Largest Investment Realisations Company Valuation at 30 September 2007 Proceeds from Disposal m m Freightliner 10 85 Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad 35 36 Vasanta Kingfield Heath 21 22 66 143 Valuation and proceeds in respect of partial disposal The total proceeds realised The most significant realisation during the year was that of Freightliner which from the investment portfolio was sold in July 2008 for an amount which gave rise to proceeds to Electra of during the year amounted to 85 million.
Electra originally invested 2.5 million in the management buy-out of 192 million.
This compares to Freightliner in May 1996, a transaction which involved total financing of a valuation of the investment 22 million.
At the time of purchase Freightliner had a turnover of 90 million and portfolio at the beginning of was making pre-tax losses of 22 million.
Following purchase the company greatly the year of 620 million.
improved service reliability, expanded into heavy load, changed the delivery systems and developed internationally.
By 2007 turnover had increased to 244 million and the company was recording an EBITDA in excess of 31 million.
Additionally in the 12 years of ownership, the company invested circa 350 million in new equipment.
These developments enabled Freightliner to be sold to Arcapita for a debt free price in excess of 250 million.
In October 2007 Electra also completed the sale of the investment in the Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad DM&E, receiving proceeds of 36 million.
This sale was largely anticipated in the 2007 financial year so that the uplift in the current year was minimal.
The sale of DM&E represented an excellent result for an investment held for a period in excess of 20 years.
The further contingent consideration now seems unlikely as the Powder River Basin project has been postponed in view of the crisis in the US financial markets.
Other disposals included partial realisations of Vasanta, previously called Kingfield Heath, 21.5 million and Nuaire 12 million which were sold to institutional investors in Electra Partners Club 2007.
Realisations from private equity funds amounted to 13 million, a significant reduction from the previous year when such proceeds amounted to 49 million.
14 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Performance Over the year to 30 September 2008 the investment portfolio declined in value by 37 million or 6%.
The performance was made up of two elements, firstly gains realised on the sale of investments and secondly the changes in value of the investments retained at the end of the year.
Realised gains for the year, including the increase in value of Forthpanel, amounted to 97 million while the net reduction in value of the investment portfolio remaining at 30 September 2008 amounted to The performance was made 134 million, a reduction in the investments of 26%.
This compared to the decline up of two elements, firstly in the FTSE All-Share Index over the period of 25%.
Of the decline in value of the gains realised on the sale of portfolio, 39 million was due to a reduction in listed prices, where investments had investments and secondly a market listing, and the balance of 95 million related to a decline in the value of the changes in value of the the unlisted portfolio.
Only one unlisted investment, Allflex, was written up during investments retained at the the year in view of continued good progress, while most of the remaining investments end of the year.
were written down primarily to reflect the fall in multiples of comparable companies.
Largest Valuation Changes Company Valuation at Valuation 30 September 2008 Decrease m m % Premier Asset Management 10 22 68 Moser Baer 13 15 54 Baxi 11 12 77 Vasanta Kingfield Heath 29 11 18 Electra Partners LLP 4 December 2008 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 Review Investment Portfolio Review
