Schedule of Largest Investments valued over 10 million Fair Value Net Fair Value Cost of of holding at purchases Performance of holding at holding at 30 Sept 2007 sales in year 30 Sept 2008 30 Sept 2008 Company 000 000 000 000 000 ALLFLEX HOLDINGS 41,190 412 4,851 45,629 40,778 Animal identification tags VASANTA KINGFIELD HEATH 62,532 22,179 11,156 29,197 40,530 Stationery supplier FORTHPANEL 6,541 1,885 19,257 27,683 16,481 Property holding company LABCO 23,607 71 23,536 23,607 Medical diagnostics NUAIRE 33,770 11,250 171 22,691 23,405 Ventilation systems manufacturer LIL-LETS GROUP 26,036 4,624 21,412 21,412 Feminine hygiene products LONDON & STAMFORD PROPERTY 19,800 19,800 19,800 Property holding company CANDOVER INVESTMENTS 19,836 1,187 18,649 3,751 Private equity investment CAPITAL SAFETY GROUP 17,763 178 1,450 16,135 17,586 Specialist safety equipment VOLUTION VENT-AXIA 16,000 160 15,840 15,840 Fan manufacturer DINAMIA SPAI N 19,947 6,749 13,198 11,274 Private equity investment MOSER BAER INDIA 28,000 15,028 12,972 1,900 Manufacturer of photovoltaic cells AMTICO 20,507 225 7,593 12,689 22,275 Luxury flooring manufacturer BAXI HOLDINGS 15,332 7,502 11,660 11,174 22,454 Heating products PREMIER ASSET MANAGEMENT 33,108 331 22,448 10,329 32,642 Investment management 340,562 13,435 53,063 300,934 313,735 The investments shown above represent 75% of the Groups direct investments at 30 September 2008 as shown on page 11.
Excludes floating rate notes and accrued income.
19 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Review Large Private Equity Investments Schedule of Largest Investments Reports Report of the Directors To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2008 and their Report on its affairs.
Investment Trust Status The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
HM Revenue and Customs has approved the Company as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the accounting period to 30 September 2007.
In accordance with the self-assessment of Corporation Tax this approval is based upon the computations submitted by the Company and is subject to the findings of any enquiries that HM Revenue and Customs may make.
The Directors are of the opinion that since that date the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an investment trust under that section.
Business Review Objective and investment policy The Objective and Investment Policy of the Company are set out on page 4.
Current and future development A review of the main features of the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Portfolio Analysis and Investment Portfolio Review.
The Board regularly reviews the development and strategic direction of the Company, a process which last culminated in the approval by the Companys shareholders of the new investment strategy in October 2006.
The Board believes this investment strategy remains effective in the light of prevailing market conditions.
The Boards main focus continues to be on the Companys long-term investment return.
Performance A detailed review of performance during the year is contained in the Investment Portfolio Analysis and Investment Portfolio Review.
A number of performance measures are considered by the Board and the Manager in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company are established industry measures and are as follows: Return on equity over the long term The movement in net asset value per ordinary share The movement in share price Details of the KPIs are shown on pages 2, 3 and 5.
Risk management As the Company is focused on investment in private equity assets, Electra Partners aims to limit the risk attaching to the portfolio as a whole by careful selection of investments and by the spread of holdings in terms of age, geographic split and investment portfolio composition in accordance with the Companys Objectives and Investment Policy.
The breakdown of the portfolio is shown on pages 3, 8 and 9.
The principal risks facing the Company include Market Price Risk, Credit Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Liquidity Risk, and Foreign Currency Risk as further detailed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Accounts.
20 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 In addition the Company is also focused on the following risks: Macroeconomic risks The performance of the Companys underlying investment portfolio is principally influenced by a combination of economic growth, the availability of appropriately priced debt finance, interest rates and the number of active trade and financial buyers.
All of these factors have an impact on the Companys ability to invest and on the Companys ability to exit from its underlying portfolio or on the levels of profitability achieved on exit.
Long-term strategic risk The Company is subject to the risk that its long-term strategy and its level of performance fails to meet the expectations of its shareholders.
The Board monitors the level of discount of the net asset value to share price and considers the most effective methodologies to keep this at a minimum including the share buy-back policy.
The Company has, in the last year, repurchased shares within parameters set by the Board and subject to shareholder authority.
In addition the Board regularly reviews the Objectives and Investment Policy in light of prevailing investor sentiment to ensure the Company remains attractive to its shareholders.
Government policy and regulation risk The Company carries on business as an investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Continuation of approval by HM Revenue and Customs is subject to the Company conducting its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continual approval as an investment trust.
Anticipated and actual changes in government policy and treatment of investment trusts are closely monitored, as are other changes which could affect the Companys business or financial position.
Electra Partners is an authorised person under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and regulated by the FSA.
Changes to the regulatory framework under which Electra Partners operates are closely monitored by Electra Partners and reported upon as necessary by Electra Partners to the Board.
Investment risks The Company operates in a very competitive market.
Changes in the number of market participants, the availability of funds within the market, the pricing of assets, or in the ability of Electra Partners to access deals could have a significant effect on the Companys competitive position and on the sustainability of returns.
In order to source and execute good quality investments the Company is primarily dependent on Electra Partners having the ability to attract and retain executives with the requisite investment experience and whose compensation is in line with the Companys objectives.
Once invested, the performance of the Companys portfolio is dependent upon a range of factors.
These include but are not limited to i the quality of the initial investment decision: ii the ability of the portfolio company to execute successfully its business strategy: and iii actual outcomes against the key assumptions underlying the portfolio companys financial projections.
Any one of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of a portfolio company and upon the Companys ability to make a profitable exit from the investment within the desired timeframe.
A rigorous process is put in place by Electra Partners for managing the relationship with each investee company.
This includes regular asset reviews and, in many cases, board representation by one of Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews both the performance of Electra Partners and its incentive arrangements on a regular basis to ensure that both are appropriate to the objectives of the Company.
Operational risk The Companys investment management, custody of assets and all administrative systems are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners.
Therefore the Company is exposed to a range of operational risks at Electra Partners which might arise from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external factors affecting these.
These include operational events such as human resources risks, legal and regulatory risks, information technology systems failures, business disruption and shortcomings in internal controls.
21 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Reports Report of the Directors Reports The Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives, as further detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 31.
Management Arrangements EP Private Equity Limited, a subsidiary of Electra Partners Group Limited, was the Manager of the Company from 1-11 October 2006.
On 12 October 2006 Electra Partners was appointed as the Manager following shareholders approval of new management arrangements.
The new management agreement dated 12 October 2006 runs for an initial three year period with a 12 month rolling notice period.
Neither party may serve notice to terminate during the first two years of the agreement.
Electra may terminate the new management agreement on 12 months notice, expiring at any time after the initial two year period.
After three years, it has the right to terminate on a shorter notice period.
Whatever notice period is worked, Electra Partners will be entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
Electra Partners may also terminate the new management agreement on 12 months notice, after the initial two year period.
If Electra Partners terminates the new management agreement at any time after the initial three year period, Electra may pay compensation in lieu of any part of the notice period but Electra Partners is not entitled to any additional compensation.
Electra Partners receives a priority profit share of 1.5% on the gross value of the Companys investment portfolio including cash but excluding any amounts committed to funds established and managed by Electra Partners.
During the year the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Electra Partners and details of these schemes are contained in Note 21 of the Notes to the Accounts.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Board reviews the activities of Electra Partners on an ongoing basis and believes the continuing appointment of Electra Partners on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Electra Partners is responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company has subscribed.
Electra Partners manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by Directors and as specified in limited partnership and in management and investment guideline agreements.
Socially Responsible Investment Electra believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in Electra Partners view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Electra recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
It favours investing in companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
Electra Partners does not screen out companies from its investment universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or ethical performance.
Instead, it adopts a positive engagement approach whereby, if it is appropriate, it discusses these issues with the management of the companies in which it invests.
The information gathered during these meetings is used both to assist Electra Partners investment decisions and also to encourage investee company management to improve procedures and attitudes.
Electra Partners strongly believes that this is the most effective way to improve the CSR policies of the businesses in which it invests and the Board endorses this view.
Results A revenue loss attributable to shareholders of 5.058 million 2007: profit of 9.279 million was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
No dividend is proposed in respect of the year ended 30 September 2008 year ended 30 September 2007 25p per share.
22 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Authority to Make Market Purchases of Shares As at 30 September 2008, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to a further 4,485,693 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2009 Annual General Meeting when a Special Resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
During the year the Company made the following purchases of its own shares in the market under authority granted by shareholders at a total cost of 26.492 million: % of Issued Capital Shares Purchased for Cancellation Date of Purchase at Date of Purchase Price per share 50,000 23 November 2007 0.13% 1,638p 100,000 27 November 2007 0.27% 1,608p 60,000 27 November 2007 0.16% 1,608p 200,000 5 December 2007 0.54% 1,640p 92,000 6 December 2007 0.25% 1,640p 55,000 14 December 2007 0.15% 1,595p 100,000 22 January 2008 0.27% 1,550p 1,000,000 17 March 2008 2.73% 1,570p The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Multi-Currency Loan Facility At 30 September 2008 borrowings under the 250 million 2007: 250 million multi-currency facility amounted to 158,870,000 2007: 160,699,000.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 70 and 71.
Sir Brian Williamson, Mr RA Armstrong, Ms C Bowe, Mr MEDA Walton, Ms L Webber and Mr JP Williams served as Directors throughout the year ended 30 September 2008.
Professor Sir George Bain and Lord King of Bridgwater both retired as Directors at the Annual General Meeting held on 6 February 2008.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year.
In accordance with either the Companys Articles of Association or the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006, Mr RA Armstrong, Mr JP Williams and Sir Brian Williamson will all retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2009 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors including connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Save as disclosed, no Director had any notifiable interest in the securities of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company.
There have been no changes in the interests of any of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company between 1 October 2008 and 4 December 2008.
30 September 1 October 2008 2007 Shares Shares Sir Brian Williamson 30,000 RA Armstrong 23,723 23,723 C Bowe 1,129 1,129 MEDA Walton 16,016 54,979 L Webber 1,500 1,500 JP Williams 10,000 10,000 23 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Reports Report of the Directors Reports Substantial Interests The Company has received the following notifications of interests of 3% or more in the voting rights attached to the Companys ordinary shares: Voting Rights Notified Percentage of Voting Rights Date of Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Notification No No % % Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 6.03.07 1,780,564 5.04 Legal & General Group PLC 5.10.07 1,503,723 4.26 Bear, Stearns International Trading Limited 18.12.07 1,441,394 4.08 Prudential Plc group of companies 25.01.08 2,580,081 7.30 Asset Value Investors Limited as discretionary manager 19.09.08 2,574,683 7.29 British Empire Securities and General Trust PLC 9.10.08 1,440,112 4.08 HBOS plc 20.10.08 67,208 1,633,324 0.19 4.62 Percentage shown as a percentage of 35,338,687 ordinary shares, being the number of shares in issue at the latest practicable date before the publication of this Directors Report.
Charitable and Political Donations During the year the Group made no charitable or political donations 2007: nil.
Audit Information Each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Additional Information for Shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special resolution on 1 March 2000 and amended by special resolution on 6 February 2008 the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Share capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
24 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every complete 25p in nominal amount of the shares of which he is the holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the shares.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The person or any one of such persons so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Register of Members of the Company.
The Directors may, at any time after the allotment of any share, but before any person has been entered in the Register of Members as the holder, recognise a renunciation by the allottee in favour of some other person and may accord to any allottee of a share a right to effect such renunciation upon and subject to such terms and conditions as the Directors may think fit to impose.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
25 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Reports Report of the Directors Reports The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than fifteen in number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of Directors.
At each Annual General Meeting, any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current calendar year shall retire by rotation and such further Directors if any shall retire by rotation as would bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the date of the notice of the meeting if their number is not a multiple of three, the number shall be the number nearest to but not greater than one-third.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall include any Director who wishes to retire and not offer himself for re-election.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office since their last re-election or in the case of those who were appointed or re-elected on the same date, shall be determined by lot.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election, but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns in writing or offers to resign in writing and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iii he is prohibited by law from being a Director: iv he is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: or v notice is served upon him in writing by all his co-Directors.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The aggregate amount remaining undischarged of all money borrowed by the Company or its subsidiaries may not, without the prior sanction of an ordinary resolution, exceed the aggregate of i the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the share capital of the Company or ii the total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to certain adjustments.
26 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but no dividend shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such currency as the Directors may determine.
The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
Significant agreements: Change of control If there is a no fault termination by the Company of the Management Agreement dated 12 October 2006 between the Company and Electra Partners within 24 months of a change of effective control of the Company, 100% of the carried interest which has accrued as at the date of termination will be payable to the members of Electra Partners over three years and any future additional carry on existing investments will vest at 80% and will be paid on the realisation of investments when it becomes due in the ordinary course.
Directors Conflicts of Interest At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in February 2008, shareholders approved the adoption of new Articles of Association conferring power on the Directors to authorise matters which would or might otherwise constitute or give rise to a breach of a Directors duty under the Companies Act 2006 in respect of Directors Conflicts of Interest.
To date the Board has met once to consider conflicts of interest when it was agreed that none of the Directors had an actual conflict of interest.
At the same Board Meeting it was further agreed that the Remuneration and Nomination Committee would in future be responsible for considering and reviewing conflicts of interest and that any Director or Directors with a potential conflict would be excluded from such a review.
After consideration, if required, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee would subsequently make a recommendation to the Board of Directors.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee have been amended accordingly.
Creditor Payment Policy The Company agrees the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each agreement.
Suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and the Company abides by the terms of payment.
At 30 September 2008 the Company had no outstanding Trade Creditors 2007: nil.
Going Concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts as the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Tuesday 3 February 2009.
In addition to the ordinary business the following special business will be considered: 27 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Reports Report of the Directors Reports Authority to purchase own shares Resolution 8 A special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,297,269 of the Companys ordinary shares or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is consistent with the changes approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 October 2006 and is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolution 8.
By order of the Board of Directors PJ Dyke, Secretary, Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB 4 December 2008 28 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008
