Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting the annual report of the Company and its subsidiaries to the shareholders, together with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings has remained housebuilding in the UK.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in this directors report, which commences on page 6 and which provides a full review of the Groups performance and prospects.
Information on the risks to which the performance of the business is subject, including key social, environmental and ethical risks, is also provided in the business review on page 16.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the Board and controls and mitigation processes put in place as explained in the report on corporate governance.
Key financial performance indicators include pre tax profit, earnings per share, operating margin, return on capital employed, consented and strategic land bank, volume of legal completions and net assets.
Other key performance indicators are also monitored including those relating to health and safety, customer satisfaction and corporate social responsibility.
These are set out in the business review.
Results and dividends The Group made a loss after taxation of 59.0 million 2007: 86.9 million profit after tax.
An interim dividend of 5.0p 2007: 17.5p net per share was paid on 21 November 2008.
The Board does not propose that a final dividend be paid 2007: 17.5p.
On this basis, the total dividend for 2008 is 5.0p 2007: 35.0p.
Directors Details of the directors are shown on page 20.
Mr Timothy Melville-Ross retired as a director on 2 July 2008.
Details of directors emoluments, pension rights, service contracts and directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 30 to 38.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, two directors, Mr John Anthony Warren and Mr Neil Cooper will retire at the Annual General Meeting, to be held on Thursday 7 May 2009, and being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Mr Alastair David Lyons, appointed on 1 October 2008, also offers himself for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Powers of the directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The directors have been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares and these powers may be exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
The rules in relation to the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Share capital At the date of this report the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 50 pence.
As at 6 March 2009, 120,994,753 ordinary shares of 50 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
In particular, subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, to appoint corporate representatives.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting, including the deadlines for voting, at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares of the Company, including those held by the Companys share schemes, carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights on their behalf at any general meeting.
The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
There are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 21 Report of the directors continued Substantial shareholdings At 6 March 2009, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: Ordinary shares of 50p each % direct % indirect Total number of % of voting rights holding holding shares held of the issued share capital Prudential 13.85 0.00 16,767,144 13.85 Schroders 0.00 13.68 16,548,153 13.68 Standard Life Investments 5.89 1.95 9,484,423 7.84 Sanderson Asset Management 6.28 0.00 7,617,000 6.28 Threadneedle 0.09 5.01 6,166,291 5.10 Fidelity 0.00 5.01 6,061,200 5.01 Legal & General Group 3.99 0.00 4,838,014 3.99 Lloyds TSB Group 0.00 3.99 4,828,912 3.99 Directors indemnities As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Employees The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of sex, sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where requirements may be adequately covered by these persons and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to ensure they are equipped to undertake the tasks for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity for career development equally and without discrimination.
Employees receive regular training in health, safety and environmental matters.
Information about the Groups performance and other matters is provided regularly by a news magazine, electronic and notice board bulletins, by consultations at staff meetings and through elected employee representatives.
The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, a Share Option Plan, an Executive Share Option Scheme expired and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
See note 25 to the accounts for details of the option schemes.
Corporate social responsibility The Group, in carrying out its business activities, is pursuing its commitment to sustainable development and transparent corporate conduct in social and ethical matters, corporate governance, health and safety and the environment.
The Group's corporate social responsibility policy commitments focus on sustainable development, the environment, health and safety, research and development, human resources, an ethical code of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
The Group Executive Committee co-ordinates developments in this area and an established process of risk identification and management is embedded in all activities, regardless of whether risk is classed as strategic, operational, financial, or compliance-related, legal, environmental, social or connected to reputation.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Committee monitors and maintains the high health and safety and environmental standards expected from offices and sites.
The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and takes regular account of the significance of sustainability, environmental, social and ethical matters through consideration of relevant information and data in Board reports and other documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility rests with the Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
Further details of risks and policies and procedures for their management are included in the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility report dated 6 March 2009, which includes key targets and performance data.
A copy of the report is available on the Groups website www.
co. uk plc and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Donations The Group made charitable donations in the year amounting to 1,350 2007: 1,850.
No political donations were made in either year by the Group or Company.
Suppliers The Groups payment policy in respect of all suppliers is to settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders.
Creditor days relating to trade creditors at the year end in respect of goods and services supplied in the normal course of trade amounted to 30 days 2007: 23 days.
The calculation excludes land purchase creditors.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company was nil throughout 2007 and 2008.
22 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Report of the directors continued Significant agreements The Group is a party to a syndicated facility agreement with its relationship banking group relating to the provision of a 220 million revolving loan facility, reducing to 160 million over its life.
In the event of a change of control, provisions in the agreement would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had a borrowing position of 120 million under these arrangements.
All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Under these provisions, a change of control would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions as required.
There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
Annual General Meeting Notice of the 2009 Annual General Meeting to be held on Thursday 7 May 2009 is set out on pages 69 to 71.
Members wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register their voting instructions via the internet by going to www.
The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act received Royal Assent in November 2006 and represents a major reform of UK companies legislation.
Many provisions of the 2006 Act are already in force with further provisions scheduled to be implemented in October 2009.
The Board therefore proposes that, at this years Annual General Meeting, the Company amend its Articles of Association the Articles to reflect changes in the law which have or will come into force as a result of the 2006 Act relating to the requirement to have an authorised share capital and the length of notice required to convene general meetings.
The Board is also proposing to remove the Companys objects clause and all other provisions of its Memorandum of Association which, by virtue of the 2006 Act, would be treated as forming part of the Articles with effect from 1 October 2009.
Over the coming year, the Company will continue to review the Articles, in particular in relation to any further changes which are necessary or desirable following the full implementation of the 2006 Act and any additional changes which may be required pursuant to the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations currently expected in August 2009.
Any further proposed amendments will be put to shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The differences between the current and the amended Articles are summarised in the explanatory notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders at a general meeting, unless expressly specified to the contrary therein.
In addition, it is proposed that a general meeting that is not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required to reflect the proposed implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive, which will increase the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Given current trading conditions within the UK housing market, the Board considers it inappropriate to operate the existing cash bonus scheme during 2009.
Following a review of senior management incentivisation, the Board proposes to introduce a bonus replacement share plan to operate only in 2009 as a replacement for the cash bonus scheme, providing incentive for outperformance by senior management against defined performance conditions based around share price increases clearly aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee will retain discretion over the vesting of awards, having regard to the circumstances in which performance conditions are achieved.
As executive directors will participate and it is proposed that any vesting of awards be satisfied through the issue of new shares, approval to the Boards proposal will be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A consultation with major shareholders provided helpful and positive feedback and had a supportive outcome.
At a meeting on 6 March 2009, the Board resolved that a resolution be submitted to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting proposing the renewal of the authority to enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
At the present time, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority to purchase any of the shares of the Company, but consider that it is appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors believe that all the resolutions proposed to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own shares in the Company.
Auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, resolutions concerning their re-appointment and remuneration will be placed before the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer Company Secretary 6 March 2009 Bovis Homes Group PLC 23
