20 Report of the directors Directors and officers 5 2 3 6 7 1 4 8 1.
Malcolm Robert Harris 60 BA Hons ACA, Chief Executive Non-executive Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman Appointed Chief Executive in July 2008, Appointed non-executive Deputy Appointed an independent nonAppointed non-executive Chairman in David was Group Managing Director Chairman and Senior Independent executive director in 2006, John is also July 2008 Malcolm had previously been from January 2007 to July 2008 and Director in October 2008, Alastair is a non-executive director of BPP Chief Executive since 1996 and was Group Finance Director from 2002 non-executive Chairman of the Admiral Holdings plc, Rank Group plc, Spectris first appointed to the Board of Bovis to 2006.
He joined Bovis Homes in Group, the FTSE-100 direct motor plc and Uniq plc.
He was previously Homes in 1978.
He is a non-executive 1998 as the Groups Financial Controller insurer.
Alastair is also non-executive group finance director of W H Smith director of the House Builders and was previously employed by Chairman of Legal Marketing Services PLC and United Biscuits plc and a nonFederation HBF and the National KPMG involved in advising clients on Limited, In Retirement Services Limited executive director at Arla Foods plc, House Building Council NHBC.
acquisitions, disposals and flotations and Cardsave Limited.
Previously Chief RAC plc and Rexam plc.
Executive of the National Provident Institution and the National and Provincial Building Society, he was also managing director of the Insurance Divison of Abbey National plc and director of corporate projects at National Westminster Bank plc.
Lesley Anne MacDonagh 56 Non-executive Director FCIS, Group Company Secretary FCMA, Group Finance Director Non-executive Director Appointed an independent non-executive Joined Bovis Homes in 2001, having Joined Bovis Homes in January 2007 as Appointed an independent nonDirector in 2006.
Colin is the Commercial been group company secretary of London Group Finance Director.
Previously, he executive director in 2003, Lesley is a Director for Fresh Foods at Tesco and Forfaiting Company PLC from 1997 to was employed by Whitbread plc in both non-executive director of SEGRO plc an attendee at Tesco PLC Executive 2001 and of London & Edinburgh Trust group finance and divisional roles and and BDO Stoy Hayward.
Colins commercial role PLC from 1994 to 1997. held positions with Reckitt & Colman previously Managing Partner of Lovells, covers buying, ranging and pricing for plc and Pricewaterhouse Coopers.
the international law firm for 10 years, fresh food categories.
He joined Tesco in a Governor of the London School of 1998 and has wide knowledge of the Economics, a member of the Court of retail sector and a range of experience the Solicitors' Company, a member of within Tesco itself.
His previous roles the Government's Property Advisory include CEO of Tesco Express, Group and the Law Society Council Superstores Operations Director and Member for the City of London.
