Non-executive Directors Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board in December 2002.
Until December 2001, Mr Bedell-Pearce was an Executive Director of Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in the financial services industry.
He is the former Chairman of The Student Loans Company Limited and is currently Chairman of the Norwich & Peterborough Building Society and Chairman of 4D Data Centres Ltd. Keith Bedell-Pearce LLB, MSc Age 63 Senior Independent Director Mr fide Beus joined the Board on completion of the Robert Jenkins merger in October 2004.
Mr fide Beus has worked for BA, MA over 30 years in the pension fund industry.
He joined Age 58 PGGM, the Dutch pension fund for the healthcare and welfare industry in 1979, and retired as Chairman Chairman in 2004.
Mr fide Beus had been member and Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of KAS BANK N. V. during 1996-2007 custodian services, Amsterdam.
He is involved in several supervisory Mr Jenkins joined the Board on Dick fide Beus and advisor functions in non-listed companies and completion of the merger in October Age 62 non-profit organisations.
Prior to his appointment Mr Non-executive Director of F&CGH since his Independent Jenkins was Chief Executive of appointment in February 2004.
Prior to joining F&CGH in 1997, Mr Jenkins spent over five years with Credit Suisse Asset Management CSAM and 16 years with Citibank.
At Citibank Mr Jenkins held senior assignments in Dubai, Nick MacAndrew Bahrain, Zurich, New York and FCA Tokyo.
From 1992 until 1995 he was Age 62 Chief Investment Officer and Head of Independent Asset Management for CSAM in Director Japan.
In 1995 he transferred to London where he was Chief Mr MacAndrew, a Chartered Accountant, joined the Operating Officer for CSAM in the UK Board in May 2007.
He worked for Schroders plc and Central and Eastern Europe.
Mr for over 30 years until 2002, latterly as finance Jenkins is Chairman of the Board of director.
He is a Non-executive Director of Fuller the Investment Management Smith & Turner plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Association in the UK, Member of plc and Wates Group Limited and chairs the audit The Takeover Panel, Executive committees of each of these companies.
He was Fellow of the London Business previously Chairman of Save the Children.
School and Honorary Visiting Professor of Investment Management at City University Londons Cass Business School.
Brian Larcombe Age 55 Independent Director Mr Larcombe joined the Board in January 2005.
Prior to his appointment, Mr Larcombe was Chief Executive of 3i Group plc and is currently Chairman of Bramdean Alternatives Limited and a Non-executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc and Gate Gourmet Group Holding LLC.
26 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Mr Roggemann joined the Board in June 2007 as an Independent Director.
Mr Roggemann is currently Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Europe, responsible for the development of its German business, and an independent director of Friends Provident plc.
He is Gerhard Roggemann, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of G P Guenter Ass.
Papenburg AG and Deputy Chairman of the Deutsche Age 61 Brse AG.
Independent He spent much of his professional career with financial Director services firm, JPMorgan, where his positions included managing director of JPMorgans German branch in Frankfurt and regional treasurer Asia Pacific in the Tokyo office.
He spent a total of 13 years on the management Mr Medlock joined the Board on board of two German Landesbanks, joining the executive completion of the merger in October boards of Norddeutsche Landesbank in 1991, and of 2004.
Mr Medlock, an actuary, was Westdeutsche Landesbank WestLB AG in 1996.
Previous Chief Executive Officer of Eureko board appointments include AXA Lebensversicherungs AG, from its formation in 1992 until 1999 AXA  mbH, Deka Bank, Fresenius when he became Chief Financial AG, Hapag Lloyd AG and VHV Holdings AG.
He returned to the board of Eureko in 2002 shortly after its merger with Achmea and Seguros e Pensoes as Chief Jeff Medlock, Sir Adrian Montague, Financial Officer.
Mr Medlock retired B. Sc Econ, FIA CBE, MA, Solicitor, from Eureko in 2004 but remains a Age 68 Age 61 director of Eurekos companies in Sir Adrian joined the Board in November 2007.
He is also a was appointed chairman of Friends Provident in May trustee of the childrens charity Life 2005, having been appointed an independent Education Centres.
Sir Adrian is currently Chairman of Michael Page International plc and Mr Matthews joined the Board in August 2008.
joined Friends Provident as Chief Executive Officer and director in July 2008.
He is a Member of the Sir Adrian was formerly Chairman of British Energy, Investment Committee and President of the Chartered Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Chairman of Insurance Institute.
Cross-London Rail Links Limited Crossrail.
He was previously Chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce Mr Matthews was formerly Chief Executive of Standard and Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
In his Life Assurance Limited, the principal subsidiary of early career, he was a partner of Linklaters & Paines, Standard Life plc.
Prior to joining Standard Life in 2004, and subsequently the Global Head of Project Finance Mr Matthews held two key positions at Manulife Trevor Matthews, for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Financial Corporation Executive Vice President in MA, FIA, FIAA, ASA Canada and subsequently President and Chief Age 57 Executive, Japan.
Prior to that, he held senior positions in National Australia Bank and Legal & General Australia.
Executive Directors Alain Grisay, LLM, MA Age 55 Chief Executive Mr Grisay joined the Board on completion of the merger in October 2004 having previously been Deputy Chief Executive of F&CGH and head of the institutional business.
Prior to joining F&C in April 2001, Mr Grisay was at JP Morgan for 20 years, David Logan, BA, CA serving as Managing Director responsible for the Age 39 investment banks market client business in Europe.
Mr Grisay was appointed an Executive Director of Chief Financial Friends Provident plc on 1 January 2006.
Officer Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Prior to his appointment Mr Logan spent seventeen years in the accounting profession, including four years as a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP and three years as a partner at Andersen.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit & Compliance Committee Member of the Nomination Committee 27 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Report of the Directors 29
