Report of the Directors Results, business review and dividend to receive the difference between the amount of fees received at that point and the threshold figure.
The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2008 are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 54.
A Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc business review of the year ended 31 December 2008 and future The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign & developments are covered on pages 10 to 23.
This review forms Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the part of the Report of the Directors.
investment trust on a minimum of six months notice expiring at The Group loss for the year, after tax, amounted to 50.5 million.
the end of any calendar month.
In the event that there is a change of control in F&C as defined in Section 840 of ICTA The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 4.0 pence 1988, then the investment trust is entitled to terminate the per share, amounting to 19.8 million, resulting in a total of agreement on not less than 3 months notice to expire at the end 6.0 pence and 29.7 million for the year.
Preference dividends of of any calendar month.
0.1 million were also incurred during the year.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 28 May F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 2009 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C on 17 April 2009.
No liability for the proposed dividends has been Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the recognised as at 31 December 2008, in accordance with IFRS.
investment trust on not less than six months notice.
Early termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only Principal activity and status subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on The Groups business is asset management.
Details of the revenue stream.
Immediate termination is possible by the progress of the business during the year and of future prospects investment trust in the event that there is a change of control in are contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives F&C as defined in Section 840 of ICTA 1988 which has not been Report and the Business Review.
consented to by its Board.
The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms F&C Partners LLP the LLP of the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the The F&C Partners Limited Liability Partnership Agreement, dated FTSE 250 Index.
The Company is registered in Scotland, 3 December 2004, is between F&C Alternative Investments registered number 73508 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Holdings Limited and the two individual Founder Members.
Details of the principal entities within the Group are contained The LLP Agreement provides that in the event of a change of in note 41 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are control of F&C, F&C Alternative Investments Holdings Limited also two branch offices in the Group outside the UK, one in has the right within three months of such change of control to The Netherlands and one in Germany.
declare to the individual members that such change of control is a trigger event.
Upon the declaration of a trigger event, the Significant agreements individual members of the LLP have no right to require the In addition to the significant management contracts with Friends Company to purchase their interests for a period of twelve Provident plc and the Achmea Group, details of which are months.
Following the expiry of this twelve month period, the contained in Note 42 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, individual members have a period of three months during F&C is party to the following significant contracts that take effect, which they can choose to require the Company to purchase alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
Millennium BCP Group BCP F&C REIT Asset Management LLP The consequences of termination of the various agreements with F&C REIT Asset Management LLP the LLP Limited Liability BCP related funds are regulated by an Umbrella Agreement with Partnership Agreement, dated 21 July 2008, is between F&C BCP which provides that compensation is payable if any of these Asset Management plc F&C, the two individual members and a agreements are terminated before 29 June 2013.
These separate company controlled by discretionary trusts.
agreements may be terminated on written notice with immediate effect in the event that a person acquires an interest which is Where there is a change of control of F&C following 3 September larger than the aggregate interest of Friends Provident and Eureko 2011 or a second change of control during the first three years in the shares of F&C.
Under such circumstances, compensation is from 3 September 2008, F&C can elect to change the payable by BCP to F&C based on prescribed compensation arrangements for voting at LLP members meetings such that periods which in turn are linked to when the change of control F&Cs interests are represented by one vote and the REIT takes place.
Parties aggregate interests are represented by one vote.
If F&C does not so elect, then F&C must offer to sell its interests to the Royal Sun Alliance RSA other members of the LLP at a price determined by an The investment management agreement with the RSA group is a independent valuer.
long term agreement expiring on 1 July 2012.
In the event that it is terminated by the RSA group prior to 1 July 2012 and if the aggregate fees received by F&C from 1 January 2008 up until the point of termination fall below a certain threshold, F&C is entitled 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Property, plant and equipment The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests in the share capital of the ultimate parent undertaking, Friends Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are Provident plc, are shown below: disclosed in note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
At 31 December 2008, there were no significant differences between 31 31 the net book and market values of property, plant and equipment.
December December 2008 2007 Financial instruments Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 14 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial risk Sir Adrian Montague Beneficial 4,668 6,281 management objectives and policies of the Group are contained Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil in note 38.
Trevor Matthews Beneficial Nil Nil Share capital and directors interests During the year the Company issued 19,784 ordinary shares in Directors and officers liability respect of vested awards or options under the Companys long The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of directors and term incentive schemes.
Details of shares under option at 31 December 2008 are shown The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision set out in on pages 110 to 121.
Details of all shares issued during the year the Company's Articles of Association at article 166 which is a ended 31 December 2008, are given in note 33.
The Directors qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in the who held office at the year end and their interests in the share Companies Act 2006.
During 2008, each Director of the capital of the Company are shown below: Company has received a qualifying third party indemnity from 31 31 the Company.
December December 2008 2007 Charitable and political contributions Ordinary Ordinary During the year, the Group made contributions to charity of Shares Shares 139,000 2007: 117,000.
No political donations were made during the year 2007: nil.
Further details on the criteria for Robert Jenkins Beneficial 200,000 200,000 charitable giving are contained on the Companys website.
Non Beneficial 64,176 562,857 Payment policy and practice Dick fide Beus Beneficial Nil Nil It is the Groups payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285 accounts in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to any business Alain Grisay Beneficial 1,386,094 1,438,676 taking place.
It is our policy to abide by those terms.
Brian Larcombe Beneficial 20,000 20,000 At 31 December 2008, trade creditors represented the equivalent Non Beneficial 64,176 562,857 of 5 days 2007: 10 days of the annual purchases invoiced by the suppliers to the Group.
David Logan Beneficial 2,218 990 Nick MacAndrew Beneficial 25,000 25,000 Substantial interests in share capital The Company has been informed of the following substantial Jeff Medlock Beneficial 10,000 10,000 interests, above 3 per cent.
as at 6 April 2009: Sir Adrian Montague Beneficial Nil Nil Ordinary Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil Shares Percentage Friends Provident plc 258,722,798 52.2 Trevor Matthews Beneficial Nil Nil Robert Jenkins and Brian Larcombe are Directors of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Eureko B. V. 51,128,190 10.3 Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Fidelity 23,869,618 4.8 Company by employees.
Artemis 20,419,814 4.1 Or date of appointment if later.
These shares include Mr Grisays participation in the Purchased Equity Plan.
Employees Further details of this plan are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on At 1 March 2009, there were 845 full-time employees and pages 43 to 51.
73 part-time employees within the Group 1 February 2008: No other changes to Directors interests have occurred.
869 full-time employees and 61 part-time employees.
31 Report of the Directors Disabled employees Board changes The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment On 13 May 2008, John Heywood, an independent Non-executive from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be Director, retired from the Board.
adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
On 15 August 2008, Jim Smart, a Non-executive Director, retired from the Board and was replaced on the same date by Trevor Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups Matthews, a Non-executive Director.
policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, Robert Jenkins, the Companys Chairman, has indicated his career development and promotion to disabled employees intention to retire from the Board on conclusion of this years wherever possible.
Nick MacAndrew will succeed Mr Jenkins as Chairman from that date.
Employee involvement Dick fide Beus, an independent Non-executive Director, has During the year, the policy of providing employees with indicated his intention to retire from the Board and relevant Board information about the Group has been continued through internal committees on conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
presentations by the Executive Directors, Management Committee and the internal publication of relevant information.
Sir Adrian Montague and Trevor Matthews, Friends Providents Wherever appropriate, employees are consulted to ensure that nominated shareholder representatives on the Board, will retire their views are taken into account before decisions are taken from the Board when Friends Provident distributes its shares in which are likely to affect their interests.
the Company later in the year.
As a result of the changes detailed above the Nomination Equal opportunities Committee and the Board have commenced a search for two The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without independent Non-executive Directors.
discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, sex, sexual orientation or disability.
We recruit and promote those best General Meeting.
The Group respects the dignity of individuals and Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication of pretheir beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any sexual, racial, emption rights physical or mental harassment of staff in the work place.
Ordinary resolution 10 will be put to the AGM of the Company to Share incentive schemes renew the Directors' power to allot shares.
The Directors currently have authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum During the year, employees participated directly in the business amount of 164,074.92.
The Resolution proposes that a similar through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which authority be granted in substitution of the existing authority to allot are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on securities up to a maximum amount of 164,730.35, representing pages 43 to 51 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial approximately 33.33 per cent.
of the Company's total issued Statements on pages 110 to 121. ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of Annual General Meeting AGM this report.
The Company will hold its AGM on Thursday, 7 May 2009 at In addition, following guidance issued by the ABI in December JPMorgan Cazenove, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R.
The meeting 2008 the Company is seeking additional authority to allot will start at 12 noon UK time.
Details of all resolutions being put securities in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue up to a to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual General maximum amount of 139,126.75, representing approximately Meeting commencing on page 172.
of the Company's total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
Relationship agreement The benefit to the Company of obtaining such authority on an The relationship agreement formalises the ongoing relationship annual basis is that it would allow the Company to implement a between the Company and its parent, Friends Provident plc, and rights issue of an amount equal to approximately 61.48 per cent.
If renewed, the relationship of the issued ordinary share capital without the need to call an agreement will remain in place until the next AGM or until Friends additional general meeting.
This would shorten the implementation Providents interest in the ordinary shares of the Company falls timetable for such a rights issue.
The relationship agreement contains The Directors have no present intention of exercising this provisions which permit the Friends Provident group to participate authority.
The authority will expire at the end of the AGM to be in future issues of equity shares by the Company not made to held in 2010, unless previously cancelled or varied by the existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings in Company in general meeting.
It is the intention of the Directors to order to maintain its percentage shareholding in the Company.
renew this authority annually at each AGM.
Your Directors are recommending that the relationship agreement be re-approved and the authority be renewed at this years AGM As at the date of this report the Company holds 1,902,428 pursuant to resolution 9.
Members of the Friends Provident group ordinary shares in treasury.
This represents approximately 0.4 per will abstain from voting on such ordinary resolution.
of the Company's ordinary share capital in issue excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
32 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Special resolution 11 will be put to the AGM of the Company to 6.26 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the renew the present power to allot unissued ordinary share capital Company excluding treasury shares.
The power conferred by and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash without first this resolution will expire on the earlier of the date falling being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders in 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution and the proportion to their existing shareholdings.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2010.
Such power will apply to the allotment of unissued ordinary shares and treasury shares sold up to a maximum nominal With the coming into force of the Companies Acquisition of Own amount of 24,807.145, representing approximately 5 per cent.
of Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended : on the Company's issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this 1 December 2003, the Company may do any of the following in report, except that: respect of its own ordinary shares which it buys back and does not immediately cancel but, instead, holds in treasury: 1 the maximum nominal amount of shares that can be allotted in connection with a pre-emptive rights issue is 303,857.10, a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent representing approximately 61.48 per cent.
of the Company's under the Treasury Shares Regulations : total issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as b transfer the shares or any of them for the purposes of or at the date of this report: and pursuant to an employees share scheme: or 2 the maximal nominal amount of unissued ordinary shares that c cancel the shares or any of them.
can be allotted or treasury shares sold: a pursuant to any other pre-emptive offering where legal or The Directors may use the Treasury Shares Regulations in any regulatory requirements prevent the issue of shares wholly one or more of the ways noted above and intend to take on a pre-emptive basis : advantage of this flexibility as they deem appropriate.
While b in accordance with the relationship agreement referred to any shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and above conditional upon the passing of the ordinary currently no dividends or any other distribution are paid or resolution 9 referred to above : made on such shares.
c in order to satisfy options or awards under any share While the Directors recognise that, due to the free float scheme for employees or share incentive plan approved requirements, the scope for buy-backs may currently be limited, by the Company in general meeting: they consider it appropriate to have in place the facility to acquire is 164,730.35, representing approximately 33.33 per cent.
of shares in circumstances where they believe that future the Company's total issued ordinary share capital excluding shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
treasury shares as at the date of this report.
This authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is by resolution 10 and the power proposed to be granted by considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
resolution 11 are necessary in order to take advantage of In 2008, the Group purchased 345,845 ordinary 0.1 pence shares opportunities as they arise and to retain flexibility.
The Directors do 2007 the Group acquired 1,279,618 ordinary 0.1 pence shares not have any intention of exercising such authority or power at the representing 0.3 per cent.
of the ordinary Shares in issue at present time other than for the purposes referred to in 2 c above.
31 December 2008 pursuant to this authority.
The aggregate consideration paid for own share purchases in 2008 was Purchase of own shares 0.6 million 2007: 2.4 million.
The maximum number of own Special resolution 12 will be put to the AGM to renew the present shares held during the year was 3,431,540 representing 0.7 per power to make market purchases of the Companys own ordinary cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue.
Pursuant to special resolution 12 the maximum aggregate representing 0.4 per cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue were number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to transferred during the year pursuant to employee share schemes.
the authority shall be 49,424,027 being approximately 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at the date of this report.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses.
The maximum price for an ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
As at the date of this report, the Company had 27,842,633 options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding representing 5.63 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares at the same date.
If the buy-back authority is renewed at the 2009 AGM and is then utilised in full, the options outstanding at the date of this report would represent 33 Report of the Directors Notice of General Meetings The Shareholder Rights Directive will be implemented in the UK in August this year.
One of the requirements of the Directive is that all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
We are currently able to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 days notice.
We are proposing special resolution 13 at the Meeting so that we can continue to be able to do so after the Directive is implemented.
The authority being sought pursuant to Special Resolution 13 will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2010.
It is the current intention of the Directors to renew this authority annually.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment and for the Directors to determine their fees will be submitted at the AGM.
Details of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 4 c to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further detail on how the Board ensures the independence of the auditors is detailed on page 42 within the Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
Adequacy of the information provided to the auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approving this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Secretary 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU 6 April 2009 34
