BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Additional information for shareholders Voting rights Shareholders meetings and notices The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other UK in order to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
In than resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show certain circumstances, BP may give notices to shareholders by of hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in advertisement in UK newspapers.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP votes for every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
The substance and timing of notices is described above under the voting is on a show of hands, each shareholder who is present at the heading Voting Rights.
meeting in person or whose duly appointed proxy is present in person Under the Articles of Association, the AGM of shareholders will will have one vote, regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll be held within the six-month period from the first day of BPs accounting is requested.
Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
All general meetings shall be held at a time and place determined Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, by the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting is adjourned including a beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the meeting may be on their behalf at any shareholders meeting.
given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and action to be taken either before or at the meeting by authorized officers vote at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those attending.
approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, of them as proxies in respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such Limitations on voting and shareholding proxy may also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or who will vote the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or ADSs, accordance with their instructions.
other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the Disclosure of interests in shares proposing and passing of resolutions, of which there are three types: The UK Companies Act permits a public company, on written notice, to ordinary, special or extraordinary.
An annual general meeting must be require any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time held once in every year and all other general meetings will be called during the previous three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have extraordinary general meetings.
been interested in its voting shares, to disclose certain information with An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required may of the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on quorum.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of of not less than three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely defined and will there is a quorum.
Any AGM requires 21 days notice.
The notice period generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, for an extraordinary general meeting is 14 days.
With the implementation including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive into UK law expected later this year, reliance on this notice period of 14 days will require annual shareholder approval, failing which, a 21-day notice period will apply.
Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on Liquidation rights: redemption provisions remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and the companys operations.
applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled under the companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the shares in the company.
capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro Taxation rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any purposes.
It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue holders subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock.
A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs Variation of rights that is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent US, ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of and one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a decisions of the trust.
general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations the shares of that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws the ordinary shares is one-third or more of the shares of that class.
of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention 96
