BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Additional information for shareholders Voting rights Shareholders meetings and notices The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other UK in order to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
In than resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show certain circumstances, BP may give notices to shareholders by of hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in advertisement in UK newspapers.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP votes for every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
The substance and timing of notices is described above under the voting is on a show of hands, each shareholder who is present at the heading Voting Rights.
meeting in person or whose duly appointed proxy is present in person Under the Articles of Association, the AGM of shareholders will will have one vote, regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll be held within the six-month period from the first day of BPs accounting is requested.
Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
All general meetings shall be held at a time and place determined Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, by the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting is adjourned including a beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote for lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the meeting may be on their behalf at any shareholders meeting.
given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and action to be taken either before or at the meeting by authorized officers vote at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those attending.
approved depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, of them as proxies in respect of the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such Limitations on voting and shareholding proxy may also appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or who will vote the ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or ADSs, accordance with their instructions.
other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders.
Proxies may be delivered electronically.
Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the Disclosure of interests in shares proposing and passing of resolutions, of which there are three types: The UK Companies Act permits a public company, on written notice, to ordinary, special or extraordinary.
An annual general meeting must be require any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time held once in every year and all other general meetings will be called during the previous three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have extraordinary general meetings.
been interested in its voting shares, to disclose certain information with An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority respect to those interests.
Failure to supply the information required may of the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on quorum.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of of not less than three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely defined and will there is a quorum.
Any AGM requires 21 days notice.
The notice period generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, for an extraordinary general meeting is 14 days.
With the implementation including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive into UK law expected later this year, reliance on this notice period of 14 days will require annual shareholder approval, failing which, a 21-day notice period will apply.
Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on Liquidation rights: redemption provisions remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and the companys operations.
applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled under the companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the shares in the company.
capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro Taxation rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any purposes.
It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue holders subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock.
A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs Variation of rights that is for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent US, ii a US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the adoption to US federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of and one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a decisions of the trust.
general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to a meeting This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% or more of amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations the shares of that class, and the quorum to change the rights attached to thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws the ordinary shares is one-third or more of the shares of that class.
of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention 96 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Additional information for shareholders between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive eligible for the 15% tax rate on qualified dividend income.
This section is further based in part on the representations of the loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as the Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK a return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as the owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares Taxation of capital gains generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation UK taxation other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen of federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the or controlled in the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that benefits of the Treaty.
carries on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or, in respect of corporations for accounting periods beginning on Taxation of dividends or after 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that UK taxation have used, held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from purposes of such trade, profession or vocation of such branch, agency or dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
However, such persons may be entitled to a A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or tax credit against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A case may be that is paid in respect of such gain.
shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on or ADSs generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the residence of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of cash dividend.
the UK and the US and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK US federal income taxation or the US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or immediately preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income may be subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from a tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in the years beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualified dividend jurisdiction of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, but also in the other jurisdiction.
provided that the holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days US federal income taxation before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding period A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to realized and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the UK withholding tax.
A US holder will include in gross income for US ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that federal income tax purposes the amount of the dividend actually is recognized in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 is received from the company and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle generally taxed at a maximum rate of 15% if the holders holding period the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
The gain or loss will For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax in income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the to limitations.
dividend, and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that outside the US, and generally will be passive category income or, in is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a the case of certain US holders, general category income, each of which PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-mark is treated separately for purposes of computing the allowable foreign basis with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realized on the sale tax credit.
or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares or treated as capital gain.
Instead a US holder would be treated as if he or ADSs that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the she had realized such gain and certain excess distributions ratably over pounds sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds the holding period for ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at sterling US dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into allocated, in addition to which an interest charge in respect of the tax US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange attributable to each such year would apply.
fluctuations during the period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is includible in income to the date the payment is converted 97 Additional information for shareholders
