BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Safety, both process and personal, remains our top priority.
During 2008, Refining and Marketing we started the migration to the new BP Operating Management System Our Refining and Marketing business is responsible for the supply and OMS with an increased focus on process safety and continuous trading, refining, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude improvement.
The OMS is described in further detail on page 44.
At the oil, petroleum, chemicals products and related services to wholesale and end of the year, two of our petrochemicals plants in the US and two of retail customers.
BP markets its products in more than 100 countries.
We our refineries in Europe were operating on OMS.
Within our US operate primarily in Europe and North America and also manufacture and refineries, we continue to implement the recommendations from the BP market our products across Australasia, in China and other parts of Asia, US Refineries Independent Safety Review Panel.
We have worked closely Africa and Central and South America.
with the independent expert, L Duane Wilson.
The number of major In 2008 we restructured the Refining and Marketing organization incidents associated with integrity management has decreased by 90% into two main business groupings: fuels value chains FVCs and since 2005.
We have also reduced the number of oil spills by 60% and international businesses IBs.
The FVCs integrate the activities of the recordable injury rate by more than 57% since 1999.
Regrettably, in refining, logistics, marketing, supply and trading, on a regional basis, 2008 there were four workforce fatalities associated with our operations, recognizing that the markets for our main fuels products operate one of which was a process safety incident.
This shift to a more geographic and integrated model In 2008, we saw the first substantial benefits of our operational represents a major simplification step and the opportunity to create improvements.
The Whiting refinery was restored to its full clean fuel better value from our physical assets refineries, terminals, pipelines and capability of 360mb d in March 2008 following the compressor failure and retail stations.
The IBs include the manufacturing, supply and marketing fire that took place during 2007.
Texas City was also restored to full of lubricants, petrochemicals, liquefied petroleum gas LPG and aviation economic capability by the end of the year.
In Europe and Rest of World, and marine fuels.
We believe each of these IBs is competitively we commissioned new upgrading units at the Rotterdam and Kwinana advantaged in the markets in which we have chosen to participate.
Such refineries, enhanced processing capability at the Gelsenkirchen refinery, advantage is derived from several factors, including location, proximity of reconfigured the Bayernoil refinery for more efficient and competitive manufacturing assets to markets, physical asset quality, operational operation, and completed construction of a new coker at the Castelln efficiency, technology advantage and the strength of our brands.
During the next five years, we intend to continue the focus on business has a clear strategy focused on investing in its key assets and process safety, improve the competitive performance of our refineries market positions in order to deliver value to its customers and outand complete the previously announced investment in the Whiting perform its competitors.
refinery to increase its ability to process Canadian heavy crude.
During the past five years, our focus has been on process safety, In total, our 17 refineries worldwide, including those partially upgrading organizational capability and significant integrity management owned, achieved throughputs of 2,155mb d on average, a 5% increase investment.
The construction of new production units at many of our on 2007 after adjusting for the net loss of throughput from previous refineries as well as upgrades of existing conversion units at a number of disposals and acquisitions.
The performance of Texas City was impacted our facilities has positioned our assets to produce the high-quality fuels by Hurricane Ike in September, which meant we had to shut down the needed to meet today's heightened product specifications.
refinery in advance as a precautionary measure, along with other refineries in the area.
Operational disruption was minimized as crude Our performance in 2008 processing was restored in seven days and full operations restored within The 2008 environment in which the segment operated was very three weeks.
This was due to a terrific response from employees and challenging, characterized by high and volatile crude and product prices, also reflected the improvements we have made to our assets at Texas which resulted in substantial margin volatility as well as higher energy City over the last few years.
Crude prices fell significantly in the second half of During 2008, we fully integrated our refining, logistics, marketing, the year and at the end of the year, prices were around $50 bbl lower supply and trading activities, establishing six  than the start of the year.
Refining margins in the US were significantly integrated FVCs focused on refining and selling ground transportation weaker than 2007 due to weaker gasoline demand.
Conversely, in fuels in each region.
This has enabled us to simplify internal interfaces, Europe, where diesel accounts for a larger share of regional demand, optimize margins, reduce overhead costs and drive continuous margins were stronger than a year ago.
Demand for fuels has fallen, improvement.
During the year, we continued the implementation of our initially due to high oil prices and subsequently due to the slowing of ampm convenience retail franchise model in the US, which we expect to global economies and the impact of the financial crisis.
During the fourth provide reliable long-term sales growth for our refinery systems, together quarter, we saw a dramatic decline in the demand for our petrochemicals with reduced costs and lower levels of capital investment.
In Europe, products as a consequence of the economic slowdown.
The year also where we are one of the largest forecourt convenience retailers, with saw material swings in foreign exchange rates, particularly in the second about 2,500 shops in 10 countries, we are growing our food-on-the-go half, that affected our results.
and fresh grocery services through BP-owned brands and partnerships Our 2008 performance reflects the benefits of the fundamental with leading retailers such as Marks & Spencer.
improvements we are making across the business, including the In relation to our IBs during 2008, in the lubricants business we measures we have taken to restore the availability of our refining system, focused on enhancing our customer relationships and brand reduce costs and simplify the organization.
The loss before interest and distinctiveness, together with simplifying operations and improving tax was $1.9 billion for 2008, compared with a profit before interest and efficiency.
Although 2008 was a difficult year for the aviation industry, in tax of $6.1 billion in 2007.
The decrease was primarily driven by inventoryAir BP, we simplified our footprint by exiting non-core countries resulting holding losses.
Our financial results are discussed in more detail on in a reduction in working capital and improved returns on operating pages 54-55. capital employed.
During the year, the environment in which our petrochemicals businesses operate became more challenging as deterioration in the global economic market led to reduced demand for our products.
We are simplifying the structure of our organization, improving the efficiency of our back office and reducing our headcount, including the number of senior management positions.
31 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Looking ahead, in 2009 the overall economic environment is expected to thousand barrels per day a be challenging with reduced demand for our products leading to lower Sales of refined products 2008 2007 2006 volumes and pressure on margins.
The impact is expected to be greatest Marketing sales b in the petrochemicals sector.
UK 310 339 356 Against this background, we intend to continue actively managing Rest of Europe 1,256 1,294 1,340 our cost base, simplifying our marketing footprint and developing the market US 1,460 1,533 1,595 positions where we have competitive advantage based on brand and Rest of World 685 640 581 technology strengths.
We also intend to improve the efficiency of our back c Total marketing sales 3,711 3,806 3,872 office, including customer service, accounting services and procurement d Trading supply sales 1,987 1,818 1,929 systems, by centralizing these activities in a few global centres to remove Total refined products 5,698 5,624 5,801 duplication and reduce cost.
We intend to focus on cash generation through active management of our working capital and credit exposure.
$ million We intend to limit our capital investment to maintaining and improving our Proceeds from sale of refined core positions.
To continue the progress we have made in recent years, our products 248,561 194,979 177,995 top priority for spending will remain safety and operational integrity.
The a other area of focus will be delivering integrated value in our key markets Excludes sales to other BP businesses, sales of Aromatics & Acetyls products and Olefins & Derivatives sales through equity-accounted entities.
through investment in terminals and pipeline infrastructure.
Our largest b UK area includes the UK-based international activities of Refining and Marketing.
investment is expected to be at the Whiting refinery, where we have c Marketing sales are sales to service stations, end-consumers, bulk buyers and jobbers i. e. third started a major upgrading and modernization programme that will enable parties who own networks of a number of service stations and small resellers.
d the refinery to operate on Canadian heavy crude oil.
We also intend to Trading supply sales are sales to large unbranded resellers and other oil companies.
complete the planned projects in petrochemicals see page 36.
Comparative information presented in the table below has been The following table sets out marketing sales by major product group.
restated, where appropriate, to reflect the resegmentation, following thousand barrels per day transfers of businesses between segments, that was effective from Marketing sales by refined product 2008 2007 2006 1 January 2008.
See page 16 for further details.
Aviation fuel 501 490 488 Key statistics Gasolines 1,500 1,572 1,603 $ million Middle distillates 1,055 1,119 1,170 2008 2007 2006 Fuel oil 460 429 388 a Total revenues 320,458 250,897 232,833 Other products 195 196 223 Profit before interest and tax from Total marketing sales 3,711 3,806 3,872 b continuing operations 1,884 6,076 4,919 Total assets 75,329 95,311 80,738 Marketing volumes were 3,711mb d, slightly lower than last year, Capital expenditure and acquisitions 6,634 5,495 3,127 reflecting the impacts from the slowing of global economies and reduced $ per barrel industry demand in the US and Europe.
c Global Indicator Refining Margin 6.50 9.94 8.39 a Fuels value chains Includes sales between businesses.
b Includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
Following our reorganization we have six integrated FVCs.
They are c The Global Indicator Refining Margin GIM is the average of regional industry indicator margins, organized regionally, covering the West Coast and Mid-West regions of which we weight for BPs crude refining capacity in each region.
Each regional indicator margin is the US, the Rhine region, Southern Africa, Australasia ANZ and Iberia.
based on a single representative crude with product yields characteristic of the typical level of upgrading complexity.
The refining margins are industry-specific rather than BP-specific measures, Each of these is a material business, optimizing activities across the which we believe are useful to investors in analyzing trends in the industry and their impact on our supply chain from crude delivery to the refineries: manufacture results.
The margins are calculated by BP based on published crude oil and product prices and take of high-quality fuels to meet market demand: pipeline and terminal account of fuel utilization and catalyst costs.
No account is taken of BPs other cash and non-cash costs of refining, such as wages and salaries and plant depreciation.
The indicator margin may not infrastructure and the marketing and sales to our customers.
The Texas be representative of the margins achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular refining City refinery is operated as a standalone predominantly merchant refining configurations and crude and product slate.
business that also supports our marketing operations on the east and Total revenues are analysed in more detail below.
$ million Refining 2008 2007 2006 The groups global refining strategy is to own and operate strategically Sale of crude oil through spot and advantaged refineries that benefit from vertical integration with our term contracts 54,901 43,004 38,577 marketing and trading operations, as well as horizontal integration with Marketing, spot and term sales other parts of the groups business.
Refinings focus is to maintain and of refined products 248,561 194,979 177,995 improve its competitive position through sustainable, safe, reliable and Other sales and operating revenues 16,577 12,238 15,814 efficient operations of the refining system and disciplined investment Earnings from equity-accounted for integrity management, to achieve competitively advantaged entities after interest and tax, configuration and growth.
interest, and other revenues 419 676 447 For BP, the strategic advantage of a refinery relates to its location, 320,458 250,897 232,833 scale and configuration to produce fuels from lower-cost feedstocks in line with the demand of the region.
Strategic investments in our thousand barrels per day refineries are focused on securing the safety and reliability of our assets Sale of crude oil through spot and while improving our competitive position.
In addition, we continue to term contracts 1,689 1,885 2,110 invest to develop the capability to produce the cleaner fuels that meet Marketing, spot and term sales the requirements of our customers and their communities.
of refined products 5,698 5,624 5,801 32 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review The following table summarizes the BP groups interests in refineries and crude distillation capacities at 31 December 2008. thousand barrels per day a Crude distillation capacities b Group interest BP Refinery Fuelsvaluechain %Totalshare Rest of Europe Germany Bayernoil Rhine 22.5% 215 48 Gelsenkirchen Rhine 50.0% 266 133 Karlsruhe Rhine 12.0% 323 39 Lingen Rhine 100.0% 93 93 Schwedt Rhine 18.8% 226 42 Netherlands Rotterdam Rhine 100.0% 386 386 Spain Castelln Iberia 100.0% 110 110 Total Rest of Europe 1,619 851 US California Carson US West Coast 100.0% 266266 Washington Cherry Point US West Coast 100.0% 234 234 Indiana Whiting US Mid-West 100.0% 405 405 Ohio Toledo US Mid-West 50.0% 155 78 Texas Texas City 100.0% 475 475 Total US 1,535 1,458 Rest of World Australia Bulwer ANZ 100.0% 102 102 Kwinana ANZ 100.0% 137 137 New Zealand Whangerei ANZ 23.7% 102 24 c Kenya Mombasa Southern Africa 17.1% 94 16 South Africa Durban Southern Africa 50.0% 180 90 Total Rest of World 615 369 Total 3,769 2,678 Indicates refineries operated by BP.
a Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the maximum achievable utilization of capacity 24-hour assessment based on standard feed.
b BP share of equity, which is not necessarily the same as BP share of processing entitlements.
c On 15 January 2008, it was announced that Essar Energy Overseas Ltd, a subsidiary of Essar Oil Limited, had entered into an agreement to acquire 50% of Kenya Petroleum Refineries Ltd.
The transaction was initially expected to be finalized in 2008, but has since been delayed in negotiations.
The following table outlines by region the volume of crude oil and feedstock processed by BP for its own account and for third parties.
Corresponding BP refinery capacity utilization data is summarized.
thousand barrels per day a Refinery throughputs 2008 2007 2006 UK 67 165 Rest of Europe 739 691 648 US 1,121 1,064 1,110 Rest of World 295 305 275 Total 2,155 2,127 2,198 Refinery capacity utilization b Crude distillation capacity at 31 December 2,678 2,769 2,823 c Crude distillation capacity utilization 78% 72% 76% US 72% 62% 70% Europe 85% 84% 87% Rest of World 83% 84% 78% a Refinery throughputs reflect crude and other feedstock volumes.
b Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the maximum achievable utilization of capacity 24-hour assessment based on standard feed.
c Crude distillation capacity utilization is defined as the percentage utilization of capacity per calendar day during the year after making allowances for average annual shutdowns at BP refineries i. e. net rated capacity.
33 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Excluding portfolio impacts, underlying refining throughputs in 2008 Our retail network is largely concentrated in Europe and the US, and also increased by 5% relative to 2007, driven principally by improved has established operations in Australasia and southern and eastern operational performance in the US.
Higher US throughputs were Africa.
We are developing networks in China in two separate joint attributable to the recoveries at the Texas City and Whiting refineries, ventures, one with Petrochina and the other with China Petroleum and partially offset by the reduced equity interest in the Toledo refinery Chemical Corporation Sinopec.
stemming from the Husky joint venture see below.
The improvement Number of retail sites operated under a BP brand achieved in the US was lower than it would have been as crude runs ab Retail sites 2008 2007 2006 were reduced as a result of the low-margin environment as well as the UK 1,200 1,200 1,300 disruption at the Texas City refinery in September caused by Hurricane Ike.
Rest of Europe 7,400 7,400 7,700 The increase in Rest of Europe throughputs in 2008 is primarily US excluding jobbers 2,500 2,500 2,700 related to the purchase of Chevrons 31% interest in the Rotterdam US jobbers 9,200 9,700 9,600 refinery in 2007.
The decrease in UK throughputs is due to the sale of the Rest of World 2,300 2,500 2,600 Coryton refinery to Petroplus.
Significant events in Refining were as follows: Total 22,600 23,300 23,900 On 21 March 2008, the Whiting refinery in the US was restored to its a Changes in the number of retail sites over time are affected by, among other things, dealer jobberfull clean fuel capability of 360mb d. owned sites that move to or from the BP brand as their fuel supply agreements expire and areBP completed recommissioning the Texas City refinery in the US.
renegotiated in the normal course of business.
With the successful return to service of Ultraformer No.
3 in the b Excludes our interest in equity-accounted entities.
Comparative information has been amended to fourth quarter, the sites full economic capability was restored.
On 31 March 2008, we completed a deal with Husky Energy Inc. to create an integrated North American oil sands business by means of At 31 December 2008, BPs worldwide network consisted of some two separate joint ventures, one of which entailed Husky taking a 22,600 locations branded BP, Amoco, ARCO and Aral, around the same 50% interest in BPs Toledo refinery.
The Toledo refinery is intended to as in the previous year.
We continue to improve the efficiency of our retail be expanded to process approximately 170mb d of heavy oil and network and increase the consistency of our site offer through a process bitumen by 2015. of regular review.
In 2008, we sold 470 company-owned sites to dealers, In July, a final investment decision was taken to progress the jobbers and franchisees who continue to operate these sites under the significant upgrade of the Whiting refinery.
This project repositions BP brand.
We also divested an additional 160 company-owned sites to Whiting competitively by increasing its Canadian heavy crude third parties.
processing capability by 260mb d and modernizing it with equipment At 31 December 2008, BPs retail network in the US comprised of significant size and scale.
approximately 11,700 sites, of which approximately 9,200 were owned On 17 March 2008, BP and Irving Oil entered into a memorandum of by jobbers and 900 operated under a franchise agreement.
In November understanding to work together on evaluating the feasibility of the 2007, BP announced that it would sell all of its company-owned and proposed Eider Rock refinery in Saint John, New Brunswick, Canada.
company-operated convenience sites in the US.
Despite the challenges in the global credit market, we expect the sale of these sites to be Fuels marketing, supply and logistics completed by the end of 2009.
At the end of 2008, sales of 293 of sites Our fuels marketing strategy focuses on optimizing the integrated value had been successfully completed.
The sites will continue to market BPof each fuels value chain that is responsible for the delivery of ground branded fuels in the eastern US and ARCO-branded fuels in the western fuels to the market.
We do this by co-ordinating our marketing, refining US.
The franchise agreement has a term of 20 years and requires sites to and trading activities to maximize synergies across the whole value chain.
be supplied with BPor ARCO-branded fuels for the term of the contract.
Our priorities are to operate an advantaged infrastructure and logistics At the end of 2008, our European retail network consisted of network which includes pipelines, storage terminals and road or rail approximately 8,600 sites and we had approximately 2,300 sites in the tankers, drive excellence in operating and transactional processes and Rest of World.
deliver compelling customer offers in the various markets where we Our retail convenience operations offer consumers a range of operate.
The fuels business markets a comprehensive range of refined oil food, drink and other consumables and services on the fuel forecourt in a products primarily focused on the ground fuels sector.
safe, convenient and innovative manner.
With operations in both Europe On 29 August 2008, BP announced an agreement with Enbridge and the US, using recognized and distinctive brands, BP is working to Inc. to build and reconfigure a pipeline system to transport Canadian maximize the efficiency and effectiveness of its retail network in each of heavy crude oil from Flanagan, Illinois, to Houston and Texas City, Texas.
By the end of 2008, we completed the roll-out The system is expected to be in service by late 2012 with an initial of more than 100 Marks & Spencer Simply Food sites as an integral part capacity of 250mb d. The joint investment of the phased capacity of the convenience network in the UK, while a refresh of the Petit Bistro additions is expected to be in the range of $1-2 billion.
brand in Germany and the Wild Bean Caf brand in other European The ground fuels business supplies fuel and related locations has re-energized consumers convenience shopping choices.
In convenience services to retail consumers through company-owned the US, BP has embarked on a roll-out of its successful ampm brand and franchised retail sites as well as other channels including wholesalers across all targeted national markets as its single convenience flagship: and jobbers.
It also supplies commercial customers within the road and this programme roll-out is intended to be completed by the end of 2009. rail transport sectors.
BPs value creation in ground fuels is obtained through the integration of the value chain from the refinery gates or import hubs across retail and commercial channels to market.
Convenience retail offers are focused on delivering appealing convenience offers across the various markets in which we operate, through the BP Connect, ampm and Aral brands.
34 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Supply and trading Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash flows between The group has a long-established integrated supply and trading function two parties: a typical swap transaction usually references a floating price responsible for delivering value across the overall crude and oil products and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash flows being settled.
This structure enables BP to maintain a single face to the oil Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell trading markets and to operate with a single set of trading compliance crude or oil products at a specified price on or before a specific future processes, systems and controls.
Operating through trading offices date.
Amounts under these derivative financial instruments are settled at located in Europe, the US and Asia, the function is able to maintain a expiry, typically through netting agreements, to limit credit exposure and presence in the regionally connected global markets.
The function seeks to identify the best markets and prices for our crude oil, source optimal feedstocks for our refineries and provide Spot and term contracts competitive supply for our marketing businesses.
In addition, where Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell crude and oil products at refinery production is surplus to marketing requirements or can be the market price prevailing on and around the delivery date when title to sourced more competitively, it is sold into the market.
Wherever possible, the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a the group will look to optimize value across the supply chain.
For commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and example, BP will often sell its own crude production into the market and term contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting purchase alternative crude for its refineries where this will provide mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with incremental margin.
Spot and term contracts relate typically to In addition to the supply activity described above, the function purchases of crude for a refinery, purchases of products for marketing, seeks to create incremental trading opportunities.
It enters into the full sales of the groups oil production and sales of the groups oil products.
range of exchange-traded commodity derivatives, over-the-counter OTC For accounting purposes, spot and term sales are included in total contracts and spot and term contracts that are described in detail below.
Similarly, spot and term purchases are In order to facilitate the generation of trading margin from arbitrage, included in purchases for accounting purposes.
blending and storage opportunities, it also both owns and contracts for storage and transport capacity.
The group has developed a risk International businesses governance framework to manage and oversee the financial risks Our IBs provide quality products and offers to customers in more than associated with this trading activity, which is described in the Financial 100 countries worldwide with a significant focus on Europe, North statements Note 28 on pages 142-147.
Our products include aviation and marine fuels, The range of transactions that the group enters into is lubricants that meet the needs of various industries and consumers, described below: LPG, and a range of petrochemicals that are sold for use in the manufacture of other products such as fabrics, fibres and various plastics.
Exchange-traded commodity derivatives These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded on Lubricants a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, SGX, ICE and Chicago Board of We manufacture and market lubricants and related products and services Trade.
Such contracts are traded in standard specifications for the main to the automotive, industrial, marine and energy markets across the marker crude oils, such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate, and the world.
Following a decision to simplify and focus our channels of trade, main product grades, such as gasoline and gasoil.
Gains and losses, we now sell products direct to our customers in around 50 countries and otherwise referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis use approved local distributors for the remaining locations.
Customer with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and focus, distinctive brands, superior technology and relationships remain risk management of both crude oil and refined products.
Realized and the cornerstones of our long-term strategy.
unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity derivatives BP markets primarily through its major brands of Castrol and BP, are included in total revenues for accounting purposes.
plus the Aral brand in some specific markets.
Castrol is recognized as one of the most powerful lubricants brands worldwide and we believe it OTC contracts provides us with a significant competitive advantage.
In the automotive These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
lubricants sector, we supply lubricants and other related products and Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties: services to intermediate customers such as retailers and workshops.
others may be cleared by a central clearing counterparty.
These contracts These, in turn, serve end-consumers such as car, truck and motorcycle can be used both as part of trading and risk management activities.
owners in the mature markets of Western Europe and North America as Realized and unrealized gains and losses on OTC contracts are included well as the markets of Russia, China, India, the Middle East, South in total revenues for accounting purposes.
America and Africa, which we believe have the potential for significant The main grades of crude oil bought and sold forward using long-term growth.
standard contracts are West Texas Intermediate and a standard North Sea BPs marine lubricants business is a global market leader, crude blend Brent, Forties and Osberg or BFO.
Although the contracts supplying many types of vessels from deep-sea fleets to marine leisurespecify physical delivery terms for each crude blend, a significant volume craft from around 1,200 ports across the globe.
BPs industrial lubricants are not settled physically.
The contracts typically contain standard business is a leading supplier to those sectors of the market involved in delivery, pricing and settlement terms.
Additionally, the BFO contract the manufacture of automobiles, trucks, machinery components and specifies a standard volume and tolerance given that the physically steel.
BP is also a leading supplier of lubricants for the offshore oil and settled transactions are delivered by cargo.
35 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Petrochemicals Significant events in petrochemicals were as follows: Our petrochemicals operations are comprised of the global Aromatics &The second PTA plant at the BP Zhuhai Chemical Company Limited Acetyls businesses A&A and the Olefins & Derivatives O&D site in Guangdong province China successfully completed businesses, predominantly in Asia.
New investments are targeted commissioning in the first quarter of 2008.
This 900 ktepa plant is principally in the higher growth Asian markets.
the single largest PTA manufacturing train in the world and employs In A&A, we manufacture and market three main product lines: BPs latest, proprietary technology.
purified terephthalic acid PTA, paraxylene PX and acetic acid.
Our A&AConstruction continued on the new 500ktepa acetic acid plant in strategy is to leverage our industry-leading technology in selected Jiangsu province China by BP YPC Acetyls Company Nanjing markets, to grow the business and to deliver industry-leading returns.
This is a BP joint venture with Yangzi Petrochemical PTA is a raw material used in the manufacture of polyesters used in Co. Ltd a subsidiary of Sinopec.
Construction is scheduled to be fibres, textiles and film, and PET bottles.
Acetic acid is a versatile completed in June 2009 with commercial sales expected to begin in intermediate chemical used in a variety of products such as paints, the third quarter of 2009. adhesives and solvents, as well as its use in the production of PTA.
Commissioning of our expanded Geel Belgium PTA facility We have a strong global market share in the PTA and acetic markets commenced at the end of 2008.
The 350ktepa expansion improves with a major manufacturing presence in Asia, particularly China.
PX overall operating costs and increases the sites PTA capacity to is a feedstock for PTA production.
In O&D, we manufacture ethylene and propylene from naphthaIn January 2008, BP and Sinopec signed a memorandum of and also produce a number of downstream derivative products.
understanding to add a new acetic acid plant at their Yangtze River Our O&D business has operations in both China and Malaysia.
In Acetyls Co. YARACO joint venture site in Chongqing China.
This China, our SECCO joint venture between BP, Sinopec and its subsidiary, world-scale 650ktepa acetic acid plant will use BPs leading Cativa Shanghai Petrochemical Company is the largest foreign-invested olefins technology.
The expected plant start-up date, which was originally cracker in China.
SECCO is BPs single largest investment in China.
This anticipated to be during 2011, is under review due to the market naphtha cracker produces ethylene and propylene plus derivatives conditions.
When complete, total production at the YARACO site is acrylonitrile, polyethylene, polypropylene, styrene, polystyrene, and other expected to be well over one million tonnes per annum, making this products.
In Malaysia, BP participates in two joint-ventures: Ethylene one of the largest acetic acid production locations in the world.
EMSB, which produces ethylene from gas feedstock in a joint venture between BP, Petronas and Idemitsu: while Polyethylene Aviation and marine fuels Malaysia Sdn.
PEMSB produces polyethylene in a joint venture Air BP is one of the worlds largest and best known aviation fuels between BP and Petronas.
Each of these ventures has demonstrated a suppliers, serving all the major commercial airlines as well as the general strong track record of project delivery and performance.
BP also owns aviation and military sectors.
During 2008, which was a tough year for the one other naphtha cracker outside Asia, which is integrated with our aviation industry, we simplified our geographical footprint by exiting nonGelsenkirchen refinery in Germany.
core countries and now supply customers in approximately 70 countries.
The following table shows BPs petrochemicals production We have annual marketing sales in excess of 27 billion litres and we have capacity at 31 December 2008.
This production capacity is based on the relationships with many of the worlds major commercial airlines.
Air BPs original design capacity of the plants plus expansions.
strategic aim is to grow its position in the core locations of Europe, the US, Australasia and the Middle East, while focusing its portfolio towards BP share of capacity airports that offer long-term competitive advantage.
BPs marine fuels thousand tonnes per year business focuses on the distribution and sale of refined fuel oils to the Acetic shipping industry at locations in more than 100 ports across the world.
Geographic area PTA PX acid Other O&D Total During 2008, this business performed well, supported by strong growth US 2,385 2,373 546 151 5,455 in the shipping market.
During the past few years, our LPG business has consolidated its position in established During 2008, the environment in which our petrochemicals businesses markets, pursued opportunities in new and emerging markets such as operate became more challenging as deterioration in the global economic China and announced the exit from the Vietnam market in December environment has led to a reduced demand for our products.
LPG product sales in 2008 were approximately 68mbpd.
