BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Regulation of the groups business Safety BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, This section reviews BPs safety performance in 2008. pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals There were five workforce fatalities in 2008, compared with seven production, trading, alternative energy and shipping activities, are in 2007.
One resulted from fatal injuries sustained during operations at conducted in many different countries and are therefore subject to a our Texas City refinery: one was the result of a fall from height at the broad range of EU, US, international, regional and local legislation and Tangguh operations in Indonesia: one fatality was on a land farm near regulations, including legislation that implements international Texas City, and two were driving fatalities incidents in Mozambique and conventions and protocols.
These cover virtually all aspects of our South Africa.
We deeply regret this loss of life.
By learning from these activities and include matters such as licence acquisition, production incidents and implementing appropriate improvement actions, we rates, royalties, environmental, health and safety protection, fuel continue to seek to secure the safety of all members of our workforce.
specifications and transportation, trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes Our workforce reported recordable injury frequency, which measures the and foreign exchange.
number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked, was 0.43 in 2008.
This was The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts a good improvement on the rate of 0.48 recorded in both 2007 and 2006. under which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to Throughout 2008, senior leadership across the group continued to country.
These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted hold safety as their highest priority.
Site visits, in which safety was a by or entered into with a government entity or state company and are focus, were undertaken by the group chief executive GCE and members sometimes entered into with private property owners.
These of the executive team to reinforce the importance of their commitment arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the form to safe and reliable operations.
of licences or production-sharing agreements.
Arrangements with private property owners are usually in the form of leases.
Management systems Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for We continue to implement our new operating management system and exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the OMS, a framework for operations across BP that is integral to improving risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides safety and operating performance in every site.
the financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is When fully implemented, OMS will be the single framework entitled to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A within which we will operate, consolidating BPs requirements relating licence holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, to process safety, environmental performance, legal compliance in which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and operations, and personal, marine and driving safety.
It embraces exploit hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in recommendations made by the BP US Refineries Independent Safety exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather Review Panel the panel, which reported in January 2007 on safety than production.
management at our US refineries and our safety management culture.
PSAs entered into with a government entity or state company The OMS establishes a set of requirements, and provides sites generally require BP to provide all the financing and bear the risk of with a systematic way to improve operating performance on a exploration and production activities in exchange for continuous basis.
BP businesses implementing OMS must work to a share of the production remaining after royalties, if any.
integrate group requirements within their local system to meet legal In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration obligations, address local stakeholder needs, reduce risk and improve and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are efficiency and reliability.
A number of mandatory operating and limited to a portion of the area covered by the exploration licence.
Both engineering technical requirements have been defined within the OMS, exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of to address process safety and related risks.
time except for licences in the US, which typically remain in effect until All operated businesses plan to transition to OMS by the end of production ceases.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which 2010.
Eight sites completed the transition to OMS in 2008: two these licences may be renewed vary by area.
petrochemicals plants, Cooper River and Decatur, two refineries, Lingen Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in and Gelsenkirchen and four Exploration and Production sites, North joint venture with other international oil companies, state companies or America Gas, the Gulf of Mexico, Colombia and the Endicott field in private companies.
Implementation is continuing across the group and a number of In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated other sites, including all refineries not already operating the OMS, are from production activities whether under a licence or production-sharing expected to complete the transition in 2009. agreement.
In addition, depending on the area, BPs production activities For the sites already involved, implementing OMS has involved may be subject to a range of other taxes, levies and assessments, detailed planning, including gap assessments supported by external including special petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
A core aspect of OMS implementation is that each site on oil and gas production profits and activities may be substantially higher produces its own local OMS, which takes account of relevant risks at than those imposed on other activities, particularly in Angola, Norway, the site and details the sites approach to managing those risks.
As part the UK, Russia, South America and Trinidad & Tobago.
of its transition to OMS, a site issues its local OMS handbook, and this For a discussion of environmental and certain health and safety summarizes its approach to risk management.
Each site also develops a regulations and environmental proceedings, see Environment on plan to close gaps that is reviewed annually.
The transition to OMS, at page 43.
See also Legal proceedings on page 92. local and group level, has been handled in a formal and systematic way, to ensure the change is managed safely and comprehensively.
