BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Regulation of the groups business Safety BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, This section reviews BPs safety performance in 2008. pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals There were five workforce fatalities in 2008, compared with seven production, trading, alternative energy and shipping activities, are in 2007.
One resulted from fatal injuries sustained during operations at conducted in many different countries and are therefore subject to a our Texas City refinery: one was the result of a fall from height at the broad range of EU, US, international, regional and local legislation and Tangguh operations in Indonesia: one fatality was on a land farm near regulations, including legislation that implements international Texas City, and two were driving fatalities incidents in Mozambique and conventions and protocols.
These cover virtually all aspects of our South Africa.
We deeply regret this loss of life.
By learning from these activities and include matters such as licence acquisition, production incidents and implementing appropriate improvement actions, we rates, royalties, environmental, health and safety protection, fuel continue to seek to secure the safety of all members of our workforce.
specifications and transportation, trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes Our workforce reported recordable injury frequency, which measures the and foreign exchange.
number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked, was 0.43 in 2008.
This was The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts a good improvement on the rate of 0.48 recorded in both 2007 and 2006. under which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to Throughout 2008, senior leadership across the group continued to country.
These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted hold safety as their highest priority.
Site visits, in which safety was a by or entered into with a government entity or state company and are focus, were undertaken by the group chief executive GCE and members sometimes entered into with private property owners.
These of the executive team to reinforce the importance of their commitment arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the form to safe and reliable operations.
of licences or production-sharing agreements.
Arrangements with private property owners are usually in the form of leases.
Management systems Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for We continue to implement our new operating management system and exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the OMS, a framework for operations across BP that is integral to improving risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides safety and operating performance in every site.
the financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is When fully implemented, OMS will be the single framework entitled to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A within which we will operate, consolidating BPs requirements relating licence holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, to process safety, environmental performance, legal compliance in which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and operations, and personal, marine and driving safety.
It embraces exploit hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in recommendations made by the BP US Refineries Independent Safety exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather Review Panel the panel, which reported in January 2007 on safety than production.
management at our US refineries and our safety management culture.
PSAs entered into with a government entity or state company The OMS establishes a set of requirements, and provides sites generally require BP to provide all the financing and bear the risk of with a systematic way to improve operating performance on a exploration and production activities in exchange for continuous basis.
BP businesses implementing OMS must work to a share of the production remaining after royalties, if any.
integrate group requirements within their local system to meet legal In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration obligations, address local stakeholder needs, reduce risk and improve and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are efficiency and reliability.
A number of mandatory operating and limited to a portion of the area covered by the exploration licence.
Both engineering technical requirements have been defined within the OMS, exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of to address process safety and related risks.
time except for licences in the US, which typically remain in effect until All operated businesses plan to transition to OMS by the end of production ceases.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which 2010.
Eight sites completed the transition to OMS in 2008: two these licences may be renewed vary by area.
petrochemicals plants, Cooper River and Decatur, two refineries, Lingen Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in and Gelsenkirchen and four Exploration and Production sites, North joint venture with other international oil companies, state companies or America Gas, the Gulf of Mexico, Colombia and the Endicott field in private companies.
Implementation is continuing across the group and a number of In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated other sites, including all refineries not already operating the OMS, are from production activities whether under a licence or production-sharing expected to complete the transition in 2009. agreement.
In addition, depending on the area, BPs production activities For the sites already involved, implementing OMS has involved may be subject to a range of other taxes, levies and assessments, detailed planning, including gap assessments supported by external including special petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
A core aspect of OMS implementation is that each site on oil and gas production profits and activities may be substantially higher produces its own local OMS, which takes account of relevant risks at than those imposed on other activities, particularly in Angola, Norway, the site and details the sites approach to managing those risks.
As part the UK, Russia, South America and Trinidad & Tobago.
of its transition to OMS, a site issues its local OMS handbook, and this For a discussion of environmental and certain health and safety summarizes its approach to risk management.
Each site also develops a regulations and environmental proceedings, see Environment on plan to close gaps that is reviewed annually.
The transition to OMS, at page 43.
See also Legal proceedings on page 92. local and group level, has been handled in a formal and systematic way, to ensure the change is managed safely and comprehensively.
41 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Experience so far has supported our expectation that having one In addition to action in these areas, we have continued to participate in integrated and coherent system brings benefits of simplification and industry-wide forums on process safety and have made efforts to share clarity, and that the process of change is supporting our renewed our learning with other organizations.
The independent expert has been tasked with reporting to the We are on track to meet our target of implementing OMS across board on BPs progress in implementing the panels recommendations.
We welcome the independent experts view expressed in his first report May 2008 that BP appears to be making substantial progress in Capability development changing culture and addressing needed process safety improvements.
In addition to ongoing training programmes we are undertaking a group However, we also acknowledge his observation that a significant amount wide programme to enhance the capability of our staff from front line to of work remains to be done on the process safety journey and that executive level to deliver operational excellence.
successful completion of the task will require the continued support and Almost 1,000, around a third, of our front-line supervisors have involvement of the board, executive management, and refinery started the Operating Essentials programme, which includes training on leadership along with a sustained effort over an extended period of time.
leadership, process safety, operating culture, practices and coaching and The independent experts second report is expected in the first half effective performance conversations.
More than 190, around half, of our operations leaders started the Operations Academy programme in 2008.
The academy, which has been Operational integrity established in partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of We continue to implement the six-point plan launched in 2006 to address Technology MIT, provides participants with a total of six weeks of immediate priorities for improving process safety and minimizing risk at operations training, concentrating on the management of change and our operations worldwide.
We have met our commitment to remove occupied portable The Executive Operations programme, which seeks to increase buildings OPBs from high-risk zones within onshore process plant areas insight into manufacturing and operation activities among senior business and to remove all blow-down stacks in heavier-than-air, light hydrocarbon leaders, has built on its successful launch with the first group, which service.
All major sites and our fuels value chains have completed major included the group chief executive and his executive team.
By the end of accident risk assessments, which identify major accident risks and 2008, 99 executives had attended the three-day programme.
develop mitigation plans to manage and respond to them.
In addition, new cadres of projects and engineering staff have We continue to implement the Control of Work and Integrity progressed through the Project and Engineering Academy at MIT and 13 Management standards.
We have made progress in ensuring our process safety courses have been delivered for project and project operations meet the requirements of a group framework designed to engineering managers at the Project Management College.
We have ensure we stay in compliance with legal requirements on health and continued to develop training on hazard evaluation and risk assessment safety.
We are continuing to take steps to close out past audit actions.
techniques for all engineers, operators and HSSE professionals.
Leadership competency assessments, which involve assessment of the experience of BP management teams responsible for major production Process safety management sites or manufacturing plant, have been completed in Exploration and We remain fully committed to becoming a recognized industry leader in Production and in all major Refining and Marketing manufacturing sites.
process safety management and are working to achieve this.
We have Implementation of these actions is expected to be largely taken a range of steps, including acting on the recommendations complete by the end of 2009, with some aspects of implementation from both the panel and those within the first annual report of the being incorporated into the transition to the OMS, expected to be independent expert.
The GORC regularly monitors progress Our actions can be summarized in three principal areas: against the plan.
We have made progress in reducing process safety risk at our US We monitor and report separately on major incidents such as refineries.
For example, we have completed and learned from safety those covering fatal accidents, significant property damage or significant and operations audits, relocated workers to lower-risk accommodation environmental impact.
We also track and analyze high potential incidents and implemented fatigue reduction programmes.
those that could have resulted in a major incident.
All major incidents Executive management has taken a range of actions to demonstrate and many high-potential incidents are discussed by the GORC and we their leadership and commitment to safety.
The group chief executive continue to seek to learn as much as possible from each incident.
has consistently emphasized that safety, people, and performance are A total of 21 major incidents were reported in 2008.
Two of the our top priority, a belief made clear in his 2007 announcement of a major incidents were related to hurricanes and eight were related to forward agenda for simplification and cultural change in BP.
performance has been scrutinized by the Group Operations Risk There were 335 oil spills of one barrel or more in 2008, similar to Committee the GORC, chaired by the group chief executive and 2007 performance of 340 oil spills.
The volume of oil spilled in 2008 was tasked with assuring the group chief executive that group operational approximately 3.5 million litres, an increase of 2.5 million litres, compared risks are identified and managed appropriately.
We continued to build with 2007.
This was largely the result of two incidents, one at Texas City our team of safety and operations auditors.
A team of 45 auditors is and one at the Whiting refinery, which accounted for two-thirds of the now in place, with 36 audits completed in 2008. total reported volume of oil spilled, the great majority of which remained Many of the process-safety related improvements recommended by contained and the oil recovered.
the panel are being implemented across the group through the OMS.
The group essentials within the OMS which cover diverse aspects of operating activity including legal compliance, process and environmental safety and basic operating practices in some cases go beyond the panels process safety recommendations, a point noted by the independent expert in his first report.
