BP Annual Review 2008 Our strategy To sustain and build on the momentum created by our forward agenda, we intend to re-invest competitively in Exploration Building and Production to secure and grow highquality oil and gas resources.
We intend and sustaining to continue to drive renewal through new access and exploration, but also through targeted acquisition and a renewed focus momentum on increasing recovery from elds in which we already operate.
We expect Exploration and Production to be our core vehicle for growth.
We expect to make investments across the full life cycle of our assets with an increased emphasis on technology as a source of productivity, access and competitive advantage.
We expect to strengthen our position further by securing new access and achieving Closing the competitive gap exploration success.
BP has a clear strategy that In Re ning and Marketing, we Competitive performance gap reduced.
addresses the groups current expect to continue building our business Progress with safe and reliable operations.
and future opportunities and around advantaged assets in material and Strong commitment to continuous improvement signi cant energy markets.
At the heart of this established.
continue investing in improving the safety strategy sit our three priorities and reliability of our operations.
Additionally, Delivery against our forward agenda, safety, people and performance.
we intend to drive further operational which we outlined in 2007, has resulted performance and productivity by investing Here we describe our approach in BP making signi cant progress towards in the upgrade of manufacturing capabilities and outline the actions we are closing the competitive performance gap within our integrated fuels value chains.
Actions taken since taking to transform strategy We also intend to invest selectively in the end of 2007 to restore revenues and international businesses, including lubricants into value.
reduce complexity and costs have created and petrochemicals, where we believe there operational momentum through 2008: is the potential to deliver strong returns.
their full financial impact is expected to In our Alternative Energy business, be realized from 2009. we are creating long-term options for the Our forward agenda focus on future in new energy technology and safety, people and performance is paying low-carbon energy businesses.
BP is in the leading group for safety will focus activity on wind, solar, biofuels performance in the industry, we have more and CCS as sources of energy and resource of the right people in the right place to make diversi cation and to create and grow value a difference and we are achieving real for BP.
performance momentum in our operations.
Our present and future is dependent A commitment to continuous improvement on our people and technology.
We intend will be the enduring legacy of the first phase to invest to build capability in our business, of our forward agenda.
ensuring we have the talent and experience required to meet all our objectives.
We also Sustaining momentum and growth intend to invest in technology to support the delivery of competitive business performance Safety and integrity remain first priority.
Exploration and Production to be core vehicle for growth.
BP is committed to exploring, More investment in availability and developing and producing more fossil fuel integrity in Re ning and Marketing.
resources because the world needs them: Focused investment in low-carbon manufacturing, processing and delivering energy businesses.
better and more advanced products: and enabling the material transition to a lower Looking forward, our strategy is to create carbon future.
We will continue to do this by operating safely, reliably and in value for shareholders by investing to deliver growth in our Exploration and Production compliance with the law.
And we will run our business within the discipline business, together with high-quality earnings and returns throughout our operations.
Our first priority continues to be to ensure the safety and integrity of our operations.
Angola 3 BP employees arrive safely at the Greater Plutonio offshore oating, production, storage and of oading vessel.
We expect to have invested more than $15 billion in our Angolan business by 2010.
Brazil Testing biofuels at one of Tropical BioEnergia S. A. s laboratories.
BP acquired a 50% stake in the company in 2008.
US Safety inspection work at our Toledo, Ohio, re nery.
We are implementing our operating management system at every BP site worldwide.
How we create value Powerful partnerships Excellence in A highly diverse grounded in mutual project delivery energy portfolio, advantage.
and the integration pioneering energy of technology.
