BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Alternative Energy Other businesses and corporate BP invested $1.4 billion in our Alternative Energy business during 2008, Other businesses and corporate comprizes Treasury which includes bringing the total investment in this business to $2.9 billion since its interest income on the groups cash and cash equivalents and corporate launch in 2005.
We expect to fulfil our original 2005 commitment to activities worldwide, the groups aluminium asset, the Alternative Energy invest a total of $8 billion over 10 years.
In 2008, we prioritized four business and Shipping.
areas with significant long-term growth potential wind, solar, biofuels Comparative information presented in the table below has been and carbon capture and storage CCS.
We have also developed a fifth restated, where appropriate, to reflect the resegmentation, following area gas-fired power that offers synergies with other BP operations.
transfers of businesses between segments, that was effective from We have concentrated our 2008 investment in these areas.
See page 16 for more details.
2008 2007 2006 Wind net rated capacity Key statistics a as at year-end megawatts 432 172 43 $ million 2008 2007 2006 Solar cell production capacity b a as at year-end megawatts 213 228 201 Total revenues 5,040 3,972 3,703 Profit loss before interest and tax a b Net wind capacity is the sum of the rated capacities of the assets turbines that have entered into from continuing operations 1,258 1,233 779 commercial operation, including BPs share of equity-accounted entities.
The equivalent capacities Total assets 19,079 20,595 16,315 on a gross-JV basis which includes 100% of the capacity of equity-accounted entities where BP Capital expenditure and acquisitions 1,839 939 852 has partial ownership were 785MW in 2008, 373MW in 2007 and 43MW in 2006. b Solar capacity is the theoretical cell production capacity per annum of in-house a Includes sales between businesses.
b Includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
Wind Treasury Since the launch of Alternative Energy we have substantially grown our Treasury co-ordinates the management of the groups major financial wind portfolio, increasing from 32 megawatts MW in operation to assets and liabilities.
From locations in the UK, the US and the Asia 432MW 785MW gross at the end of 2008.
In total, we have more than Pacific region, it provides the link between BP and the international 500MW 1,000MW gross of installed capacity.
This increase in capacity financial markets and makes available a range of financial services to was led by the US with installations at Cedar Creek, Silver Star, Sherbino the group, including supporting the financing of BPs projects around and Edom Hills.
To accelerate our growth in the US wind energy market, we acquired two fully integrated wind power development companies Insurance Greenlight Energy Inc. and Orion Energy LLC, during 2006.
To secure The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations the continuing availability of turbines we have signed agreements with where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
This is because Nordex Germany and GE the US for a combined 900MW to be external insurance is not considered an economic means of financing delivered during the next two years.
This is in addition to a five-year wind losses for the group.
Losses are therefore borne as they arise, rather turbine contract we previously signed with Clipper Windpower Inc. than being spread over time through insurance premiums with attendant in 2006. transaction costs.
This position is reviewed periodically.
We also operate wind farms in the Netherlands and in Maharashtra, India.
Aluminium Our aluminium business is a non-integrated producer and marketer of Solar rolled aluminium products, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, US.
We continued to implement BP Solars strategy to invest in lower cost Production facilities are located in Logan County, Kentucky, and are jointly manufacturing and technology to enable energy sourced from our owned with Novelis.
The primary activity of our aluminium business is products to compete with conventional electricity.
Our global business the supply of aluminium coil to the beverage can business, which it model spans the entire solar value chain from the acquisition of manufactures primarily from recycled aluminium.
silicon as a raw material, the production of wafers and cells to the creation of solar panels that are then sold and distributed as solar systems on the roofs of residential homes, large commercial buildings and on vacant land.
Today, BP Solars main production facilities are located in Maryland US, Madrid Spain, Xian China and Bangalore India.
During 2008, due to increasingly competitive market conditions, BP Solar announced plans to refocus operations at larger scale plants to achieve lower-cost manufacturing.
This resulted in the start of an intensive programme of operational efficiency improvement in the remaining BP Solar plants and plans to close our manufacturing plant in Australia.
During 2008, BP Solar signed contracts with a select set of third-party strategic partners in Asia who specialize in the production of low-cost, high-quality wafers, cells and modules.
During 2008, BP Solar achieved sales of 162MW, an increase of 41% from 115MW in 2007.
The slight decrease in solar production capacity was due to fire damage in a section of our manufacturing plant in India.
37 Performance review BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review More than 70% of our sales volume is through third-party distributors in These investments include: a 50% stake in Tropical BioEnergia, a joint the residential markets in Europe, the US and Australasia.
We have venture with Santelisa Vale and Maeda Group, to produce bioethanol continued to roll out our Certified Installer Programme CIP, first from sugar cane: and a $90-million investment and strategic alliance established in Germany, to ensure the safe, high-quality installation of with Verenium Corporation to accelerate the development and products by third parties.
The CIP has grown rapidly in Germany and this commercialization of biofuels produced from lignocellulosic bioethanol.
year has been rolled out in Spain and Australia.
We have been working with DuPont since 2003 to explore new In the US, in 2008, we continued to supply large corporations with approaches to the development of biofuels.
The first product from this sustainable energy solutions, completing a second solar system collaboration will be an advanced fuel molecule called biobutanol, which for FedEx Freight in California and a further six installations for Wal-Mart.
has a higher energy content than ethanol.
We have partnered with In Europe, we expanded the relationship with Banco Santander to jointly ABF British Sugar and DuPont to construct a world-scale biofuels plant build and finance a number of solar plants in Spain, with the construction in Hull.
of an 8 megawatts-peak MWp solar farm in Toledo and a 6MWp project Innovation begins with research.
In 2006, we announced plans in Tenerife.
In Asia, we completed the installation of a solar power to invest $500 million over 10 years in the Energy Biosciences Institute demonstration project SolarSail at the Guangdong Science Center: the EBI, at which biotechnologists are investigating applications of SolarSail absorbs sunlight to produce power, while providing cool shade biotechnology to energy, including advanced fuels.
This amount is for visitors.
In Australia, the largest roof-top solar system 100 kilowatt in incremental to the $1 billion of investments mentioned above.
Our New South Wales commenced operation in February 2008, representing partners are the University of California, Berkeley and the University the first commercial solar power installation for the Blacktown Solar City of Illinois at Urbana Champaign and the Lawrence Berkeley National Project.
The Solar Cities Programme is a government initiative to Laboratory.
The EBI is focusing on the integrated development of better implement distributed solar and other energy efficient technologies in crops, better processing technologies and better biofuels, leading to seven Australian cities.
We are developing a new silicon growth process named 2TM Mono, which will increase cell efficiency over traditional Hydrogen power  solar cells.
We have moved from a prototype to In May 2007, BP and Rio Tinto announced the formation of a new jointly low-volume production and have converted our casting stations in owned company, Hydrogen Energy International Limited, which will TM Frederick, Maryland, delivering 1.2MW Mono.
From the trials, we are develop decarbonized energy projects around the world.
The venture will seeing significant improvement in power and generated kWh when initially focus on hydrogen-fuelled power generation, using fossil fuels and compared with  solar cells particularly when CCS technology to produce new large-scale supplies of clean electricity.
modules are used where sunlight is low.
Hydrogen Energy is working on developing low-carbon power BP Solar has long-term relationships with world-class universities plants with projects in Abu Dhabi and California manufacturing and invests in research programmes with organizations including the hydrogen for power generation.
In both instances, the captured CO2 will University of Delaware, California Institute of Technology Cal Tech and be transported to nearby oil fields for use in enhanced oil recovery, with the Fraunhofer Institute Germany.
BP Solar was selected for the Solar the CO2 stored deep underground.
General Electric and BP have formed America Initiative SAI award from the US Department of Energy a a global alliance to jointly develop and deploy technology for hydrogen $40-million research and development programme aimed at decreasing power plants that could significantly reduce emissions of the greenhouse the cost of solar cells and increasing their efficiency.
BP Solar is also a gas CO2 from electricity generation.
member of the broad consortium led by DuPont in conjunction with the Through these initiatives, BP intends to continue to shape University of Delaware, funded by the Defense Advanced Research the development of the CCS value chain and to seek to minimize Projects Agency DARPA, to develop high-efficiency solar cells.
the carbon footprint exposure of the BP group as carbon pricing and policy develops globally.
Biofuels BP has a key role to play in enabling the transport sector to respond to Gas-fired power the dual challenges of energy security and climate change.
Our Our gas-fired power activities comprise modern combined cycle gas turbine investments are focused on sustainable feedstocks that minimize plants, which emit around 50% less CO2 than a conventional coal plant of pressure on food supplies and on research into advanced technologies the same capacity, and several low-carbon co-generation gas power and practices to make good biofuels even better.
We have stakes in eight plants worldwide and this year increased We have embarked on a focused programme of biofuels the total power they are capable of producing from 5GW to 6GW and, development based around the most efficient transformation of where possible, we integrate plants with other BP production facilities.
The sustainable and low-cost sugars into a range of fuel molecules.
These Whiting Clean Energy facility, acquired in July 2008, now provides a reliable include bioethanol from Brazilian sugar cane, more efficient fuel source of steam for our Whiting refinery and we are adding a 250MW molecules like biobutanol and advanced biofuels like lignocellulosic steam turbine to our existing plant at our Texas City refinery.
Our combined bioethanol produced from non-food energy grasses and for-purpose cycle plants are providing base-load demand for BPs major upstream gas feedstocks such as miscanthus and energy cane.
BP has announced it has plans to invest in excess of $1 billion in building our own biofuels business operations, including partnerships with other companies to develop the technologies, feedstocks and processes required to produce advanced biofuels.
38 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Shipping We transport our products across oceans, around coastlines and along waterways, using a combination of BP-operated, time-chartered and spot-chartered vessels.
All vessels conducting BP activities are subject to our health, safety, security and environmental requirements.
International fleet At the end of 2008, we had an international fleet of 54 vessels 37 medium-size crude and product carriers, four very large crude carriers, one North Sea shuttle tanker, eight LNG carriers and four LPG carriers.
All these ships are double-hulled.
Of the eight LNG carriers, BP manages one on behalf of a joint venture in which it is a participant and operates seven LNG carriers.
Regional and specialist vessels In Alaska, during 2008, we redelivered one of our time-chartered vessels back to the owner, leaving a fleet of four double-hulled vessels.
In the Lower 48, the two remaining heritage Amoco barges were phased out of BPs service.
Outside the US, at the end of 2008, we had 14 specialist vessels two double-hulled lubricants oil barges and 12 offshore support vessels.
Time-charter vessels At the end of 2008, BP had 115 hydrocarbon-carrying vessels above 600 deadweight tonnes on time-charter, of which 107 are double-hulled and one is double-bottomed.
All these vessels participate in BPs Time Charter Assurance Programme.
Spot-charter vessels BP spot-charters vessels, typically for single voyages.
These vessels are always vetted for safety assurance prior to use.
Other vessels BP uses various craft such as tugs, crew boats and seismic vessels in support of the groups business.
We also use sub-600 deadweight tonne barges to carry hydrocarbons on inland waterways.
Maritime security issues 2008 has seen a significant escalation in piracy activity, specifically off the north coast of Somalia.
At a strategic level, BP avoids known areas of pirate attack or armed robbery: where this is not possible for trading reasons and we consider it safe to do so, we will continue to trade vessels through areas of known piracy, subject to the adoption of heightened security measures.
BP will continue to route vessels through the Gulf of Aden for as long as it considers it to be safe to do so, having regard to available military and government agency advice.
At present, we are following such advice and are participating in protective group transits through the Gulf of Aden Maritime Security Patrol Area transit corridor.
