BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review executive is obliged to discuss with the board, on the basis of the Information on the company strategy and group plan, all material matters currently or prospectively affecting BPs performance.
General During 2008, we continued to pursue our three strategic Unless otherwise indicated, information in this document reflects 100% priorities of Safety, People and Performance, which underpin BPs of the assets and operations of the company and its subsidiaries that forward agenda.
were consolidated at the date or for the periods indicated, including Through this, we have taken steps to restore revenues, reduce minority interests.
Also, unless otherwise indicated, figures for total complexity and manage costs and have made significant progress revenues include sales between BP businesses.
towards closing the competitive performance gap to our peer group.
The company was incorporated in 1909 in England and Wales Looking forward, our strategy is to create value for shareholders by and changed its name to BP p. l. c. in 2001. investing to deliver growth in Exploration and Production, together with BP is one of the worlds leading oil companies on the basis of high-quality earnings and returns throughout our operations.
Our first market capitalization and proved reserves.
Our worldwide headquarters priority will always be to ensure the safety and integrity of our operations.
is located at 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK, tel 44 0 20 We expect Exploration and Production to be our core source of 7496 4000.
Our agent in the US is BP America Inc. 501 Westlake Park growth.
We intend to re-invest competitively in Exploration and Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77079, tel 1281 366 2000.
Production to secure and grow high-quality oil and gas resources.
This investment is intended to be focused on strengthening our position Overview of the group further by securing new access and achieving exploration success.
It is BP is a global group, with interests and activities held or operated also intended to be targeted on a renewed focus on increasing recovery through subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates established from fields in which we already operate.
We expect to make investment in, and subject to the laws and regulations of, many different across the full life cycle of our assets with an increased emphasis on jurisdictions.
These interests and activities covered two business technology as a source of productivity, access and competitive advantage.
segments in 2008: Exploration and Production and Refining and In Refining and Marketing, we expect to continue building our Marketing.
With effect from 1 January 2008, the former Gas, Power and business around advantaged assets in material and significant energy Renewables segment ceased to report separately see Resegmentation markets.
We intend to continue investing in improving the safety and in 2008 on page 16. reliability of our operations.
Additionally, we intend to drive further A separate business, Alternative Energy, reported in Other operational performance and productivity by investing in the upgrade of businesses and corporate, handles BPs low-carbon businesses and manufacturing capabilities within our integrated fuels value chains.
future growth options outside oil and gas.
We also intend to invest selectively in international businesses, Exploration and Productions activities include oil and natural gas including lubricants and petrochemicals, where we believe there is the exploration, development and production upstream activities, together potential to deliver strong returns.
with related pipeline, transportation and processing activities midstream In Alternative Energy, we are focusing our investment activity in activities, as well as the marketing and trading of natural gas including new energy technology and low-carbon energy businesses that we LNG, power and natural gas liquids NGLs.
The activities of Refining and believe will provide long-term options to meet energy demand and Marketing include the refining, manufacturing, supply and trading, provide BP with significant long-term growth potential.
These are wind, marketing and transportation of crude oil, petroleum and petrochemicals solar, biofuels and carbon capture and storage.
The group provides high-quality We are dependent on our people and technology to deliver on technological support for all its businesses through its research and our strategy.
We intend to invest in ensuring that we have people with engineering activities.
the right capability and experience to meet all of our objectives and the All these activities are supported by a number of other technology to support the delivery of competitive business performance organizational elements comprising group functions and regions.
Group and new business development.
BP is committed to delivering its functions serve the business segments, aiming to achieve coherence strategy by operating safely, reliably, in compliance with the law and across the group, manage risks effectively and achieve economies of within the discipline of a clear financial framework.
In addition, each regional head provides the required integration and co-ordination of group activities and represents BP to external parties.
Geographical presence We have well-established operations in Europe, the US, Canada, Russia, Internal control South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
Currently, around The groups system of internal control is designed to meet the 67% of the groups capital is invested in Organisation for Economic expectations of internal control of the Combined Code in the UK and of Cooperation and Development OECD countries, with around 41% of COSO committee of the sponsoring organizations for the Treadway our fixed assets located in the US and around 20% located in Europe.
The system of internal control is the complete We believe that BP has a strong portfolio of assets: set of management systems, organizational structures, processes, In Exploration and Production, we have upstream interests in 29 standards and behaviours that are employed to conduct the business of countries.
Exploration and Production activities are managed through BP and deliver returns to shareholders.
The design of the system of operating units that are accountable for the day-to-day management internal control addresses risks and how to respond to them.
Each of the segments activities.
An operating unit is accountable for one component of the system is in itself a device to respond to a particular or more fields.
Our current areas of major development include the type or collection of risks.
deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Azerbaijan, Algeria, Angola, Egypt and Asia Pacific where we believe we have competitive advantage and the Strategy foundation for volume growth and improved margins in the future.
The group strategy describes the groups strategic objectives and the We also have significant midstream activities to support our upstream assumptions made by BP about the future.
It describes strategic risks interests.
Additionally, we undertake natural gas, power and NGLs and opportunities that arise from making such assumptions and the marketing and trading activity and LNG activity, which are focused on actions to be taken to manage or mitigate the risks.
The board delegates identifying and capturing worldwide opportunities for our upstream to the group chief executive responsibility for developing BPs strategy natural gas reserves, and we have an NGLs processing business in and its implementation through the group plan that determines the North America.
setting of priorities and allocation of resources.
The group chief 15 P Pe er rf formance re ormance revie view w BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review In Refining and Marketing, we have a strong presence in the US and Acquisitions and disposals Europe.
In the US, we market under the Amoco and BP brands in the There were no significant acquisitions in 2006, 2007 or 2008. midwest, east and south-east and under the ARCO brand on the west In 2008, we completed an asset exchange with Husky Energy coast, and in Europe, under the BP and Aral brands.
and asset purchases from Chesapeake Energy Corporation as established supply and trading activity responsible for delivering value described on page 51. across the crude and oil products supply chain.
Our Aromatics & In 2007, BP acquired Chevrons Netherlands manufacturing Acetyls business maintains a manufacturing position globally, with company, Texaco Raffiniderij Pernis B. V. The acquisition included emphasis on growth in Asia.
We also have, or are growing, Chevrons 31% minority shareholding in Nerefco, its 31% shareholding in businesses elsewhere in the world under the BP and Castrol brands, the 22.5MW wind farm co-located at the refinery as well as a 22.8% including a strong global lubricants portfolio and other  in the TEAM joint venture terminal and shareholdings in two business marketing businesses aviation and marine covering the local pipelines linking the TEAM terminal to the refinery.
We continue to seek opportunities to broaden our proceeds were $4,267 million, which included $1,903 million from the activities in growth markets such as China and India.
sale of the Coryton refinery and $605 million from the sale of our Through non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities, during the period exploration and production gas infrastructure business in the Netherlands.
covered by this report, BP conducted limited marketing, licensing and In 2006, BP purchased 9.6% of the shares issued under Rosnefts trading activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identified by IPO for a consideration of $1 billion included in capital expenditure.
This the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism.
BP believes represented an interest of around 1.4% in Rosneft.
Disposal proceeds that these activities are immaterial to the group.
were $6,254 million, which included $2.1 billion on the sale of our BP has interests in, and is the operator of, two fields and a pipeline interest in the Shenzi discovery and around $1.3 billion from the sale of located outside Iran in which the National Iranian Oil Company NIOC our producing properties on the Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of and an affiliated entity have interests.
In Iran, BP buys small quantities of Mexico to Apache Corporation.
This is primarily for sale to third parties in Europe and a small portion is used by BP in its own refineries in South Africa and Europe.
In Resegmentation in 2008 addition, BP sells small quantities of crude oil into Iran and blends and On 11 October 2007, BP announced that it was to simplify its markets small quantities of lubricants for sale to domestic consumers organizational structure by reducing the number of business segments.
through a joint venture there, which has a blending facility.
However, From 1 January 2008, BP has two business segments: BP does not seek to obtain from the government of Iran licences or Exploration and Production and Refining and Marketing.
A separate agreements for oil and gas projects in Iran, is not conducting any business, Alternative Energy, handles BPs low-carbon businesses and technical studies in Iran and does not own or operate any refineries future growth options outside oil and gas and reports under Other or chemicals plants in Iran.
BP sells small quantities of lubricants in Cuba through a 50 50 As a result, and with effect from 1 January 2008: joint venture there.
In Syria, small quantities of lubricants are soldThe former Gas, Power and Renewables segment ceased to through a distributor and BP obtains small volumes of crude oil report separately.
supplies for sale to third parties in Europe.
In addition, BP sells smallThe NGLs, LNG and gas and power marketing and trading businesses quantities of crude oil into Syria.
These sales and purchases are were transferred from the Gas, Power and Renewables segment to insignificant and BP does not provide other goods, technologies or the Exploration and Production segment.
The Alternative Energy business was transferred from the Gas, Power and Renewables segment to Other businesses and corporate.
Market contextThe Emerging Consumers Marketing Unit was transferred from Our market is a complex and fast-moving environment.
In 2008, volatile Refining and Marketing to Alternative Energy which is reported in energy price movements mirrored unsettled financial markets and wider Other businesses and corporate.
economic uncertainty see Risk factors on page 12.
World oilThe Biofuels business was transferred from Refining and Marketing consumption fell in 2008, with growing demand in fast growing nonto Alternative Energy which is reported in Other businesses OECD countries more than offset by falling consumption in the OECD and corporate.
Gas consumption grew in the major markets.
AnxietiesThe Shipping business was transferred from Refining and Marketing to around energy security continued, with individual consumer countries Other businesses and corporate.
facing specific issues related to cost, geography and political relationships with producers.
In terms of supply, substantial global reserves of oil and gas are in place but government, energy companies and industry must work together to bring these to market.
There is also a clear need for greater energy diversity to address the competing challenges of growing demand and climate change.
In terms of human resources, the energy industry also faces a shortage of professionals such as petroleum engineers and scientists.
