BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Additional information for shareholders The UK Companies Act requires a director of a company who is in any Memorandum and Articles way interested in a contract or proposed contract with the company to declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of the directors of the of Association company.
The definition of interest includes the interests of spouses, The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys children, companies and trusts.
The UK Companies Act also requires that Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This a director must avoid a situation where a director has, or could have, a summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the UK Companies Act direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the and the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
The Act allows directors of public companies to on where investors can obtain copies of the Memorandum and Articles authorize such conflicts where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association is described under the heading Documents on display on of Association so permit.
BPs Articles of Association permit the page 98. authorization of such conflicts.
The directors may exercise all the powers On 24 April 2003, the shareholders of BP voted at the AGM to of the company to borrow money, except that the amount remaining adopt new Articles of Association to consolidate amendments that had undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall not, without been necessary to implement legislative changes since the previous approval of the shareholders, exceed the amount paid up on the share Articles of Association were adopted in 1983. capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and revenue At the AGM held on 15 April 2004, shareholders approved an reserves of the company.
Variation of the borrowing power of the board amendment to the Articles of Association such that, at each AGM held may only be effected by amending the Articles of Association.
after 31 December 2004, all directors shall retire from office and may Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in offer themselves for re-election.
the aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of At the AGM held on 17 April 2008, shareholders voted to adopt executive directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
This new Articles of Association, largely to take account of changes in UK committee is made up of non-executive directors only.
There is no company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
Further requirement of share ownership for a directors qualification.
amendments to the Articles of Association are likely to be required at our AGM in 2010, to reflect the full implementation of the Companies Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: Act 2006. capital calls If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by Objects and purposes resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may England and Wales with registered number 102498.
Clause 4 of BPs also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
No Memorandum of Association provides that its objects include the dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution, acquisition of petroleum-bearing lands: the carrying on of refining and as determined under IFRS and the UK Companies Act.
Dividends on dealing businesses in the petroleum, manufacturing, metallurgical or ordinary shares are payable only after payment of dividends on BP chemicals businesses: the purchase and operation of ships and all other preference shares.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years vehicles and other conveyances: and the carrying on of any other from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and businesses calculated to benefit BP.
The memorandum grants BP reverts to BP.
a range of corporate capabilities to effect these objects.
The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not Directors the companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend director voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which he has if any is declared, the Articles of Association provide that the directors a material interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the may set aside: company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest notA special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerningA general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall the following matters: be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money may properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of such sum, lent or obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to the company.
shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the Any proposal in which he is interested concerning the underwriting of ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for company securities or debentures.
allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
Any proposal concerning any other company in which he is Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the interested, directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
or otherwise provided that he and persons connected with him are Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the not the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the company, provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have shares of such company.
All shares are fully paid.
Proposals concerning the modification of certain retirement benefits schemes under which he may benefit and that have been approved by either the UK Board of Inland Revenue or by the shareholders.
Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any insurance policy under which he may benefit.
