BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Additional information for shareholders On 25 October 2007, the DOJ announced that it had entered into a paint from buildings, medical monitoring and screening programmes, criminal plea agreement with BP Products related to the March 2005 public warning and education of lead hazards, reimbursement of explosion and fire.
Following BP Products guilty plea on 4 February 2008, government healthcare costs and special education for lead-poisoned pursuant to the plea agreement, to one felony violation of the risk citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Richfield has management planning regulations promulgated under the US federal been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been subject to a final adverse Clean Air Act, a series of appeals were taken by victims of the incident, judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if such suits were who alleged that the plea agreement did not fully take into account the successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the victims injuries.
On 7 October 2008, after resolution of those appeals, various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible to predict the BP Products returned to court to argue for acceptance of the guilty plea.
outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes that it has valid At the plea hearing, the court advised that it would take the matter under defences and it intends to defend such actions vigorously and that the review and decide whether to accept or reject the plea.
If the court incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP believes that the accepts the agreement, BP Products will pay a $50 million criminal fine impact of these lawsuits on the groups results of operations, financial and serve three years probation.
Compliance with a 2005 OSHA position or liquidity will not be material.
settlement agreement and an agreed order entered into by BP Products In January 2009, the TNK-BP shareholders resolved, or agreed with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TCEQ are a process for resolving, all outstanding claims between them, including conditions of probation.
The TCEQ and the DOJ continue to investigate those relating to Russian back taxes.
The suit filed in Russia by a certain matters arising from the March 2005 explosion and fire.
minority shareholder in TNK-BP Holding, alleging that an agreement On 29 November 2007, BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA by BP specialists to provide services to the TNK-BP group is invalid entered into a criminal plea agreement with the DOJ relating to leaks of and demanding repayment of sums paid to BP for such services, has crude oil in March and August 2006.
BPXAs guilty plea, to a been withdrawn.
misdemeanour violation of the US Federal Water Pollution Control Act, For certain information regarding environmental proceedings, included a term of three years probation.
BPXA is eligible to petition the see Environment US regional review on page 46. court for termination of the probation term if it meets certain benchmarks relating to replacement of the transit lines, upgrades to its leak detection The offer and listing system and improvements to its integrity management programme.
BPXA continues to co-operate with a parallel State of Alaska civil investigation Markets and market prices into the March and August 2006 spills, including three separate The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock subpoenas issued to BPXA by the Alaska Department of Environmental Exchange LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the Conservation.
BPXA is also engaged in discussions with the DOJ, the EPA Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are also and the US Department ofTransportation concerning a civil enforcement traded on stock exchanges in France and Germany.
action relating to the 2006 Prudhoe Bay oil transit line incidents.
Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of Shareholder derivative lawsuits alleging breach of fiduciary duty the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 that were filed in US federal and state courts against the directors of the for the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose company and others, nominally the company and certain US subsidiaries, primary listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific following the events relating to, inter alia, Prudhoe Bay, Texas City and the prices may be sent to the exchange electronically by any firm that is a trading cases, have been settled following court approval of the member of the LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as a settlement terms and the claims have been dismissed.
The orders are then anonymously displayed in the order book.
Approximately 200 lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts When there is a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed in Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the and automatically reported to the LSE.
Trading is continuous from Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. UK time but, in the event of a 20% movement in those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service the share price either way, the LSE may impose a temporary halt in the Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the trading of that companys shares in the order book to allow the market to other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the re-establish equilibrium.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 46.9% between an investor and a market-maker, via a member firm, outside the interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips in electronic order book.
Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briefly indirectly In the US, the companys securities are traded in the form of owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank is the depositary the Depositary Atlantic Richfield.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims and transfer agent.
The Depositarys principal office is 4 New York Plaza, against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may file a Floor 13, New York, NY 10004, US.
Each ADS represents six ordinary claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and shares.
ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
ADSs are damages that it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, which may be issued affect Alyeska and its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
in either certificated or book entry form.
Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary of BP, has been named The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the highest as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury and lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares for the to persons and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
The majority of periods shown.
These are derived from the Daily Official List of the LSE the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed against Atlantic and the highest and lowest sales prices of ADSs as reported on the New Richfield.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as alleged York Stock Exchange NYSE composite tape.
successor to International Smelting and Refining and another company that manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
Plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours trading off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the market prices for ADSs on the NYSE are closely related due to arbitrage among the various markets, although differences may exist from time to time due to various factors, including UK stamp duty reserve tax.
On 18 February 2009, 864,042,084 ADSs equivalent to 5,184,252,501 ordinary shares or some 27.51% of the total issued share capital, excluding treasury shares were outstanding and were held by approximately 136,213 ADS holders.
Of these, about 134,710 had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the registered holders of ADSs represents some 818,000 underlying holders.
On 18 February 2009, there were approximately 317,409 holders of record of ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 1,504 had registered addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,236,569 ordinary shares.
Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers and other nominees, the number of holders of record in the US may not be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country of residence.
