BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Additional information for shareholders Additional tax considerations An ADR holder electing to receive ADSs instead of a cash dividend will UK inheritance tax be responsible for the stamp duty reserve tax due on issue of shares to The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an the Depositarys nominee and calculated at the rate of 1.5% on the issue individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention price of the shares.
It is understood that HM Revenue & Customs in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a practice is to calculate the issue price by reference to the total cash national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the receipt to which a US holder would have been entitled had the election to individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, receive ADSs instead of a cash dividend not been made.
ADR holders among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a electing to receive ADSs instead of the cash dividend authorize the permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of Depositary to sell sufficient shares to cover this liability.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are subject both to inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be Documents on display credited against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be BPs Annual Report and Accounts is also available online at credited against tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in www.
Shareholders may obtain a hard copy of BPs the Estate Tax Convention.
complete audited financial statements, free of charge, by contacting BP Distribution Services at 44 0 870 241 3269 or through an email request UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax addressed to @bp.
com, or BPs US Shareholder The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current Services office in Warrenville, Illinois at 1 800 638 5672 or through an practice of HM Revenue & Customs in the UK under existing law.
email request addressed to shareholderus@bp.
Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK The company is subject to the information requirements of the US and remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In to any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is accordance with these requirements, the company files its Annual payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an agreement Report on Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
It is to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty possible to read and copy documents that have been filed with the SEC reserve tax.
at the SECs public reference room located at 100 F Street NE, Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the Washington, DC 20549, US.
You may also call the SEC at 1 800-SECCREST system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty 0330 or log on to www.
In addition, BPs SEC filings are available reserve tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an to the public at the SECs website www.
BP discloses on its agreement for the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a conditional website at www.
com , and in its agreement, when the condition is fulfilled.
The stamp duty reserve tax Annual Report on Form 20-F Item 16G significant ways if any in which will apply to agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the its corporate governance practices differ from those mandated for US agreement is made outside the UK between two non-residents.
companies under NYSE listing standards.
Purchases of ordinary shares outside the CREST system are subject Details of some of BPs other publications are listed on the inside either to stamp duty at a rate of 5 per 1,000 or part, unless the stamp back cover.
duty is less than 5, when no stamp duty is charged, or stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax are generally the liability of the purchaser.
A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositarys nominee will give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of 1.50 per 100 or part or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
