BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review operations, enabled by real-time data and Field-of-the-Future Research and technology technologies delivered an extra 30,000 to 50,000 boepd gross production.
Research and technology R&T has a critical role to play in addressing the Also in 2008, as part of its Inherently Reliable Facilities flagship, BP worlds energy challenges, from fundamental research through to widecompleted a field trial of a new fibre-optic system that represents a stepscale deployment.
The full breadth of these R&T activities is carried out change in onshore pipeline monitoring, and which will now be deployed by each of the business segments.
We also conduct long-term research in Azerbaijan, Canada and Scotland.
In our Refining and Marketing segment, technology Inside the segments, research and technology activities are advancements are enabling our refineries to understand and process in service of competitive business performance and new business feedstocks of varying quality and optimize our assets in real time, development, through the research, development or acquisition of new enhancing the flexibility and reliability of our refineries and, in turn, technologies.
The central R&T group provides leadership for scientific and improving the margins of our existing asset base.
In 2008, BP began technological activities throughout the group and, in particular, provides upgrading its Whiting refinery in Indiana to process heavy crude oil from input to the groups long-term strategy.
It ensures that the right capability Canada using one of the industrys most technologically advanced coking is in place in critical areas and ensures the quality of BPs major operations.
In Naperville, US, we opened a new refining R&D centre, technology programmes.
It also illuminates the potential of emerging installing more than 50 new pilot units at the forefront of experimental technologies and conducts research and development R&D in support technology and modelling.
We have installed predictive analytics of BPs long-term corporate renewal.
In addition, a group of eminent technology for fault detection and prediction on critical machinery across industrialists and academics forms the Technology Advisory Council, seven of our refineries reducing losses from machinery failure.
BPs which advises the board and executive management on the state of leading technologies in fuels and lubricants mean that it can keep ahead research and technology within the group and helps to identify current of increasingly stringent regulations, balancing greater fuel efficiency and trends and future developments in technology.
performance and developing superior formulations across its entire Research and development R&D is carried out using a balance of product slate.
For example, our BP Ultimate fuels deliver performance internal and external resources.
Involving third parties in the various steps benefits such as improved fuel economy, lower emissions and a cleaner of technology development and application enables a wider range of engine: and we have launched Greendeck and Greenfield, a suite of highideas and technologies to be considered and implemented, improving performance and environmentally friendly marine and offshore lubricants.
the impact of research and development activities.
Our proprietary processing technologies and operational experience Across the group, expenditure on R&D for 2008 was $595 million, continue to reduce the manufacturing costs and environmental impact of compared with $566 million in 2007 and $395 million in 2006.
See our petrochemicals plants, helping to maintain competitive advantage.
Financial statements note 15 on page 132.
The 5% increase in 2008 For example, our new 900ktepa purified terephthalic acid PTA plant in compared with 2007 reflects increased investment in biosciences, Zhuhai, China was officially opened in 2008, occupying a plot just half the conversion and carbon capture and storage technologies.
size of its older, neighbouring plant, but with double the production Beyond R&D, we also invest in technologies to get them to the capacity.
In the field of conversion technology, our Nikiski Fischer-Tropsch point of commercial readiness: this includes field trials, support for demonstration plant in Alaska operated at levels to prove that we have a technology deployment, specialist technical services and central working catalyst at industrial scale.
investment in functional excellence and capability development have In Alternative Energy, our low-carbon research and technology deepened our current areas of technology leadership.
In 2008, we filed patents covering biofuels, In our Exploration and Production segment, we have organized carbon capture and storage CCS, and hydrogen membranes.
Our solar leading technologies under 10 flagship programmes, each with the business produced the first prototype of a cut-cell high voltage module, potential to add more than 1 billion boe to reserves through their giving a 5% increase in power over conventional modules.
Working as development and deployment in our assets worldwide.
These part of the UKs Energy Technologies Institute a public private technologies contributed to exploration and production success in partnership to accelerate low-carbon technology development BP is Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Egypt, the North Sea and the Gulf of Mexico proceeding with investments in projects to develop new offshore wind deepwater.
Our advanced seismic imaging expertise, which is one of and marine turbines.
We also published results of the satellite monitoring these programmes, continues to lead the industry, pioneering new wideprogramme, verified by well and tracer detection, of the CCS project at azimuth seismic acquisition and processing in deepwater Angola, Egypt the In Salah gas field in Algeria with our partners Sonatrach.
In addition, BP has developed new technologies Collaboration plays an important role across the breadth of BPs that have significantly reduced the time needed for land seismic research and development activities, but particularly in those areas that acquisition in Oman, and these are now being deployed in Libya.
Our benefit from fundamental scientific research.
BP has 11 significant longenhanced oil recovery technologies are pushing recovery factors to new term research programmes with major universities and research limits.
For example, recovery factors have already increased from 40% institutions around the world, exploring areas from energy bioscience and to 60% in Alaska, where BP operates the worlds largest miscible gas conversion technology to carbon mitigation and nanotechnology in solar enhanced oil recovery project.
BP also leads the industry in the power.
In 2008, our Energy Biosciences Institute at Berkeley see application of new inter-well polymer treatments aimed at improving page 38 became fully operational, with 49 research projects, all focused waterflood recovery, with more than 25 treatments delivering an increase on lignocellulosic biofuel production: we announced the renewal of our of around five million barrels.
Also in Alaska, BPs first hexalateral well Carbon Mitigation Initiative at Princeton: and signed the joint venture came online in 2008 in the Orion field, which is capable of producing agreement for the Clean Energy Commercialisation Centre with the 9,500 barrels of oil per day the largest producer in BPs operations on Chinese Academy of Sciences.
the North Slope: while our first well using cold heavy oil production with sand CHOPS technology began producing heavy oil at a production rate of 100 barrels of oil per day.
Unconventional gas is another area of focus: for example, using new technologies, BP has drilled in 17 unconventional coalbed methane basins around the world, including some of the largest reservoirs in North America.
Another flagship programme is our use of digital technologies to optimize production and improve recovery, where BP has established an industry-leading position.
