Managers Review this picture is inserted but does not show on the pdf FIL Investments International Sudipto Banerji age 40 The Company is managed by FIL Investments International is a portfolio manager with FIL Investment Services UK which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Limited based in London.
He has been with Fidelity since Authority.
FIL Investments International is part of the FIL 2000, when he joined as a research analyst.
He managed Limited group which, as at 31 December 2008, had total Fidelitys Industrials Fund and became Portfolio Manager assets under management exceeding 100 billion.
of the Company in 2008. sudden collapse of confidence was the bankruptcy PERFORMANCE REVIEW As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the of Lehman Brothers, a US financial institution, in September.
Capital and credit markets froze and the NAV per share of Fidelity European Values PLC declined 17.5% in the year to 31 December 2008, outperforming transmission mechanism within the banking system ceased to function effectively.
The crisis spread to the the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which fell by 24.6%.
All performance figures are quoted on a total real economy as liquidity in commercial paper and other short term credit markets became unavailable return basis and in sterling.
This triggered an unprecedented collapse in business activity as European equity markets declined considerably in 2008, after five years of positive gains.
Against a companies sought to raise cash by cutting back aggressively on costs and unwinding inventory.
very challenging economic and market backdrop, the portfolio declined less than its benchmark and Meanwhile, the overall business cycle that had hitherto been supported by ongoing credit expansion, also produced a solid outperformance in the year.
This can be attributed to positive sector allocation and ground to a halt.
The simultaneous collapse of aggregate demand and unwinding of the inventory successful stock picking.
cycle led to what is likely to be the most severe contraction in GDP for many years.
During the year, sterling weakened by 24% against the euro.
As a UK investor in a European equity portfolio, In response to the crisis, Central Banks implemented this had a positive effect on returns.
However, share prices declined on the expectation that future fundamentals MARKET BACKGROUND 2008 was a year of two halves.
In the first half of the would deteriorate further, impacted by the contraction in the availability and cost of capital.
Investors moved into year, the synchronised global expansion of the previous few years continued, driven primarily by growth in those assets that provided less risk and lower yields.
Commodity prices soared and demand fundamentals supported rising prices.
For PORTFOLIO REVIEW 2008 was a very active year for the portfolio as the example, the oil price reached US$150 a barrel in July, and food prices continued to increase.
Concerns over Manager concentrated the portfolio and attempted to move into a generally more defensive position.
As stated the level of inflation dominated the market.
earlier, this led to an outperformance against the Index, which can be attributed to successful positioning in the The second half of the year was dominated by the deepening of the crisis in the financial sector and banking sector, where the portfolio had less exposure than the benchmark.
More specifically, avoiding its impact on the real economy.
The catalyst for the Page 6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Managers Review Relative % weighting to FTSE World Europe ex UK Index Core Eurozone United Kingdom Eastern Europe & Other Western Europe Non-Eurozone Peripheral Eurozone -8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 December 2008 companies that suffered most during the global credit OUTLOOK squeeze positively contributed to relative performance.
The near term outlook for corporate earnings is Roche, a Swiss pharmaceutical firm, was the biggest expected to remain difficult.
However, the recent single contributor.
The company offers a solid product sell-off in the equity markets has meant that company pipeline and enjoys an attractive oncology franchise.
Its valuations have declined to attractive levels from defensive characteristics were well rewarded in a more a medium term perspective.
As a result, there are volatile environment.
KPN, the Dutch some good stock picking opportunities to be found telecommunications firm, was the second biggest stock for longer term investors.
Its share price was supported by solid results and the announcement of a share FIL Investments International buyback plan.
2 March 2009 Conversely, stock picking in the energy sector hurt returns.
It proved to be a volatile sector in the period under review, due to a rising and then declining oil price.
A lack of exposure to Volkswagen also detracted from performance.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2008 Page 7
