Twenty Largest Holdings 30 Sep 30 Sep % of total Value 2008 2007 Company Sector Country investments 000s 1 Pharmaceuticals & biotechnology Switzerland 3.7 10,167 Novartis Novartis participates in the broad range of healthcare segments, covering innovative pharmaceutical products and differentiated generic drugs.
The company has an established footprint in emerging economies and the ongoing acquisition of Alcon will enable Novartis, in the long term, to expand its eye-care division, including surgical intervention for cataracts and glaucoma, across a growing population of previously unmet need in these economies.
2 60 F-Secure Software & computer services Finland 3.3 9,024 F-Secure is a global leader in internet and global security.
F-Secures award-winning solution protects consumers and businesses against computer and other online threats from the internet and mobile networks.
F-Secures services are available via a subscription model through more than 170 internet service providers and mobile operator partners around the world and through thousands of resellers globally.
The continuing development and penetration of smartphones will provide growth in the future as the need for security increases on these devices.
3 5 Banks France 3.2 8,839 Socit Gnrale Socit Gnrale is one of the leading banking groups in France, with an extensive international retail banking network, consumer finance, private banking and equity derivatives expertise.
Socit Gnrale has been derated following recent credit turmoil, which does not affect the group significantly.
The bank should emerge stronger from the recent rogue trader incident as internal risk-control procedures have been strengthened and the capital position bolstered.
4 Banks Spain 3.0 8,387 Banco Santander Santander is one of the worlds leading banks by market capitalisation and number one in the eurozone.
The group offers a diverse international exposure through its strong position in both mature developed countries Spain and the UK and high-growth emerging markets in Latin America.
The bank also has divisions that operate on a global scale, engaged in the businesses of wholesale banking, means of payment, asset management, insurance and private banking.
The group has had the strength in the recent banking crisis to acquire distressed assets, thereby enabling it to enhance its growth profile at attractive prices.
5 RWE Gas, water & multi-utilities Germany 3.0 8,226 RWE is among Europes largest power and gas utilities and is Germanys biggest power producer.
The company has sold its water assets in the UK and is in the process of divesting those in the US.
The focus thereafter is expected to be on power and gas, centred on the core assets in Germany, the Czech Republic and the UK.
6 15 Unilever Food producers Netherlands 2.8 7,768 Unilever is one of the worlds leading companies in food manufacturing and in household products and personal care.
The groups activities cover a number of categories including detergents, deodorants, haircare, ice cream, frozen food, spreads and culinary.
Unilever operates a range of global and regional brands including Dove, Ben & Jerrys, Cif and Domestos.
7 Fixed line telecom Spain 2.8 7,724 Telefnica Telefnica is a leading company in the global telecommunications market.
The company is the dominant operator in both mobile and fixed telecommunications in Spain and has strong positions throughout Latin America, in particular in Brazil.
The company has a strong balance sheet and is highly cash-generative, allowing it to drive growth for coming years.
The stock trades at a discount to its peers and offers higher growth potential over the medium term.
Report and Accounts 2008 7 Twenty Largest Holdings continued 30 Sep 30 Sep % of total Value 2008 2007 Company Sector Country investments 000s 8 Revus Energy Oil & gas producers Norway 2.6 7,199 Revus Energy has an exploration and production strategy which focuses on the untapped opportunities on the UK and Norwegian continental shelves.
Revus focuses on reservoir expertise and business development.
The company has a strong asset base for development and trades at a large discount to its net worth.
9 Alleanza Assicurazioni Life insurance Italy 2.5 7,008 Alleanza is a quoted subsidiary of Generali, operating in the Italian life insurance market.
It is Italys largest life company with 12% market share.
The company specialises in selling to lower income clients through a network of 20,000 salespeople and has recently added banking distribution through its stake in the Intesa Vita joint venture.
The group has a robust balance sheet and earnings can be driven forward with further restructuring.
10 E. On Gas, water & multi-utilities Germany 2.4 6,685 E. On is one of Europes biggest energy utilities, with just under 69bn in sales and close to 88,000 employees.
E. On generates, distributes, and trades electricity and distributes gas and drinking water to industrial, commercial and residential customers.
E. On has a portfolio of mainly vertically integrated assets across Germany, Central Europe, the Nordic Region, the UK and the US.
The focus of the group has shifted from growth to integration and improving operational performance.
The stock offers an attractive dividend with the potential for robust growth in the future.
11 36 Vallourec Industrial engineering France 2.4 6,527 Vallourec is a global supplier of steel pipes.
Sales are predominantly to the oil and gas industry, casing and tubing for oil wells and drill pipes, the power generation sector and the petrochemical chemical industries.
The company benefits from improvement in pricing dynamics which should offset cost pressures, and high activity levels in North America.
The company is also set to be a key beneficiary from the commercialisation of recent deep offshore discoveries in Brazil, through its new Brazilian seamless tubes plant to be built by late 2010.
The company has a strong balance sheet and an attractive valuation.
12 Inbev Beverages Belgium 2.1 5,792 Inbev is the worlds number one brewing company by beer market share.
The company manufacturers and distributes premium beer brands such as Stella Artois and Becks across the globe and is particularly known for its presence in Brazil, China and Russia.
Inbev is currently pursuing an acquisition of the US brewing giant Anheuser-Busch.
This gives Inbev access to iconic brand Budweiser plus an extensive distribution system in the US to launch Inbev brands.
The combined company will benefit from scale, a wide variety of brands and also distribution capacity to developed and emerging economies.
13 Pharmaceuticals & biotechnology France 2.1 5,776 Ipsen Ipsen is an innovation driven, international speciality pharmaceutical group, which currently manufactures and markets more than 20 drugs for targeted disease areas, including oncology, endocrinology and neuromuscular disorders.
Ipsen has an exciting portfolio of drugs which should be value drivers of the future: in particular Taspoglutide, a treatment for type II diabetes currently in phase 3, has the potential to become a 1bn drug.
14 56 Technology hardware & equipment Sweden 2.0 5,472 Axis Communications Axis operates worldwide with offices in more than 20 countries and co-operates with partners in more than 70 countries.
The company is an IT company offering network video solutions for professional installations.
It is the global market leader in network video, driving the ongoing shift from analog to digital video surveillance.
Axis products and solutions focus on security surveillance and remote monitoring, and are based on innovative, open technology platforms.
8 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 30 Sep 30 Sep % of total Value 2008 2007 Company Sector Country investments 000s 15 46 Zurich Financial Non-life insurance Switzerland 2.0 5,436 Zurich is an international insurer with major operations in the US, UK and Continental Europe.
It is the fourth-largest insurer in Europe and the fourth-largest writer of property-casualty commercial multi-peril insurance in North America.
Management has done a good job in strengthening the balance sheet, improving profitability, and adding resilience to the companys earnings profile.
16 General financial Greece 1.9 5,404 Hellenic Exchanges S. A. Hellenic Exchanges S. A. runs Greeces primary national stock exchange and equity derivatives market.
It operates markets for equities, derivatives and fixedincome securities, and raises capital for unlisted companies.
The company also operates the parallel market for emerging markets and the New Market where medium-sized, innovative companies are listed.
The company has a very strong balance and an attractive dividend yield.
17 Svenska Handelsbanken Banks Sweden 1.9 5,299 Handelsbanken is a universal banking group with a market share of 25-30% in Sweden.
It currently has international banking operations in Norway, Denmark, Finland and the UK.
The banks business model focuses on profitability over volumes and its decentralised decision process means risks are better managed, demonstrated by its historically lower loan loss ratio.
The strong balance sheet and lending practises should mean the bank emerges as a winner from the current banking crisis.
18 Fixed line telecom Greece 1.9 5,271 Hellenic Telecom Hellenic Telecom is Greeces largest telecommunication operator.
It has bought out its listed mobile subsidiary Cosmote, which is Greeces leading wireless operator and also has investments in both fixed line and mobile telephony operators throughout the Balkans, the most significant of which is a 54% stake in the Romanian fixed line incumbent operator Romtelecom.
The group has been derated on Deutsche Telecom taking a controlling stake, which leaves it trading at an attractive valuation with the potential for cash returns to increase.
19 G4S Support services Denmark 1.9 5,183 G4S is the worlds leading international security solutions group operating in over 110 countries with over 570,000 employees.
The company offers security guards, alarms, monitoring, management and transportation of cash and valuables, prison management and electronic monitoring of offenders.
Management strategy is to move G4S higher up the value chain, increasing the emphasis upon the provision of outsourced security solutions under long-term contracts.
20 Oil & gas producers Portugal Galp Energia 1.9 5,131 Galp is an integrated oil and gas company with activities in oil refining and marketing, wholesale and retail gas sales and power generation in Portugal and a growing upstream oil business, mainly exposed to positions in Angola and offshore Brazil.
The Brazilian exploration contains huge potential for the value of the company.
The value of the twenty largest holdings represents 49.4% of the Companys total investments 30 September 2007: 36.9%.
