Managers Review The past year has been a turbulent period for to demonstrate that central bankers are undertaking European equities, which declined sharply reflecting aggressive and co-ordinated policy action in order to both difficulties in the credit markets and a broad address current market dislocation through direct action based slowdown in growth which now appears to on interest rates as well as liquidity provision.
Domestic economic indicators paint The joint statement issued by the central banks a pessimistic picture, with Eurozone GDP declining pointed to declining inflationary pressures, partly as by 0.2% in the second quarter and the German a function of lower commodity prices, and signalled Information Und Forschung Index of business the increased downside risks to growth as a function confidence deteriorating sharply.
of the intensifying financial crisis.
We believe the move The dramatic events which unfolded in the financial will not be the end of easing in global policy: more sector in September and October 2008 have led to rate cuts will be forthcoming in all major regions over near capitulation in equity markets.
In addition to the coming months.
Provided that financial stress does ongoing efforts of governments to underwrite deposits not intensify from here, the action may help to stabilise in their banking systems across Europe and direct growth expectations for the coming year.
efforts to recapitalise or nationalise banks and financial The key point of the central banks move is that institutions, we had co-ordinated rate cuts from many of they are clearly signalling their recognition of the the worlds central banks, including the Bank of England, grave situation which is afflicting markets and which the US Federal Reserve and the European Central will push most of the global economy into recession.
Bank, all of whom cut rates by 50bp.
This was the first They will remain focused on improving financial as co-ordinated rate cut since the 9 11 attacks and markets well as monetary conditions and we would not be had largely discounted that such a move would take surprised to see more unconventional action, similar place.
The move was clearly welcome and was designed to the Feds planned purchase of commercial paper, not just to ease monetary conditions globally but also in order to restore confidence.
Santander is a well-diversified bank 4 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC History has taught us that this type of exercise can prove effective.
To give an example, the Swedish banking crisis of the early 90s and subsequent market volatility abated only following policy intervention.
The growing differential between the core and periphery markets across Europe is an added worry as the markets in Germany and France have demonstrated far more resilience than the Spanish and Irish markets, both of which have suffered similarly to the UK.
As in Britain, Spains and Irelands booms were supported by growth in construction and property: the well-documented downturn in these areas has led to an inevitable fall-out.
Initially, it was thought that Spains fiscal strength would help cushion the slowdown, but the past year has seen government funding reduced from a surplus to a deficit position following tax rebates issued to Spanish citizens.
Novartis is a leading pharmaceutical company Overall strategy remains broadly unchanged The composition of the portfolio remains a function here should accelerate as a record number of branded of bottom up stock selection overlaid by the pharmaceutical drugs lose US patent protection in 2010 identification of strong themes with investments to 2012.
Novartiss Sandoz division is carving out a drawn from across the capitalisation scale.
niche position in the creation of differentiated generics.
Over the period the portfolio has suffered from its The company has an established footprint in emerging exposure to small and medium-sized companies.
This economies and the ongoing acquisition of Alcon will portion of the market has fide-rated as fide-leveraging enable Novartis, over the long term, to expand its and lack of liquidity has led to dramatic price falls eye-care division, including surgical intervention for relative to the market.
We believe that as markets begin cataracts and glaucoma, across a growing population to stabilise valuations will once again drive stock prices of previously unmet need in these economies.
and these stocks will be key beneficiaries.
We have used the recent turmoil to increase the Merger and acquisition M&A activity Companys exposure to selected banks.
now constrained M&A activity had been reasonably buoyant and the Defensive growth Company benefited from this particular theme with the The Company is well represented in pharmaceuticals, holdings in Zodiak Television, Speedel and Corporate which have performed well relative to the market.
Express all being bid for at healthy premiums.
Our largest holding, Novartis, participates in a broad However, the latest bout of financial distress has range of healthcare segments, covering innovative crippled confidence and constrained the funding pharmaceutical products and differentiated generic required to complete many corporate transactions.
We view this as an attractive business since diversification reduces the companys reliance on Focused investments the branded pharmaceutical industry, an industry We focus on companies with strong balance sheets, undergoing structural changes.
It also means Novartis a defensive earnings profile and robust cash flows, is exposed to higher growth areas such as consumer which we believe are in a position to weather a further health, including over the counter medicines and eyedeterioration in the economic back drop.
An example care, in addition to the generic drug market.
Growth is Unilever, which is well positioned with its global Report and Accounts 2008 5 Managers Review continued and mobile operator partners around the world, making F-Secure the global leader in the market of internet and computer security.
Exposure to Russia and China The Company has no direct investment in these markets but has exposure through the operations of a proportion of the companies that we invest in.
Over the past few years, emerging economies have made a substantial and ever increasing contribution F-Secure is an internet security pioneer to world growth, they now account for 48% of world footprint and diverse product portfolio.
The company GDP up from 43% in 2000 and 29% in 1980. is set to benefit from increasing penetration of its products in emerging markets.
In the last few years Outlook the company has been rationalising its portfolio, In the short term we believe conditions will remain focusing on innovation and higher returns on capital.
Unfortunately, the deleveraging process The group has been demonstrating the strength of which underpins the great credit unwind will not its brand through its pricing power and should benefit be resolved quickly.
Credit will be constrained for with higher volumes as recent falls in commodities are some time.
However, even taking this into account passed on to its customers.
valuations are supportive across Europe and are low Another large holding is F-Secure which we in historic terms.
The company writes software which protects consumers and businesses against computer security and other online threats from the internet and mobile networks.
Real-time virus Peter Jarvis protection is available as a service subscription F&C Management Limited through more than 170 internet service providers 5 November 2008 6 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC
