department, and whose controls are monitored including risks that are not directly the responsibility by the Board.
The Audit Committee has received of the Manager.
The Companys principal risks are and reviewed the Report referred to under Internal set out on pages 19 to 21, with additional information controls and management of risk below and an given in note 26 on the accounts.
annual compliance report from the Managers head The systems of internal controls are designed of Audit, Risk and Compliance.
to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is achieve business objectives and can only provide satisfied with, the whistleblowing policy that has reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against been put in place by the Manager under which material mis-statement, or loss or fraud.
its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about The Board has carried out a risk and control possible improprieties in financial reporting or other assessment, including a review of the Managers risk matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place management infrastructure and the report on policies for proportionate and independent investigation of and procedures in operation and tests for the period 1 such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
January to 31 December 2008 the Report.
This has been prepared by the Manager for its investment trust Internal controls and management of risk clients to the standards of the Institute of Chartered The Board has overall responsibility for the Accountants in England and Wales Technical Release Companys systems of internal controls, for AAF 01 06.
Containing a report from independent reviewing their effectiveness and ensuring that risk external accountants, the Report sets out the management and control processes are embedded Managers control policies and procedures with in the day-to-day operations of the Company.
respect to the management of its clients investments.
These controls aim to ensure that the assets of The effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting the Managers group audit committee, which receives records are maintained, and the financial information regular reports from the Managers Audit, Risk and used within the business and for publication is Compliance Department.
Procedures are in place to reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses and financial, operational, reputational, compliance and ensure that action would be taken to remedy any overall risk management, is exercised by the Board significant issues identified from this monitoring, which through regular reports provided by the Manager on would be reported to the Board.
investment performance, performance attribution, compliance with agreed investment restrictions, Investment management financial analyses, revenue estimates and other The Board has contractually delegated the management issues.
In December 2008 and management of the investment portfolio to the January 2009, the Audit Committee carried out Manager, giving it responsibility for gearing, asset with the Manager a review of the process for the allocation and sector and stock selection, together identification, mitigation, monitoring and reporting with the overall risk management of the Companys of the key risks faced by the Company, as a result assets, within the limits set and regularly reviewed of which enhancements were recommended for and monitored by the Board.
the purpose of assisting the Board in the ongoing The Board has reviewed and endorsed the management of the Companys principal risks.
Managers approach to environmental, social A quarterly control report is prepared by the and governance issues and voting policy which is Managers Audit, Risk and Compliance Department explained under Responsible ownership on page 22, that provides details of any material internal control and receives periodic reports on its implementation.
The control report incorporates an enhanced key risk summary that enables the Board to identify Relations with shareholders and manage the risks to which the Company is Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
exposed and the controls in place to mitigate them, In addition to the annual and half-yearly reports Report and Accounts 2008 37 Corporate Governance Statement continued that are available to shareholders, monthly fact aware of any issues or concerns.
The programme sheets and general information are available on the will be continued in 2009.
At annual general meetings, all investors have the A regular dialogue is maintained with the opportunity to question and meet the Chairman, the Companys institutional shareholders and private Board and the Fund Manager.
As in previous years, All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings the Chairman contacted the top institutional plans have the opportunity to vote using a form of shareholders, as a result of which telephone direction and have the right to attend, speak and discussions or email correspondence took place vote at all meetings.
The Manager has stated that with 15 of these shareholders owning a total of 13% the nominee company will vote the shares held on of the share capital.
The Fund Manager also gave behalf of planholders who have not returned their a series of presentations to portfolio managers, voting directions in proportion to the directions of private client wealth managers and opinion-formers those who have.
In aggregate, 192 managers Shareholders wishing to communicate with the attended the presentations, representing 17% of Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any the share capital.
This communication programme other member of the Board may do so by writing proved constructive in providing a two-way forum to the Company, for the attention of the Secretary, for the canvassing of shareholder views, gauging at the address set out on page 30 or by emailing to opinion, and for enabling the Board to become FCITCoSec@fandc.
The Board monitors investor complaint levels and will keep under review the Managers arrangements for Treating Customers Fairly.
38 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
