authorise the Directors to allot up to 33,944,000 Certain strategic issues, including its role shares will also be proposed Resolution 11. as a global growth investment trust, acquisition opportunities and the rationale Borrowings for not introducing a continuation vote, are The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture considered at various meetings of the Board.
stock, which matures in December 2014, and a ii Investment policy, liquidity, gearing and 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
currency inappropriate asset allocation, Information in relation to the debentures can be sector and stock selection, and use of gearing found in note 17 on the accounts.
The Company also leading to underperformance relative to the has the ability to utilise short-term borrowings by Companys benchmark index and peer group.
way of loans and overdrafts subject to the limits set Borrowing money to invest in markets has a out in the Companys objective and policy section negative impact on asset values if those above.
The Company maintains multi-currency credit markets subsequently fall.
The inability to renew facilities with Royal Bank of Scotland, ING Bank and borrowing facilities may cause the Company to Lloyds Banking Group totalling 200m 2007: 70m, have to repay borrowings via asset sales at a which will be subject to review between September disadvantageous time and value.
All the Companys short-term the investments and cash to foreign currencies borrowings, amounting to 110m, were repaid in will impact performance when those currencies February 2009.
Further reference is made on pages weaken against Sterling.
8 and 9 and in note 14 on the accounts.
In the management and mitigation of these risks, the Board maintains an asset Principal risks and their management allocation and gearing policy.
Investments The Companys assets consist mainly of listed are primarily in a diversified spread of equities and its principal risks are therefore market international publicly listed equities with related.
The Corporate Governance Statement on exposure to their underlying currencies.
At page 37 includes a summary of the risk management each meeting the Board reviews investment arrangements.
By means of the procedures set policy and investment performance with out in the summary, and in accordance with the the Fund Manager and monitors levels of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the investment in illiquid securities, as well as Combined Code published by the Working Party for the appropriateness of the levels of cash the Institute for Chartered Accountants in England and borrowings.
The ability of the Company and Wales, the Board has established an ongoing to gear up via long-term and short-term process for identifying, evaluating and managing borrowings, in currencies matching those the significant risks faced by the Company, and has to which the portfolio is exposed, enables regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the internal it to take a long-term view of the countries, control systems for the period.
This process has markets and currencies in which it is been in place throughout the year under review, and invested, without having to be concerned to the date hereof, and will continue to be regularly about short-term volatility.
It is the Boards reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
The policy to have one or more borrowing specific key risks faced by the Company, together facilities in place at all times to ensure the with our mitigation approach, are as follows: Company has the ability to provide liquidity i Objective and strategy inappropriate at short notice and at commercial rates, objective and strategy in relation to investor whether to pay back any loans that are demands in a rapidly changing financial maturing or to take advantage of perceived services and savings market.
Gearing The Board regularly reviews the Companys levels are currently set in the range of 0% position as a leading savings vehicle.
to 20% of net assets and the Board preReport and Accounts 2008 19
