capital, which it is prohibited from distributing other Note 26 on the accounts sets out the financial than by way of share buybacks.
The Company is risk profile of the Company and indicates the effect subject to the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, on the assets and liabilities of falls and rises in: the UK Company Law, Financial Reporting Standards, value of securities: the rates of exchange of various Taxation Law and its own Articles of Association.
currencies against Sterling: and the changes in market rates of interest.
Investment trust taxation status The Directors believe, in the light of these controls The Company is liable to corporation tax on its net and review processes noted above, that the revenue profits but is exempt from corporation tax Company has adequate resources to continue in on capital gains, provided it complies at all times operation, within its stated objectives and policy, for with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the accounts Taxes Act 1988 section 842.
Such compliance, continue to be drawn up on the basis that the which includes investing no more than 15% of the Company is a going concern.
total portfolio in any one investment, deriving its Shareholders will be asked to approve the income wholly or mainly from shares and securities adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts at the and retaining no more than 15% of such income, Annual General Meeting Resolution 1. qualifies the Company as an investment trust.
This status is granted annually in retrospect by HMRC, Objective and policy subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under The Companys investment objective is to secure Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Company long-term growth in capital and income through has qualified as an investment trust in respect of all a policy of investing primarily in an internationally relevant years up to and including the year ended diversified portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well 31 December 2007, and continues to conduct its as unlisted securities and private equity, with the use affairs in compliance with section 842. of gearing.
Risk diversification is achieved through geographic Accounting and going concern asset allocation and industry sector and stock The Financial Statements, starting on page 41, selection across a wide range of markets.
Within the comply with current UK Financial Reporting general policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, Standards, supplemented by the Statement of there are no specific geographic or industry sector Recommended Practice for Investment Trust exposure limits for the publicly listed equities.
The significant accounting Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the policies of the Company are set out in note 2 on total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time of the accounts.
The unqualified auditors opinion on acquisition and excluding private equity investments, the Financial Statements appears on page 39.
The and any such investment requires specific Board Companys objective and policy, which is described approval.
The Boards target of 10% for its private below and is subject to regular Board monitoring equity exposure was passed during the year and processes, is designed to ensure that the Company was 14.4% at the year end and 15.1% at 28 February is invested mainly in liquid, listed securities and 2009.
Additional investment in respect of calls on that the level of borrowings in Sterling and other our existing commitments, together with any further currencies is normally limited to 20% of the value weakness in Sterling, is likely to cause exposure to of shareholders funds.
The Company retains title private equity to increase as a proportion of the total to all assets held by its custodian, and has trust portfolio.
In these circumstances, the Board intends deeds governing its debentures and agreements to accommodate any short-term fluctuations in the relating to its borrowing facilities.
Cash is held only value of the private equity portfolio in excess of the with banks approved and regularly reviewed by a Companys stated 20% investment policy limit.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, with limited exceptions, no single investment may be Report and Accounts 2008 17
