The performance-related fees Creditor payment policy are based on adjusted net assets with debentures at The Companys principal supplier is the Manager, market value.
The condition under which payment the payment terms for which are set out above.
is deferred, if the share price has fallen over the year, Other suppliers are paid in accordance with applies to the composite benchmark element of the individually agreed payment terms.
arrangement only, as does deduction for the effect of At 31 December 2008 the Companys outstanding share buybacks and the 0.5% hurdle.
For 2008, the trade creditors were equivalent to seven days Manager was paid a 0.6 million performance-related payments to suppliers 2007: seven days.
fee solely in relation to the close peer group.
Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed information in relation Performance measurement to the respective management and performance fees The Board recognises that it is share price incurred by the Company.
performance that is most important to the With effect from 1 January 2007, the Fund Companys shareholders, coupled with a steadily Managers own remuneration from the Manager rising dividend.
Underlying share price performance was aligned more closely with the interests of is net asset value performance, for which the shareholders.
A proportion of the Fund Managers Board looks to its Manager, which has been set the annual bonus payment is represented by shares in performance-related fee targets set out above.
the Company held on trust by FCAM for three years, with vesting only at the end of such period.
Key performance indicators The Board assesses its performance in meeting Sub-managers fees the Companys objective against the following key The Manager has incurred fees in respect of advice performance indicators: from FundQuest in relation to its delegation of the Net asset value total return management of the North America portfolio, and Share price total return also incurs investment management fees from the Performance attribution sub-managers that it has appointed to manage Annual dividend growth both that and the Japan portfolio.
The Company Discount to net asset value reimburses the Manager for these fees, which in Total expense ratio 2008 amounted to 2.2 million 2007: 2.5 million.
Savings plans investment flows The Board also reviews statistical measurements Private equity managers fees of volatility and risk.
Absolute and relative The fees incurred by the Company in respect of the assessments are made to understand the risk return private equity funds of funds managed by Pantheon characteristics of the portfolio.
and HarbourVest amounted to 5.5 million for 2008 2007: 4.8 million.
Some of the funds have arrangements whereby Pantheon and HarbourVest share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return to investors have been achieved.
These arrangements are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial terms within the private equity funds of funds industry.
Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated by Pantheon and HarbourVest.
These arrangements also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been achieved, would be quite normal.
