Corporate Governance Statement continued qualitative measures of performance in respect of independence of its members.
All the Directors, and the Board and the Committees implemented by in particular Sir Michael Bunbury and Maxwell Ward way of an evaluation survey, a questionnaire and who have served for over 11 and nearly nine years interviews with the Chairman.
The Fund Manager respectively and are standing for annual re-election, and the Company Secretary also participated in this have been assessed by the Nomination Committee part of the process to provide all-round feedback to as remaining independent of the Manager and of the Board.
With regard to individual Directors, the the Company itself: none has a past or current performance appraisal was qualitative, implemented connection with the Manager and each remains by way of a questionnaire and an appraisal meeting independent in character and judgement with with the Chairman.
The appraisal of the Chairman no relationships or circumstances relating to the follows the same process and is carried out, in Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
his absence, by the Board as a whole under the Sir Michael Bunbury was appointed non-executive leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
The chairman of HarbourVest Global Private Equity appraisal process is considered by the Board to Limited HVGPE in October 2007.
HVGPE is a be constructive in terms of identifying areas for Guernsey incorporated closed-end investment improving the functioning and performance of the company listed on Euronext Amsterdam.
HVGPE is Board and the Committees and the contribution advised by HarbourVest Advisers LP, an affiliate of of individual Directors, building on and developing HarbourVest Partners LLC, which also manages part individual and collective strengths, as well as setting of the Companys private equity portfolio.
Sir Michael priorities for the following year.
The Board has Bunbury is not a partner of, nor does he receive any considered the option of using external appraisal fees from, HarbourVest Partners LLC.
consultants and, whilst it believes that this is unlikely The Nomination Committees assessments of to provide any meaningful advantage over the Director independence have been endorsed by the internal process that has been adopted, it could Board, which is prepared to have a minority of nonnevertheless provide an independent perspective independent Directors should this be considered if used on an occasional basis.
This will be given appropriate at any stage.
There is no chief executive position within the The Directors are encouraged to attend relevant Company, as day-to-day management of the training courses and seminars.
Directors are able Companys affairs has been delegated to the Manager.
to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in relation to their duties.
No Conflicts of interest such advice was taken during the year under review.
It is now a statutory requirement that a company The Board has direct access to company secretarial director must avoid a situation in which he has, or advice and services of the Manager which, through can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, its nominated representative, is responsible for or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the ensuring that Board and Committee procedures are company a situational conflict.
While it remains followed and applicable regulations are complied the responsibility of each individual Director to with.
The proceedings at all Board and other avoid an unauthorised conflict situation arising, the meetings are fully recorded through a process that Company has implemented procedures to enable allows any Directors concerns to be recorded in it to assess situational conflicts and take action the minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint or where necessary.
remove the Secretary in accordance with the terms The Nomination Committee is responsible for of the Management Agreement.
considering Directors requests for authorisation of situational conflicts and for making recommendations Independence of Directors to the Board on whether or not the situational conflict The Board, which is composed solely of independent should be authorised.
Directors are given guidance non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the on the Companys procedure.
They must disclose 34 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
