Discount Compound annual dividend growth Total expense ratio with debt at market value 31 December % % 5 years 10 years % A B 2008 10.9 2008 0.56 0.58 FCIT 11.8 8.8 2007 11.1 2007 0.48 0.71 Close Peer Group ex FCIT 5.6 4.3 2006 9.8 2006 0.46 0.53 FTSE All-Share 7.6 2.4 2005 9.5 2005 0.46 0.53 Inflation RPI 3.0 2.6 2004 14.8 2004 0.50 0.50 Source: F&C Management Limited A excluding performance fee Source: F&C Management Limited: Fundamental Data B including performance fee Excludes recoverable VAT on management fees Source: F&C Management Limited Further detailed performance statistics can be found in the Ten Year Record on pages 66 and 67.
F&C Savings Plans investment flows in FCIT m 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Purchases 52.1 49.5 48.1 36.7 54.6 Withdrawals 40.3 78.5 73.5 61.9 47.8 Net flow 11.8 29.0 25.4 25.2 6.8 The above figures cover all of the F&C Savings Plans in FCIT, including the Personal Pension Plan and Child Trust Fund.
Source: F&C Management Limited MANAGER EVALUATION AND the sources of positive and negative contribution RE-APPOINTMENT to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation The process and stock selection and to assess the performance The review of the Managers performance is an of each region against its local index and the risk ongoing duty and responsibility of the Board, return characteristics of the portfolio.
which is carried out at every Board meeting, with The annual review and evaluation of the Managers a formal evaluation being undertaken in January performance over the past year was carried out each year.
In order to carry this out, the Board at the Board meeting held in January 2009.
The receives monthly detailed reports and views from process involved a formal presentation to the the Fund Manager on investment policy, asset Board by F&Cs Chief Executive Officer, the Head allocation, gearing and risk, together with quarterly of Equities, the Fund Manager and Deputy Fund presentations from F&C in respect of the UK, Manager and the Head of Investment Trusts, which Europe ex UK, Emerging Markets, Developed Asia covered recent developments at F&C, ongoing and US Small Cap portfolios.
These have been investment process measures to achieve top mirrored in quarterly presentations from FundQuest quartile performance, the Companys investment in respect of the portfolios managed by the US performance in 2008, as well as the provision of sub-managers and from Goldman Sachs Asset resources and services during the year.
This was Management in respect of the Japan portfolio.
The followed by a closed session of the Board to assess Board also receives comprehensive performance the Managers overall performance and consider its measurement schedules, provided by Fundamental re-appointment for the ensuing year.
Data Limited and F&C, at each meeting.
These enable it to assess the success or failure of the Matters considered management of the total portfolio against the i Overall investment performance The performance objectives set by the Board, to assess Companys net asset value per share fell Report and Accounts 2008 25 Directors Report and Business Review continued 28.5% to 256.59 pence with debt at market wide and developing product range and value, and 27.8% to 262.50 pence with continued to have substantial assets under debt at par.
Following the highly satisfactory management.
The three year plan that had performance of the Manager in 2007, there been put in place in January 2007 continued was mixed performance in the volatile and to be followed.
This was part of a strategy unprecedented market conditions of 2008.
The of accelerated investment in people and Manager underperformed its target composite infrastructure introduced to support the delivery benchmark by 4.5 percentage points, but beat of enhanced investment performance and a its other target, the weighted average of the net number of new product initiatives.
In addition asset value total return of the close peer group, to its investment management capabilities, F&C by 0.7 percentage points.
It underperformed had the necessary resources and experienced the weighted average of the net asset value people to provide the full range of investment total return of the AIC Global Growth sector by trust services required by the Company, 0.2 percentage points.
It outperformed against including provision of secretarial, accounting, the weighted average share price total returns administration, marketing, performance of the close peer group and the AIC Global and risk measurement, internal audit and Growth sector.
The Company had comfortably risk control functions, as well as advice on outperformed both the composite benchmark buybacks, discount control mechanisms, and the weighted averages of the close peer corporate structuring and industry issues.
The group over three, five and 10 years.
marketing of F&Cs savings schemes proved ii Performance attribution The asset allocation very successful with positive net inflows in a weighting in private equity had made the largest year of great turbulence for investors generally positive contribution, whilst gearing had made and the first since 2004.
Initiatives included the the biggest negative impact.
Stock selection in sponsorship of a garden at the Chelsea Flower the UK and in US smaller companies had been Show, which will be repeated in 2009.
F&C had positive, whilst the Emerging Markets portfolio demonstrated their capability to attract new had performed in line with its benchmark investors to the Company in an increasingly and had outperformed over three years.
The competitive and difficult marketplace, although Developed Asia portfolio had underperformed, it had been recognised that this could become but was ahead over three years.
The Board increasingly difficult in worsening economic had been closely monitoring the performance conditions.
Investor relations and press of the European portfolio which, although it had communication had once again been well underperformed against its benchmark, was conducted, with the Fund Manager carrying better than in previous years.
The Board was out an extensive programme of regional therefore satisfied with the overall performance presentations to private client investment of the regional portfolios directly managed managers, which had been very well received.
The outsourced Japan portfolio had underperformed slightly, but less so than Decision to re-appoint many actively managed Japan portfolios.
Following this review and evaluation, it was The biggest disappointment continued to be the opinion of the Board that the continuing the performance of the sub-managed North appointment of F&C as Manager on the terms America portfolio, which the Manager planned agreed was in the interests of shareholders as to address by greater direct involvement in a whole.
2008 had been a difficult year, but the selection and appointment of the US subperformance had been satisfactory over the longer managers going forward.
The Board noted iii Resources, services and advice provided F&Cs relative stability in a year of unprecedented The Manager had significant resources, a market turmoil and their ongoing commitment to 26 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
