About your Company Objective Performance To secure long-term growth in capital and income Share price total return of -26.7% over one year through a policy of investing primarily in an below the benchmark, but above the weighted internationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed average of the close peer group.
equities, as well as unlisted securities and private Share price total return of 34.4% and 45.8% over five equity, with the use of gearing.
and 10 years respectively above both the benchmark and the weighted average of the close peer group.
Heritage Dividend up 133%, or 8.8% compound, over Founded in 1868 as the first ever investment trust.
Pioneered the concept of collective investment, by Increase in dividend every year for the past giving the small investor the same advantage as the 38 years.
large institution by reducing risk through a spread of Over 20 years an investment of 1,000 has grown investments.
to 5,856 on a total return basis or 10.1% per annum compound.
This is 3.7% more than the Today weighted average of the close peer group, 18.7% One of the largest global growth trusts, with total more than the FTSE All-Share index and 126% more assets of 1.9 billion investing in over 650 listed than a bank or building society deposit account.
Some 108,000 shareholders, with over 84,000 Advantages of an investment trust investors through the F&C savings plans.
The ability as a closed-end fund to take a longterm view and ride out difficult conditions we Reputation have ridden through two world wars and many Well-known and respected brand, with a reputation market crashes.
for delivering its long-term objectives in a The flexibility to invest in a wide range of assets we responsible, prudent and effective way.
have increased our exposure to private equity.
The freedom to borrow money to improve returns Management to shareholders in rising markets we have Independent Board of Directors responsible for borrowed in foreign currencies at low rates for overall strategy and monitoring performance.
Management of the investments is carried out by The ability to buy back shares to enhance net asset F&C Management Limited F&C under contract.
value and reduce discount volatility we have a buy Manager incentivised to produce superior back policy to keep the discount below 10% in normal performance.
External third party sub-managers are used to Low charges to investors, typically well below those enhance investment performance where appropriate.
for comparable unit trusts our total expense ratio for No cross-directorships, no cross-holdings and 2008 was 0.58%, including performance fee accrual.
no conflicts of interest between the Company and The cumulative benefits of such low costs over many its Manager.
years are very significant for long-term investors.
com Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
