The Boards responsibilities Max Ward stand for re-election having served over The Companys Board of Directors is wholly non- 11 and nearly nine years respectively Resolutions executive and is responsible for corporate strategy, 7 and 8.
Mr Ewen Macpherson and Mr John corporate governance, risk and control assessment, Rennocks retired on 1 May 2008. the overall investment policy of the Company, setting The Nomination Committee considered the limits on gearing and asset allocation, monitoring re-election of the Directors at a meeting held in investment performance and for approving marketing January 2009, appraising their performance policy budgets.
Further information in relation to the and reviewing their status and commitment as Board can be found on page 33. independent and, in the case of of Sir Michael Bunbury and Mr Max Ward, long serving nonDirectors executive Directors.
The Board has concurred Information on the individual Directors, all of whom with the Nomination Committees assessment that are resident in the UK, can be found on page 29. they continue to make a valuable and effective Each Director has signed a terms of appointment contribution and remain committed to their roles.
letter with the Company, in each case including The Directors absented themselves from those parts one months notice of termination by either party.
of the meetings that dealt with their re-election.
These are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours Director indemnification and insurance and are also available at annual general meetings.
On 26 July 2006, the Company entered into a deed There were no contracts of significance to which the poll providing the Directors with indemnities against Company was a party and in which a Director is, or liability to third parties arising in connection with any was, materially interested during the year.
negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by the Directors such indemnities being qualifying Directors remuneration and shareholdings third party indemnities and providing for the funding The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be of defence costs, in each case as permitted under the found on pages 31 and 32, together with note 6 Companies Act 2006.
No such indemnity is provided on the accounts, provides detailed information on in relation to a liability incurred by the Director to the the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the Company or in respect of proceedings in which he Company.
Shareholders will be asked to approve is convicted or a liability to pay a fine is imposed in the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual criminal proceedings or by a regulatory authority.
Similarly, any funding provided to a Director who is Details of Directors shareholdings in the Company not exonerated must be repaid.
This deed poll is are contained in note 6 on the accounts.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual Directors election and re-election General Meeting.
The Company has insurance in Other than Sir Roger Bone and Sir David Clementi, place which indemnifies the Directors against certain who joined the Board on 6 March 2008 and liabilities arising in carrying out their duties.
23 May 2008 respectively, all the Directors held office throughout the year under review.
Mr Stephen Investment management and administration Burley joined the Board on 1 January 2008 and he Most investment trusts, including your Company, and Sir Roger Bone were elected as Directors by have no employees and instead appoint fund shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held management companies to manage their investment on 1 May 2008.
Sir David Clementi will stand for portfolios and deliver investment performance, election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as well as to carry out the ancillary functions of Resolution 4.
Mr Ronald Gould and Mr Christopher administration, secretarial, accounting and Keljik retire by rotation and will stand for re-election marketing services.
The Company has appointed Resolutions 5 and 6.
Sir Michael Bunbury and Mr F&C as Manager, a company with which it has a Report and Accounts 2008 21
