Directors Report and Business Review continued made by the Company which exceeds 10% of the Capital structure and buyback policy value of the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
As at 31 December 2008 there were 679,019,714 Under the Listing Rules, no more than 10% of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue.
All the total assets may be invested in other listed ordinary shares rank equally for dividends and closed-ended investment companies, unless such distributions and carry one vote each.
Details of investment companies have themselves published the capital structure can be found in note 18 on investment policies to invest no more than 15% of the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company their total assets in other closed-ended investment including accumulated revenue reserves are companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
The available for distribution by way of dividends to the Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a windingtotal portfolio on investment funds managed by the up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the Manager at the time of acquisition, and any such surplus assets would be distributed to shareholders investment requires specific Board approval.
pro rata to their holdings of ordinary shares.
Borrowings, which can be taken out either in Subject to annual shareholder approval, Sterling or foreign currency, would normally the Company may buy back its own shares for be expected to fall within a range of 020% of cancellation at a discount to net asset value per shareholders funds based on valuing the Companys share.
This forms part of its wider strategy under debenture at market value.
which the Board has the objective of achieving a The Company will typically remain fully invested less volatile discount with a ceiling, in normal market in equities, but is not prohibited from investing in conditions, of 10% with debt at market value, as other types of securities or assets.
Derivatives may well as enhancing net asset value per share for be used to control risk and enhance returns for the continuing shareholders.
As at 31 December 2008 overall portfolio including, if appropriate, protection the discount stood at 10.9% with debt at market against currency risks.
value, and at 9.3% as at 28 February 2009.
An explanation of how the Company has invested At the Annual General Meeting held on 1 May its assets in accordance with its investment policy 2008, shareholders renewed the Boards authority is contained in the Fund Managers Review.
An to buy back the Companys ordinary shares for analysis of the portfolio is contained on page 56 and cancellation.
The Company bought back and a list of all the Companys investments is published cancelled far fewer shares during the year than quarterly on its website.
in recent years: a total of 6,298,878 shares were bought back and cancelled, representing 0.9% of Strategy the number of shares in issue at 31 December The Board believes that the optimum basis for 2007 and enhancing the net asset value per share achieving its stated objective and implementing the by 0.3 pence.
The purchases were made at prices investment policy is a strong working relationship with ranging between 197.75 pence and 316.95 pence its Manager, F&C, the more detailed arrangements and the aggregate consideration paid for the shares, for which are explained later in this review.
F&C has excluding stamp duty and commissions, was overall responsibility for the management of the 18,332,000.
Companys assets, and for asset allocation, gearing, Between the year-end and 5 March 2009, a stock selection and risk.
Furthermore, F&Cs interests further 100,000 shares have been purchased which are closely aligned with those of shareholders under represents approximately 0.01% of the share capital a performance fee arrangement that encourages the at a price of 217.56 pence.
highest quality stock selection, either from F&C directly As at 5 March 2009, the number of ordinary or by outsourcing to external third party sub-managers.
A resolution to The performance objectives set for the Manager and renew the authority to buy back up to 101,770,000 measurement against the Companys key performance shares will be put to shareholders at the Annual indicators can be found on pages 23 to 25.
A resolution to 18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
