29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPORT I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT I AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE FRIENDS PROVIDENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir Adrian Montague CBE, MA, Solicitor, 61.
Trevor Matthews MA, FIA, FIAA, ASA, 57.
Appointed Chairman in May 2005, having been Appointed Chief Executive Officer and director in appointed an independent director in October July 2008.
Also non-executive director of F&C Asset Asset Management plc.
Member of the Management plc.
Member of the Investment, Investment Committee.
A director of the The composition of Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Association of British Insurers and President of the Currently Chairman of Anglian Water Group Chartered Insurance Institute.
the Board reflects and Limited, Michael Page International plc and Formerly Chief Executive of Standard Life Assurance Cellmark Investments AB.
A non-executive supports our business Limited, the principal subsidiary of Standard Life director of London First and a member of the plc.
Prior to joining Standard Life in 2004, held two Supervisory Board of Skanska AB.
key positions at Manulife Financial Corporation Formerly Chairman of British Energy, Deputy Executive Vice President in Canada and subsequently Sir Adrian Montague Chairman of Network Rail and Chairman of CrossPresident and Chief Executive, Japan.
Prior to that, Chairman London Rail Links Limited Crossrail.
Previously held senior positions in National Australia Bank and Chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce and Legal & General Australia.
Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
In his early career, he was a partner of Linklaters & Paines, and subsequently the Global Head of Project Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Sir Mervyn Pedelty FCA, FCIB, FRSA, 60.
Chairman of Appointed a director in October 2006.
Chairman the Audit and Compliance Committee and member of the With-Profits Committees and the of the Investment, Nomination and Board Risk Nomination Committee.
Also a member of the Committees.
Appointed Chief Executive of BUPA in Audit and Compliance Committee and 2008 having been Group Finance Director from 2001.
Senior independent director of Hiscox Ltd incorporated in Bermuda, Formerly the Deputy Chief Executive of Parity a director of Hiscox Insurance Company Ltd and Group plc, Director of Group Finance and Control Chairman of FTSE4Good Policy Committee.
at Diageo plc and Group Finance Director of Southern Water plc.
Previously at The Co-operative Bank plc where he was Chief Executive from 1997 to 2004, and also Chief Executive of Co-operative Financial Services Ltd and Co-operative Insurance Society Ltd from 2002 until his retirement in 2004.
Former member of the Department for Work and Pensions Employer Task Force on Pensions, a director of the Association of British Insurers from 2002 to 2004 and previous member of the Council of the British Bankers Association and of its Chief Executives and audit and remuneration committees.
Prior to The Co-operative Bank, a partner of LEK Consulting, a senior executive of TSB Group plc and a director of TSB Bank plc.
50 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 51 NOMINATION COMMITTEE I WITH-PROFITS COMMITTEES I REMUNERATION REPORT Charles Bellringer BSc, MSc Econ, ACA, 54.
Chief Executive, F&C Asset Management plc.
Joined Friends Provident plc and appointed an Appointed an executive director on 1 January Appointed a director in June 2001 having been an executive director on 4 August 2008.
Member of 2006. independent director of Friends Provident Life the Investment Committee.
Office from 1994 to 2001 and its Deputy Chairman Joined the board of F&C Asset Management plc from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the Remuneration Has over 30 years experience in finance including F&C in October 2004 on completion of the Committee and a member of the Investment and senior roles at Legal & General, GE Capital, merger of ISIS Asset Management plc and F&C Nomination Committees.
Chairman of the UK Metropolitan Life and Equitable Life.
Joined Group Holdings Limited F&CGH where he was Atomic Energy Authority and the School of Oriental Equitable Life in 2001 and led the financial previously Deputy Chief Executive of F&CGH and & African Studies.
Deputy Chairman of Murchison reconstruction project.
Also has extensive general Head of Institutional Business.
A director of Private Equity Investor plc, management experience in IT, investment JPMorgan for 20 years, as a Managing Director Portmeirion Group PLC, Planet Payment Inc. management and as chairman of a financial responsible for the investment banks market Magna International Inc. Massey Energy Company, services outsourcing business.
ATP Oil & Gas Corporation and Nationwide Will stand down as director when Evelyn Bourke Will step down as director following the proposed Accident Repair Services plc.
takes up her appointment as Chief Financial demerger of F&C.
Formerly, Chairman of the Professional Standards Officer in May 2009.
Advisory Board of the Institute of Directors and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council.
A former commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Will retire from the Friends Provident Board at the close of the 2009 AGM.
Appointed an independent director on 3 November Appointed an independent director in June 2007.
Appointed an independent director in June 2008.
Member of the Audit and Compliance Also a non-executive director of F&C Asset Chairman of the Investment Committee and a Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Chairman of the Board Risk member of the Audit and Compliance, Board Risk Currently non-executive director of GE Money UK Committee and a member of the Audit and and Remuneration Committees.
Currently senior and Partnership Assurance and senior adviser to Compliance and Investment Committees.
Currently independent director and chairman of the the financial services practice of Ernst & Young.
Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Europe, remuneration committee at Land Securities plc responsible for the development of its German and deputy chairman, senior independent director Between 1982 and 2007 held various senior roles business, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of GP and chairman of the nomination committee at at Legal & General, latterly as Group Director UK.
Gnter Papenburg AG and Deputy Chairman of the Xstrata plc.
Director of Brown Shipley Company Was an executive director of Legal & General Group Supervisory Board of Deutsche Brse AG.
Prior to 1982, held various roles in IT with South Eastern Gas Board.
Spent much of his professional career with financial Spent 17 years at Royal Insurance responsible for services firm, JPMorgan, where his positions the Investment Management Division.
In 1989 included Managing Director of JPMorgans German joined Legal & General Investment Management branch in Frankfurt and Regional Treasurer Asia as Head of UK Equities and appointed to the main Pacific in the Tokyo office.
Spent a total of 13 years board of Legal & General Group plc two years later.
on the management board of two German Took early retirement after 12 years with the Landesbanks, joining the executive boards of company.
Norddeutsche Landesbank in 1991, and of Westdeutsche Landesbank WestLB AG in 1996.
Previous board appointments include AXA Lebensversicherungs AG, AXA  mbH, Deka Bank, Fresenius AG, Hapag Lloyd AG and VHV Holdings AG.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 51
