29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS I DIRECTORS REPORT I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT I AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE - WITH PROFITS COMMITTEES The Committees have also: PURPOSE AND TERMS OF REFERENCE The Financial Services Authority FSA requires the regulated considered the implications for the With Profits Fund of extension life and pensions subsidiaries, Friends Provident Life and of the Investment Management Agreement with F&C: Pensions Limited, Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited, reviewed the comparative investment performance of the and Friends Provident Pensions Limited FPLP, FPLA and FPP with profits funds: respectively to maintain governance arrangements to ensure reviewed the relevant reports to the Board on the FSA that in the conduct of with profits business, they each comply initiative on Treating Customers Fairly to ensure that they with, maintain and record any applicable Principles and were informed of any customer service issues for with Practices of Financial Management PPFM.
profits policyholders: and followed closely the fund performance and valuation of the A with profits committee was set up in December 2003 for F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited and the share buy back each of FPLP, FPLA and FPP the Committees to bring some initiated by its board, and reviewed managements actions in independent judgment to: preserving the value of this investment in which the with the assessment of compliance for each life and pensions profits funds of FPLP and FPLA together owned over 38%.
operating company with its published PPFM: and how any competing or conflicting rights and interests IMPACT OF THE COMMITTEES WORK ON THE of policyholders and, if applicable, shareholders have GOVERNANCE OF THE WITH PROFITS FUNDS been addressed.
2008 has been a year of change for Friends Provident following the strategic review announced on 31 January and the The full terms of reference of the Committees are published on subsequent appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.
the Companys website at www.
com investor The Committees were kept abreast of these developments by meetings with the Chairman of the Board and also with relevant The Committees are made up of the Chairman, Sir Mervyn members of senior management.
Pedelty, who is an independent director of Friends Provident plc, and two other members, Peter Nowell independent Management have regularly monitored the return on the member and Graham Aslet former director and Appointed with profits funds and kept under consideration the need to Actuary until December 2004.
Due to illness, Sir Mervyn was re-introduce the market value reduction MVR on with profits unable to carry out his role during the year and Peter Nowell has business.
The Committees were kept informed of the acted as chairman in Sir Mervyns absence.
Sir Mervyn Companys developing view and worked with management to resumed his role in January 2009. ensure that timing of the re-introduction of MVRs in October 2008 was fair and appropriate for policyholders.
REPORT OF 2008 ACTIVITIES During the year, the Committees have reviewed: The Committees normally meet four times a year.
The market the proposals for bonus rates, surrender values or market downturn and volatility of investment performance during the value reductions in respect of with profits policies prior to year made the operations of the business particularly their consideration by the boards of FPLP, FPLA and FPP: challenging and the Committees were consulted regularly by compliance with the FSAs target ranges required for maturity management between meetings.
They met on three additional and surrender payouts over 2007 and the first nine months of occasions to discuss the hedging strategy of the with profits 2008 and considered actions which could be taken for some funds and the potential closure of FPLPs With Profits Fund to policies outside the range: new business.
The Committees stressed the importance of proposals for the investment strategy and Equity Backing being kept regularly informed on investment strategies that Ratio of the With Profits funds of FPLP and FPLA: could significantly affect the interests of with profits policyholders and maintained regular dialogue with senior significant transactions and issues arising in any of the Long management over the need to further improve the robustness Term Business Funds of FPLP, FPLA and FPP that affected with of the existing investment governance process changes are profits policyholders interests.
These transactions included: expected in 2009 when the recommendations from the transfers from the With Profits Fund and the Non-Profit independent review of board and committee effectiveness are Fund of FPLP to its shareholder fund: considered by the Board.
the use of discretion in the operation of the with profits business of FPLP, FPLA and FPP: and charges made for with profits guarantees: any communication with policyholders in the nature of a statement of policy or principle, or the application thereof, for example, bonus mailings or with profit summaries: and management responses regarding compliance with the Scheme of Demutualisation and the PPFMs of FPLP, FPLA and FPP.
64 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:01 Page 65 NOMINATION COMMITTEE WITH-PROFITS COMMITTEES REMUNERATION REPORT COMMUNICATION WITH POLICYHOLDERS CONCLUSION AND REGULATORS The Committees in reviewing management recommendations While the Committees were satisfied that consumer-friendly endeavour to ensure that all policyholders are treated as fairly PPFMs CFPPFMs reflected what policyholders were informed as possible.
Where appropriate, the Committees have required of in marketing literature, management was requested to management to instigate further investigations for example, undertake limited formal external market testing on the into compliance with the target payout ranges and have sought CFPPFMs through focus groups as well as to benchmark them the necessary assurance from management for the methodology, against competitors publications.
These actions were carried out controls and process that were used to develop their reports.
Customer feedback on the CFPPFM documents was On occasion, the Committees have expressed contrary views generally very favourable but some changes were made by to management on a number of issues and discussed these management.
The Committees also encouraged the documents vigorously with the appropriate officers of the Company and they to be simplified with more user-friendly illustrations on technical have been resolved appropriately.
subjects such as asset distribution.
These suggestions have been The Nomination Committee has been requested to recruit an reflected in the 2009 versions of the With Profits Summaries.
additional independent member for the Committees to widen The Committees contributed to the content of the annual bonus their collective skills and to provide for succession in the future.
notices endeavouring to improve policyholder understanding of The Committees also considered the new Conduct of Business reversionary bonus as part of the overall policy guarantee.
The rules introduced by the FSA in October 2007, and agreed that Committees also review any correspondence that is received they had little impact on the operation of the Committees.
from policyholders whether sent to the Committees or any of their individual members together with any actions taken but Sir Mervyn Pedelty no such correspondence was received during the year.
Chairman 26 March 2009 During the year, Peter Nowell as Acting Chairman met twice with the Companys FSA Supervisory Team to discuss ongoing issues faced by the industry and progress made by the Company on the FSA initiative on Treating Customers Fairly.
These meetings were useful as they provided an opportunity for the Committees to offer their independent perspective regarding the governance of with profits funds and the operations of the Company as a whole and for the insight they gave into the FSAs expectations of the Committees.
COMMITTEES OWN EVALUATION OF EFFECTIVENESS AND TERMS OF REFERENCE Due to illness, the incumbent Chairman has been unable to act during the year and the Committees wish to thank Peter Nowell for attending to the Chairmans duties in his absence.
The Committees carried out an annual review of their operations and considered they worked well but encouraged management to take part in an industry-wide survey, if available, to benchmark their practice against peers.
During the year, Peter Nowell and Graham Aslet attended seminars organised by the Institute of Actuaries and the ABI to maintain their knowledge of issues faced by with profits committees.
The With Profits Actuary also provided watching briefs on industry and regulatory developments.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 65
