Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Board Members The Directors of the Company are as follows: Christopher Sherwell, Chairman, aged 61, is a non-executive director of a number of investment-related companies.
He was Managing DirectorofSchroders CI LimitedfromApril2000  companies and investment funds.
He remained a non-executive director of Schroders CI Limited before stepping down on 31 December 2008.
His other directorships include chairmanship of Hermes Absolute Return Fund Guernsey Limited, a fund of  ChannelIslands Limited, .
 1993 he worked as a Far East regional strategist with Smith New Court Securities in London and then Hong Kong.
 Director of the Company on 3 July 2006.
 the Bank of Bermuda as Managing Director of Bermuda Trust Guernsey Limited.
From January 1999 to June 2004, he was Director of Fiduciary Services and Enforcement at the Guernsey Financial Services Commission Guernseys financial regulatory agency where he was responsible for the design and subsequent implementation of Guernseys law relating tothe regulation of fiduciaries, administration businessesand company directors.
He  in Working Groups of the Financial Action TaskForce and the Offshore Group of Banking Supervisors.
Mr Morgan holdsa MA in Economicsand Lawfrom Cambridge University.
Charles Baillie, aged 41, is co-head of the Alternative Investments and Manager Selection AIMS businesses in the Goldman Sachs Asset Management Division, overseeing the Private Equity Group PEG, Hedge Fund Strategies Group, Global Manager Strategies Group, and Petershill Group.
Charles is alsoco-chairman of the PEG Investment Committee, and previously served as co-head of PEG.
Prior to joining PEG, Charles worked in the Mergers & Acquisitions Group in London, where he focused on restructurings.
 Finance Department of the Investment Banking Division.
Charles received a BAH from Queens University, Canada, an MA from the University of Oxford, and an MBA from the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, where he graduated as a Baker Scholar.
Mr Baillie was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Company on 28 August 2008.
Christopher Legge, aged 53, is a Guernseyresident and worked for Ernst & Young in Guernsey from 1983 to 2002.
Having joined the firm as an audit manager in 1983, he was appointed a partner in 1986 and managing partner in 1998.
From 1990 to 1998, he was head of Audit and Accountancy, and was responsible for the audits of a number of insurance, banking, investment fund and financial services clients.
He also had the responsibility for the firms training, quality control and compliance functions.
He was appointed managing partner of Ernst & Young for the Channel Islands region in 2000.
Since his retirement from Ernst & Young in 2003, Mr Legge hasheld a number   includingB H Macro Limited and Third Point Offshore Investors Limited.
He is an FCA and holds a BA Hons in Economics from the University of Manchester.
Mr Legge was appointed as a non-executive Director of the Company on 29 September 2008.
Jeffrey Burton, a non-executive Director of the Company, passed away in June 2008 following an accident.
Mr Alexandre Darre, a non-executive Director of the Company, resigned from the Board on 28 August 2008.
