Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report The Directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal Activity Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited the Company is a Guernsey registered closed-ended investment company listedon the London Stock Exchange.
The Companywas incorporated on 3 July2006 Registration number 45068.
Tradingin the Companys, and $ shares commenced on 27 July 2006.
Investment Objective  volatility than broad equity markets over a full market cycle.
See Financial Statement Note 16 Subsequent Events Continuation Resolutions for further information regarding the Companys ongoing objective.
Investment Policy In seeking toachieve its investment objective, the Company directly or indirectly allocates its assets toa relatively concentrated portfolioof independent investment managers or entities managed by them Advisors selected by Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund Strategies LLC the Investment Manager.
Such Advisors employ a broad range of alternative investment strategies within the relative value, event-driven, tactical trading and equity long short sectors.
The Company seeks to make longer term core .
Event Driven Sector Event driven strategies seek to identify security price changes resulting from corporate events such as restructurings, mergers, takeovers, spin-offs and other special situations.
Corporate event arbitrageurs generally choose their investments based on their perceptions of the likelihood that the event or transaction willoccur, the amount of time that the processwilltakeand the perceived ratio of return to risk.
Strategies that may be used in the event driven sector include risk arbitrage special situations and credit opportunities distressed securities.
However, other strategies may be employed as well.
Tactical Trading Sector Tactical trading strategies are directional trading strategies, which generally fall into one of two categories: managed futures strategies and global macro strategies.
Managed futures strategies involve trading in futures and currencies globally, generally using systematic or discretionary approaches.
Global macro strategies generally use analysis of macroeconomic and financial ,  securities, commodities, interest rates, currencies and other instruments.
Equity Long Short Sector Equity long short strategies involve making long and short equity investments, generally based on fundamental evaluations, although it is expected that Advisors in this investment sector will employ a wide range of styles.
For example, such Advisors may i : ii : iii focusoncompanies with certain ranges of market capitalisation: or iv employ a more diversified approach, allocating assets to opportunities across investing styles, industry sectors, market capitalisations and geographic regions.
Relative Value Sector Relative value strategies seek toprofit from the mispricing of financial instruments, capturing spreads between related securities that deviate from their fair value or historical norms.
Directional and market exposure is generally held toa minimum or completely hedged.
Strategiesthatmaybe used inthe relativevalue sector , convertiblearbitrage, equitymarket neutral, and fixed income relative 11 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report continued Investment Policy - continued value.
The Company redeemed its investments with its remaining Relative Value Advisors at mid year and going forward had no active allocations.
Investment Approach The Investment Manager pursues the investment policyand  Companysassetsto Advisorsby   byAdvisors Investees.
TheInvestment Manager   to20 Advisors, although theactualnumber of Advisors may change materially over time as determined by the Investment Manager.
The number of Advisors to which the Company allocates assets from time totime is based on factors deemed relevant by the Investment Manager, which may include  management, ,  opportunities, redemption proposals and other portfolio construction considerations.
TheInvestmentManager may, fromtimetotime, , as it deems appropriate, including without limitation by way of allocation of Company assets to any new Advisor, complete or partial withdrawal of an allocation to any existing Advisor, a reallocation of assets among existing Advisors, or any combination of the foregoing.
, theInvestment Manager  of such reallocation, including from which Advisors to withdrawassets and to which Advisors toallocate assets.
Any reallocation of Companyassets, for the purposesof diversification, tomeet target allocations or otherwise, may take a significantperiod of time to implement due to the liquidity provisions and restrictions imposed by Advisors or for other reasons.
The Company will invest and manage its assets in a way which is consistent with its object of spreading investment risk.
 i % Advisorand ii not toinvest morethan 50%ofthe  the timeofinvestment  sector although it may deviate from any such guidelines from time to time, subject always to the maximum exposures, introduced in , .
Asat31December2008, the Companys allocation to the Event Driven sector was 51%.
,   ChannelIslands Limited for up tothe lower of US$120,000,000, 20% of its net asset value or 100% of thevalue of the Companys assets held with the Custodian and margined as set out in the facility agreement, for short-term or temporary liquidity purposes as may be necessary, among other things, to facilitate investment and withdrawals from Investees, to repurchase shares in the secondary market pursuant to the Articles of Association or to fund share redemptions, to implement the Companys currency hedging strategy, ,  and or  .
The Company has granted a security interest in support of the facility agreement over certain collateral, including its interests in Investees, which may comprise up to all of its assets.
See Financial Statement Note 8 e Credit facility for more information.
, mortgage, hypothecate, pledgeor charge all or part of its undertaking, property or assets and uncalled capital and toissue debentures and other securitieswhether outright or as collateral security for any liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Companys Articles of Association do not specify a borrowing limit.
The Company does not have any long-term or fixed structural gearing and, although it is not intended that it should have, the  .
TheCompanymaybe indirectlyexposedto gearing to the extent that Advisors are themselves geared.
12 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report continued Investment Policy - continued Investment Restrictions The Companyhasadopted the followinginvestment  setout inthe ListingRules ofthe UK Listing Authority: Not more than 20% of the total assetsof the Company willbe invested in anyone Investee at the time the investment ismade: for this purpose any existing holding in the Investees concerned will be aggregated with the proposed new investment.
Not more than 30% of the Companys total assets will be invested with any one Advisor at the time the investment is made.
The Company will not make further investment s in any single investment sector where, immediately following such further investment s, that investment sector would represent 60% or more of the total assets of the Company.
%, includingasmaybe necessary to facilitate investment and withdrawals from Investees, to repurchase shares in the secondary market or to fund share redemptions, to implement the Companys currency hedging strategy, to fund foreign exchange marked to market adverse movements of exchange rates, tomeet day today operating expenses and or timing and settlement requirements of the Company and for such other purposes as the Directors may consider appropriate.
The Company will avoid cross-financing between businesses forming part of its investment portfolio.
The Company will avoid the operation of common treasury functions as between the Company and Investee companies.
Dividends will not normally be paid and in any event will only be paid if they are covered by income received from underlying investments.
The distribution as dividend of surpluses arising from the realisation of investments is prohibited.
Anymaterialchange inthe investment policiesof the Companywillonlybe made withthe  ordinary resolution.
Not more than 10% of the total assets of the Company in aggregate will be invested in other listed closed-ended investment funds except for those which themselves have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their gross assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
In the event of any breach of these investment restrictions, the Board will as soon as practicable make an announcement on a regulatory information service provider and subsequently write to shareholders if appropriate.
Estimated net asset values are normally provided weekly.
Shareholders Funds and Reserves During 2008, in an effort toaddress the effects of prevailing market conditions on the share prices ofeach class of the Companys shares, the Directors recommenced the programme of share repurchases.
As at 31 December 2008 7,348,000 GBP shares, 2,132,000 US$ shares and 1,598,000 EUR shares had been purchased into treasury.
Accordingly the total number of shares in issue excluding treasury shares at 31 December 2008 was 246,974,943 GBP shares, 49,253,593 US$ shares and 59,122,699 EUR shares.
In June2008 the Companycompleted  Shares, $221 million, thenet proceeds of which were substantially invested, or committed to be invested, on 1 July 2008.
Results The results for the year are set out in the Statements of Operations.
The Directors do not propose a dividend for the year.
13 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report continued Management Arrangements The Company has an agreement with the Investment Manager for the provision of investment management services.
Investment management fees,  Note8 a InvestmentManager, % of the total assets attributable to each class of share of the Company plus a performance fee as outlined in Financial Statement Note 8 a Investment Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the performance of the Investment Manager.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness of the terms of the investment management agreement, in particular,   Manager.
Substantial Interests The Disclosure and Transparency Directive requires shareholders todisclose their direct or indirect holdings tothe Company and the UK  reaching or exceeding or falling below thresholds at 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 50% and 75% .
 this information to the wider market.
Guernsey Company Law The Companies Guernsey Law 2008 came into effect on 1 July 2008.
As allowed under the transitional rules, the financial statementsfor  Guernsey Law, 1994.
Directors TheDirectors, ,  Christopher Legge who were appointed on 28 August 2008 and 29 September 2008, respectively.
Alexander Darre resigned on 28 August 2008.
Jeffrey Burton passed away in June 2008 following an accident.
The Directors had no beneficial interest in the Companys share capital other than as shown below: 31 December 2008 31 December 2007 shares shares Christopher Sherwell 25,000 25,000 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view in accordance with applicable Guernsey law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted in the European Union, of  thatyear.
, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: ,  in the financial statements: and  in business.
14 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities - continued The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the  Guernsey Law, 1994.
They are alsoresponsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
1 Responsibility Statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 4.1.
12 The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: i the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net income or loss of the Company: and ii the annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
Corporate Governance Introduction ,  Combined Code the Code issued by the UK Listing Authorityas updated by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
The main requirements of the Code set out principles of good governance and a code of best practice.
The Board has put in place a  comply with the main requirements of the Code.
The Board considers that the Company had complied with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code throughout this accounting period except where indicated below.
The following statement describeshowthe relevant principlesof governance are applied to the Company.
The Board The Board currently consists of four non-executive Directors all of whom, with the exception of Charles Baillie, are independent of the Investment Manager.
The Board does not consider it necessary toappoint a Chief Executive or Senior Independent Director.
 their number is not three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from office.
In addition, any Director affiliated with the Investment Manager will retire at each annual general meeting.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may, if willing to act, be re-appointed.
The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
The Board meets at least four times a year and between these formal meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Manager, the Companys broker and the Secretary.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, and .
TheDirectors , ,  expense of the Company.
1 The financial statements are published on the www2.
com website, which is maintained by the Companys Investment Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is, so far as relates to the Company, the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
15 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report continued Corporate Governance - continued The attendance record of the Directors for the year to 31 December 2008 is set out below: Management Audit Engagement Quarterly Annual General Committee Committee Ad Hoc Number of Meetings Attended Board Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings C Sherwell 4 1 4 1 10 C Legge 1 - 1 - 1 T Morgan 4 1 4 1 10 C Baillie 2 ---- The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards .
,  as to whether an induction process is appropriate.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and agenda which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of meetings as part of the board papers and therefore Directors may request any agenda items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
The primary focus at Board Meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, aswellasmarketing investorrelations, riskmanagement, , peergroupinformation and industry issues.
The Board has not currently considered it necessary to have formal strategy sessions, as the investment approach is reviewed regularly and the Investment Manager advises on the adoption of appropriate strategies employed under prevailing market conditions at any particular time within the overall investment restrictions of the Company.
Committees of the Board The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a nomination or remuneration committee as, being comprised wholly of nonexecutive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms of reference and duties, has been established toreview annually the terms of the investment management agreement between the Company and the Investment Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee consists of Mr Morgan Chairman, Mr Sherwell and Mr Legge appointed 31 October 2008.
The Company is not required by the Listing Rules tocomply with the Code in relation to , because all Directors are non-executive.
As stated on page 14, the Management Engagement Committee met during the year.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Legge Chairman, Mr Sherwell and Mr Morgan.
Mr Legge was appointed chairman of the committee on 13 November 2008.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys , , , as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Secretarys compliance department and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year toreview the annual accounts, interim accounts and audit timetable and other risk management and governance matters.
16 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report continued Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has , andisreviewedby  TheTurnbullGuidance.
The Code  reviewofthe Companys system of internal control, covering all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed tomanage rather than eliminate the riskof failure toachieve businessobjectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
 theretobeanyneed for , asrequired by the Code.
The Board has delegated the responsibility for the management of the Companys investment portfolio, the provision of custody services and the administration, registrar and corporate secretarial functions including the independent calculation of the Companys Net Asset Value and the production of the annual report and financial statements which are independently audited.
Formal contractual agreements have been put in place between the Company and providers of these services.
On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at each quarterly board meeting by the Administrator.
Going concern After making enquiries and given the nature of the Company, its investments and the results of the Continuation Resolutions, including the expected voluntary redemption offer and mandatory redemption proposals, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements, and, after due consideration, the Directors consider .
Over theperiod, theCompanysShares, theSharesandtheUS$Sharestraded, on average, at discounts totheirrespective Net Asset Values in excessof the discount management provision, as described in the Articles of Association, and accordingly, on 12 January 2009 the Company announced that the Directors were obliged topropose continuation resolutions in respect toeach share class.
See Financial Statement Note 11 Share capital and Special reserve for more information regarding the Companys discount management provisions and Financial Statement Note 16 Subsequent Events Continuation Resolutions for more information regarding the going concern of the Company.
Relations with Shareholders The Investment Manager and the Companys broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to respond to shareholders questions at the Annual General Meeting.
  to ascertain the views of shareholders.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained by the careful monitoring of the discount premium at which the Companys shares of each class trade in the market, in particular when compared to the discounts premiums at which the Companys peer group may trade from time to time.
 annual report and financial statements for use in relation to the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Additionally, current information is provided toshareholders on an ongoing basis through the monthly portfoliocommentary.
The Registrar monitors the voting of shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary.
17 Goldman Sachs Dynamic Opportunities Limited Directors Report continued Financial Instruments The Companys financial risk management objectives and policies, including the policy for currency hedging to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations, and the exposure tocapital risk, market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in Financial Statement Note 9 Financial risk management.
 CI LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Christopher Sherwell Christopher Legge Director Director 24 April 2009 18
