Our Business Hargreaves Lansdown offers a range of investment products, clients the administrative convenience of being able to hold and investment services, financial planning and advice.
We have manage their investments, including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, established a reputation for providing high quality service and bonds, investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle, value-for-money products to private investors, whether they are in one place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing making their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory service and instant online access.
The Group also provides investment management, independent The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-private financial advisory and stockbroking services to private investors and investor fund supermarket and wrap platform.
Vantage offers advisory services to companies in respect of group pension schemes.
Central Revenue contribution Services Stockbroking We have five main operating divisions: 1% 4% Discretionary 9% Vantage Advisory 3rd Party 14% Vantage Discretionary 60% Third Party Advisory 12% Stockbroking in addition to our Central Support Services division.
At a glance Assets under administration at 30 June 2008 Underlying operating profits for the year to 30 June 2008 11.1 bn 57.8 m 2007: 10.2 bn 2007: 40.7 m Revenue for the year to 30 June 2008 Employees full time equivalents at 30 June 2008 120.3 m 639 2007: 98.8 m 2007: 648 Ofces - Bristol, also satellite ofce in London, and financial advisers throughout the UK.
H-L. co. uk Recent awards 2008Best Multi-Manager research team - Professional Adviser Most Effective Employer and Adviser Partnership AwardBest Financial Planning Broker of the year 2007 - - Employee Benefits Shares Magazine Best Investment Manager - FT and Investors ChronicleBest Financial Advice Site - Online Finance Awards Wealth Management Awards Best SIPP Provider - What Investment IFA Personality of the Year - Investment Week FundBest Share Dealing Service - What Investment Manager of the Year Awards 2008 Mark DampierBest IFA 2007 - Personal Finance and Savings Awards Corporate Adviser of the Year 2007 - Nic Nicolaou 2007 Financial Adviser Best Online Broker Customer Service - Investors ChronicleSIPP Adviser of the Year 2007 - Danny Cox - Best Cautious & Income Multi-Manager Fund - Financial Adviser Professional Adviser SIPP Provider of the Year - UK Pension Awards Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 3 Our Objectives Mission Strategy Hargreaves Lansdown is in business to help investors make more To fulfil our objectives, we need to command and retain the of their money by providing a combination of the best trust of our clients by consistently delivering on the information, the best service and the best prices in its areas of commitments we make.
We must maintain our client focus, operation, thereby creating value for clients, staff and putting the best long term interests of the client first, regardless shareholders.
of short term pressures, fashions or market conditions.
By creating value for our clients, we believe we will create long term value for shareholders and provide fulfilling careers for our staff.
Objectives In particular, we shall focus on the following: We strive to make Hargreaves Lansdown the best and most profitable in all the areas in which it operates.
Continued direct, quality service to generate growth in Vantage, our direct to investor fund supermarket and wrap We aim to attract and retain clients by identifying and platform: satisfying their investment requirements fairly and profitably.
Whether they are making their own investment decisions, orDelivering strong performance to increase assets under looking for advisory or discretionary services, we aim to offer management in the Hargreaves Lansdown range of multia broad range of investment solutions.
manager funds and our Portfolio Management Service: We strive to provide shareholders with a growing stream ofContinuing to provide a premium personal financial advisory dividend income, delivered by steady and consistent growth service, using our direct mail expertise to streamline the in earnings per share as market conditions permit.
advisory process: We aim to provide our staff with satisfying careers and anContinuing to provide a high quality Stockbroking service: opportunity to contribute to and participate in the success of the business.
Continuing to improve terms and earnings quality within the business: Heightening the visibility of the Hargreaves Lansdown brand: Continuing in our commitment to provide high quality service to clients through all the channels available, but helping more clients to benefit from online usage: Increasing operational efficiency and maintaining rigorous cost control: Managing risk effectively: and Providing independent, clear information, or advice if preferred, so that people can identify their financial priorities and choose appropriate products and solutions.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 4
