Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Dividends are shown in note 11 to the financial statements.
In Group, together with the financial statements and auditors' report, addition to the interim dividend of 3.065 pence per share, we have for the year ended 30 June 2008. declared a final ordinary dividend of 2.42 pence per share, taking the total ordinary dividends up to 5.485 pence per share.
This total Principal Group activities dividend payout equates to 60% of post tax profits.
We do not intend to accumulate cash going forwards and are therefore Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent company of a group of companies pleased to declare a special dividend of 2.324 pence per share.
This which offers a range of investment products, investment services, equates to a further 25% of post tax profits.
Any special dividend in financial planning and advice.
Hargreaves Lansdown has established future years will depend upon our future cash requirements and a reputation for providing high quality service and value-for-money therefore may vary.
products to private investors, whether they are making their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory or discretionary service.
Capital Structure The Group's flagship service, Vantage, is a direct-to-private The Companys shares are listed on the main market of the investor fund supermarket and wrap platform.
Vantage offers London Stock Exchange.
The Companys authorised and issued clients the administrative convenience of being able to hold and share capital during the year and as at 30 June 2008 are shown in manage their investments, including unit trusts, OEICs, equities, note 22. bonds, investment trusts and cash, irrespective of the tax vehicle, in one place with consolidated valuation reports, a single dealing The ordinary shares rank pari passu in all respects.
Save as agreed service and instant online access.
at the general meeting of the shareholders, the ordinary shares have pre-emption rights in respect of any future issues of ordinary The Group also provides independent financial advisory and shares to the extent conferred by Section 89 of the Companies Act.
stockbroking services to private investors and advisory services to companies in respect of group pension schemes.
No unissued share or loan capital of the Company is under option or agreed, conditionally or unconditionally, to be put under The subsidiary undertakings of the Group during the year are option.
The Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT, a listed in note 16 to the financial statements.
The principal trading subsidiary of the Company, holds Ordinary Shares for the EBT for subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited, the exercise of options granted under the employee share schemes.
Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited, Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Limited and Hargreaves Lansdown Restrictions on transfer of shares Pensions Direct Limited, are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The directors of the Company and directors of the subsidiary companies have given undertakings not to offer, sell or contract to Business review sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of ordinary shares directly or indirectly which were held on Admission to the main market of A full review of the Groups business activities and future outlook the London Stock Exchange and not sold as part of the flotation, are set out in the Operating and Financial Review and the other than in certain limited circumstances.
The restrictions apply Chairman and Chief Executives report.
Principal risks and as follows: uncertainties facing the Group are described in the Operating and Financial Review, and financial risk management information is i Prior to the announcement of the Groups results whether by shown in note 35 to the financial statements.
way of preliminary announcement or otherwise a Results Announcement for the financial year of the Company ending Post balance sheet events on 30 June 2008, to all of their Ordinary Shares held immediately following Admission Locked-in Shares : There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date, other than the exercising of 3,446,300 SAYE scheme options as ii Following the Results Announcement for the financial year of described in note 33 and declaration of the final ordinary and the Company ending on 30 June 2008 but prior to the Results special dividend to be paid on 30 September 2008 as described Announcement for the financial year of the Company ending below and in note 11. on 30 June 2009, to such number of Shares as is equal to 75 per cent.
of the total number of Locked-in Shares: Group results and Company dividends iii Following the Results Announcement for the financial year of Operating profit before exceptional items for the year ended 30 the Company ending on 30 June 2009 but prior to the Results June 2008 was 57.8 million 2007: 40.7 million and 57.8 Announcement for the financial year of the Company ending million after exceptional items 2007: 11.0 million.
The Group on 30 June 2010, to such number of Shares as is equal to 50 profit after taxation for the year ended 30 June 2008 was 42.4 per cent.
of the total number of Locked-in Shares: and million 2007: 17.0 million.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 19 Directors Report - continued iv Following the Results Announcement for the financial year of more than three years or more since their appointment or last rethe Company ending on 30 June 2010 but prior to the Results appointment must retire by rotation.
Those retiring shall also Announcement for the financial year of the Company ending include any director who wishes to retire.
A separate resolution to on 30 June 2011, to such number of Shares as is equal to 25 reappoint any director appointed since the last annual general per cent.
of the total number of Locked-in Shares.
The restrictions set out above shall cease to apply in their entirety Jonathan Davis was appointed during the year and offers himself following the Results Announcement for the financial year of the for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Martin Company ending on 30 June 2011.
Mulligan retires by rotation at the next annual general meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Biographical Reporting details of the directors proposed for election and for re-election are shown on page 17.
Shares in Hargreaves Lansdown plc are listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange and as such the Company is Substantial shareholdings required to comply with its disclosure requirements.
As at 1 September 2008, the Company has not been notified of Retirement and re-election of directors any shareholdings amounting to more than 3 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company other than the directors interests In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association at each which are set out further below and the following shareholding of annual general meeting any director who has been in office for a former Group director: Interested party Date of notification Number of Shares Percentage held at date of notification Adam Norris 29 August 2008 14,744,508 3.11% Directors The directors, who served throughout the year except as noted, were as follows: Non-executive directors: Jonathan Bloomer Senior independent non-executive director Michael Evans Jonathan Davis appointed February 2008 Executive directors: Peter Hargreaves Chief Executive Officer Stephen Lansdown Chairman Martin Mulligan Group Finance Director Jonathan Bloomer, Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis are members of the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
Jonathan Bloomer acts as Chairman of these Committees.
Stephen Lansdown was previously a member of these committees until February 2008 when he was replaced by Jonathan Davis.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 20 Directors Report - continued Directors Interests The directors who held office at 30 June 2008 had the following interests including beneficial interests in the shares of the Company.
Changes in the interests of directors between 30 June 2008 and the date of this report are also shown below: Number of Percentage of the Percentage of Number of Number of Ordinary issued Ordinary the issued Ordinary Ordinary Shares at the Share Capital at Ordinary Share Shares at 30 Shares at 30 date of the date of Capital at 30 June 2008 June 2007 this report this report June 2008 Non-executive directors Jonathan Bloomer 15,625 0.01% 15,625 0.01% 15,625 Michael Evans 15,625 0.01% 15,625 0.01% 15,625 Current executive directors Peter Hargreaves 152,717,606 32.20% 152,717,606 32.20% 152,717,606 Stephen Lansdown 132,060,843 27.84% 132,060,843 27.84% 132,060,843 Martin Mulligan 2,000,000 0.42% 2,324,885 0.49% 1,824,900 Total 286,809,699 60.46% 287,134,584 60.53% 286,634,599 The above figures are exclusive of any interests under Share Equality and diversity Options.
Details of Share Options which have been granted to Hargreaves Lansdown recognises, respects and values difference directors as at the date of this report pursuant to employee share and diversity.
We are an equal opportunities employer and it is our schemes are set out in the directors remuneration report.
policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital status, During the period covered by this report, no director had any age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
The Group material interest in a contract to which the Company or any of its seeks to ensure all employees and applicants to its businesses are subsidiary undertakings was a party, requiring disclosure pursuant given equal opportunity in all aspects of employment to ensure to section 317 Companies Act 1985 except in respect of the rental that the Group's businesses attract, retain and promote the best of the head office premises at Kendal House as disclosed in note 34 available talent.
All the businesses work to embed these principles to the financial statements.
in all aspects of their management practices and to ensure that this is evident to employees in their day-to-day work.
Employment policies Employee consultation Disabled employees Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages employee involvement Applications for employment by disabled persons are always given and consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the informed of the companys activities and financial performance by applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming such means as the employee intranet and publication to all staff of disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with relevant information and corporate announcements.
the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development Further employment information is provided in the Operating and and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be Financial Review.
identical to that of other employees.
Supplier payment policy Health and welfare Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to providing a safe and healthy The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to environment in which its employees can work.
Health and Safety settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of consultants were engaged during the previous year to carry out a each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms full review of our health and safety policy and procedures, and have of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of been retained on an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are the Group at 30 June 2008 were equivalent to 19 2007 - 23 maintained.
As a result, risk assessments have been improved and days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by updated training for employees with health and safety suppliers during the year.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 21 Directors Report - continued Client service Auditors Hargreaves Lansdown aims to ensure that we treat our clients fairly Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this in every aspect of our dealings with them and to provide a first class annual report confirms that: service at all times.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit The fair treatment of our clients is central to our corporate culture information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: and and we aim to provide the best information, the best service and the best prices to our clients.
We strive to provide clear informationthe director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken to all our clients and keep them appropriately informed at all times as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant whilst they remain a client of Hargreaves Lansdown.
We aim to audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors ensure that our services and investment performance meet our are aware of that information.
We continually strive to improve our services to ensure they are designed and targeted appropriately and that any This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance advice we provide is suitable for our clients.
We will never impose with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. unreasonable barriers to prevent clients from switching their investments or make a complaint.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them If clients ever feel the need to complain, our complaints handling will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
team carefully investigate our clients complaint and endeavour to provide them with a fair resolution.
We benchmark our By order of the Board, performance in treating clients fairly against statistics published annually by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the industry.
Tracey Taylor The results for our last financial year compared against the last Company Secretary figures published by the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves 24 September 2008 Lansdown is achieving exceptionally good results in treating our clients fairly when they complain.
Special business The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting in 2007 to purchase its own shares up to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital.
This authority expires at this years Annual General Meeting and a special resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
Resolutions are to be proposed as special business at the Annual General Meeting on 21 November 2008 to enable the directors to allot unissued shares and, subject to the limits therein contained, to allot shares for cash other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings.
The resolution enabling directors to allot unissued shares will be limited to the allotment of shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 202,725.50, which represents the difference between the companys authorised and issued share capital at 24 September 2008.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising such authority and the authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the proposed resolution.
The resolution enabling the directors to allot shares other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their shareholdings is limited to the allotment of shares up to a maximum nominal value of 94,863.72, which represents 5% of the total ordinary share capital in issue as at 24 September 2008.
Both of these resolutions seek authorities which are in accordance with the current guidelines issued by the Investment Committees of the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 22
