Management Team The following directors have served during the year: Non-Executive Directors: Executive Directors: Jonathan Bloomer - Senior non-executive director aged 54 Stephen Lansdown FCA, FSI - Chairman aged 56 Jonathan Bloomer became a non-executive director of the Stephen Lansdown co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981.
Jonathan is currently a partner in Previously, he qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1975 and Cerberus European Capital Advisers LLP, Executive Chairman of specialised in taxation with Touche Ross & Co. Stephen is also Lucida plc and Chairman of Scottish RE Group Limited.
Chairman of Bristol City Football Club.
Prior to its acquisition by Previously, Jonathan was Chief Executive of Prudential plc.
He also Euroclear plc, he was a non-executive director of EMX Company spent twenty years in practice with Arthur Andersen LLP.
Jonathan Ltd. Stephen is a Fellow of the Securities & Investment Institute.
was Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the FSA.
His previous positions also include board membership of the Association of Peter Hargreaves FCA, MSI - Chief Executive aged 61 British Insurers, Geneva Association International Association for Peter Hargreaves co-founded Hargreaves Lansdown in 1981. the Study of Insurance Economics and Railtrack plc.
Previously, he qualified as a Chartered Accountant and worked for a predecessor of KPMG, Unisys Group and Whitbread plc.
Peter is Michael Evans - Non-executive director aged 47 a non-executive director of ITM Power plc and was recently Michael Evans became a non-executive director of the Company in appointed as non-executive Chairman of ITM Power plc effective September 2006.
Michael is a qualified actuary with 26 years' from 1 January 2008.
Peter is a Member of the Securities & industry experience.
He is director of life insurance at Pinsent Investment Institute.
Masons, non-executive chairman of the Unitholders' Advisory Committee of the ING Real Estate Select Global Osiris Fund and Martin Mulligan FCA, FSI - Group Finance Director aged 37 also non-executive chairman of the Quoted Investments Advisory Martin Mulligan joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1996.
He joined Board of ING Real Estate Investment Management UK.
Michael the board of Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management in 2000 was formerly Chief Operating Officer at Skandia UK Limited.
Prior to joining Hargreaves Lansdown, Martin qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
He is a Fellow of the Jonathan Davis - Non-executive director aged 54 appointed 1 Securities & Investment Institute and has an MBA from the February 2008 University of Liverpool.
Jonathan Davis became a non-executive Director of the Company in February 2008.
Jonathan, a former senior business journalist on The Times, The Economist and The Independent, is a regular columnist in the Financial Times and founder of Independent Investor LLP, an independent investment publishing business.
His published books include Investing with Anthony Bolton 2004.
He has degrees in history and management from Cambridge University and MIT, where he wrote a thesis on the methods of Warren Buffett.
He is currently Investment Director at Agrifirma Services Ltd, an investment advisory firm.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 17 Management Team - continued Members of the Executive Committee: Mary Theresa Barry - Group Marketing Director aged 50 Peter Hargreaves, Stephen Lansdown and Martin Mulligan also Theresa Barry graduated with a 2:1 in Politics from the University joined the Executive Committee during 2008.
She joined Hargreaves Lansdown as the first full-time formerly a member of the Executive Committee resigned on 13 employee in 1982.
Theresa has also worked in marketing at Abbey March 2008.
Unit Trust Managers Limited in the City of London.
Nigel Bence - Group Compliance Director aged 37 Nigel Bence graduated with a First from Bristol Polytechnic now the University of the West of England with a BA Honours Degree in Financial Services.
He joined the compliance department of Hargreaves Lansdown in 1992.
In 2001, he was appointed to the role of Group Compliance Director.
Andrew Christian - Managing Director, Vantage and Broking Operations aged 40 Andrew Christian graduated from Nottingham Polytechnic now Nottingham Trent University with a 2:1 in Law.
He joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1991, and worked initially on the investment helpdesk before moving to Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in 1992.
Andrew was appointed director of Hargreaves Lansdown Stockbrokers in 1998.
He took over responsibility for all Vantage operations in 2003.
Tracey Taylor FCCA, MSI - Group Accounting Director aged 36 Tracey Taylor joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999.
In 2001, Tracey was appointed to the role of Company Secretary and in 2006 was appointed to the role of Group Accounting Director and to the Executive Committee.
Prior to joining Hargreaves Lansdown she qualified as an accountant.
Her responsibilities include Group finance, client accounting and the Company Secretarial function.
Tracey holds an MSc in Finance and is also a Member of the Securities & Investment Institute MSI.
Alex Davies Director of Pensions Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct Ltd aged 32 Alex Davies graduated from the University of Kent at Canterbury with a 2:1 in Politics and International Relations.
He joined Hargreaves Lansdown in 1999 to help expand Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct.
Alex joined the Board of Hargreaves Lansdown Pensions Direct in 2006 and was appointed to the Executive Committee in 2008.
Lee Gardhouse Investment Director Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers Ltd aged 34 Lee Gardhouse graduated from Liverpool John Moores University with a BA in Economics.
Lee joined Hargreaves Lansdown as a trainee fund manager in 1995.
He took responsibility for the Hargreaves Lansdown multi-manager fund range in 2001, and manages the Portfolio Management Service.
He was appointed investment director of Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers in 2006 and was appointed to the Executive Committee in 2008.
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2008 18
