34 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts to the a nd any other forward-looking statements, i nvolve unc ertainty, members of HBOS plc in respect of the HBOS Group the since future events and circumstances can cause results Group for the year ended 31 December 2008. and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements re ect the knowledge and Principal Activities information available at the date of preparation of the Annual HBOS plc is the holding company of the Group.
The principal Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no activities of the Group are the provision of banking and other obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing financial services through branches and of ces in the UK and in the Annual Report and Accounts shall be construed as a overseas.
A list of the main subsidiary undertakings, and the pro t forecast.
nature of each companys business, is given in Note 22 on pages 82 and 83.
Results and Dividends The Groups loss attributable to shareholders for the year On 21 July 2008 the Company con rmed that it had raised ended 31 December 2008, as shown in the Consolidated 4.0bn through a fully underwritten rights issue which offered Income Statement, was 7,499 m 2007 4,045m pro t. A 2 new ordinary shares for every 5 existing ordinary shares at Capitalisation amount totaling 320m, equivalent to 6.07 pence 275 pence per share.
per existing ordinary share, was allocated on 6 October 2008 at an issue price of 232 pence per new share being the value per On 13 October 2008, HBOS announced a Placing and Open share implied by the then terms of the proposed acquisition of Offer to raise 11.5bn of new capital consisting of 8.5bn in HBOS by Lloyds Banking Group plc : this resulted in the issue of ordinary shares and 3.0bn in preference shares as part of a 137,482,576 ordinary shares, equating to 1 new share for every co-ordinated package of capital and funding measures for the 38.2207578 existing ordinary shares held.
No final dividend is banking sector implemented by HM Treasury.
The capital raising being proposed for the year.
was made available to HBOS on condition that the acquisition by Lloyds TSB Group plc now Lloyds Banking Group plc Going Concern completed.
On 16 January 2009 the entire issued share capital As set out in the Principles Underlying Going Concern of HBOS was acquired by Lloyds Banking Group plc, pursuant Assumption of the Basis of Preparation section of the Notes to a Scheme of Arrangement under sections 895 to 899 of the to the Accounts, the Directors are satis ed that the Group has Companies Act 2006. adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future and consequently the going concern basis continues to On 19 December 2008, the Company sold its St. Andrews and be appropriate in preparing the accounts.
BankWest businesses to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
Directors Business Review The Directors in of ce at the date of this report are W C G The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors Report to Berndt, Sir Victor Blank, E Brown, J E Daniels, J Dawson, include a Business Review of the Group giving a fair review of P A Gore-Randall, J P du Plessis, P N Green, Sir Julian the business of the Group and a description of the principal Horn-Smith, A G Kane, Lord Leitch, Sir David Manning, C J risks and uncertainties facing it.
McCall, M A Scicluna, G T Tate, T J W Tookey, D J Watkins and H A Weir.
The Groups development and performance during the year, position at the year end and likely future prospects are reviewed C W Dunstone stood down as a Non-executive Director at in the Divisional Reviews on pages 7 to 12, the Introduction on the Annual General Meeting AGM on 29 April 2008.
P J page 2, the Risk Management report on pages 13 to 33 with Cummings, M H Ellis and C Matthew served as Executive financial aspects covered in the Financial Review on pages 3 Directors, A H Hornby as Chief Executive, Lord Stevenson as to 6.
The information in each of these sections and in the rest Chairman and Sir Ron Garrick as Deputy Chairman Senior of this Directors Report, which ful ls the requirements of the Independent Director, throughout the year and all resigned from Business Review, is incorporated into this Directors Report by the Board on 16 January 2009.
D Jones, J E Mack, C L McConville and K A Nealon served as Non-executive Directors throughout the year and resigned from The Annual Report and Accounts, including this Directors the Board on 16 January 2009.
Report, have been prepared solely for the Companys members as a body.
To the extent permitted by law, the Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers disclaim liability to any other persons in respect of information contained in the Annual Report and Accounts.
By their nature, statements containing risks and uncertainties facing the HBOS Group, appointed 16 January 2009.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 The powers of the Directors, along with provisions relating to Corporate Governance their appointment and replacement, are set out in the Articles of The Board held 17 meetings during the year at which the most Association and governed by UK company law.
Any alteration to important decisions affecting the Company were taken.
The the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders.
Board also oversaw the Companys performance and set the The speci c authorities delegated to Executive Directors during framework for how authority and accountability was delegated the year were set out in a detailed Board Control Manual.
The Company provides directors and of cers liability The Board included, throughout the year, a balance of Executive insurance, giving appropriate cover for legal action brought Directors who managed the business on a day-to-day basis and against its Directors, and has also agreed to indemnify Directors independent Non-executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman in circumstances where they are not considered to be culpable.
and Chief Executive were separate.
The indemnity, which is a qualifying third party indemnity The Board was also supported by a structure of committees provision for the purpose of the Companies Act, is for the which included an Audit Committee itself supported by a bene t of all of the Companys current Directors.
structure of Divisional Risk Control Committees, a Nomination Directors share interests Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
Membership of The bene cial interests of the Directors and their immediate each of the three main committees during 2008 was as below: families in the ordinary shares of HBOS plc at 31 December 2008 are set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration A J Hobson chair Sir Ron Garrick chair K E D Jones chair Number of Shares Number of Shares C L McConville R J Cousins R J Cousins at 31.12.08 at 31.12.07 J E Mack A H Hornby Sir Ron Garrick Chairman K A Nealon K E D Jones C L McConville Dennis Stevenson 584,550 406,892 John Ormerod C L McConvile Executive Directors resigned 25.07.2008 Lord Stevenson Peter Cummings 274,532 131.407 John Ormerod was neither an HBOS Director nor an employee of the Group.
Jo Dawson 259,846 106,654 Mike Ellis 544,454 350,545 Corporate Responsibility Philip Gore-Randall 15,331 - The approach of HBOS to Corporate Responsibility CR 35 Andy Hornby 1,037,175 608,031 has focused on best serving the diverse interests of key Colin Matthew 627,619 361,844 stakeholders, whose views and concerns informed strategy.
Dan Watkins 114,396 63,251 HBOS has worked to integrate CR into its overarching management framework with the Board reviewing CR strategy and performance annually.
Non-executive Directors Richard Cousins 8,107 5,644 Customers Sir Ron Garrick 49,544 33,002 HBOS aims to provide customers with value for money products Anthony Hobson 10,774 7,500 supported by simple customer communications, for example Karen Jones 15,693 10,255 clear summary boxes on product statements.
John E Mack 14,366 6,000 Colleagues Coline McConville 15,672 10,910 Against a background of unprecedented financial turmoil in Kate Nealon 21,374 12,879 global markets, a focus on strong leadership at all levels has never been more important.
HBOS-U, the corporate university, was extended to all leaders during 2008.
In the second half of 2008 HBOS-U focused on performance, change, leadership and managing ambiguity.
36 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued Stakeholder engagement Key Performance Indicators In discharging their duties, the Directors have had regard to 2008 the interests of key stakeholders as well as to any other factors Number of colleagues participating in development likely to impact on the success of the Company.
Consideration through HBOS-U in 2008 15,000 of these matters is fully integrated within the Boards decision Percentage of participants who valued the development making processes.
received through HBOS-U 96% In 2008 HBOS launched a new Supplier Risk Management Framework to improve consistency in the way CR risks and The Groups Total Reward strategy seeks to align colleague issues were managed in the supply chain.
The Framework reward with personal, Divisional and Group performance.
A signi cantly improved governance in the supply chain.
HBOS number of employee share schemes operated throughout the has continued to maintain contact with key consumer groups year.
Further details of these plans are set out in Note 40 to the including Which?, Citizens Advice and the Financial Services Financial Statements on page 108.
During the year HBOS used a multi-media approach when The Group spends approximately 2.4bn per annum with communicating with colleagues throughout the Group.
This external suppliers excluding rents and rates.
HBOS recognises included e-mail, electronic and printed magazines, intranets, the importance of suppliers as stakeholders in its business business television and face-to-face communication.
A Groupand the importance of ensuring that it builds effective, wide electronic magazine, entitled HBOS Today, was used competitive relationships that add value for its customers and to update colleagues on key business news.
A dedicated Procurement function operated as required rather than on a set publishing cycle.
In 2008 37 within the HBOS Group throughout the year and co-ordinated issues were published.
Topical news stories were also placed contract negotiations, management of these key relationships, on the Companys intranet site.
setting policy and ensuring that appropriate risk management processes were put in place in respect of contracts above The views of HBOS colleagues were sought on a regular basis, certain financial thresholds.
most notably through opinion surveys conducted by MORI and through regular consultation with the recognised trade unions Payment Policy ACCORD and Unite, with whom the Company has entered into For the forthcoming period the Groups policy for the payment a partnership agreement.
of suppliers will be as follows: HBOS is recognised by Jobcentre Plus as a two-tick employer, Payment terms will be agreed at the start of the relationship actively seeking applications for employment from disabled with the supplier and will only be changed by agreement: people and guaranteeing an interview where disabled applicants meet the essential criteria for the role being applied for.
In the Standard payment terms to suppliers of goods and services event of an existing colleague becoming disabled, HBOS works will be 30 days from the date of a correct invoice that has with external specialists to ensure that all possible reasonable been received for satisfactory goods or services which have adjustments are made to allow the colleague to continue in been ordered and received unless other terms are agreed in their existing role.
If, after making all possible adjustments, a a contract: colleague is not able to continue in their current role, HBOS will look at suitable alternative roles within the Group and Payment will be made in accordance with the agreed terms or provide retraining accordingly.
Training and career development in accordance with the law if no agreement has been made: opportunities are open to all colleagues including disabled and colleagues and Group policies are designed with inclusion of disabled colleagues in mind.
Suppliers will be advised without delay when an invoice is contested and disputes will be settled as quickly as possible.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 The Company complies with the Better Payment Practice Political Donations Code.
Information regarding this Code and its purpose can be It is HBOS policy not to make donations to political parties or obtained from the Better Payment Practice Groups website at incur political expenditure and the Company made no political www.
However the law in this area is extremely broad in scope and could potentially capture legitimate The Companys main trading subsidiary undertaking, Bank of business activities not in the ordinary sense considered to be Scotland plc, had trade creditors outstanding at 31 December political donations or political expenditure.
To avoid inadvertent 2008 representing 19 days of purchases.
The Company owed infringement, at its 2008 AGM the Board obtained shareholders no amounts to trade creditors at 31 December 2008. approval for the Company to make donations to EU Political Organisations and or to incur EU Political Expenditure up to Community, Charitable Donations and Environment fide ned limits.
As part of its community investment strategy, during the year, the Group made charitable donations in the UK of 9.5m.
The Share Capital majority of donations were made to the HBOS Foundation, Details of the structure of the Companys share capital as at the which provides grants to charities to fund initiatives primarily year end, as well as movements in the authorised and issued relating to financial literacy and money advice.
In addition, all share capital during the year, are provided in Note 39 to the funds raised by colleagues, customers and shareholders for the Financial Statements on page 107.
Million Challenge were matched by the HBOS Foundation and went to CLIC Sargent, Age Concern and Diabetes UK.
Further For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, as at 31 to this, a total of 1.1m has been made available to charities as December 2008 the Company had issued ordinary and a result of their af nity to the Visa Charity credit cards offered preference share capital of 1,952m, comprising 1,352m by the Group.
The af nity cards are offered in partnership with 69% in ordinary shares and 600m 31% in preference shares speci c charities such as Cancer Research UK, the NSPCC and for the purposes of this calculation, the nominal value of the SSPCA.
certain preference shares denominated in US dollars has been translated at the exchange rate prevailing on 31 December In 2008, HBOS launched a new strategy to control use of paper, 2008.
Holders of ordinary shares enjoy the rights accorded including increasing the use of 100% recycled paper, reducing to them under UK company law including the right to receive the overall use of paper and increasing recycling.
During 2008 the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and 100% recycled paper was introduced for of ce paper, business speak at general meetings, to appoint proxies and to exercise cards and compliments slips.
Holders of preference shares have limited voting rights and in general may only vote on a variation of class rights, 37 on a resolution to wind up the Company or in the event of the Key Performance Indicators preference dividend being unpaid.
Further details regarding the rights and obligations attaching to share classes are contained 2008 2007 in the Articles of Association.
UK CO2 emissions tonnes 55,272 53,577 Water use m3 540,000 531,477 At 31 December 2008 there were no restrictions on the transfer Total waste tonnes 19,306 17,944 of shares: prior approval was not required from the Company nor from other holders for such a transfer.
No limitations were % waste recycled 55.3% 51.5% placed on the holding of shares and no class of shares carried special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
No In 2008 DEFRA introduced changes to the conversion factors used restrictions were placed on voting rights other than as outlined to calculate CO2 emissions from renewable energy consumption and above with respect to preference shares.
HBOS purchased 100% renewable electricity for the entire UK 2008 the Company was not aware of any agreements between estate in 2008.
The total CO2 emissions reported above have been calculated using the old conversion factors to provide a more accurate shareholders that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise like for like comparison.
Using the new guidelines, the total emissions of voting rights.
for 2008 would increase to 231,415 tonnes.
In 2009, a priority for the Lloyds Banking Group will be to baseline environmental impacts across the combined Group.
38 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued Number of Percentage of Issued Nature of Disclosable Interests Shares Share Capital Holding 224,431,407 4.15% Direct Legal & General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 25,274,214 0.47% Indirect 53,078,621 0.98% Direct AXA SA 596,217,137 11.03% Indirect Properties Disclosable Interests The Directors are of the opinion that the current market value As at 31 December 2008 there was a disclosable interest in of the Groups properties is not signi cantly different from the the voting rights of the Company, as noti ed to the Company amount at which they are included in the balance sheet.
in accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rules, as shown in the table above.
Auditors Other than as shown, the Company was not aware of any A resolution to appoint  LLP as ordinary shareholder with an interest of 3% or more in the auditors of the Company in the place of the outgoing auditors issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2008. will be put to the 2009 AGM.
Signi cant Agreements The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this The Placing and Open Offer to raise 11.5bn of new capital Directors Report con rm that, so far as they are each aware: consisting of 8.5bn in ordinary shares and 3.0bn in preference shares as part of a co-ordinated package of capital there is no relevant audit information as fide ned by section and funding measures for the banking sector implemented by 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys HM Treasury was made available to HBOS on condition that Auditors are unaware: and the acquisition by Lloyds Banking Group plc completed.
Other than this, in terms of the Companies Act 2006, the Company each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have had not, as at 31 December 2008, identi ed any signi cant taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate on a audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors change of control of the Company.
Throughout the year the are aware of that information.
Company was a party to certain non-material agreements including, for example, joint venture agreements and trust On behalf of the Board deeds relating to certain employee share plans that did contain change of control provisions in the event of the takeover of the H F Baines ultimate parent company but these were not considered to be Company Secretary signi cant on an individual basis.
26 February 2009 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report state whether they have been prepared in accordance with and the Group and parent Company financial statements in IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and accordance with applicable law.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
parent Company will continue in business.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law financial position of the parent Company and enable them to and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies statements on the same basis.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps The Group and parent Company financial statements are as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent Under applicable law, the Directors are also responsible for Company and the performance for that period: the Companies preparing a Directors Report that complies with that law.
Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair integrity of the corporate and financial information included on presentation.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 39
