HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies Impairment of loans and advances loan is overdue.
Loss rates are based on historical experience.
HSBCs accounting policy for losses arising from the impairment of customer loans and advances is Both methodologies are subject to estimation described in Note 2g on the Financial Statements.
uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to Loan impairment allowances represent identify losses on an individual loan basis because managements best estimate of losses incurred of the large number of individually insignificant in the loan portfolios at the balance sheet date.
Management is required to exercise judgement In addition, the use of statistically assessed in making assumptions and estimations when historical information is supplemented with calculating loan impairment allowances on both significant management judgement to assess whether individually and collectively assessed loans and current economic and credit conditions are such that advances.
Of the Groups total loans and advances the actual level of inherent losses is likely to be to customers before impairment allowances of greater or less than that suggested by historical US$957 billion 2007: US$1,001 billion, experience.
In normal circumstances, historical US$6.9 billion or 1 per cent 2007: US$6.5 billion: experience provides the most objective and relevant 1 per cent were individually assessed for information from which to assess inherent loss impairment, and US$950 billion or 99 per cent within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, 2007: US$994 billion: 99 per cent were historical loss experience provides less relevant collectively assessed for impairment.
information about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, The most significant judgemental area is the where there have been changes in economic, calculation of collective impairment allowances.
regulatory or behavioural conditions such that the HSBCs most significant geographical area of most recent trends in the portfolio risk factors are not exposure to collectively assessed loans and fully reflected in the statistical models.
In these advances is North America, which comprised circumstances, such risk factors are taken into US$271 billion or 29 per cent 2007: account when calculating the appropriate levels of US$301 billion: 30 per cent of HSBCs impairment allowances, by adjusting the impairment total collectively assessed loans and advances.
allowances derived solely from historical loss Collective impairment allowances in North America experience.
were US$15.9 billion, representing 77 per cent 2007: US$11.9 billion: 72 per cent of the total This key area of judgement is subject to collectively assessed loan impairment allowance.
uncertainty and is highly sensitive to factors such as loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment HSBC uses two alternative methods to calculate rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, collective impairment allowances on homogeneous loan product features, economic conditions such as groups of loans that are not considered individually national and local trends in housing markets, the significant: level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account when appropriate empirical information is management policies and practices, changes in laws available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology.
and regulations, and other factors that can affect This methodology employs statistical analysis customer payment patterns.
Different factors are of historical data and experience of delinquency applied in different regions and countries to reflect and default to estimate the likelihood that loans different economic conditions and laws and will progress through the various stages of regulations.
The assumptions underlying this delinquency and ultimately prove irrecoverable.
The methodology The estimated loss is the difference between the and the assumptions used in calculating impairment present value of expected future cash flows, losses are reviewed regularly in the light of discounted at the original effective interest rate differences between loss estimates and actual loss of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the experience.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the portfolio: and expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they in other cases, when the portfolio size is small remain appropriate.
or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate The total amount of the Groups impairment methodology, HSBC adopts a formulaic allowances on homogeneous groups of loans is approach which allocates progressively higher inherently uncertain because it is highly sensitive to percentage loss rates the longer a customers changes in economic and credit conditions across a 62 large number of geographical areas.
Economic and inherent risk of the business being evaluated.
credit conditions within geographical areas are These variables are subject to fluctuations in influenced by many factors with a high degree of external market rates and economic conditions interdependency so that there is no single factor to outside of managements control and are which the Groups loan impairment allowances as therefore established on the basis of significant a whole are sensitive.
However, HSBCs loan management judgement and are subject to impairment allowances are particularly sensitive to uncertainty.
general economic and credit conditions in North When this exercise demonstrates that the America.
For example, a 10 per cent increase in expected cash flows of a CGU have declined and or impairment allowances on collectively assessed that its cost of capital has increased, the effect is to loans and advances in North America would increase reduce the CGUs estimated recoverable amount.
If loan impairment allowances by US$1.6 billion at this results in an estimated recoverable amount that 31 December 2008 2007: US$1.2 billion.
It is is lower than the carrying value of the CGU, a possible that the outcomes within the next financial charge for impairment of goodwill will be year could be different from the assumptions built recognised in HSBCs income statement for the year.
into the models, resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of loans and advances.
The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high degree of uncertainty in volatile market Goodwill impairment conditions.
In such market conditions, management retests goodwill for impairment more frequently than HSBCs accounting policy for goodwill is described annually to ensure that the assumptions on which the in Note 2 p on the Financial Statements.
Note 22 cash flow forecasts are based continue to reflect on the Financial Statements lists the Groups cash current market conditions and managements best generating units CGUs by geographical region estimate of future business prospects.
Total goodwill for the Group amounted to US$22 billion as at 31 December 2008 Given the extraordinary market events 2007: US$34 billion.
experienced globally during the second half of 2008, HSBC performed an additional impairment test on The process of identifying and evaluating all the CGUs within the Group as at 31 December goodwill impairment is inherently uncertain because 2008.
As a result, HSBC recognised an impairment it requires significant management judgement in charge of US$10.6 billion on Personal Financial making a series of estimations, the results of which Services North America as at 31 December 2008 are highly sensitive to the assumptions used.
Management concluded that the review of goodwill impairment represents recoverable amount of the other CGUs to which managements best estimate of the factors below: goodwill has been allocated exceeded their carrying the future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive value.
However, in the event of further significant to the cash flows projected for the periods for deterioration in the economic and credit conditions which detailed forecasts are available, and to beyond the levels already reflected by management assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of in the cash flow forecasts for the CGUs, a material sustainable cash flows thereafter.
Forecasts are adjustment to a CGUs recoverable amount may compared with actual performance and occur which may result in the recognition of an verifiable economic data in future years: impairment charge in the income statement.
however, the cash flow forecasts necessarily and Note 22 on the Financial Statements includes appropriately reflect managements view of details of the CGUs with significant balances of future business prospects at the time of the goodwill, states the key assumptions used to assess assessment: and the goodwill in each of those CGUs for impairment, the discount rate used to discount the future and provides a discussion of the sensitivity of the expected cash flows is based on the cost of carrying value of goodwill to changes in key capital assigned to an individual CGU, and can assumptions.
have a significant effect on the CGUs valuation.
The cost of capital percentage is Valuation of financial instruments generally derived from a Capital Asset Pricing HSBCs accounting policy for determining the Model, which incorporates inputs reflecting a fair value of financial instruments is described in number of financial and economic variables, Note 2d on the Financial Statements.
including the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium to reflect the 63 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies Customer groups Summary The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price When applying a model with unobservable in an actively traded market.
In the event that the inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties market for a financial instrument is not active, a in fair values resulting from a lack of market data valuation technique is used.
The majority of inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in the valuation techniques employ only observable market market.
For these instruments, the fair value data, and so the reliability of the fair value measurement is less reliable.
Inputs into valuations measurement is high.
However, certain financial based on unobservable data are inherently uncertain instruments are valued on the basis of valuation because there are little or no current market data techniques that feature one or more significant available from which to determine the level at which market inputs that are unobservable.
Valuation an arms length transaction would occur under techniques that rely to a greater extent on normal business conditions.
However, in most cases unobservable inputs require a higher level of there are some market data available on which to management judgement to calculate a fair value than base a determination of fair value, for example those based wholly on observable inputs.
historical data, and the fair values of most financial instruments will be based on some market Valuation techniques used to calculate fair observable inputs even where the unobservable values include comparisons with similar financial inputs are significant.
instruments for which market observable prices exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing An analysis of the basis for valuation of models and other valuation techniques commonly financial instruments measured at fair value in the used by market participants.
Valuation techniques financial statements is provided on page 162.
The incorporate assumptions that other market value of financial assets and liabilities that use a participants would use in their valuations, including valuation technique are US$876 billion 2007: assumptions about interest rate yield curves, US$626 billion and US$671 billion 2007: US$401 exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and billion or 71 per cent 2007: 66 per cent and 83 per default rates.
When valuing instruments by reference cent 2007: 68 per cent of total assets and total to comparable instruments, management takes into liabilities measured at fair value, respectively.
A account the maturity, structure and rating of the sensitivity analysis of fair values for financial instrument with which the position held is being instruments with significant unobservable inputs to compared.
reasonably possible alternative assumptions and a range of assumptions and inputs used in valuation The main assumptions and estimates which models in respect of instruments of particular management considers when applying a model with interest in the current market turmoil can be found valuation techniques are: on page 164.
Given the uncertainty and subjective the likelihood and expected timing of future nature of valuing financial instruments at fair value, cash flows on the instrument.
These cash flows it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial are usually governed by the terms of the year could differ from the assumptions used, and this instrument, although management judgement could result in a material adjustment to the carrying may be required when the ability of the amount of financial instruments measured at fair counterparty to service the instrument in value.
accordance with the contractual terms is in doubt.
Future cash flows may be sensitive to Impairment of available-for-sale financial changes in market rates: assets selecting an appropriate discount rate for HSBCs accounting policy for impairment of the instrument.
Management bases the available-for-sale financial assets is described in determination of this rate on its assessment of Note 2 j on the Financial Statements.
what a market participant would regard as the Available-for-sale financial assets are measured appropriate spread of the rate for the instrument at fair value, and changes in fair value are recognised over the appropriate risk-free rate: and in equity in the available-for-sale fair value reserve judgement to determine what model to use to until the financial assets are either sold or become calculate fair value in areas where the choice of impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised if there valuation model is particularly subjective, for is objective evidence of impairment as a result of example, when valuing complex derivative loss events which have an impact on the estimated products.
future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
If an available-for-sale financial asset becomes impaired, the entire balance in equity 64 relating to that asset is removed from equity and historical information on pools of assets, and recognised in the income statement as an impairment judgement is required to determine whether loss.
A further decline in the fair value of an historical performance is likely to be representative available-for-sale debt security subsequent to the of current economic and credit conditions.
A initial impairment is recognised in the income description of these securities is included in the statement when there is further objective evidence of Impact of market turmoil section under Nature impairment.
and extent of HSBCs exposures on page 150 and a more detailed description of the assumptions and At 31 December 2008 the Groups total estimates used in assessing these securities for available-for-sale financial assets amounted to impairment is disclosed in the section Assessing US$286 billion 2007: US$273 billion, of available-for-sale assets for impairment on which US$279 billion or 98 per cent 2007: page 170.
US$261 billion: 95 per cent were debt securities.
At 31 December 2008, the available-for-sale fair There is no single factor to which the Groups value reserve relating to debt securities amounted charge for impairment of available-for-sale debt to a deficit of US$21.4 billion 2007: deficit of securities is particularly sensitive, because of the US$2.4 billion.
A deficit in the available-for-sale range of different types of securities held, the range fair value reserve occurs on an available-for-sale of geographical areas in which those securities are debt security when the fair value of the security is held, and the wide range of factors which can affect less than the securitys acquisition cost net of any the occurrence of loss events and the cash flows of principal repayments and amortisation less any securities, including different types of collateral.
previous impairment loss recognised in the income Managements current assessment of the statement, but there is no evidence of any holdings of available-for-sale ABSs with the most impairment or, if an impairment was previously sensitivity to possible future impairment is focused recognised, any subsequent impairment.
on sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgage-backed Management is required to exercise judgement securities MBSs.
The Groups principal exposure in determining whether there is objective evidence to these securities is in the Global Banking and that an impairment loss has occurred.
Excluding holdings in certain impairment has been identified, the amount of special purpose entities where significant first loss impairment loss is measured in relation to the fair risks are borne by external investors, the availablevalue of the asset.
More information on assumptions for-sale holdings in these categories within Global and estimates requiring management judgement Banking and Markets amounted to US$5.2 billion at relating to the determination of fair values of 31 December 2008 2007: US$11.8 billion.
The financial instruments is provided above in Valuation deficit in the available-for-sale fair value reserve as of financial instruments.
at 31 December 2008 in relation to these securities was US$5.9 billion 2007: US$1.1 billion.
The objective evidence required to determine whether an available-for-sale debt security is The main factors in the reduction in fair value impaired comprises evidence of the occurrence of a of these securities over the period were the effects loss event and evidence that the loss event results in of reduced market liquidity and negative market a decrease in estimated future cash flows.
The level of actual credit losses cash flows are readily determinable, a low level of experienced was low in 2008, notwithstanding the judgement may be involved.
Where determination of deterioration in the performance of the underlying estimated future cash flows requires consideration of mortgages in the period as US house prices fell and a number of variables, some of which may be defaults increased.
The absence of material credit unobservable in current market conditions, more losses is judged to be attributable to the seniority of significant judgement is required.
the tranches held by HSBC as well as the priority for cash flow held by these tranches.
The most significant judgements concern more complex instruments, such as asset-backed securities Further details of the nature and extent of ABSs, where it is necessary to consider factors HSBCs exposures to asset backed securities such as the estimated future cash flows on classified as available-for-sale are provided in underlying pools of collateral, the extent and depth Impact of market turmoilnature and extent of of market price declines and changes in credit HSBCs exposures on page 150. ratings.
The review of estimated future cash flows It is reasonably possible that outcomes in the on underlying collateral is subject to estimation next financial year could be different from the uncertainties where the assessment is based on assumptions and estimates used in identifying 65 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies Customer groups Summary impairment on available-for-sale debt securities, as determined that the losses were primarily caused by a result of which, evidence of impairment may be increases in credit losses in the US due to the current identified in available-for-sale debt securities which housing and credit market conditions, as well as had previously been determined not to be impaired.
continued weakening in the general economy, It is possible that this could result in the recognition which has led to higher unemployment levels and, of material impairment losses in the next financial consequently, higher credit losses.
In the US, managements projections of future taxable income are based on business plans, future Deferred tax assets capital requirements and ongoing tax planning HSBCs accounting policy for the recognition of strategies.
These projections include assumptions deferred tax assets is described in Note 2s on the about the depth and severity of further house price Financial Statements.
A deferred tax asset is depreciation, assumptions about the US recession, recognised to the extent that it is probable that future including unemployment levels and their related taxable profits will be available against which impact on credit losses, and assumptions about deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
ongoing capital support from HSBC.
The recognition of a deferred tax asset relies on The assumptions surrounding future expected managements judgements surrounding the credit losses in the US represent the most subjective probability and sufficiency of future taxable profits, areas of judgement in managements projections of future reversals of existing taxable temporary future taxable income.
differences and ongoing tax planning strategies.
Managements forecasts support the assumption HSBCs most significant judgements are that it is probable that the results of future operations around the US deferred tax assets, where there has will generate sufficient taxable income to utilise the been a recent history of losses in HSBCs US deferred tax assets.
In managements judgement, the operations.
Net US deferred tax assets amounted recent market conditions, which have resulted in to US$5.0 billion or 71 per cent 2007: losses being incurred in the US over the last two US$3.7 billion: 70 per cent of total net deferred tax years, will create significant downward pressure and assets recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
volatility on the profit or loss before tax in the next The amount of US deferred tax assets few years.
To reflect this, the assessment of recognised is based on the evidence available about recoverability of the deferred tax asset in the US conditions at the balance sheet date, and requires significantly discounts any future expected taxable significant judgements to be made by management, income and relies to a greater extent on continued especially those based on managements projections capital support to the US operations from HSBC, of credit losses and the timing of recovery in the US including tax planning strategies implemented in economy.
Managements judgement takes into relation to such support.
The most significant tax consideration the impact of both positive and planning strategy is HSBCs investment of capital negative evidence, including historical financial into its US operations to ensure the utilisation of the performance, projections of future taxable income, net operating loss carry forwards.
This strategy future reversals of existing taxable temporary provides substantial support for the recoverability differences, and the availability of loss carrybacks.
of the deferred tax assets.
HSBC expects that its US The recognition of the deferred tax asset is mainly operations will continue to be dependent upon its dependent upon the projection of future taxable capital support, and will continue to execute their profits, future reversals of existing taxable temporary business strategies and plans until they return to differences and the capacity to carry back net profitability.
Based on managements forecasts, operating losses arising in 2009.
HSBC expects to provide capital support to its US operations in each of the next three years.
If HSBC Tax losses were incurred in HSBCs US were to decide, however, not to provide this ongoing operations in 2008.
Management has evaluated the support, the full recovery of the deferred tax asset factors contributing to the losses to determine may no longer be probable and could result in a whether the factors leading to the losses are material adjustment to the deferred tax asset which temporary or indicative of a permanent decline in would be recognised in the income statement.
Based on its analysis, management has 66
