HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Interim Management Report: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Footnotes Fair values of financial instruments FV Footnotes to Nature and extent of HSBCs exposures 1 Mortgage-backed securities MBSs, asset-backed securities ABSs and collateralised debt obligations CDOs.
2 High grade assets rated AA or AAA.
3 Unrealised gains and losses on the net principal exposure see footnote 9 recognised in the income statement as a result of changes in the fair value of the asset, adjusted for the cumulative amount of transfers to realised gains and losses as a result of the disposal of assets.
4 Realised gains and losses on the net principal exposure see footnote 9 recognised in the income statement as a result of the disposal of assets.
5 Fair value gains and losses on the net principal exposure see footnote 9 recognised in equity as a result of the changes in the fair value of available-for-sale assets, adjusted for transfers from the available-for-sale reserve to the income statement as a result of impairment, and adjusted for transfers to realised gains and losses following the disposal of assets.
6 Impairment losses recognised in the income statement in respect of the net principal exposure see footnote 9 of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity assets.
7 The gross principal is the redemption amount on maturity or, in the case of an amortising instrument, the sum of the future redemption amounts through the residual life of the security.
8 A CDS is a credit default swap.
CDS gross protection is the gross principal of the underlying instrument that is protected by CDSs.
9 Net principal exposure is the gross principal amount of assets that are not protected by CDSs.
It includes assets that benefit from monoline protection, except where this protection is purchased with a CDS.
10 Carrying amount of the net principal exposure.
11 During 2008, the Group reclassified holdings of HELoCs to US sub-prime residential mortgage-related assets from Other US residential mortgage-related assets, and restated the amounts of certain direct lending exposures presented in the ABS tables to show the gross carrying amount of assets on the consolidated balance sheet rather than the net exposure, consistent with other direct lending exposures.
2007 amounts have been restated accordingly, resulting in an increase of US$6.3 billion in the reported balance of US sub-prime mortgage-related assets as at 31 December 2007.
12 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of the credit risk adjustment.
13 Cumulative fair value adjustment recorded against OTC derivative counterparty exposures to reflect the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
14 Funded exposure represents the loan amount advanced to the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
15 Unfunded exposures represent the contractually committed loan facility amount not yet drawn down by the customer, less any fair value write-downs, net of fees held on deposit.
Fair values of financial instruments To this end, ultimate responsibility for the Audited determination of fair values lies with Finance, which reports functionally to the Group Finance Director.
The classification of financial instruments is Finance establishes the accounting policies and determined in accordance with the accounting procedures governing valuation, and is responsible policies set out in Note 2 on the Financial for ensuring that they comply with all relevant Statements, and the use of assumptions and accounting standards.
estimation in respect of valuation of financial instruments as described on page 63.
The following For all financial instruments where fair values is a description of HSBCs methods of determining are determined by reference to externally quoted fair value and its related control framework, and a prices or observable pricing inputs to models, quantification of its exposure to financial independent price determination or validation is instruments measured at fair value.
In inactive markets, direct observation of a traded price may not be possible.
In these Fair value is the amount for which an asset circumstances, HSBC will source alternative market could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between information to validate the financial instruments fair knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length value, with greater weight given to information that transaction.
is considered to be more relevant and reliable.
The Financial instruments measured at fair value factors that are considered in this regard are, inter on an ongoing basis include trading assets and alia: liabilities, instruments designated at fair value, the extent to which prices may be expected to derivatives and financial investments classified represent genuine traded or tradeable prices: as available for sale including treasury and other eligible bills, debt securities, and equity securities.
the degree of similarity between financial instruments: Fair values of financial instruments carried the degree of consistency between different at fair value sources: Control framework the process followed by the pricing provider to Fair values are subject to a control framework derive the data: designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the risk-taker.
162 the elapsed time between the date to which the The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price market data relates and the balance sheet date: in an actively traded market.
In the event that the and market for a financial instrument is not active, a valuation technique is used.
the manner in which the data was sourced.
The judgement as to whether a market is Models provide a logical framework for the active may include, but is not restricted to, the capture and processing of necessary valuation inputs.
consideration of factors such as the magnitude and For fair values determined using a valuation model, frequency of trading activity, the availability of the control framework may include, as applicable, prices and the size of bid offer spreads.
In inactive independent development or validation of i the markets, obtaining assurance that the transaction logic within valuation models: ii the inputs to those price provides evidence of fair value or determining models: iii any adjustments required outside the the adjustments to transaction prices that are valuation models: and, iv where possible, model necessary to measure the fair value of the instrument outputs.
Valuation models are subject to a process of requires additional work during the valuation due diligence and calibration before becoming process.
operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis.
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data, and so the reliability of The results of the independent validation the fair value measurement is high.
However, certain process are reported to, and considered by, Valuation financial instruments are valued on the basis of Committees.
Valuation Committees are composed of valuation techniques that feature one or more valuation experts from several independent support significant market inputs that are unobservable, and functions Product Control, Market Risk for them, the derivation of fair value is more Management, Derivative Model Review Group and judgemental.
An instrument in its entirety is Finance in addition to senior management.
The classified as valued using significant unobservable members of each Valuation Committee consider the inputs if, in the opinion of management, a significant appropriateness and adequacy of the fair value proportion of the instruments balance sheet value adjustments and the effectiveness of valuation and or inception profit day 1 gain or loss is models.
If necessary, they may require changes to driven by unobservable inputs.
Unobservable in model calibration or calibration procedures.
The this context means that there is little or no current Valuation Committees are overseen by the Valuation market data available from which to determine the Committee Review Group, which consists of Heads price at which an arms length transaction would be of Global Banking and Markets Finance and Risk likely to occur.
It generally does not mean that there Functions.
All subjective valuation items with a is no market data available at all upon which to base potential impact in excess of US$5 million are a determination of fair value consensus pricing data reported to the Valuation Committee Review Group.
Furthermore, in some cases the majority of the fair value derived from a Determination of fair value valuation technique with significant unobservable Fair values are determined according to the inputs may be attributable to observable inputs.
following hierarchy: Consequently, the effect of uncertainty in determining unobservable inputs will generally be Quoted market price: financial instruments with restricted to uncertainty about the overall fair value quoted prices for identical instruments in active of the financial instrument being measured.
in understanding the extent and the range of this Valuation technique using observable inputs: uncertainty, additional information is provided in the financial instruments with quoted prices for section headed Effect of changes in significant similar instruments in active markets or quoted unobservable assumptions to reasonably possible prices for identical or similar instruments in alternatives below.
inactive markets and financial instruments In certain circumstances, primarily where debt is valued using models where all significant hedged with interest rate derivatives or structured inputs are observable.
notes issued, HSBC records its own debt in issue at Valuation technique with significant fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market unobservable inputs: financial instruments for the specific instrument concerned, if available.
valued using valuation techniques where one or When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own more significant inputs are unobservable.
debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are either based upon quoted 163 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments at fair value prices in an inactive market for the instrument, or are Market data model uncertainty: an adjustment estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an to reflect uncertainties in fair values based on active market for similar instruments.
In both cases, unobservable market data inputs for example, the fair value includes the effect of applying the as a result of illiquidity, or in areas where the credit spread which is appropriate to HSBCs choice of valuation model is particularly liabilities.
For all issued debt securities, discounted subjective.
cash flow modelling is used to separate the change in Inception profit day 1 gain or loss : for fair value that may be attributed to HSBCs credit financial instruments valued at inception on the spread movements from movements in other market basis of one or more significant unobservable factors such as benchmark interest rates or foreign inputs, the difference between transaction price exchange rates.
Specifically, the change in fair value and model value, as adjusted, at inception the of issued debt securities attributable to the Groups day 1 gain or loss is not recognised in the own credit spread is computed as follows: for each consolidated income statement, but is deferred.
security at each reporting date, an externally An analysis of the movement in the deferred verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using day 1 gain or loss is provided on page 400. credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer.
Then, using discounted cash flow, each Transaction costs are not included in the fair security is valued using a risk-free discount curve.
value calculation, nor are the future costs of The difference in the valuations is attributable to the administering the OTC derivative portfolio.
These, Groups own credit spread.
This methodology is along with trade origination costs such as brokerage applied consistently across all securities.
fees and post-trade costs, are included either in fee expense or in operating expenses.
Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instrument liabilities are included within trading A detailed description of the valuation liabilities and are measured at fair value.
The credit techniques applied to instruments of particular spread applied to these instruments is derived from interest follows: the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes.
Private equity These market spreads are significantly smaller than credit spreads observed for plain vanilla debt or in HSBCs private equity positions are generally the credit default swap markets.
classified as available for sale and are not traded in active markets.
In the absence of an active Gains and losses arising from changes in the market, an investments fair value is estimated credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC reverse on the basis of an analysis of the investees over the contractual life of the debt, provided that the financial position and results, risk profile, debt is not repaid early.
prospects and other factors, as well as by All net positions in non-derivative financial reference to market valuations for similar instruments, and all derivative portfolios, are valued entities quoted in an active market, or the price at bid or offer prices as appropriate.
Long positions at which similar companies have changed are marked at bid prices: short positions are marked ownership.
The exercise of judgement is at offer prices.
required because of uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value for private equity The fair value of a portfolio of financial investments.
instruments quoted in an active market is calculated as the product of the number of units and its quoted Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills, price and no block discounts are made.
and equities The valuation techniques used when quoted The fair value of these instruments is based on market prices are not available incorporate certain quoted market prices from an exchange, dealer, assumptions that HSBC believes would be made broker, industry group or pricing service, when by a market participant to establish fair value.
When they are unavailable, the fair When HSBC considers that there are additional value is determined by reference to quoted considerations not included within the valuation market prices for similar instruments, adjusted model, appropriate adjustments may be made.
as appropriate for the specific circumstances of Examples of such adjustments are: the instruments.
Credit risk adjustment: an adjustment to reflect Illiquidity and a lack of transparency in the the creditworthiness of OTC derivative market for debt securities backed by US subcounterparties.
prime mortgages has resulted in less observable 164 data being available.
Finally, some inputs are not prices are generally used to determine the fair observable, but can generally be estimated from value of these securities, valuation models are historical data or other sources.
Examples used to substantiate the reliability of the limited of inputs that are generally observable include market data available and to identify whether foreign exchange spot and forward rates, any adjustments to quoted market prices are benchmark interest rate curves and volatility required.
surfaces for commonly traded option products.
Examples of inputs that may be unobservable In the absence of quoted market prices, fair include volatility surfaces, in whole or in part, value is determined using valuation techniques for less commonly traded option products, and based on the calculation of the present value of correlations between market factors.
expected future cash flows of the assets.
The inputs to these valuation techniques are derived Loans including leveraged loans and loans held from observable market data and, where for securitisation relevant, assumptions in respect of unobservable inputs.
In respect of ABSs and mortgages, the Loans held at fair value are valued from broker assumptions may include prepayment speeds, quotes and or market data consensus providers default rates and loss severity based on when available.
In the absence of an observable collateral type, and performance as appropriate.
market, the fair value is determined using The output from the valuation techniques is valuation techniques including discounted cash benchmarked for consistency against observable flow models, which incorporate assumptions data.
regarding an appropriate credit spread for the loan derived from other market instruments Derivatives issued by the same or comparable entities.
OTC i. e. non-exchange traded derivatives are Structured notes valued using valuation models.
Valuation models calculate the present value of expected The fair value of structured notes valued using future cash flows, based upon no-arbitrage a valuation technique is derived from the fair principles.
For many vanilla derivative products, value of the underlying debt security as such as interest rate swaps and European described above, and the fair value of the options, the modelling approaches used are embedded derivative is determined as described standard across the industry.
For more complex in the paragraph above on derivatives.
derivative products, there may be some differences in market practice.
Inputs to Fair value valuation bases valuation models are determined from The following table provides an analysis of the observable market data wherever possible, various bases described above which have been including prices available from exchanges, deployed for valuing financial assets and financial dealers, brokers or providers of consensus liabilities measured at fair value in the consolidated pricing.
At balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair 31 December 2008, financial instruments measured value with significant unobservable inputs were an at fair value using a valuation technique with increase in the fair value of derivative assets and significant unobservable inputs represented 2 per liabilities due to market conditions, and a reduction cent of total assets and liabilities measured at fair in the level of ABSs and loans held at fair value due value 31 December 2007: 2 per cent.
Other portfolios included valued using a valuation technique with significant holdings in various bonds, preference shares and unobservable inputs principally comprised various corporate and mortgage loans.
The decrease during ABSs, private equity investments and other the year largely reflected leveraged finance and ABS portfolios, similar to the position at 31 December positions no longer held on a fair value basis 2007. following their reclassification to loans and receivables as a result of the amendment to IAS 39 Trading assets valued using a valuation and a reduction in the level of loans held for technique with significant unobservable inputs securitisation.
principally comprised loans held for securitisation 166 Derivative products valued using valuation investors, provide the counterparty with a return that techniques with significant unobservable inputs is linked to the performance of certain equity included certain types of correlation products, such securities.
as foreign exchange basket options, foreign The increase in derivative liabilities valued exchange-interest rate hybrid transactions and longusing a valuation technique with significant dated option transactions.
Examples of the latter are unobservable inputs was due to the general increase equity options, interest rate and foreign exchange in the fair value of derivative liabilities during 2008. options and certain credit derivatives.
Credit derivatives included tranched CDS transactions.
The Effect of changes in significant unobservable increase in derivative assets during the year was assumptions to reasonably possible mainly due to i the transfer of certain leveraged alternatives credit derivative transactions into this category because widening credit spreads increased the As discussed above, the fair value of financial significance of unobservable credit spread instruments are, in certain circumstances, measured volatilities, and ii a general increase in the using valuation techniques that incorporate fair value of derivative assets during 2008. assumptions that are not evidenced by prices from observable current market transactions in the same Trading liabilities valued using a valuation instrument and are not based on observable market technique with significant unobservable inputs data.
The following table shows the sensitivity of principally comprised equity-linked structured note these fair values to reasonably possible alternative transactions.
These notes, which HSBC issues to assumptions: Reflected in profit or loss Reflected in equity Favourable Unfavourable Favourable Unfavourable changes changes changes changes US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2008 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities........ 1,266 703 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 30 30 Financial investments: available for sale 984 1,005 At 31 December 2007 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities........ 602 415 Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value 30 30 Financial investments: available for sale 529 591 1 Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these financial instruments are risk-managed.
The increase in the effect of changes in during the year primarily reflected increased significant unobservable inputs in relation to sensitivity of instruments to unobservable derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities parameters across asset and liability classes.
the instrument as a result of varying the levels of the In the absence of such evidence, managements unobservable parameter using statistical techniques.
When parameters are not amenable to statistical analysis, quantification of uncertainty is For structured notes and other derivatives, judgemental.
principal assumptions concern the future volatility of asset values and the future correlation between asset When the fair value of a financial instrument is values.
For such unobservable assumptions, affected by more than one unobservable assumption, estimates are based on available market data, which the above table reflects the most favourable or most may include the use of a proxy method to derive a unfavourable change from varying the assumptions volatility or a correlation from comparable assets for individually.
which market data is more readily available, and or In respect of private equity investments, the an examination of historical levels.
valuations are assessed on an asset by asset basis using a valuation methodology appropriate to the Changes in fair value recorded in the income specific investment, in line with industry guidelines.
statement In many of the methodologies, the principal The following table quantifies the changes in fair assumption is the valuation multiple to be applied to values recognised in profit or loss during the year in the main financial indicators including, for example, respect of exposures whose fair values are estimated multiples for comparable listed companies and using valuation techniques that incorporate discounts for marketability.
significant assumptions that are not evidenced by For ABSs whose prices are unobservable, prices from observable current market transactions in models are used to generate the expected value of the same instrument, and are not based on the asset, incorporating benchmark information on observable market data: factors such as prepayment speeds, default rates, loss the table details the total change in fair value severities and the historical performance of the of these instruments: it does not isolate the underlying assets.
The models used are calibrated by component of the change that is attributable using securities for which external market to the unobservable component: information is available.
instruments valued with significant For leveraged finance, loans held for unobservable inputs are frequently dynamically securitisation and derivatives with monolines the managed with instruments valued using principal assumption concerns the appropriate value observable inputs: the table does not include any to be attributed to the counterparty credit risk.
This changes in fair value of these latter instruments: requires exposure at default, probability of default and and recovery in the event of default to be estimated.
For loan transactions, assessment of exposure at the table reflects the full change in fair value default is straight-forward.
For derivative during 2008 of assets and liabilities valued using transactions, a future exposure profile is generated significant unobservable inputs at 31 December based on current market data.
Probabilities of default 2008 which were observable at 31 December and recovery levels are estimated using market 2007. evidence, which may include financial information, 168 2008 2007 of unobservable credit spread volatilities.
These US$m US$m movements are offset by reductions occurring due to Recorded profit loss on: write-downs of MBSs, mortgage loans acquired for Derivatives, trading assets the purpose of securitisation and credit derivative and trading liabilities......... 779 491 transactions executed against monoline insurers.
Financial assets and liabilities designated at fair value...... 109 9 HSBC Holdings The profit during the year primarily reflects The following table provides an analysis of the basis changes in the fair value of credit derivatives which for valuing financial assets and financial liabilities were transferred from using a valuation technique measured at fair value in the financial statements: with significant observable inputs to a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs.
The change in valuation technique was due to widening credit spreads which have increased the significance Bases of valuing HSBC Holdings financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value Valuation techniques Quoted Using With significant market observable unobservable price inputs inputs Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2008 Assets Derivatives 3,682 3,682 Financial investments: available for sale................. 2,629 2,629 Liabilities Financial liabilities designated at fair value............ 16,389 16,389 Derivatives 1,324 1,324 At 31 December 2007 Assets Derivatives 2,660 2,660 Financial investments: available for sale................. 346 2,676 3,022 Liabilities Financial liabilities designated at fair value............ 18,683 18,683 Derivatives 44 44 Reflected in equity Financial investments measured using a Favourable Unfavourable valuation technique with significant unobservable changes changes inputs comprise fixed-rate trust-preferred securities US$m US$m and senior notes purchased from HSBC Financial investments undertakings.
The unobservable elements of the available for sale valuation technique include the use of implied credit At 31 December 2008.... 113 97 spreads and simplified bond pricing assumptions.
At 31 December 2007..... 53 52 Effect of changes in significant unobservable Assessing available-for-sale assets for assumptions to reasonably possible alternatives impairment As discussed above, the fair value of financial HSBCs policy on impairment of available-for-sale instruments are in certain circumstances measured assets is described on page 350.
The following is a using valuation models that incorporate assumptions description of HSBCs application of that policy.
that are not supported by prices from observable A systematic impairment review is carried out current market transactions in the same instrument periodically of all available-for-sale assets, and all and are not based on observable market data.
The available indicators are considered to determine following table shows the sensitivity of nonwhether there is any objective evidence that an derivative financial instruments to reasonably impairment may have occurred, whether as the result possible alternative assumptions.
of a single loss event or as the combined effect of several events.
169 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments at fair value not at fair value Debt securities In respect of CDOs, in order to determine whether impairment has occurred, the expected When assessing available-for-sale debt securities for future cash flows of the CDOs are compared with objective evidence of impairment at the balance the total of the underlying collateral on the nonsheet date, HSBC considers all available evidence, defaulted assets and the recovery value of the including observable data or information about defaulted assets.
In the event of a shortfall, the CDO events specifically relating to the securities which is considered to be impaired.
may result in a shortfall in recovery of future cash flows.
These events may include a significant When a security benefits from a contract financial difficulty of the issuer, a breach of contract provided by a monoline insurer that insures such as a default, bankruptcy or other financial payments of principal and interest, the expected reorganisation, or the disappearance of an active recovery on the contract is assessed in determining market for the debt security because of financial the total expected credit support available to the difficulties relating to the issuer.
These types of specific event and other factors Equity securities such as information about the issuers liquidity, business and financial risk exposures, levels of and Objective evidence of impairment for availabletrends in default for similar financial assets, national for-sale equity securities may include specific and local economic trends and conditions, and the information about the issuer as detailed above, but fair value of collateral and guarantees may be may also include information about significant considered individually, or in combination, to changes in technology, markets, economics or the determine if there is objective evidence of law that provides evidence that the cost of the equity impairment of a debt security.
securities may not be recovered.
In addition, when assessing available-for-sale A significant or prolonged decline in the fair ABSs for objective evidence of impairment, HSBC value of the asset below its cost is also objective considers the performance of underlying collateral, evidence of impairment.
In assessing whether it is the extent and depth of market price declines and significant, the decline in fair value is evaluated changes in credit ratings.
The primary indicators of against the original cost of the asset at initial potential impairment are considered to be adverse recognition.
In assessing whether it is prolonged, the fair value movements, and the disappearance of an decline is evaluated against the period in which the active market for the securities.
fair value of the asset has been below its original cost at initial recognition.
At 31 December 2008, the population of available-for-sale ABSs identified as being most at For impairment losses on available-for-sale risk of impairment included residential MBSs debt and equity securities, see pages 34 and 30, backed by sub-prime and Alt-A mortgages respectively.
Any impairment losses recognised in originated in the US, and CDOs with significant the income statement relating to ABSs are recorded exposure to this sector.
The estimated future cash in the Loan impairment charges and other credit risk flows of these securities are assessed to determine provisions line.
Impairment losses incurred on whether any of their cash flows are unlikely to be assets held by consolidated securities investment recovered as a result of events occurring on or before conduits excluding Solitaire are offset by a credit the balance sheet date.
to the impairment line for the amount of the loss borne by capital note holders.
In particular, for residential MBSs the estimated future cash flows are assessed by determining the Fair values of financial instruments not future projected cash flows arising on the underlying carried at fair value collateral taking into consideration the delinquency status of underlying loans, the probability of Financial instruments that are not measured at fair delinquent loans progressing to default and the value on the balance sheet include loans and proportion of the advances subsequently recoverable.
advances to banks and customers, deposits by banks, HSBC uses a modelling approach which customer accounts, debt securities in issue and incorporates historically observed progression rates subordinated liabilities.
Their fair values are, to default, to determine if the decline in aggregate however, provided for information by way of note projected cash flows from the underlying collateral disclosure and are calculated as described below.
will lead to a shortfall in contractual cash flows.
In The calculation of fair value incorporates such cases the security is considered to be impaired.
HSBCs estimate of the amount at which financial 170 assets could be exchanged, or financial liabilities Loans and advances to banks and customers settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an The fair value of loans and advances is based arms length transaction.
It does not reflect the on observable market transactions, where economic benefits and costs that HSBC expects to available.
In the absence of observable market flow from the instruments cash flows over their transactions, fair value is estimated using expected future lives.
Other reporting entities discounted cash flow models.
Performing may use different valuation methodologies and loans are grouped, as far as possible, into assumptions in determining fair values for which homogeneous pools segregated by maturity and no observable market prices are available, so coupon rates.
In general, contractual cash flows comparisons of fair values between entities may are discounted using HSBCs estimate of the not be meaningful and users are advised to exercise discount rate that a market participant would use caution when using this data.
in valuing instruments with similar maturity, Since August 2007, the unstable market repricing and credit risk characteristics.
conditions in the US mortgage lending industry have The fair value of a loan portfolio reflects resulted in a significant reduction in the secondary both loan impairments at the balance sheet market demand for US consumer lending assets.
date and estimates of market participants Uncertainty over the extent and timing of future expectations of credit losses over the life of credit losses, together with an absence of liquidity the loans.
for non-prime ABSs, continued to be reflected in a lack of bid prices at 31 December 2008.
It is not For impaired loans, fair value is estimated possible to distinguish from the indicative market by discounting the future cash flows over the prices that are available, between the relative time period they are expected to be recovered.
discount to nominal value within the fair value measurement that reflects cash flow impairment due Financial investments to expected losses to maturity, and the discount that The fair values of listed financial investments the market is demanding for holding an illiquid and are determined using bid market prices.
The fair out of favour asset.
Under impairment accounting for values of unlisted financial investments are loans and advances, there is no need nor requirement determined using valuation techniques that take to adjust carrying amounts to reflect illiquidity as into consideration the prices and future earnings HSBCs intention is to fund assets until the earlier of streams of equivalent quoted securities.
prepayment, charge-off or repayment on maturity.
Market fair values, on the other hand, reflect both Deposits by banks and customer accounts incurred loss and loss expected through the life of the asset, a discount for illiquidity and a credit For the purposes of estimating fair value, spread which reflects the markets current risk deposits by banks and customer accounts are preferences.
This usually differs from the credit grouped by residual maturity.
Fair values are spread applicable in the market at the time the loan estimated using discounted cash flows, applying was underwritten and funded.
current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
The fair value of a deposit The estimated fair values at 31 December 2008 repayable on demand is assumed to be the and 31 December 2007 of loans and advances to amount payable on demand at the balance sheet customers in North America reflect the combined date.
As a result, the fair values are substantially lower than the carrying amount of Debt securities in issue and subordinated customer loans held on-balance sheet and lower than liabilities would otherwise be reported under more normal market conditions.
Accordingly, the fair values Fair values are determined using quoted market reported do not reflect HSBCs estimate of the prices at the balance sheet date where available, underlying long-term value of the assets.
or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
Fair values at the balance sheet date of the assets and liabilities set out below are estimated for the The fair values in this note are stated at a purpose of disclosure as follows: specific date and may be significantly different from the amounts which will actually be paid on the maturity or settlement dates of the instruments.
In many cases, it would not be possible to realise immediately the estimated fair values given the size 171 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Fair values of financial instruments HSBC Holdings SPEs of the portfolios measured.
Accordingly, these The following table lists financial instruments fair values do not represent the value of these whose carrying amount is a reasonable financial instruments to HSBC as a going concern.
approximation of fair value because, for example, they are short-term in nature or reprice to current For all classes of financial instruments, fair market rates frequently: value represents the product of the value of a single Assets instrument, multiplied by the number of instruments Cash and balances at central banks held.
No block discount or premium adjustments are Items in the course of collection from other banks made.
The fair values of intangible assets related to Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness the businesses which originate and hold the financial Endorsements and acceptances instruments subject to fair value measurement, such Short-term receivables within Other assets Accrued income as values placed on portfolios of core deposits, credit card and customer relationships, are not included Liabilities above because they are not classified as financial Hong Kong currency notes in circulation Items in the course of transmission to other banks instruments.
Accordingly, an aggregation of fair Investment contracts with discretionary participation features value measurements does not approximate to the within Liabilities under insurance contracts value of the organisation as a going concern.
