HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive thinks fit.
In addition, the Board may establish any Board of Directors local or divisional boards or agencies for managing The Board the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified locality and delegate and confer on any local or The objective of the management structures within divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any HSBC, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC of its powers, authorities and discretions including Holdings and led by the Group Chairman, is to the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
The Board may also, by power Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or delegated to the Group Management Board under the persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may leadership of the Group Chief Executive.
delegate to any such person or persons any of its HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board of powers, authorities and discretions including the Directors.
The authority of each Director is exercised power to sub-delegate for such time and on such in Board Meetings where the Board acts collectively terms as it thinks fit.
At 2 March 2009, the Board comprises the The Board sets the strategy for the Group and Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, four other approves the operating plans presented by executive Directors and 15 non-executive Directors.
management for the achievement of the strategic The names and brief biographical particulars of the objectives.
The operating plans ensure the efficient Directors are listed on pages 281 to 285.
The Group disposition of HSBCs resources for the achievement Chairman, Group Chief Executive and four other of these objectives.
The Board delegates the executive Directors are employees who carry out management and day-to-day running of HSBC to the executive functions in HSBC in addition to their Group Management Board but retains to itself duties as Directors.
Non-executive Directors are not approval of certain matters including operating plans HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily and performance targets, procedures for monitoring business management of HSBC.
Non-executive and control of operations, the authority or the Directors bring an external perspective, delegation of authority to approve credit, market risk constructively challenge and help develop limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of expenditure or realisation or creation of a new management in meeting agreed goals and objectives venture, specified senior appointments, and any and monitor the reporting of performance.
The nonsubstantial change in balance sheet management executive Directors have a wealth of experience policy.
across a number of industries and business sectors, including the leadership of large, complex The Directors who served during the year were, multinational enterprises.
The roles of non-executive Lord Butler, S A Catz, V H C Cheng, J D Coombe, Directors as members of Board committees are Baroness Dunn, J L Durn, R A Fairhead, D J Flint, described on pages 290 to 291.
It is estimated that A A Flockhart, W K L Fung, M F Geoghegan, non-executive Directors devote 24 days per annum S K Green, S T Gulliver, J W J Hughes-Hallett, to HSBC business after an induction phase, with W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, Sir Brian Moffat, Sir Committee members devoting significant additional Mark Moody-Stuart, G Morgan, N R N Murthy, time.
S W Newton, S M Robertson, J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson.
The Board is responsible for managing the business of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may The Board of Directors meets regularly and exercise all of the powers of HSBC Holdings, Directors receive information between meetings subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to about the activities of committees and developments the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of Eight Board meetings were held during 2008. the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or The table that follows gives details of each charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or Directors attendance at meetings of the Board, assets present and future of HSBC Holdings and Group Audit Committee, Nomination Committee may also exercise any of the powers conferred on it and Remuneration Committee held whilst he or she by the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act was a Director or member during 2008.
2006 as appropriate and or by shareholders.
The Board is able to delegate and confer on certain During 2008, the non-executive Directors and Directors holding executive office any of its powers, the Group Chairman met twice without the other authorities and discretions including the power to executive Directors.
In addition, the non-executive sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it 290
