HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Management Risk function, which the Group Finance Director maintained at regional and customer group levels.
It represents on the Board.
operates through two key mechanisms: Global Risk has functional responsibility for the the framework itself defines the governance principal financial risk types, namely retail and bodies, processes, metrics and other features of wholesale credit, market, operational, security and how HSBC addresses risk appetite as part of its fraud risks.
For these it establishes Group policy, ongoing business: exercises Group-wide oversight and provides periodic risk appetite statements define, at reporting and analysis of portfolio composition on a various levels in the business, the desired level global and a regional basis to senior management.
of risk commensurate with return and growth Accountability and consistent control across the targets and in line with the corporate strategy Global Risk function is provided through the Global and stakeholder objectives.
Risk Management Board, chaired by the GCRO, the membership of which includes the Chief Risk Officers The risk appetite framework covers both the of HSBCs regions and the heads of risk disciplines beneficial and adverse aspects of risk.
Global Risk also co-ordinates the economic capital is the common currency through continued development of the Groups risk appetite, which risk is measured and used as the basis for risk economic capital and stress testing frameworks.
In evaluation, capital allocation and performance addition, the GCRO is a member of the Group measurement across regions and customer groups.
Portfolio Oversight Committee, chaired by the Group Risk appetite is executed through the operational Treasurer, which governs the Groups portfolio limits that control the levels of risk run by the management activities for the wholesale business Group, regions and customer groups and is measured sector.
Risk appetite Risk control culture HSBCs risk appetite framework describes the HSBCs risk management policies are encapsulated quantum and types of risk that HSBC is prepared to in the Group Standards Manual and cascaded in a take in executing its strategy.
It is central to an hierarchy of policy manuals throughout the Group and integrated approach to risk, capital and business communicate standards, instructions and guidance to management and supports the Group in achieving its employees.
They support the formulation of risk return on equity objectives, as well as being a key appetite and establish procedures for monitoring and element in meeting the Groups obligations under controlling risks, with timely and reliable reporting to pillar 2 of Basel II.
HSBC regularly reviews and updates its risk management policies, systems and methodologies The formulation of risk appetite considers to reflect changes in law, regulation, markets, HSBCs risk capacity, its financial position, the products and emerging best practice.
strength of its core earnings and the resilience of its reputation and brand.
It is expressed both It is the responsibility of all Group officers to qualitatively, describing which risks are taken and identify, assess and manage risk within the scope why, and quantitatively.
HSBC senior management of their assigned responsibilities.
Personal attaches quantitative metrics to individual risk types accountability, reinforced by the Groups governance to ensure that: structure and instilled by training and experience, helps to foster throughout the Group a disciplined and underlying business activity may be guided and constructive culture of risk management and control.
controlled, so that it continues to be aligned to the risk appetite framework: Credit risk key assumptions underpinning risk appetite can Credit risk management be monitored and, as necessary, adjusted Audited through subsequent business planning cycles: and Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a business decisions anticipated to be necessary to contract.
It arises principally from direct lending, mitigate risk are flagged and acted upon trade finance and leasing business, but also from promptly.
certain off-balance sheet products such as guarantees The risk appetite framework, governed by the and credit derivatives, and from the Groups Board and overseen in its implementation on an holdings of assets in the form of debt securities.
ongoing basis by GMB and RMM, is also HSBC has standards, policies and procedures 192
