HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees HSBC Holdings is required to submit annual internal control, compliance and risk management.
and interim written affirmations of compliance with The members of the Group Audit Committee applicable NYSE corporate governance standards, throughout 2008 were, R A Fairhead Chairman, similar to the affirmations required of NYSE-listed J D Coombe and J W J Hughes-Hallett.
was appointed a member of the Committee on 1 March 2009.
S W Newton retired as a Director of HSBC Holdings and ceased to be a member of the Board committees Committee on 10 October 2008.
All members of the The Board has appointed a number of committees Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
consisting of certain Directors, Group Managing The Board has determined that R A Fairhead, Directors and, in the case of the Corporate J D Coombe and J W J Hughes-Hallett are Sustainability Committee, certain co-opted independent according to SEC criteria, may be non-director members.
The following are the regarded as audit committee financial experts for the principal committees: purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience.
Group Management Board Appointments to the Committee are made for The Group Management Board meets frequently and periods of up to three years, extendable by no more operates as a general management committee under than two additional three-year periods, so long as the direct authority of the Board.
The objective of members continue to be independent.
the Group Management Board is to maintain a reporting and control structure whereby all of the Formal and tailored induction programmes are line operations of HSBC are accountable to held for newly-appointed Committee members and individual members of the Group Management appropriate training is provided on an ongoing and Board who report to the Group Chief Executive who timely basis.
in turn reports to the Group Chairman.
The Board There were eight meetings of the Group Audit has set objectives and measures for the Group Committee during 2008.
The table on page 291 gives Management Board.
These will align senior details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
executives objectives and measures with the Following each meeting the Committee reports to strategy and operating plans throughout HSBC.
the Board on its activities.
The members of the Group Management Board are M F Geoghegan Chairman, V H C Cheng, At each meeting, the Committee has the D J Flint, A A Flockhart and S T Gulliver who are opportunity to meet with the external auditor, executive Directors, and A Almeida, E Alonso, without management present, to facilitate the C C R Bannister, K M Harvey, A C Hungate, discussion of any matter relating to its remit and any D D J John, B P McDonagh, Y A Nasr, B Robertson issue arising from the audit.
Similar arrangements and P A Thurston, all of whom are Group Managing have been adopted for the Committee to meet with Directors.
The Committee also has the opportunity to meet with the Group Chief Executive The Group Management Board exercises the at each of its meetings.
powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so far as they concern the management and day-to-day The terms of reference of the Committee, running of HSBC Holdings in accordance with such which are reviewed annually, are available at policies and directions as the Board may from time www.
To ensure to time determine.
Matters reserved for approval by consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary the Board are described on page 290. company audit committees, the Group Audit Committee has established core terms of reference to The Group Chief Executive reports to each guide subsidiary company Boards when adopting meeting of the Board on the activities of the Group terms of reference for their audit committees.
Subsidiary company audit committees are required to provide bi-annual certificates to the Committee or Group Audit Committee to an intermediate subsidiary company audit The Group Audit Committee meets regularly with committee, relating to the financial statements and HSBCs senior financial, credit and risk, internal internal control procedures of the relevant subsidiary audit, legal and compliance management and the company.
external auditor to consider HSBC Holdings The Group Audit Committee is accountable to financial reporting, the nature and scope of audit the Board and assists it in meeting its responsibilities reviews and the effectiveness of the systems of 296 for maintaining an effective system of internal The Committee has approved procedures for the control and compliance and for meeting its external receipt, retention and handling of complaints financial reporting obligations.
The Committee regarding accounting, internal accounting controls undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of and auditing matters.
The Committee receives HSBCs system of internal control, which is regular reports regarding the nature, investigation described on page 299, and reviews the Companys and resolution of material complaints and concerns financial statements before they are considered by from the Head of Group Compliance.
The Committee is directly responsible on behalf Regular reports are received on the risks of the Board for the selection, oversight and involved in HSBCs business and how they are remuneration of the external auditor.
The Committee controlled and monitored by management which reviews and monitors the external auditors enable the Committee to review the effectiveness of independence and objectivity and the effectiveness HSBCs risk management framework.
Each year the of the audit process, taking into consideration Committee agrees a schedule of presentations to be relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
made to it by management during the ensuing year The Committee reviews the strategy and on the operation of the risk control framework within approves the terms for the engagement of the the Group.
The presentations specifically address external auditor for the audit of the Annual Report risk indicators and performance measures such as and Accounts.
Regular reports on the progress of the indicators of credit, liquidity and interest rate risk.
audit facilitate the Committees assessment of the During 2008 the Committee received frequent effectiveness of the audit.
presentations on global market risk and liquidity and reports on the US mortgage services business, credit The Committee receives reports from the performance in the US and the impact of the external auditor on its own policies and procedures tightening of liquidity in the money markets.
regarding independence and quality control and Comprehensive reports are received at each regular oversees the appropriate rotation of audit partners meeting from the Group Chief Risk Officer, the within the external auditor.
The external auditor Head of Group Compliance, the Group General provides the Committee with an annual confirmation Manager, Legal and Compliance and the Group of its independence in accordance with industry General Manager Internal Audit.
presentations are made by other function heads On the recommendation of the Committee the and line management.
Board has approved a policy for the employment by The reports from the Group General Manager HSBC of former employees of the external auditor Internal Audit include information on frauds and or its affiliates.
The Committee monitors this policy special investigations and weakness in internal through the receipt of an annual report of those controls identified through internal audit reports or former employees of the external auditor employed reviews of regulatory reports and external auditors by HSBC and the number of former employees of reports.
The Committee monitors and reviews the the external auditor currently employed in senior effectiveness of the internal audit function and positions in HSBC.
The reports enable the receives summaries of periodic peer reviews of Committee to consider whether there has been any HSBCs principal internal audit functions.
HSBC impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the has adopted the Principles of the International auditors judgement or independence in respect of Institute of Internal Auditors, which include a the audit.
periodic external quality assurance review of the The Group Audit Committee has established internal audit function.
The first such review, policies for the pre-approval of specific services that undertaken by Independent Audit Limited, was may be provided by the principal auditor, KPMG presented to the Committee in 2008.
Audit Plc and its affiliates KPMG.
These policies The Committee receives regular updates on are kept under review and amended as necessary to changes in law, regulations and accounting standards meet the dual objectives of ensuring that HSBC and practices and the preparations being made to benefits in a cost effective manner from the respond to those requirements.
During 2008, the cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor, Committee received regular updates on the review of while also ensuring that the auditor maintains the internal financial reporting controls required by necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the These pre-approval policies apply to all services implementation of the Basel II capital adequacy where HSBC Holdings or any of its subsidiaries pays requirements.
for the service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the 297 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees Internal control service and has selected or influenced the choice of current members of the Committee are independent KPMG.
All services entered into with KPMG during non-executive Directors.
2008 were pre-approved by the Committee or were There were five meetings of the Nomination entered into under pre-approval policies established Committee during 2008.
The table on page 291 gives by the Committee.
A quarterly update on non-audit details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
services provided by KPMG is presented to the Committee by management.
Following each meeting the Committee reports to the Board on its activities.
The pre-approved services relate to regulatory reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types The terms of reference of the Committee are of attestation reports, the provision of advice and available at www.
other non-audit services allowed under SEC The appointments of S A Catz, M K T Cheung, independence rules.
They fall into the categories of J R Lomax, N R N Murthy and J L Thornton as nonaudit services, audit-related services, tax services executive Directors and V H C Cheng, A A Flockhart and other services.
and S T Gulliver as executive Directors were made An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect on the advice and recommendation of the of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG Nomination Committee.
An external consultancy for each of the last three years is disclosed in Note 9 was used in connection with the appointments of on the Financial Statements.
S A Catz, M K T Cheung, J R Lomax, N R N Murthy and J L Thornton.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed auditor at the The terms and conditions of appointment of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
non-executive Directors are available for inspection at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be Remuneration Committee made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the Meeting itself.
The role of the Remuneration Committee and its membership are set out in the Directors The Committee makes recommendations to the Remuneration Report on page 315.
Board concerning: plans for succession for both executive and non-executive Directors: the Nomination Committee appointment of any Director to executive or other office: suitable candidates for the role of senior The Nomination Committee is responsible for independent non-executive Director: the re-election leading the process for Board appointments and for by shareholders of Directors retiring by rotation: the identifying and nominating, for approval by the renewal of the terms of office of non-executive Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
Directors: membership of Board Committees, in Before recommending an appointment to the Board, consultation with the Group Chairman and the the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, chairman of such committees as appropriate: any knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the matters relating to the continuation in office of any light of this, identifies the role and capabilities Director at any time: and appointments and rerequired for a particular appointment.
Candidates are appointments to the boards of directors of major considered on merit against these criteria.
Care is subsidiary companies as appropriate.
taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to devote to HSBC.
Prospective Directors are asked to The Committee regularly reviews the structure, identify any significant other commitments and size and composition including the skills, confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what knowledge and experience required of the Board is expected of them.
In accordance with the Articles and makes recommendations to the Board as of Association all Directors are subject to election appropriate.
It keeps under review the leadership by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting needs of HSBC, with a view to ensuring the following their appointment by the Board and to continued ability of HSBC to compete effectively in re-election at least every three years.
The Board has satisfied itself that of the Nomination Committee throughout 2008 were the Nomination Committee has in place appropriate Sir Brian Williamson Chairman, S M Robertson plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior and J W J Hughes-Hallett.
R A Fairhead was management positions as well as procedures to appointed a member of the Committee on 30 May ensure an appropriate balance of skills and 2008.
Baroness Dunn and Sir Brian Moffat retired experience within HSBC and on the Board.
as Directors of HSBC Holdings and ceased to be members of the Committee on 30 May 2008.
