HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk Sensitivity of NII Structural FX expenses HSBC Holdings net trading assets is generally sourced from to lower deposit pricing in the event of interest floating rate retail deposits and recorded in Net rate reductions.
interest income whereas the income from such Residual interest rate risk is managed within assets is recorded in Net trading income.
Global Markets, under the Groups policy of Projecting the movement in net interest income transferring interest rate risk to Global Markets from prospective changes in interest rates is a to be managed within defined limits and with complex interaction of structural and managed flexibility as to the instruments used.
The main drivers of the year on year movements HSBC monitors the sensitivity of reported in the sensitivity of the Groups net interest income reserves to interest rate movements on a monthly to the changes in interest rates tabulated above were: basis by assessing the expected reduction in decreases in interest rates, particularly in US valuation of available-for-sale portfolios and cash dollar, Hong Kong dollar and Sterling which flow hedges due to parallel movements of plus or have restricted the Groups ability to pass on to minus 100 basis points in all yield curves.
The table depositors further rate reductions thereby below describes the sensitivity of HSBCs reported increasing exposures to further rate falls: and reserves to these movements at the end of 2008 and 2007 and the maximum and minimum month-end Global Markets increased net trading asset figures during these years: positions, particularly in euro.
The table shows the are recorded in the consolidated statement of potential sensitivity of reserves to valuation recognised income and expense.
The main changes in available-for-sale portfolios and from operating or functional currencies in which cash flow hedges following the pro forma HSBCs business is transacted are the US dollar, movements in interest rates.
These particular the Hong Kong dollar, pound sterling, the euro, the exposures form only a part of the Groups overall Mexican peso, the Brazilian real and the Chinese interest rate exposures.
As the US dollar and currencies linked to under IFRSs of the Groups remaining interest rate it form the dominant currency bloc in which exposures, while economically largely offsetting HSBCs operations transact business, HSBC the exposures shown in the above table, does not Holdings prepares its consolidated financial require revaluation movements to go to reserves.
HSBCs consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange Structural foreign exchange exposures differences between the US dollar and all the nonUnaudited US dollar functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net investments in subsidiaries, branches or associates, HSBC hedges structural foreign exchange the functional currencies of which are currencies exposures only in limited circumstances.
HSBCs other than the US dollar.
structural foreign exchange exposures are managed 248
