HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Products and services Other information FUM Assets in custody government and non-government fixed income in 43 countries and territories, with client assets of and money market instruments: US$352 billion at 31 December 2008. precious metals and exchange traded futures: HSBC Private Bank is the principal marketing name of the HSBC Groups international private equity services, including research, sales and banking business and utilising the most suitable trading for institutional, corporate and private products from the marketplace, HSBC Private Bank clients and asset management services: works with its clients to offer both traditional and distribution of capital markets instruments, innovative ways to manage and preserve wealth including debt, equity and structured products, while optimising returns.
Products and services utilising HSBCs global network: and offered include: securities services, where HSBC is one of the Private Banking Services: These comprise worlds leading custodians providing custody multi-currency deposit accounts and fiduciary and clearing services and funds administration deposits, credit and specialist lending, treasury to both domestic and cross-border investors.
trading services, cash management, securities custody and clearing.
In addition, HSBC Private Global Banking Bank works to ensure its clients have full access to other products and services available throughout HSBCs operations in Global Banking consist of HSBC, such as credit cards, internet banking, financing, advisory and transaction services for corporate banking, and investment banking.
corporations, institutional and private investors, financial institutions, and governments and their Private Wealth Management: These comprise agencies.
Products include: both advisory and discretionary investment services.
A wide range of investment vehicles is covered, financing and capital markets, which comprises including bonds, equities, derivatives, options, capital raising, including debt and equity capital, futures, structured products, mutual funds and corporate finance and advisory services, alternatives hedge funds, private equity and real bilateral and syndicated lending, leveraged and estate.
By accessing regional expertise located acquisition finance, structured and project within six major advisory centres in Hong Kong, finance, lease finance, and non-retail depositSingapore, Geneva, New York, Paris and London, taking: Private Banking seeks to find the most suitable international, regional and domestic payments investments for clients needs and investment and cash management services: and strategies.
Corporate Finance Solutions helps provide clients with cross-border solutions for their other transaction services, including trade companies working with Global Banking & Markets.
Private Wealth Solutions: These comprise Global Asset Management inheritance planning, trustee and other fiduciary services designed to protect existing wealth and HSBCs operations in asset management consist of create tailored structures to preserve wealth for products and services for institutional investors, future generations.
Areas of expertise include trusts, intermediaries and individual investors and their foundation and company administration, charitable advisers.
trusts and foundations, insurance, family office advisory and philanthropy.
These are tailored to Principal Investments meet the individual needs of each family.
This includes private equity, which comprises HSBCs captive private equity funds, strategic Other information relationships with third-party private equity Funds under management managers and other investments.
2008 2007 US$bn US$bn Private Banking Funds under management HSBCs presence in all the major wealth-creating At 1 January 844 695 Net new money 1 36 regions has enabled it to build one of the worlds Value change.... 159 53 leading private banking groups, providing private Exchange and other.................... 51 60 banking and trustee services to high net worth At 31 December 735 844 individuals and their families from over 90 locations 140 At 31 December 31 December 2007.
This was mainly driven by 2008 2007 adverse market movements affecting the value of US$bn US$bn assets held.
Funds under management by business HSBCs assets under administration business, Global Asset Management........ 370 380 which includes the provision of various support Private Banking 219 275 function activities including the valuation of Affiliates........... 2 3 portfolios of securities and other financial assets on Other................. 144 186 behalf of clients, complements the custody business.
735 844 At 31 December 2008, the value of assets held under administration by the Group amounted to Funds under management at 31 December 2008 US$3.3 trillion, in line with 31 December 2007. were US$735 billion, a decrease of 13 per cent compared with 31 December 2007.
Both Global Property Asset Management and Private Banking funds decreased due to the fall in equity markets.
During 2008, HSBC recognised a gain of US$416 million in other operating income in respect Global Asset Management funds under of the purchase of the subsidiary of Metrovacesa management amounted to US$370 billion, a which owned the property and long leasehold land decrease of 3 per cent compared with 31 December comprising 8 Canada Square, London.
Excluding an internal transfer of on the Financial Statements for further details.
US$67 billion, Global Asset Management funds decreased by 20 per cent to US$303 billion.
At 31 December 2008, HSBC operated from some 9,870 operational properties worldwide, of Net outflows were predominantly driven by which approximately 2,770 were located in Europe, clients redeeming long-term funds as a consequence 1,090 in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, of the downturn in the global economic environment, 1,640 in North America, 4,200 in Latin America and although this was reduced by net new money into 170 in Middle East.
These properties had an area of money market funds as clients sought to reduce risk.
approximately 73.6 million square feet 2007: Additionally, the total value of funds under 69.8 million square feet.
management was affected by a weaker investment performance resulting from turbulent markets and by Freehold, long leasehold and short leasehold foreign exchange movements.
land and buildings carried on the balance sheet represented 35 per cent of HSBCs operational Notwithstanding a decrease in emerging markets space.
Of the total net book value of HSBC funds during the year, Global Asset Management properties, more than 72 per cent was for owned remained one of the worlds largest emerging market properties or properties under long-term leases.
In asset managers, with US$52 billion of funds under addition, properties with a net book value of management.
US$971 million were held for investment purposes.
Private Bankings funds under management HSBCs operational properties are stated at cost, decreased by 20 per cent to US$219 billion, driven being historical cost or fair value at the date of by equity market performance.
Net new money, transition to IFRSs their deemed cost less any while positive, amounted to only US$2 billion as impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis positive flows in Europe, were offset by outflows of calculated to write off the assets over their estimated funds in other regions as clients reduced risk by useful lives.
Properties owned as a consequence of transferring funds to cash deposits, many with HSBC an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value.
in response to its perceived strength.
Other funds under management, of which the Valuation of freehold and leasehold land and main element is a corporate trust business in Asia, buildings decreased to US$144 billion.
HSBCs freehold and long leasehold properties, together with all leasehold properties in Hong Kong, Assets held in custody and under were valued in 2008.
The value of these properties administration was US$3.3 billion 2007: US$2.2 billion in Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of excess of their carrying amount in the consolidated securities and other financial assets on behalf of balance sheet.
At 31 December 2008, assets held by HSBC Further details are included in Note 23 on the as custodian amounted to US$3.6 trillion, 33 per Financial Statements.
cent lower than the US$5.4 trillion held at 141 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Other information Legal proceedings Footnotes precision is extremely difficult, owing to among Legal proceedings other things the complexity of the issues, the On 27 July 2007, the UK Office of Fair Trading number of permutations of possible outcomes, and OFT issued High Court legal proceedings against the early stage of the proceedings.
In addition, the a number of UK financial institutions, including assumptions made by HSBC Bank may prove to be HSBC Bank, to determine the legal status and incorrect.
enforceability of certain of the charges applied to On 11 December 2008 Bernard L Madoff their personal customers in relation to unauthorised Madoff was arrested and charged in the United overdrafts the charges.
Pending the resolution of States District Court for the Southern District of the proceedings, the Financial Services Authority New York with one count of securities fraud.
That FSA has granted firms including HSBC Bank a same day, the US Securities and Exchange waiver enabling them to place relevant complaints Commission SEC filed securities fraud charges about the charges on hold and the County Courts against Madoff and his firm Bernard L Madoff have stayed all individual customer claims.
Investment Securities LLC Madoff Securities, a Certain preliminary issues in these proceedings broker dealer and investment advisor registered with have been heard in the Commercial Division of the the SEC.
The criminal complaint and SEC complaint High Court.
This has confirmed that HSBC Banks each alleged that Madoff had informed senior current and historic charges are capable of being Madoff Securities employees, in substance, that his tested for fairness but are not capable of being investment advisory business was a fraud.
HSBC Bank and all the other financial 15 December 2008, on the application of the institutions involved in the legal proceedings Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the appealed the finding that the current charges are United States District Court for the Southern District capable of being tested for fairness.
The Court of of New York appointed a trustee for the liquidation Appeal delivered its judgement on 26 February of the business of Madoff Securities, and removed 2009, confirming the decision of the High Court that the liquidation proceeding to the United States the charges of HSBC Bank and all of the other Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New financial institutions involved in the legal York.
On 9 February 2009, on Madoffs consent, the proceedings are capable of being tested for fairness.
United States District Court for the Southern District HSBC Bank is considering applying for leave to of New York entered a partial judgement in the SEC appeal to the House of Lords.
action, permanently enjoining Madoff from violating certain antifraud provisions of the US securities The proceedings remain at an early stage and laws, ordering Madoff to pay disgorgement, may, allowing for appeals on the issues, take some prejudgement interest and a civil penalty in amounts time to conclude.
A wide range of outcomes is to be determined at a later time, and continuing possible, depending upon the outcome of any appeal certain other relief previously imposed, including a to the House of Lords and, to the extent applicable, freeze on Madoffs assets.
The relevant US upon the Courts assessment of the fairness of each authorities are continuing their investigations into charge across the period under review.
Since July the alleged fraud.
There remains significant 2001, there have been a variety of charges applied by uncertainty as to the facts of the alleged fraud and HSBC Bank across different charging periods under the extent of any assets of, and remaining within, the then existing contractual arrangements.
Bank considers the charges to be and to have been valid and enforceable, and intends strongly to defend Various non-US HSBC group companies its position.
provide custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside If, contrary to HSBC Banks current assessment, the United States of America whose assets were the Court should ultimately after appeals reach an invested with Madoff Securities.
Based on adverse decision that results in a liability, a large information provided by Madoff Securities, as at number of different outcomes is possible, each of 30 November 2008, the aggregate net asset value of which would have a different financial impact.
these funds which would include principal amounts Given that there is limited authority on how an invested and unrealised gains was US$8.4 billion.
assessment of fairness should be conducted, HSBC Banks estimate of the potential financial impact is Proceedings concerning Madoff and Madoff that it could be in the order of approximately Securities have already been issued in various 350 million US$510 million, as published in the jurisdictions against numerous defendants and Interim Report 2008.
To make an estimate of the HSBC expects further proceedings to be brought, potential financial impact at this stage with any including by the Madoff Securities trustee.
Various 142 HSBC group companies have been named as operating with these requests for information.
defendants in suits in the United States anticipated to These actions apart HSBC is party to legal seek class action status and cases in the Commercial actions in a number of jurisdictions including the List of the Irish courts.
All of the cases where HSBC UK, Hong Kong and the US arising out of its normal group companies are named as a defendant are at a business operation.
HSBC considers that none of the very early stage.
HSBC considers that it has good actions is material, and none is expected to result in defences to these claims and will continue to defend a significant adverse effect on the financial position them vigorously.
HSBC is unable reliably to estimate of HSBC, either individually or in the aggregate.
the liability, if any, that might arise as a result of Management believes that adequate provisions have such claims.
been made in respect of the litigation arising out Various HSBC group companies have also of its normal business operations.
HSBC has not received requests for information from various disclosed any contingent liability associated with regulatory authorities in connection with the alleged these legal actions because it is not practical to fraud by Madoff.
HSBC group companies are codo so.
Operating and Financial Review footnotes see pages 12 to 143 1 Columns headed Acquisitions, disposals and dilution gains and Acquisitions and disposals comprise the net increments or decrements in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which are attributable to acquisitions or disposals of subsidiaries made, or dilution gains, in the relevant years.
Acquisitions and disposals are determined on the basis of the review and analysis of events in each year.
2 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
3 Excluding 2007 acquisitions, disposals and dilution gains.
4 Other income in this context comprises net trading income see 15 below, net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, gains arising from dilution of interests in associates, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
5 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
6 Excluding 2006 acquisitions, disposals and dilution gains.
7 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
8 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
9 Brazilian operations comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo and subsidiaries, plus HSBC Servios e Participaes Limitada.
10 This table analyses interest-bearing bank deposits only.
See page 15 for an analysis of all bank deposits.
11 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement other than interest on own debt.
12 This table analyses interest-bearing customer accounts only.
See page 60 for an analysis of all customer accounts.
13 Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by average interest earning assets.
14 The main items reported under Other are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities, centrally held investment companies, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates, movements in the fair value of own debt designated at fair value the remainder of the Groups gain on own debt is included in Global Banking and Markets, and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results also include net interest earned on free capital held centrally, operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC, and costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
At 31 December 2008, gains arising from the dilution of interests in associates were nil 2007: US$1.1 billion and 2006: nil and fair value gains on HSBCs own debt designated at fair value were US$6.7 billion 2007: US$2.8 billion income: 2006: US$35 million expense.
15 Assets by geographical region and customer group include intra-HSBC items.
These items are eliminated, where appropriate, under the heading Intra-HHSBC items.
16 In the analyses of customer groups and global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
17 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
18 In 2008, Global Markets included a US$529 million gain on the widening of credit spreads on structured liabilities 2007: US$34 million: 2006: nil.
19 Other in Global Banking and Markets includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products.
20 Trading assets and financial investments held in Europe, and by Global Banking and Markets in North America, include financial assets which may be repledged or resold by counterparties.
21 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from customer groups, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within Global Banking and Markets.
HSBCs balance sheet management business, reported within Global Banking and Markets, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report Global Banking and Markets Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the intersegment column.
22 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France, HSBC Assurances and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank.
23 United States includes the impairment of goodwill in respect of Personal Financial Services - North America as described in Note 22 on the Financial Statements.
