Gains arising from dilution of interests in consequence of the new monies raised by the associates associates, HSBCs share of their underlying assets increased by US$1.1 billion, notwithstanding the In 2007, HSBCs associates, Industrial Bank, reduction in the Groups interests.
These gains were Ping An Insurance and Bank of Communications presented in the income statement as Gains arising in mainland China, Financiera Independencia in from dilution of interests in associates, and should Mexico and Techcombank in Vietnam issued new be regarded as exceptional.
shares for which HSBC did not subscribe.
US$9.1 billion were 60 per cent higher than in 2006, HSBC acquired the remaining interest in HSBC boosted by HSBCs acquisition in the first half of Assurances in France in March 2007 and, in October 2007 of the remaining shares in HSBC Assurances in 2007, sold the Hamilton Insurance Company France and the purchase of HSBC Bank Panama in Limited and Hamilton Life Assurance Company Central America in late 2006.
Underlying net Limited in the UK.
On an underlying basis, net insurance premiums grew by 21 per cent.
earned insurance premiums increased by 14 per cent.
Growth in net earned insurance premiums was Growth in net earned insurance premiums was achieved in all regions except North America, driven by a continued strong performance from the primarily from new business growth in the life UK life assurance business, mainly as a result of insurance business in Europe, Hong Kong and Latin higher sales of the Guaranteed Income Bond, a nonAmerica.
An increase in net earned premiums linked product that was launched in June 2007.
The was recorded in the UK due to higher sales of introduction of enhanced life assurance benefits to Guaranteed Income Bonds and the introduction of certain pension products, which led to these products enhanced death benefits to pension contracts.
New being reclassified as insurance contracts, also product launches also aided growth in Hong Kong.
In Latin America, higher premiums in Brazil were driven by increased sales of pension products with The Hong Kong insurance business also linked-life policies.
performed well with respect to premium growth, due to stronger sales of products with discretionary In non-life insurance, the UK benefited from a participation features DPF and an increase in decision to reduce the proportion of risk and regular premiums partly offset by a reduction in unitcorresponding premiums ceded to reinsurers linked premiums.
The Latin American business also performed well, led by growth in motor In France, HSBC Assurances performed well in premiums in Argentina.
However, results in North a declining market, as three promotional campaigns America declined, as a reduction in loan volumes led during the year contributed to growth in sales of to a fall in credit insurance sales and HSBC stopped policies with DPF.
However, a significant one-off reinsuring credit insurance for other lenders.
reinsurance transaction undertaken during 2008 caused net earned insurance premiums to decrease compared with 2007.
