Movement from 31 December 2007 to The Groups tier 1 capital ratio declined 31 December 2008 from 9.3 per cent to 8.3 per cent.
For detail on regulatory capital and risk weighted assets, see Total assets amounted to US$2.5 trillion, 7 per cent pages 274 to 280. higher than at 31 December 2007.
After excluding currency movements, the disposal of HSBCs French The following commentary is on an underlying regional subsidiaries and the acquisition of the basis.
assets, liabilities and operations of The Chinese Assets Bank in 2008, underlying assets rose by 22 per cent, driven by growth in derivative assets.
The Groups cash and balances at central banks rose substantially, particularly in Hong Kong as The expansion in the Groups balance sheet was additional liquidity was injected into the banking largely attributable to increases in derivative assets system, and in the US where excess liquidity was and liabilities, and was due to growth in the fair required in the short-term as part of a planned value of these positions rather than a rise in their transfer of assets between the Groups subsidiaries.
Excluding the growth in derivative liabilities, customer accounts formed an Trading assets increased by 11 per cent.
The increasing share of the Groups liabilities as majority of the rise occurred on 30 September 2008, depositors and savers responded to HSBCs following the Groups consolidation of five Constant reputation for strength and security.
As a result, a Net Asset Value CNAV funds with assets of proportion of the Groups funding repayable on around US$40 billion.
The decision to consolidate demand or within one year rose.
For information on these funds was based on actions taken to support the Groups management of liquidity, see pages them.
For further details of these actions, see 235 to 240. page 180.
The rise was partly offset by the reclassification of US$18 billion of trading assets 40 partly to Loans and Advances and partly to customers are magnified.
The rise in loans and Financial investments following the changes to advances to customers was also inflated by the International Accounting Standard 39 Financial reclassification of US$15 billion of assets following Instruments Recognition and Measurement changes to IAS39 isused in October 2008.
IAS39 issued in October 2008 by the IASB.
Further increases in loans and advances to Excluding these effects, trading assets remained customers were due to growth in mortgage lending broadly unchanged as rises in Europe and Asia, in Europe and Asia, as well as to a rise in overdraft where the Group increased its holdings of balances to customers whose exposures are managed government bonds, were offset by the run-off of the net but reported gross under IFRS.
These rises were mortgage-backed securities portfolio in the US and a offset by a reduction in customer lending in the US reduction in debt securities held for balance sheet due to the run-off of the mortgage services portfolio, management purposes due to changes in liquidity the sale of certain loan portfolios at HSBC USA, and risk preference.
tighter underwriting criteria which restricted originations in the consumer lending and credit card An 18 per cent decline in financial assets portfolios, and the cessation of most new designated at fair value was driven by falling equity originations in the US vehicle finance portfolio.
markets, which reduced the value of assets held to meet life insurance liabilities, particularly in Hong Financial investments grew by 15 per cent as Kong and France.
To the extent that these liabilities Balance Sheet Management assets were increasingly related to unit-linked and participating insurance classified as available-for-sale financial investments contracts, there was a corresponding decline in rather than trading assets.
As noted above, there was liabilities under insurance contracts.
The also a rise in financial investments in the UK as the underperformance of certain investment products Group placed a greater proportion of surplus funds in also led clients to withdraw funds.
government issued or guaranteed debt.
The growth in the Groups financial investments was partly Derivative assets rose significantly, led by an offset by a reduction in holdings of asset-backed increase in interest rate derivatives with further securities, including those held through special growth in credit and foreign exchange derivatives.
purpose entities, which decreased due to a The global falls in interest rates resulted in combination of asset sales, amortisation and writesignificant gaps between the fixed and floating legs downs.
For details of the Groups asset-backed of interest rate swaps, leading to substantial mark-tosecurities portfolios, see pages 145 to 158. market increases in the value of interest rate swap positions.
Widening credit spreads and increasing Liabilities market volatility caused mark-to-market increases in the value of credit derivatives held in the UK and the Deposits by banks rose by 14 per cent, driven, in US.
Foreign exchange derivative asset growth was particular, by increases in France, due to a rise in driven by a combination of increased volumes and repo activity to finance increased trading activity, mark-to-market rises in existing positions in the UK.
and in Hong Kong, where banks responded to Under IFRS, only limited netting is allowed between HSBCs reputation for strength and security and derivative assets and liabilities with the same deposited their surplus liquidity with the Group.
counterparty, and the balance sheet value is therefore Customer account balances grew by 16 per cent, significantly higher than the credit exposure.
For driven by strong inflows from customers attracted by information on maximum exposure to credit risk, see HSBCs relative financial strength as they withdrew pages 197 to 200. funds from more volatile investments.
A 29 per cent decline in loans and advances Trading liabilities declined 9 per cent as a fall in to banks occurred mainly in Hong Kong and the UK third-party funding requirements allowed a reduction where Balance Sheet Management invested a greater in liabilities in Hong Kong, and repo transactions proportion of its assets in government and were reduced in Europe to manage liquidity and  debt.
HSBC also reduced counterparty credit risk in A significant widening of credit spreads led to the UK by channelling an increasing proportion of further falls in the fair value of the Groups own debt lending to banks through the London Clearing House which reduced financial liabilities designated at fair in the form of reverse repos.
This is recorded within value.
This was compounded by a decline in customer loans even when the end counterparty is a liabilities in the UK due to the underperformance of bank, which means the fall in loans and advances to certain investment products.
banks and the rise in loans and advances to 41
