HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Products and services automated branches and service centres accessed by Products and services telephone.
Personal Financial Services HSBC is a major global credit card issuer with Personal Financial Services provides over over 100 million credit cards in force in 49 countries.
105 million individual and self-employed customers In addition to HSBC branded cards, HSBC Finance with financial services in 62 countries.
The selection in the US offers Household Bank and Orchard Bank of products and services offered in each case is branded cards and affiliation programmes such as determined by HSBCs participation strategy in the the GM card and the AFL-CIO Union Plus card.
HSBC is also a provider of third-party private label credit cards or store cards through merchant In markets where HSBC already has scale or, in relationships.
emerging markets where scale can be built over time, HSBC offers a full range of personal financial HSBC Finances operations in the US, the UK products and services.
Typically, products provided and Canada also make credit available to customers include personal banking products current and not well catered for by traditional banking operations savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, and facilitate point-of-sale credit in support of retail credit cards, and local and international payment purchases.
At the end of February 2009, HSBC services, together with consumer finance and wealth authorised the discontinuation as soon as practicable management services.
of all new receivable originations of all products by the branch-based consumer lending business of In other markets, HSBC participates more HSBC Finance in North America see page 70. selectively, targeting only those customer segments which have strong international connectivity or High net worth individuals and their families where HSBCs global scale is crucial.
who choose the differentiated services offered within Private Banking are not included in this customer HSBC Premier, the Groups premium banking group.
service, provides personalised relationship management, a single online view of all international Commercial Banking accounts, free international funds transfer between HSBC accounts, 24-hour priority telephone access, HSBC is one of the worlds leading and most global travel assistance and wealth management international banks, with over 2.9 million services.
There are now over 2.6 million HSBC Commercial Banking customers in 63 countries, Premier customers, who can use more than including sole proprietors, partnerships, clubs and 300 specially designated Premier branches and associations, incorporated businesses and publicly centres in 41 countries and territories.
At 31 December 2008, HSBC had total commercial customer account balances of Wealth management insurance and investment US$236 billion and total commercial customer loans products and financial planning services plays an and advances, net of loan impairment allowances, of important part in meeting the needs of customers.
Insurance products distributed by HSBC through its direct channels and branch networks include loan HSBC segments its Commercial Banking protection, life, property and health insurance and business into corporate, mid-market, small and micro pensions.
HSBC also makes available a wide range businesses, allowing the development of tailored of investment products.
A choice of third-party and customer propositions while adopting a broader view proprietary funds offer customers the ability to of the entire Commercial Banking sector, from sole diversify their investments across a range of best-intraders to top-end mid-market corporations.
This class fund managers chosen after a rigorous and allows HSBC to provide continuous support to objective selection process.
Comprehensive financial companies as they grow in size both domestically planning services covering customers investment, and internationally, and ensures a clear focus on the retirement, personal and asset protection needs are small and micro business sectors, which are typically offered through qualified financial planning the key to innovation and growth in market managers.
Personal customers prefer to conduct their HSBC places particular emphasis on financial business at times convenient to them, using geographical collaboration to meet its business the sales and service channels of their choice.
This customers needs and aims to be recognised as the demand for flexibility is met through the increased leading international business bank and the best bank provision of direct channels such as the internet and self-service terminals, in addition to traditional and 138 for small business in target markets.
The range of agent or consultant or as a supplier of in-house or products and services includes: third-party offerings.
HSBC also provides insurance due diligence reviews, and actuarial and employee Financing: HSBC provides a range of short and benefit consultancy services.
longer-term financing options for Commercial Banking customers, both domestically and crossWealth management services: These include border, including overdrafts, receivables finance, advice and products related to savings and term loans and property finance.
The Group offers investments provided to Commercial Banking forms of asset finance in selected sites and has customers and their employees through HSBCs established specialised divisions providing leasing worldwide network, with clients being referred to and instalment finance for vehicles, plant and Private Banking where appropriate.
Investment banking: A small number of Payments and cash management: HSBC is a Commercial Banking customers need corporate leading provider of domestic and cross-border finance and advisory support.
These requirements payments, collections, liquidity management and are serviced by the Group on a client-specific basis.
The Groups extensive Delivery channels: HSBC deploys a full range network of offices and direct access to numerous of delivery channels, including specific online and local clearing systems enhances its customers ability direct banking offerings such as HSBCnet and to manage their cash efficiently on a global basis.
Deposits are attracted through both current accounts and savings products, in local and foreign currencies.
Global Banking and Markets International trade: HSBC finances and Global Banking and Markets provides tailored facilitates significant volumes of international trade, financial solutions to major government, corporate under both open account terms and traditional trade and institutional clients worldwide.
HSBC also provides global business, Global Banking and Markets international factoring, commodity and insured operates a long-term relationship management export finance, and forfaiting services.
The Group approach to build a full understanding of clients utilises its extensive international network to build financial requirements.
Sectoral client service teams customer relationships at both ends of trade flows, comprising relationship managers and product and maximises efficiency through expertise in specialists develop financial solutions to meet documentary checking and processing, and highly individual client needs.
With dedicated offices in automated systems.
over 66 countries and access to HSBCs worldwide Treasury and capital markets: Commercial presence and capabilities, this business serves Banking customers are volume users of the Groups subsidiaries and offices of its clients on a global foreign exchange capabilities, including basis.
sophisticated currency and interest rate options.
Global Banking and Markets is managed as four Commercial cards: HSBC offers commercial principal business lines: Global Markets, Global card services covering both issuing and acquiring.
Banking, Principal Investments and Global Asset Commercial card issuing provides its customers with Management.
This structure allows HSBC to focus services which enhance cash management, improve on relationships and sectors that best fit the Groups cost control and streamline purchasing processes.
footprint and facilitates seamless delivery of HSBCs HSBC offers card acquiring services, either directly products and services to clients.
or as part of a joint venture, enabling merchants to accept credit and debit card payments either in Global Markets person on the premises or when the cardholder is not HSBCs operations in Global Markets consist of present eg over the internet or on the telephone.
treasury and capital markets services for Insurance: HSBC offers insurance services supranationals, central banks, corporations, covering a full range of commercial insurance institutional and private investors, financial products designed to meet the needs of businesses institutions and other market participants.
Products and their employees, including employee benefit, include: pension and healthcare programmes, and a variety of foreign exchange: commercial risks such as buildings, marine, cargo, keyman and credit protection.
These products are currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and provided by HSBC either as an intermediary broker, other derivatives: 139
