HSBC Holdings The following table provides an analysis of the fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine value on the balance sheet: fair values of financial instruments for the purpose of measurement and disclosure are described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet 2008 2007 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value US$m US$m US$m US$m Assets Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings................ 11,804 12,670 17,242 17,356 Liabilities Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 4,042 4,218 2,969 2,992 Subordinated liabilities. 14,017 13,940 8,544 8,609 Special purpose entities Qualitative factors in substance: Audited the activities of the SPE are being conducted on This section contains disclosures about HSBCbehalf of HSBC according to HSBCs specific sponsored SPEs that are included in HSBCs business needs so that it obtains benefit from the consolidated balance sheet, with a particular focus SPEs operation.
This might be evidenced, for on SPEs containing exposures affected by recent example, by HSBC providing a significant level turmoil in credit markets, and those that are not of support to the SPE: and consolidated by HSBC under IFRSs.
In addition to HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain the disclosures about SPEs, information on other offthe majority of the benefits of the activities of balance sheet arrangements has been included in this the SPE.
Quantitative factors hereinafter referred to as the HSBC enters into certain transactions with majority of risks and rewards of ownership.
In customers in the ordinary course of business which substance: involve the establishment of SPEs to facilitate or secure customer transactions.
HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the benefits of the SPE and therefore may be HSBC structures that utilise SPEs are authorised exposed to risks incidental to the activities of centrally when they are established to ensure the SPE: and appropriate purpose and governance.
The activities of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely HSBC retains the majority of the residual or monitored by senior management.
HSBCs ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets involvement with SPE transactions is described in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In a number of cases, these SPEs are accounted for off-balance sheet under IFRSs where HSBC does HSBC-sponsored SPEs not have the majority of the risks and rewards of HSBC sponsors the formation of entities which are ownership of the SPE.
However in certain designed to accomplish certain narrow and wellcircumstances, after careful consideration of the defined objectives, such as securitising financial facts, HSBC consolidates an SPE when, although it assets or affecting a lease, and this requires a form of does not obtain the majority of risks and rewards of legal structure that restricts the assets and liabilities ownership, the qualitative features of HSBCs within the structure to the single purpose for which it involvement indicate that, in substance, the activities was established.
HSBC consolidates these SPEs of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC.
when the substance of the relationship indicates HSBC reassesses the required consolidation that HSBC controls them.
In assessing control, all accounting tests whenever there is a change in the relevant factors are considered, including qualitative substance of the relationship between HSBC and an and quantitative aspects.
For example: SPE, for example, when the nature of HSBCs involvement or the governing rules, contractual 173 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued SPEs SIVs and conduits arrangements or capital structure of the SPE change.
bore the risk of any actual losses arising in the new The most significant categories of SPEs are conduits up to US$2.3 billion, being the par value of discussed in more detail below.
Prior to the exchanges of assets against capital note extinguishments, the par Structured investment vehicles and conduits value of the capital notes was US$2.6 billion.
At 31 December 2008, the economic first loss Structured investment vehicles protection from capital note holders amounted Structured investment vehicles SIVs are SPEs to US$2.2 billion 2007: US$2.3 billion.
The which invest in diversified portfolios of interestreduction in economic first loss protection is earning assets, generally funded through issues of attributable to the recognition of a US$92 million commercial paper CP, medium-term notes realised loss at 31 December 2008 2007: n a.
On an MTNs and other senior debt to take advantage of IFRS accounting basis, the capital notes were the spread differentials between the assets in the SIV initially recognised at fair value on consolidation, and the funding cost.
Prior to the implementation of which amounted to US$1.3 billion at 31 December Basel II, it was capital efficient to many bank 2007.
At 31 December 2008, on an IFRS accounting investors to invest in highly-rated investment basis, an impairment charge of US$293 million securities in this way.
HSBC sponsored the 2007: n a was recognised in addition to the realised establishment of two SIVs, Cullinan Finance loss of US$92 million, therefore reducing the Limited Cullinan and Asscher Finance Limited carrying amount of these capital notes to Asscher in 2005 and 2007, respectively, and in US$0.9 billion.
November 2007 HSBC consolidated Cullinan and Asscher.
Conduits As market illiquidity intensified, there were two HSBC sponsors and manages two types of conduits main challenges for the SIV sector which could force which issue CP: multi-seller securities and asset sales: an inability to fund in the CP markets securities investment conduits SICs.
HSBC has and the sensitivity of the continuing operation of consolidated these conduits from inception because SIVs to changes in the market value of their it is exposed to the majority of risks and rewards of underlying assets.
In order to remove the risk of having to make Securities investment conduits forced asset sales, HSBC established three new securities investment conduits defined below to Solitaire, HSBCs principal securities investment take on the assets held in Cullinan and Asscher.
conduit, purchases highly rated ABSs to facilitate Mazarin Funding Limited Mazarin, an asset tailored investment opportunities.
HSBCs other backed CP conduit, and Barion Funding Limited SICs, Mazarin, Barion and Malachite, evolved from Barion, a term-funding vehicle, were set up in the restructuring of HSBCs sponsored SIVs as respect of Cullinan: and Malachite Funding Limited discussed above.
Malachite, a term-funding vehicle, was set up in respect of Asscher.
During 2008, the investors in the Multi-seller conduits capital notes issued by Cullinan and Asscher had the These vehicles were established for the purpose of option of exchanging their existing capital notes for providing access to flexible market-based sources of the capital notes of the respective new conduits.
In finance for HSBCs clients, for example, to finance addition, the new conduits agreed to purchase the discrete pools of third-party originated trade and assets in Cullinan and Asscher.
As a result of this vehicle finance loan receivables.
HSBCs principal agreement the legal title of all Cullinan and multi-seller conduits are Regency Assets Limited Asschers assets were transferred to the new Regency, Bryant Park Funding Limited LLC conduits.
By 31 December 2008, all the original Bryant Park, Abington Square Funding LLC assets in Cullinan and Asscher were transferred to Abington Square and Performance Trust.
The multi-seller conduits purchase or fund During 2008, 91.3 per cent of the remaining interests in diversified pools of third-party assets capital note holders in Asscher and all of the capital financed by issuing CP or drawing advances from note holders in Cullinan elected to exchange their HSBC.
The cash flows received by the conduits existing holdings for capital notes in the new from the third-party assets are used to service the conduits.
In January 2009, the remaining 8.7 per cent funding and provide a commercial rate of return for of Asschers capital notes were redeemed.
At HSBC for structuring, for various other 31 December 2007, the holders of the capital notes 174 administrative services, and for the liquidity and During 2008, the finance provided by HSBC to credit support it gives to the conduits.
The asset Abington Square Funding LLC at the end of 2007 pools acquired by the conduits are structured so that was repaid using the proceeds received from the credit enhancement the conduits receive, which refinancing the assets within the conduit.
The equates to senior investment grade ratings, and the conduit did not enter into any new securitisation benefit of liquidity facilities typically provided by transactions during the period.
HSBC mean that the CP issued by the multi-seller An analysis of the assets held by HSBCs SIVs conduits is itself highly rated.
Under IFRSs, the conduits cannot recognise the underlying assets.
During 2008, the credit ratings of various credit losses before they would fall on the tranche securities held by the SICs, many with exposures held by the SPE.
to US sub-prime and Alt-A mortgages, were As noted above, by 31 December 2008, all the downgraded by rating agencies.
At 31 December original assets held by the SIVs were transferred to 2008, 44.7 per cent of the SICs exposures to US the new SICs.
However, during the second half of sub-prime and Alt-A mortgages remained AAA 2008, the SIVs purchased CP issued by certain SICs rated 2007: 100 per cent, while 81.4 per cent set up by HSBC and, at 31 December 2008, the remained investment grade.
SIVs holdings amounted to US$0.3 billion.
The It should be noted that securities purchased by cash flows of the CP issued by the new SICs are SICs typically benefit from substantial  to bonds which include those backed by specific credit enhancements such as subordinated US sub-prime and US Alt-A MBSs.
In early 2009, tranches and or excess spread, which absorb any the CP matured, and the cash received by the SIVs has been transferred to the respective SICs.
The 2007: n a. MTNs matured in early 2009.
Barion and Malachite HSBCs maximum exposure These SICs are term funded by HSBC, Conduits consequently HSBCs primary exposure to them is represented by the amortised cost of the debt Mazarin required to support the non-cash assets of the HSBC is exposed to the par value of Mazarins vehicles.
At 31 December 2008 this amounted assets through the provision of a liquidity to US$11.7 billion 2007: n a. facility equal to the lesser of the amortised cost First loss protection is provided through the of issued senior debt and the amortised cost of capital notes issued by these vehicles, which are non-defaulted assets.
At 31 December 2008, substantially all held by third parties.
HSBC's exposure amounted to US$15.5 billion 2007: n a.
First loss protection is provided In addition, at 31 December 2008, HSBC held through the capital notes issued by Mazarin, 3.53 per cent 2007: n a of the capital notes which are substantially all held by third parties.
issued by these vehicles which have a par value of US$35 million 2007: n a, and a carrying In addition, at 31 December 2008, HSBC held amount of US$1.3 million 2007: n a.
1.3 per cent of Mazarins capital notes, which 178 Solitaire no marginal exposure through Cullinan to Mazarins activities over the maximum CP issued by Solitaire benefits from a 100 per exposure value stated for Mazarin.
cent liquidity facility provided by HSBC.
First loss credit protection, after any transactionAsscher retains only cash and equivalent assets specific credit enhancement as described on held within the HSBC Group.
Consequently, page 148 and retained reserves, is provided by HSBC retains no exposure to the vehicle.
HSBC in the form of letters of credit with a combined notional value of US$1.2 billion at Money market funds 31 December 2008 2007: US$1.2 billion.
HSBC has established and manages a number of HSBCs maximum exposure to Solitaire is money market funds which provide customers with limited to the amortised cost of non-cash tailored investment opportunities with a set of equivalent assets, which represents the risk that narrow and well-defined objectives.
In most cases, HSBC may be required to fund the vehicle in they are not consolidated in HSBC because the the event the debt is redeemed without Groups holdings in them are not of sufficient size to reinvestment from third parties.
represent the majority of the risks and rewards of ownership.
HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 December 2008 amounted to US$20.4 billion 2007: Investors in money market funds generally have US$25.7 billion.
no recourse other than to the assets in the funds, so asset holdings are designed to meet expected fund Multi-seller conduits liabilities.
Usually, money market funds are constrained in their operations should the value of HSBC provides transaction-specific liquidity their assets and their ratings fall below facilities to each of its multi-seller conduits, predetermined thresholds.
The risks to HSBC are, designed to be drawn in order to ensure the therefore, contingent, arising from the reputational repayment of the CP issued.
At 31 December damage which could occur if an HSBC-sponsored 2008, the committed liquidity facilities money market fund was thought to be unable to meet amounted to US$17.1 billion 2007: withdrawal requests on a timely basis or in full.
In aggregate, HSBC has established money First loss protection is provided through market funds with total assets of US$102.7 billion at transaction-specific credit enhancements, for 31 December 2008 2007: US$91.3 billion.
These credit enhancements are provided The main sub-categories of money market funds by the originator of the assets and not by HSBC.
are: In addition, a layer of secondary loss protection US$72.0 billion 2007: US$56.8 billion in is provided by HSBC in the form of Constant Net Asset Value CNAV funds, programme-wide enhancement facilities, and at which invest in shorter-dated and highly-rated 31 December 2008 this amounted to money market securities with the objective of US$0.6 billion 2007: US$0.7 billion.
HSBCs providing investors with a highly liquid and maximum exposure is equal to the transactionsecure investment: specific liquidity facilities offered to the multiseller conduits, as described above.
US$2.7 billion 2007: US$11.9 billion in French domiciled dynamique dynamic funds The liquidity facilities are set to support total and Irish enhanced funds, together Enhanced commitments and therefore exceed the funded Variable Net Asset Value Enhanced VNAV assets as at 31 December 2008. funds, which invest in longer-dated money In consideration of the significant first loss market securities to provide investors with a protection afforded by the structure, the credit higher return than traditional money market enhancements and a range of indemnities funds: and provided by the various obligors, HSBC carries US$28.0 billion 2007: US$22.6 billion in only a minimal risk of loss from the programme.
various other money market Variable Net Asset Value VNAV funds, including funds Structured investment vehicles domiciled in Brazil, France, India, Mexico and At 31 December 2008, Cullinan held Mazarin other countries.
CP amounting to US$0.3 billion.
HSBC retains 179 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued SPEs SIVs and conduits These money market funds invest in diverse ii made a payment of US$43 million under portfolios of highly-rated debt instruments, including the letters of limited indemnity as a limited holdings in instruments issued by SIVs.
At consequence of HSBC purchasing all the 31 December 2008, the exposure of these funds to SIV assets that were in enforcement from SIVs was US$0.5 billion 2007: US$3.9 billion.
the CNAV funds: and iii made capital contributions amounting to Constant Net Asset Value funds US$53 million.
CNAV funds price their assets on an amortised cost basis, subject to the amortised book value of the The following table provides a breakdown of the portfolio remaining within 50 basis points of its losses incurred and capital contributions made as a market value.
This feature enables CNAV funds to result of the actions taken by HSBC.
create and liquidate shares in the funds at a constant 2008 price.
If the amortised value of an asset portfolio US$m were to vary by more than 50 basis points from its Payment under LOI 43 market value, the CNAV fund would be required to Capital contribution 53 1 price its assets at market value, and consequently Fair value write down 18 would no longer be able to create or liquidate shares Total........................ 114 at a constant price.
This is commonly known as breaking the buck.
1 When HSBC purchased the enforced SIV assets from a fund at their amortised cost, an immediate loss was recognised Investments made by the CNAV funds in senior by HSBC on initial recognition.
notes issued by SIVs continued to deteriorate in valuation terms during 2008.
The market values of As stated on page 173, a reassessment of the the underlying assets of those SIVs were affected by required consolidation accounting tests is performed market nervousness over possible default levels, whenever there is a change in the substance of the exacerbated by severe illiquidity.
This reduced the relationship between HSBC and an SPE.
As a result ability of SIVs to sell assets in order to fund of the events described above, a reassessment of the maturing liabilities, or issue new senior notes in consolidation tests was, therefore, performed.
As a consequence, the CNAV When considered together, the actions taken by funds recorded unrealised losses on their SIV HSBC demonstrated the Groups support, within holdings.
limited parameters, of the CNAV funds in the During 2008, the following actions were taken prevailing market conditions.
This support was by HSBC in respect of the CNAV funds to maintain based on a commercial decision to support the funds their AAA rating and mitigate any forced sale of at that time, but did not constitute any commitment liquid assets to meet potential redemptions: to undertake further action and the future operations of the funds in question continue to be governed by the provision of additional letters of limited their respective prospectuses.
HSBC concluded that indemnity LOI to the directors of the CNAV this substantively changed the relationship HSBC funds that held investments in SIVs, as well as had with these CNAV funds, and therefore HSBC amendments to existing letters of limited consolidated them from 30 September 2008. indemnity.
The total assets under management Although the actions taken by HSBC described AUM of the funds in respect of which above occurred in early October 2008, indemnities were provided amounted to managements intention had been agreed prior US$43.8 billion at 31 December 2008 2007: to this date.
US$27.1 billion : and The effect of consolidating the CNAV funds in early October 2008, HSBC: on HSBCs balance sheet was to include i purchased all the SIV assets that were in US$43.8 billion of assets and US$43.1 billion of enforcement from the CNAV funds, which liabilities.
HSBCs exposure to the funds is amounted to US$687 million.
is the process by which winding down of independent SIVs and repaying secured creditors begins.
The purchased SIV assets are included within HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs on page 151: 180 Composition of CNAV asset portfolio US$5.9 billion and US$1.6 billion 2007: US$0.3 billion, for Enhanced VNAV and 2008 VNAV funds, respectively.
HSBCs HSBC, through its fund management business, has exposure at 31 December 2008 amounted to established a large number of non-money market US$0.7 billion 2007: US$1.3 billion and funds to enable customers to invest in a range of US$58 million 2007: US$41 million for investment assets, typically equities and debt securities.
At the in units within the CNAV funds and letters of launch of a fund HSBC, as fund manager, usually limited indemnity, respectively.
provides a limited amount of initial capital known as seed capital to enable the fund to start purchasing Enhanced Variable Net Asset Value funds assets.
These holdings are normally redeemed over Enhanced VNAV funds price their assets on a fair time.
The majority of these funds are off-balance value basis and, consequently, prices may change sheet for HSBC because the Groups limited from one day to the next.
These funds pursue an economic interest means it does not have the enhanced investment strategy, as part of which majority of the risks and rewards of ownership.
As investors accept greater credit and duration risk in the non-money market funds explicitly provide the expectation of higher returns.
investors with tailored risk, the risk to HSBC is restricted to HSBCs own investments in the funds.
As part of action taken in respect of these funds in the second half of 2007, HSBC acquired In aggregate, HSBC has established non-money some of the underlying assets and shares in two of its market funds with total assets of US$200.3 billion at French dynamic money market funds.
aggregate holding in these funds at 31 December The main sub-categories of non-money market 2008 amounted to 0.5 billion US$0.6 billion funds are: 2007: 0.9 billion: US$1.4 billion.
As a result of continued redemptions by unitholders during 2008, US$83.1 billion 2007: US$132.0 billion in HSBCs holding in the two funds increased to a level specialist funds, which comprise fundamental at which it obtained the majority of the risks and active specialists and active quantitative rewards of ownership, and it therefore consolidated specialists: these funds.
US$96.2 billion 2007: US$126.4 billion in local investment management funds, which HSBCs maximum exposure invest in domestic products, primarily for retail HSBCs maximum exposure to consolidated and and private clients: and unconsolidated Enhanced VNAV and consolidated US$21.0 billion 2007: US$30.4 billion in and unconsolidated VNAV funds is represented multi-manager funds, which offer fund of funds by HSBCs investment in the units of each fund.
and manager of manager products across a HSBCs maximum exposure at 31 December diversified portfolio of assets.
2008 amounted to US$0.6 billion 2007: 181 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued SPEs SIVs and conduits maximum exposures Total assets of HSBCs non-money market funds Total assets of HSBCs securitisations which are onwhich are on-balance sheet by balance sheet balance sheet, by balance sheet classification classification At 31 December 2008 2007 At 31 December US$bn US$bn 2008 2007 US$bn US$bn Trading assets 1.3 3.6 Loans and advances to customers 50.8 69.6 Cash................ 0.4 0.4 Financial investments............... 0.1 Trading assets. 0.2 0.5 Other assets.... 1.1 1.3 Financial instruments Derivatives..... 1.4 0.1 designated at fair value.......... 2.3 3.0 Financial investments................ 0.8 0.2 54.6 74.7 3.7 4.1 These assets include US$1.3 billion 2007: HSBCs maximum exposure US$3.6 billion of exposure to US sub-prime mortgages.
HSBCs maximum exposure to consolidated and unconsolidated non-money market funds is Total assets of HSBCs securitisations which are represented by HSBCs investment in the units of off-balance sheet each respective fund.
HSBCs exposure at 2008 2007 31 December 2008 amounted to US$4.4 billion US$bn US$bn 2007: US$6.0 billion.
HSBC originated assets............. 0.6 0.9 Non-HSBC originated assets Securitisations term securitisation HSBC uses SPEs to securitise customer loans and programmes 13.5 16.0 advances that it has originated, mainly in order to 14.1 16.9 diversify its sources of funding for asset origination and for capital efficiency purposes.
In such cases, the HSBCs financial investments in off-balance loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the sheet securitisations at 31 December 2008 amounted SPEs for cash, and the SPEs issue debt securities to US$0.2 billion 2007: US$0.4 billion.
These to investors to fund the cash purchases.
Credit assets include assets which are classified as enhancements to the underlying assets may be used available-for-sale securities and measured at fair to obtain investment grade ratings on the senior debt value, and have been securitised by HSBC under issued by the SPEs.
Except in one instance, these arrangements by which HSBC retains a continuing securitisations are all consolidated by HSBC.
Further details are provided in has also established securitisation programmes in the Note 20 on the Financial Statements.
US and Germany where loans originated by third parties are securitised.
Most of these vehicles are not HSBCs maximum exposure consolidated by HSBC as it is not exposed to the The maximum exposure is the aggregate of any majority of risks and rewards of ownership in the holdings of notes issued by these vehicles and the SPEs.
In 2008, demand for the securitised products reserve account positions intended to provide credit remained low.
support under certain pre-defined circumstances to In addition, HSBC uses SPEs to mitigate the senior note holders.
HSBC is not obligated to capital absorbed by some of the customer loans and provide further funding.
At 31 December 2008, advances it has originated.
Credit derivatives are HSBCs maximum exposure to consolidated and used to transfer the credit risk associated with such unconsolidated securitisations amounted to customer loans and advances to an SPE, using US$27.2 billion 2007: US$31 billion.
securitisations commonly known as synthetic securitisations.
These SPEs are consolidated when Other HSBC is exposed to the majority of risks and HSBC also establishes SPEs in the normal course of rewards of ownership.
business for a number of purposes, for example, structured credit transactions for customers to provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance ASF transactions.
182 Structured credit transactions Other uses of SPEs HSBC provides structured credit transactions to HSBC participates in Public-Private Partnerships to third-party professional and institutional investors provide financial support for infrastructure projects who wish to obtain exposure, sometimes on a initiated by government authorities.
The funding leveraged basis, to a reference portfolio of debt structure is commonly achieved through the use of instruments.
In such structures, the investor receives SPEs.
HSBC consolidates these SPEs when it is returns referenced to the underlying portfolio by exposed to the majority of risks and rewards of the purchasing notes issued by the SPEs.
into contracts with the SPEs, generally in the form of HSBCs ASF business specialises in leasing and derivatives, in order to pass the required risks and arranging finance for aircraft and other physical rewards of the reference portfolios to the SPEs.
assets, which it is customary to ring-fence through HSBCs risk in relation to the derivative contracts the use of SPEs, and in structured loans and deposits, with the SPEs is managed within HSBCs trading where SPEs introduce cost efficiencies.
HSBC market risk framework see Market Risk on consolidates these SPEs when the substance of the page 241.
In certain transactions HSBC is exposed relationship indicates that HSBC controls the SPE.
to risk often referred to as gap risk.
Gap risk typically arises in transactions where the aggregate HSBCs risks and rewards of ownership in these potential claims against the SPE by HSBC pursuant SPEs are in respect of its on-balance sheet assets and to one or more derivatives could be greater than the liabilities.
value of the collateral held by the SPE and securing such derivatives.
HSBC often mitigates such gap risk HSBCs maximum exposures to SPEs by incorporating in the SPE transaction features The following tables show the total assets of the which allow for deleveraging, a managed liquidation various types of SPEs, and the amount and types of of the portfolio, or other mechanisms.
Following the funding provided by HSBC to these SPEs.
The inclusion of such risk reduction mechanisms, HSBC tables also show HSBCs maximum exposure to the has, in certain circumstances, retained all or a SPEs and, within that exposure, the types of liquidity portion of the underlying exposure in the transaction.
and credit enhancements provided by HSBC.
The When this retained exposure represents ABSs, it has maximum exposures to SPEs represent HSBCs been included in Nature and extent of HSBCs maximum possible risk exposure that could occur as exposures on page 150. a result of the Groups arrangements and Often, transactions are facilitated through SPEs commitments to SPEs.
The maximum amounts are to enable the notes issued to the investors to be rated.
contingent in nature, and may arise as a result of The SPEs are not consolidated by HSBC because the drawdowns under liquidity facilities, where these investors bear substantially all the risks and rewards have been provided, and any other funding of ownership through the notes.
commitments, or as a result of any loss protection provided by HSBC to the SPEs.
The conditions The total fair value of liabilities notes issued under which such exposure might arise differ and derivatives in structured credit transaction depending on the nature of each SPE and HSBCs SPEs was US$21.2 billion at 31 December 2008 involvement with it.
The aggregation of such 2007: US$23.6 billion.
These amounts included maximum exposures across the different forms of US$0.3 billion 2007: US$0.1 billion in SPEs that SPEs results in a theoretical total maximum were consolidated by HSBC.
The elements of the maximum exposure to an SPE are not necessarily additive and a detailed explanation of how maximum exposures are determined is provided under each category of SPE.
3 Also includes consolidated SPEs that hold mortgage loans held at fair value.
4 These assets only include those measured at fair value.
For details on the geographical origin of the mortgage loans held at fair value and ABSs, including those represented by MBSs and CDOs held in consolidated SIVs and securities investment conduits, see Nature and extent of HSBCs exposures on page 150.
The geographical origin of the loans and receivables held by the multi-seller conduits is disclosed on page 177.
5 The carrying amount of HSBCs holding of capital notes in the securities investment conduits amounted to US$1.9 million 2007: n a with a par value of US$52 million 2007: n a.
6 Total assets for 2007 have been restated as a result of reclassifying assets amounting to US$17 billion from VNAV to local funds.
HSBCs financial investments in off-balance sheet securitisations have been classified as trading assets and available-for-sale securities, and measured at fair value.
2 In the US, HSBC has established securitisation programmes where term-funded SPEs are used to securitise third-party originated mortgages, mainly sub-prime and Alt-A residential mortgages.
The majority of these SPEs are not consolidated by HSBC as it is not exposed to the majority of the risk and rewards of ownership in the SPEs.
No liquidity facility has been provided by HSBC.
4 Total assets for 2007 have been restated as a result of reclassifying assets amounting to US$17 billion from VNAV funds to local funds.
