These entities are funded from HSBCs Audited largest banking operations and within clearly defined internal and regulatory guidelines and limits.
These Liquidity risk is the risk that HSBC does not have limits place formal restrictions on the transfer of sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations resources between HSBC entities and reflect the as they fall due, or will have to do so at an excessive broad range of currencies, markets and time zones cost.
This risk arises from mismatches in the timing within which HSBC operates.
Funding risk a form of liquidity risk arises when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset HSBCs liquidity and funding management positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms process includes: and when required.
projecting cash flows by major currency under various stress scenarios and considering the The objective of HSBCs liquidity and funding level of liquid assets necessary in relation thereto: management framework is to ensure that all foreseeable funding commitments can be met when monitoring balance sheet liquidity and advances due, and that access to the wholesale markets is to deposits ratios against internal and regulatory co-ordinated and cost-effective.
To this end, HSBC requirements: maintains a diversified funding base comprising maintaining a diverse range of funding sources core retail and corporate customer deposits and with back-up facilities: institutional balances.
This is augmented with wholesale funding and portfolios of highly liquid managing the concentration and profile of debt assets diversified by currency and maturity which maturities: are held to enable HSBC to respond quickly and managing contingent liquidity commitment smoothly to unforeseen liquidity requirements.
exposures within pre-determined caps: HSBC requires its operating entities to maintain maintaining debt financing plans: strong liquidity positions and to manage the liquidity profiles of their assets, liabilities and commitments monitoring depositor concentration in order to with the objective of ensuring that their cash flows avoid undue reliance on large individual are balanced appropriately and that all their depositors and ensure a satisfactory overall anticipated obligations can be met when due.
funding mix: and HSBC adapts its liquidity and funding risk maintaining liquidity and funding contingency management framework in response to changes in plans.
These plans identify early indicators of the mix of business that it undertakes, and to changes stress conditions and describe actions to be in the nature of the markets in which it operates.
taken in the event of difficulties arising from HSBC has continuously monitored the impact of systemic or other crises, while minimising recent market events on the Groups liquidity adverse long-term implications for the business.
positions and has changed behavioural assumptions where justified.
The impact of these recent market Primary sources of funding events is discussed more fully below.
The liquidity Audited and funding risk management framework will Current accounts and savings deposits payable on continue to evolve as the Group assimilates demand or at short notice form a significant part of knowledge from the recent market events.
HSBCs funding, and the Group places considerable importance on maintaining their stability.
For Policies and procedures deposits, stability depends upon preserving depositor Audited confidence in HSBCs capital strength and liquidity, The management of liquidity and funding is and on competitive and transparent pricing.
primarily undertaken locally in HSBCs operating HSBC also accesses professional markets entities in compliance with practices and limits set in order to provide funding for non-banking by the Risk Management Meeting RMM.
These subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to maintain a limits vary according to the depth and liquidity of presence in local money markets and to optimise the the market in which the entities operate.
It is HSBCs funding of asset maturities not naturally matched by general policy that each banking entity should be core deposit funding.
In aggregate, HSBCs banking self-sufficient when funding its own operations.
entities are liquidity providers to the interbank market, Exceptions are permitted for certain short-term placing significantly more funds with other banks treasury requirements and start-up operations or than they themselves borrow.
branches which do not have access to local deposit 235 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding Primary sources of funding The main operating subsidiary that does not US$111 billion 2007: US$142 billion of HSBC accept deposits is HSBC Finance, which has Finances liabilities were drawn from professional historically funded itself principally by taking term markets, utilising a range of products, maturities and funding in the professional markets and by currencies.
Also, loan reliance on short-term professional funding.
This is commitments are generally not recognised on the achieved by placing limits on Group banking entities balance sheet.
Trading liabilities and trading which restrict their ability to increase loans and derivatives have been included in the On demand advances to customers without corresponding time bucket, and not by contractual maturity, growth in current accounts and savings accounts.
because trading liabilities are typically held for short This measure is referred to as the advances to periods of time.
The undiscounted cash flows deposits ratio.
payable under hedging derivative liabilities are Advances to deposits ratio limits are set by the classified according to their contractual maturity.
RMM and monitored by Group Finance.
The ratio Cash flows payable in respect of customer describes loans and advances to customers as a accounts are primarily contractually repayable on percentage of the total of core customer current and demand or at short notice.
However, in practice, shortsavings accounts and term funding with a remaining term deposit balances remain stable as inflows and term to maturity in excess of one year.
Loans and outflows broadly match and a significant portion of advances to customers which are part of reverse loan commitments expire without being drawn upon.
repurchase arrangements, and where HSBC receives 236 securities which are deemed to be liquid, are Ratio of net liquid assets to customer excluded from the advances to deposits ratio, as are liabilities Audited current accounts and savings accounts from customers deemed to be non-core.
The definition Net liquid assets are liquid assets less all funds of a non-core deposit includes a consideration of the maturing in the next 30 days from wholesale market size of the customers total deposit balances.
Due to sources and from customers who are deemed to be the distinction between core and non-core professional.
For this purpose, HSBC defines liquid depositors, the Groups measure of advances to assets as cash balances, short-term interbank deposits will be more restrictive than that which deposits and highly-rated debt securities available could be inferred from the published financial for immediate sale and for which a deep and liquid statements.
Contingent liquidity risk associated with committed loan facilities is not reflected in the The three banking entities listed in the table ratios.
The Groups framework for monitoring this below represented 70 per cent of HSBCs total core risk is outlined under Contingent liquidity risk deposits at 31 December 2008 2007: 71 per cent.
The table demonstrates that loans and advances to customers in HSBCs principal banking entities are Limits for the ratio of net liquid assets to broadly financed by reliable and stable sources of customer liabilities are set for each bank operating funding.
HSBC would meet any unexpected net cash entity, except for HSBC Finance.
As HSBC Finance outflows by selling securities and accessing does not accept customer deposits, it is not additional funding sources such as interbank or appropriate to manage its liquidity using standard collateralised lending markets.
The Group also uses liquidity ratios.
The liquidity and funding risk measures other than the advances to deposits ratio to management framework of HSBC Finance is manage liquidity risk, including the ratio of net discussed below.
liquid assets to customer liabilities and projected Ratios of net liquid assets to customer liabilities cash flow scenario analyses.
are provided in the following table, along with the US dollar equivalents of net liquid assets.
237 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding Primary sources of funding Contingent liquidity risk Impact of market turmoil Projected cash flow scenario analysis HSBC Finance also maintains access to committed Audited sources of secured funding and has in place committed backstop lines for short-term refinancing The Group uses a number of standard projected cash CP programmes.
At 31 December 2008, the flow scenarios designed to model both Groupmaximum amounts of unsecured term funding specific and market-wide liquidity crises, in which maturing in any rolling three-month and rolling the rate and timing of deposit withdrawals and 12-month periods were US$6.0 billion and drawdowns on committed lending facilities are US$17.4 billion, respectively 2007: US$6.2 billion varied, and the ability to access interbank funding and US$17.7 billion.
At 31 December 2008, HSBC and term debt markets and to generate funds from Finance also had in place unused committed sources asset portfolios is restricted.
The scenarios are of secured funding for which eligible assets were modelled by all Group banking entities and by held, of US$2.4 billion 2007: US$6.2 billion and HSBC Finance.
The appropriateness of the committed backstop lines from non-Group entities in assumptions under each scenario is regularly support of CP programmes totalling US$7.3 billion reviewed.
In addition to the Groups standard 2007: US$9.3 billion.
projected cash flow scenarios, individual entities are required to design their own scenarios tailored to Contingent liquidity risk reflect specific local market conditions, products and Audited funding bases.
In the normal course of business, Group entities Limits for cumulative net cash flows under provide customers with committed facilities, stress scenarios are set for each banking entity and including committed backstop lines to conduit for HSBC Finance.
Both ratio and cash flow limits vehicles sponsored by the Group and standby reflect the local market place, the diversity of facilities to corporate customers.
These facilities funding sources available and the concentration risk increase the funding requirements of the Group from large depositors.
Compliance with entity level when customers choose to raise drawdown levels limits is monitored centrally by Group Finance and over and above their normal utilisation rates.
The reported regularly to the RMM.
liquidity risk consequences of increased levels of drawdown are analysed in the form of projected cash HSBC Finance flows under different stress scenarios.
The RMM As HSBC Finance does not accept customer also sets limits for non-cancellable contingent deposits, it takes funding from the professional funding commitments by Group entity after due markets.
HSBC Finance uses a range of measures to consideration of each entitys ability to fund them.
monitor funding risk, including projected cash flow The limits are split according to the borrower, the scenario analysis and caps placed on the amount of liquidity of the underlying assets and the size of the unsecured term funding that can mature in any committed line.
rolling three-month and rolling 12-month periods.
The Groups contractual exposures at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure Audited The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA HSBC Bank Canada Corporation 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Conduits 1 Client-originated assets............. total lines 5.6 11.0 11.2 9.5 0.3 0.7 largest individual lines........ 1.0 1.6 0.4 0.9 0.2 0.4 2 HSBC-managed assets.............. 34.8 25.7 3 Other conduits 1.1 2.6 1.8 Single-issuer liquidity facilities 4 five largest 6.0 10.0 5.0 5.9 1.5 1.1 1.0 1.3 5 largest market sector.......... 7.3 11.7 3.5 4.2 2.4 1.5 1.7 2.3 1 These exposures relate to consolidated multi-seller conduits see pages 174 to 176.
These vehicles provide funding to Group customers by issuing debt secured by a diversified pool of customer-originated assets.
2 These exposures relate to consolidated securities investment conduits, primarily Solitaire and Mazarin refer pages 178 to 179.
These vehicles issue debt secured by ABSs which are managed by HSBC.
Of the total contingent liquidity risk under this category, US$25.3 billion was already funded on-balance sheet at 31 December 2008 leaving a net contingent exposure of US$9.5 billion.
3 These exposures relate to third-party sponsored conduits see page 187.
4 These figures represent the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than those facilities to conduits.
5 These figures represent the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector, other than those facilities to conduits.
238 In times of market stress, the Group may choose has not been significantly affected by the scarcity of to provide non-contractual liquidity support to interbank funding.
certain HSBC-sponsored vehicles or HSBCA number of central banks and governments promoted products.
This support would only be have taken action to alleviate the effects of the provided after careful consideration of the potential market turmoil, these actions have included making funding requirement and the impact on the entitys available government guaranteed term funding overall liquidity.
In the US, bank issuance under such programmes became normal market practice during The impact of market turmoil on the Groups 2008.
To date, only HSBCs US based operations liquidity risk position have participated in government guaranteed term Audited debt issuance schemes.
At 31 December 2008, A significant aspect of the market turmoil continues US$2.65 billion had been issued by HSBC USA, to be its adverse effects on the liquidity and funding Inc. under the Federal Deposit Insurance risk profile of the banking system.
Corporation Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Programme.
At a systemic level, these may be characterised as follows: The deterioration of the US sub-prime credit market has reduced the availability of term financing interbank funding costs increased as banks to entities with exposures to the US sub-prime became reluctant to lend to each other beyond market.
However, HSBC Finance, by virtue of its the very short-term: position within the Group, continued to enjoy many asset classes previously considered to be committed financing facilities, albeit at a lower liquid became illiquid: level, and access to commercial paper markets at interest rates below interbank rates.
Through planned the ability of many market participants to issue balance sheet reductions, the issuance of cost either unsecured or secured debt has been effective retail debt, capital infusions from the restricted, although this has been partly HSBC Group, and the utilisation of alternative mitigated following the introduction by some sources of funding, including funding from other governments and central banks of term debt members of the HSBC Group, HSBC Finance was guarantee schemes: and able to eliminate the need to issue institutional term special purpose entities with investments linked debt in 2008.
Funding plans are in place to enable to US sub-prime mortgages, or to ABSs where HSBC Finance to deal with continued stress in the the underlying credit exposures were not fully credit markets.
As part of these plans, asset transparent, found it increasingly difficult to portfolios totalling US$15.3 billion were transferred raise wholesale funding.
from HSBC Finance to HSBC Bank USA in January 2009, resulting in US$8.0 billion of net funding In general terms, the strains arising from the benefit to HSBC Finance.
credit crisis were concentrated in the wholesale market.
The retail market, the market from which HSBC Finance is eligible to participate in the HSBC derives its core current and savings accounts, US Federal Reserves Commercial Paper Funding the importance of which as a source of funding for Facility CPFF, a new scheme aimed at providing the Group is discussed under Advances to deposits support to US issuers in the commercial paper ratio above was relatively unaffected.
At 31 December 2008, HSBC Finance had limited dependence on wholesale markets for issued US$520 million under the CPFF and is funding has been a significant competitive advantage eligible to issue a maximum of US$12.0 billion prior to HSBC through the recent period of dislocation in to 30 October 2009, the current expiry date for the the financial markets.
HSBCs customer deposit base has grown The effect of the market turmoil on liquidity and between 30 June 2007, the reporting date closest to funding elsewhere in HSBC was largely restricted to the onset of the market turmoil, and 31 December the Groups activities that historically depended 2008 by US$134 billion.
This growth in US dollar upon the asset-backed commercial paper markets for equivalent terms has been diluted by the significant funding, specifically SIVs and conduits, and certain strengthening of US dollar against other major money market funds.
This is discussed in detail on currencies between these two reporting dates, and page 174. therefore under represents the growth in customer deposits on an underlying currency basis.
As a net provider of funds to the interbank market, the Group 239
