HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors remuneration Long-term incentive plan overall performance of the Group, as set out above, Long-term incentive plan as well as their own part of the business.
Under the HSBC Share Plan, executive Directors, as For executive Directors with responsibility for with other participants in the Plan, are eligible to Asia, performance against financial objectives was receive awards of Performance Shares with a face mixed.
Whilst the target for return on equity was value at grant of up to a maximum of seven times met, overall 2008 profitability did not meet its target.
The performance conditions associated with Performance against Process, Customer and People these awards are detailed in the next section, objectives was stronger and this included high Arrangements from 2008. customer recommendation and employee No awards of Performance Shares have been engagement scores.
Awards may be granted later For Global Banking and Markets, although the in 2009, taking into account performance and the financial targets for 2008 were not met, the business market context at the time.
remained profitable and relative performance against The face and expected values of individual its peers was strong.
Performance against Process, awards made in 2008, in respect of the prior 2007 Customer and People objectives was strong and performance year, are shown for reference.
included high employee engagement scores and 2008 improved positions within global markets league 1 Face value Expected value tables.
000 000 The bonus awards, which are shown in the table D J Flint 3,182 1,305 below, have been fully deferred into HSBC Holdings M F Geoghegan............ 7,477 3,066 Restricted Shares, issued under the HSBC Share S K Green 8,750 3,587 S T Gulliver................... 473 194 Plan, with a vesting date three years from the date of the award.
Bonus awards made in 2008, in respect of HK$000 HK$000 performance in 2007 are shown for reference.
1 M F Geoghegan........... 2,140 2 S K Green.................... 1,750 Arrangements from 2008 1 S T Gulliver................. 5,592 The performance measures for the long-term HK$000 HK$000 incentive awards of Performance Shares under the V H C Cheng................ 23,864 HSBC Share Plan were amended last year following US$000 US$000 approval by shareholders at the 2008 Annual A A Flockhart............... 2,598 General Meeting.
From 2008, the vesting of awards is based on Restricted Share Awards three independent performance measures and an 2009 2008 000 000 overriding sustained improvement judgement by 1 the Committee.
The three Group measures are D J Flint 1 relative total shareholder return 40 per cent of the M F Geoghegan........... 2 S K Green.................... award : economic profit 40 per cent of the award : 1 S T Gulliver.................. 3,600 and growth in earnings per share EPS 20 per HK$000 HK$000 cent of the award.
V H C Cheng................ 18,533 9,832 These measures provide a basis on which to 3 A A Flockhart.............. 18,705 measure HSBCs absolute and relative performance US$000 US$000 over the long-term taking into account an external 3 measure of value creation, a measure of the extent to A A Flockhart.............. 1,184 which the return on capital invested in HSBC is in 1 M F Geoghegan, D J Flint and S T Gulliver requested that excess of a benchmark return and a direct measure of they not be considered for a bonus in respect of 2008. the profits generated for shareholders.
2 At the Chairmans request, he is no longer eligible to receive an annual bonus payment.
3 The change in currency for A A Flockhart reflects a change of expatriate terms.
The 2008 figure is on a gross equivalent basis.
318 Awards will not vest unless the Remuneration wide, a free float market capitalisation FFMC Committee is satisfied that HSBC Holdings weighted method is used to calculate TSR financial performance has shown a sustained performance.
Under this approach, HSBCs outimprovement in the period since the award date.
In performance of the comparator group will be determining whether HSBC Holdings has achieved calculated by dividing the total FFMC of all of the such sustained improvement the Remuneration companies that HSBC has outperformed in terms of Committee will take account of all relevant factors, TSR by the total FFMC of all of the companies in in particular, comparisons against the TSR the comparator group.
comparator group in areas such as revenue growth The extent to which the TSR award will vest and mix, cost efficiency, credit performance, cash will be determined as follows: return on cash invested, dividend performance and If HSBCs TSR outperforms Proportion of TSR Award TSR.
1 companies comprising vesting The performance conditions are measured over 75 per cent of the total FFMC 100% a three year performance period and awards forfeited 50 per cent of the total FFMC 20% to the extent that they have not been met.
50 per cent of the total FFMC nil The performance measures and the targets 1 Vesting will occur in a straight line between 20 per cent and 100 per cent where HSBCs performance falls between these described below apply for awards made in 2008. incremental steps.
The Remuneration Committee will review annually whether the performance targets remain appropriate In line with the commitment made to and challenging, or should be recalibrated, for shareholders in 2008, the Remuneration Committee awards made thereafter, taking into account factors reviewed the methodology and concluded that it such as economic expectations, the industrys continues to be appropriate.
The Committee then outlook and shareholders interests.
The Committee wrote to HSBC Holdings sixty largest shareholders will consult in accordance with institutional advising them of this conclusion and offering them shareholder guidelines on any further changes the opportunity to comment.
proposed to the nature of the performance measures and their percentage split referred to above.
Economic profit award TSR award Economic Profit EP is calculated as the average annual difference between return on invested capital TSR is measured against a comparator group and the Groups benchmark cost of capital and is comprising the largest global banks in the world as expressed as a percentage.
EP is a key measure of well as other banks against which HSBC competes shareholder value creation as it rewards management for business on a regional and or local level.
These progressively to the extent that the return on the companies are: capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders is in Banco Bradesco HBOS excess of a threshold return, which itself exceeds the Banco Itau ICBC Groups benchmark cost of capital.
Banco Santander JP Morgan Chase Bank of America Lloyds Banking Group For the awards made in 2008 the benchmark Bank of China National Australia Bank cost of capital is 10 per cent.
Return on invested Barclays Royal Bank of Canada BBVA Royal Bank of Scotland capital is based on the profit attributable to BNP Paribas Socit Gnrale shareholders as defined in the Annual Report and Citigroup Standard Chartered Accounts.
Credit Suisse Group UBS DBS Group UniCredito Italiano The extent to which the EP award will vest will Deutsche Bank Wells Fargo be determined as follows: Fortis Wachovia Average annual EP over Proportion of EP Award 1 three years vesting During 2008, HBOS and Wachovia merged with other banks in the comparator group.
The Committee 8 per cent or above 100% 3 per cent nil determined that the comparator group will remain large enough to be statistically valid and as such it 1 Vesting will occur in a straight line between 0 per cent and was not necessary to introduce any replacement 100 per cent where HSBCs performance falls between these banks.
To reflect the fact that the range of market capitalisations within the comparator group is very 319 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors remuneration Long-term incentive plan Earnings per share award on the basis of their market capitalisation, their geographic spread and the nature of their activities: Growth in Earnings per Share EPS is measured on 1 2 ABN AMRO Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group a point to point basis, by comparing EPS in the third Banco Santander Mizuho Financial Group financial year of the performance period with EPS in Bank of America Morgan Stanley the financial year preceding that in which the award Bank of New York National Australia Bank is made.
This approach is aimed at simplifying the Barclays Royal Bank of Canada BBVA Royal Bank of Scotland use of EPS as a performance measure and takes into BNP Paribas Socit Gnrale account feedback received during consultation with Citigroup Standard Chartered institutional shareholders.
Crdit Agricole UBS Credit Suisse Group UniCredito Italiano EPS growth in Year 3 over Proportion of EPS Deutsche Bank US Bancorp 1 1 1 the base EPS award vesting HBOS Wachovia JP Morgan Chase Wells Fargo 28 per cent or above 100% Lloyds Banking Group Westpac Banking Corporation 16 per cent 20% 16 per cent nil 1 ABN AMRO, HBOS and Wachovia have delisted since the start of the performance period for the 2006 and 2007 1 Vesting will occur in a straight line between 20% and 100% awards.
These comparators have been replaced from the where HSBCs performance falls between these incremental point of delisting by Fortis, Commonwealth Bank of steps.
Australia and Toronto Dominion Bank respectively.
2 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc was previously known as Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group prior to the If events occur which cause the Remuneration acquisition of UFJ Holdings on 1 October 2005.
Committee to consider that a performance condition has become unfair or impractical in either direction, The extent to which the TSR award will vest the right is reserved to the Remuneration Committee, will be determined on a sliding scale based on if it considers it appropriate to do so, to amend, relax HSBCs relative TSR ranking, measured over the or waive the condition.
three years, against the comparator group as shown Awards will vest in full, immediately in cases of below: death.
In the event of redundancy, retirement on If HSBCs performance Proportion of TSR Award grounds of injury or ill health and where a 1 matches vesting st th participant ceases to be employed by HSBC due to a Banks ranking 1 to 7 100% th company ceasing to be part of HSBC, awards will Bank ranking 8 90% th Bank ranking 9 80% normally vest at the end of the vesting period on a th Bank ranking 10 70% time-apportioned basis to the extent that the th Bank ranking 11 60% performance conditions have been satisfied.
In the th Bank ranking 12 50% th event of a change of control, awards will normally Bank ranking 13 40% th vest immediately and on a time-apportioned basis to Bank ranking 14 30% th Banks ranking below 14 nil the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied.
Awards will normally be forfeited if the 1 Vesting will occur in a straight line where HSBCs participant is dismissed for cause or resigns from performance falls between these incremental steps.
In all circumstances the Committee retains discretion to ensure fair and reasonable treatment.
Earnings per share award The method for calculating EPS growth is described Arrangements from 2005 to 2007 below.
This is in line with the approach described in Vesting of the awards of Performance Shares made the 2005, 2006 and 2007 Directors Remuneration under the HSBC Share Plan from 2005 to 2007 is Reports, as well as in the circular containing the based on two independent measures, relative TSR Notice of Annual General Meeting for 2005. and growth in EPS.
The performance conditions are The percentage of the conditional award vesting measured over a three-year performance period and will depend upon the absolute growth in EPS awards forfeited to the extent that they have not been achieved over the three years the performance met.
The vesting of 50 per cent of the awards is period.
30 per cent of the conditional shares will based on TSR and the remaining 50 per cent on vest if the incremental EPS over the performance growth in EPS.
period is 24 per cent or more of EPS in the base year.
The percentage of shares vesting will rise on a TSR award straight line proportionate basis to 100 per cent if The comparator group of 28 banks for the TSR HSBCs incremental EPS over the performance award comprises the largest banks in the world, period is 52 per cent or more of EPS in the base year.
