HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors The Board Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive thinks fit.
In addition, the Board may establish any Board of Directors local or divisional boards or agencies for managing The Board the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified locality and delegate and confer on any local or The objective of the management structures within divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any HSBC, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC of its powers, authorities and discretions including Holdings and led by the Group Chairman, is to the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
The Board may also, by power Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or delegated to the Group Management Board under the persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may leadership of the Group Chief Executive.
delegate to any such person or persons any of its HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board of powers, authorities and discretions including the Directors.
The authority of each Director is exercised power to sub-delegate for such time and on such in Board Meetings where the Board acts collectively terms as it thinks fit.
At 2 March 2009, the Board comprises the The Board sets the strategy for the Group and Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, four other approves the operating plans presented by executive Directors and 15 non-executive Directors.
management for the achievement of the strategic The names and brief biographical particulars of the objectives.
The operating plans ensure the efficient Directors are listed on pages 281 to 285.
The Group disposition of HSBCs resources for the achievement Chairman, Group Chief Executive and four other of these objectives.
The Board delegates the executive Directors are employees who carry out management and day-to-day running of HSBC to the executive functions in HSBC in addition to their Group Management Board but retains to itself duties as Directors.
Non-executive Directors are not approval of certain matters including operating plans HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily and performance targets, procedures for monitoring business management of HSBC.
Non-executive and control of operations, the authority or the Directors bring an external perspective, delegation of authority to approve credit, market risk constructively challenge and help develop limits, acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of expenditure or realisation or creation of a new management in meeting agreed goals and objectives venture, specified senior appointments, and any and monitor the reporting of performance.
The nonsubstantial change in balance sheet management executive Directors have a wealth of experience policy.
across a number of industries and business sectors, including the leadership of large, complex The Directors who served during the year were, multinational enterprises.
The roles of non-executive Lord Butler, S A Catz, V H C Cheng, J D Coombe, Directors as members of Board committees are Baroness Dunn, J L Durn, R A Fairhead, D J Flint, described on pages 290 to 291.
It is estimated that A A Flockhart, W K L Fung, M F Geoghegan, non-executive Directors devote 24 days per annum S K Green, S T Gulliver, J W J Hughes-Hallett, to HSBC business after an induction phase, with W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, Sir Brian Moffat, Sir Committee members devoting significant additional Mark Moody-Stuart, G Morgan, N R N Murthy, time.
S W Newton, S M Robertson, J L Thornton and Sir Brian Williamson.
The Board is responsible for managing the business of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may The Board of Directors meets regularly and exercise all of the powers of HSBC Holdings, Directors receive information between meetings subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to about the activities of committees and developments the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of Eight Board meetings were held during 2008. the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or The table that follows gives details of each charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or Directors attendance at meetings of the Board, assets present and future of HSBC Holdings and Group Audit Committee, Nomination Committee may also exercise any of the powers conferred on it and Remuneration Committee held whilst he or she by the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act was a Director or member during 2008.
2006 as appropriate and or by shareholders.
The Board is able to delegate and confer on certain During 2008, the non-executive Directors and Directors holding executive office any of its powers, the Group Chairman met twice without the other authorities and discretions including the power to executive Directors.
In addition, the non-executive sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it 290 Directors met once without the Group Chairman to 12 other meetings of Committees of the Board not appraise the Group Chairmans performance.
shown in the table below were held during the year to discharge business delegated by the Board.
In addition to the meetings of the principal Committees referred to in the following pages, All those who were Directors at the time attended the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
2 Appointed 1 May 2008 eligible to attend 4 Board meetings.
3 Attended by invitation, for all or part of meeting.
4 Appointed 1 February 2008 eligible to attend 7 Board meetings.
5 Retired 30 May 2008 eligible to attend 5 Board meetings and 2 Committee meetings.
6 Appointed a member on 30 May 2008 eligible to attend 3 Committee meetings.
7 Appointed a member on 30 May 2008 eligible to attend 3 Committee meetings.
8 Appointed 1 December 2008 not eligible to attend any Board meetings.
9 Retired 10 October 2008 eligible to attend 7 Board meetings and 6 Committee meetings.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive recommendation, approves risk, capital allocation and capital investment decisions within authorities The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief delegated by the Board.
The Group Chief Executive Executive are separated and held by experienced has responsibility for developing business plans and full-time Directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the S K Green became Group Chairman at the head of the Company between the running of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2006 Board and the executive responsibility for running and M F Geoghegan succeeded S K Green as Group HSBCs business.
The Group Chairmans Chief Executive.
The appointments were made after responsibilities include the long-term strategic consulting with representatives of major institutional development of HSBC, the development of investors and explaining the succession planning and relationships with governments and other significant independent external search process undertaken.
external parties and performance management of the S K Green and M F Geoghegan stood for re-election Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chairman also at the 2006 Annual General Meeting and were both monitors the performance of the Group Finance Director and, subject to the Group Chief Executives 291 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Balance and independence Development Performance Appointment re-elected ahead of taking up their new roles from geographical spread of HSBCs business, the the conclusion of that Meeting.
experience of previous service on a subsidiary company Board can be a considerable benefit to Board balance and independence of HSBC and does not detract from a Directors Directors independence.
The Board includes a strong presence of both In accordance with the Rules Governing the executive and non-executive Directors such that no Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of individual or small group can dominate the Boards Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director decision making.
Following the 2009 Annual determined by the Board to be independent has General Meeting, the Board will comprise provided an annual confirmation of his or her 21 Directors, 14 of whom are independent nonindependence to HSBC Holdings.
The size of the Board is appropriate given the complexity and geographical Information, induction and ongoing spread of HSBCs business and the significant time development demands placed on the non-executive Directors, The Board regularly reviews reports on progress particularly those who serve as members of Board against financial objectives, on business committees.
developments and on investor and external relations The Board has appointed S M Robertson as the and receives reports from the Chairmen of Board senior independent non-executive Director.
The Committees and from the Group Chief Executive.
principal role of the senior independent nonThe Board receives regular reports and presentations executive Director is to support the Group Chairman on strategy and developments in the customer groups in his role, to lead the non-executive Directors in the and principal geographical areas.
Regular reports are oversight of the Group Chairman and to ensure there also provided to the Board, the Group Audit is a clear division of responsibility between the Committee and the Group Management Board on Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The credit exposures and the loan portfolio, asset, senior independent non-executive Director is also liability and risk management, liquidity, litigation available to shareholders to express concerns which and compliance and reputational issues.
The agenda the normal channels have failed to resolve or would and supporting papers are distributed in advance of be inappropriate.
all Board and Committee meetings to allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at The Board considers all of the non-executive the meetings.
All Directors have full and timely Directors to be independent in character and access to all relevant information and may take judgement.
W K L Fung has served on the Board for independent professional advice if necessary.
more than nine years, however, and in that respect only, does not meet the usual criteria for The Directors have free and open contact with independence set out in the UK Combined Code on management at all levels.
Group Managing Directors corporate governance.
The Board has therefore and Group General Managers meet informally with determined S A Catz, M K T Cheung appointed a Directors after Board meetings.
Board offsite visits Director with effect from 1 February 2009, are made each year to enable Directors to see at first J D Coombe, J L Durn, R A Fairhead, hand the operations of subsidiary companies in local J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, J R Lomax, environments and to meet management, employees Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, G Morgan, N R N Murthy, and customers.
In 2008 the Board visited Dubai.
S M Robertson, J L Thornton and Sir Brian Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, Williamson to be independent.
In reaching its with particular emphasis on internal controls, are determination of each non-executive Directors arranged for newly appointed Directors.
The independence the Board has concluded that there are programmes consist of a series of meetings with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to other Directors and senior executives to enable new affect a Directors judgement and any relationships Directors to receive information and familiarise or circumstances which could appear to do so were themselves with HSBCs strategy, operations and considered not to be material.
Prior to their appointment, each When determining independence the Board Director receives comprehensive guidance on the considers that calculation of the length of service of duties and liabilities of a Director of HSBC a non-executive Director begins on the date of his or Holdings.
Opportunities to update and develop skills her first election by shareholders as a Director of and knowledge, through externally run seminars and HSBC Holdings.
Given the complexity and 292 through briefings by senior executives, are provided J L Durn and W S H Laidlaw were appointed to all Directors.
V H C Cheng was appointed an executive Director Performance evaluation on 1 February 2008.
On 1 May 2008 A A Flockhart and S T Gulliver were appointed executive Directors In November 2008, ICSA Board Evaluation Limited and S A Catz and N R N Murthy were appointed was commissioned to assist S K Green, Group non-executive Directors.
Lord Butler, Baroness Chairman, in conducting an evaluation of the Dunn and Sir Brian Moffat retired as Directors at the effectiveness of the Board.
This followed ICSAs conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on evaluation of the Board in 2007.
S W Newton retired as a Director on investigated the performance of the Board as a whole 10 October 2008.
J R Lomax and J L Thornton were and, in that context, the main Board committees and appointed non-executive Directors on 1 December individual Directors.
M K T Cheung was appointed a non-executive whether eight key areas met the Boards needs and Director on 1 February 2009. expectations: Board role and responsibilities: oversight: Board meetings: information received: All of the Directors will retire at the support for the Board: Board composition: working forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer together: and outcome and achievements.
The report themselves for re-election.
None of the nonon the evaluation has been reviewed by the Board executive Directors seeking re-election has a service and has been used by the non-executive Directors, contract.
All of the executive Directors seeking led by the senior independent non-executive re-election are employed on rolling contracts which Director, in their evaluation of the performance of require 12 months notice to be given by either party.
The review concluded that the Following the performance evaluation of the Board and its committees were functioning Board, the Group Chairman has confirmed that all effectively.
It is the intention of the Board of HSBC of the non-executive Directors continue to perform Holdings to continue to review its performance and effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their that of its Directors annually.
Appointment, retirement and re-election of Brief biographical particulars of all Directors Directors are given on pages 281 to 285.
The Board may at any time appoint any person who Relations with shareholders is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total The Board ensures all Directors, including nonnumber of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five.
executive Directors, develop an understanding of the Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire views of major shareholders through attendance at at the Annual General Meeting following his or her analyst presentations and other meetings with appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but institutional investors and their representative is not taken into account in determining the number bodies.
Directors also met with representatives of of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such institutional shareholders in 2008 to discuss meeting.
The Board may appoint any Director to corporate governance matters.
hold any employment or executive office and may All executive Directors and other senior revoke or terminate any such appointment.
executives hold regular meetings with institutional Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a investors and report to the Board on those meetings.
person as a Director or remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
At each Annual Institutional shareholders were consulted on the General Meeting, one third of the Directors who are framework of Directors remuneration and the subject to retirement by rotation are required to retire proposed changes to the HSBC Share Plan which and may offer themselves for re-election by were approved at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
In addition to those required to retire by During 2008, S M Robertson, senior rotation, any Director who was not elected or reindependent non-executive Director, Sir Mark elected at either of the preceding two Annual General Moody-Stuart and other non-executive Directors met Meetings and any non-executive Director who has and corresponded with institutional investors and served in office for a continuous period of nine years their representatives to discuss strategy, or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting is remuneration policy and governance.
required to retire and may offer him or herself for reS M Robertson, the senior independent nonelection by shareholders.
executive Director is also available to shareholders 293
