Geographical regions Outside Hong Kong and mainland China, HSBC conducts business in 20 countries in the Asia-Pacific Page region, primarily through branches and subsidiaries Summary 87 of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, with particularly strong coverage in Europe.... 89 India, Indonesia, South Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong 99 Taiwan.
HSBCs presence in the Middle East is led Rest of Asia-Pacific 107 by HSBC Bank Middle East Limited HSBC Bank North America........ 119 Middle East, whose network of branches, together with HSBCs subsidiaries and associates, gives it the Latin America......... 129 widest coverage in the region: in Australia by HSBC Bank Australia Limited: and in Malaysia by HSBC Additional information on results in 2008 may be Bank Malaysia Berhad HSBC Bank Malaysia, found in the Financial Summary on pages 23 to 38. which is the largest foreign-owned bank in the country by operating income and pre-tax profits.
Summary HSBCs associate in Saudi Arabia, The Saudi British Europe Bank 40 per cent owned, is the Kingdoms fifth largest bank by total assets.
HSBCs principal banking operations in Europe are HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank in the UK, HSBC North America France, HSBC Bank A. S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. HSBC Private Bank Suisse S. A. HSBCs North American businesses are located in HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and HSBC the US, Canada and Bermuda.
Operations in the US Guyerzeller Bank AG.
Through these operations are primarily conducted through HSBC Bank USA, HSBC provides a wide range of banking, treasury N. A. HSBC Bank USA which is concentrated in and financial services to personal, commercial and New York State, and HSBC Finance, a national corporate customers across Europe.
consumer finance company based in the Chicago metropolitan area.
HSBC Markets USA Inc. is the Hong Kong intermediate holding company of, inter alia, HSBC Securities USA Inc. a registered broker and dealer HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong of securities and a registered futures commission Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking merchant.
HSBC Bank Canada and The Bank of Corporation Limited The Hongkong and Shanghai Bermuda Limited Bank of Bermuda operate in Banking Corporation and Hang Seng Bank Limited their respective countries.
The former is the largest bank incorporated in Hong Kong and is HSBCs flagship Latin America bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is one of Hong Kongs three note-issuing banks, accounting for HSBCs operations in Latin America principally more than 65 per cent by value of banknotes in comprise HSBC Mxico, S. A. HSBC Mexico, circulation in 2007.
-Banco Mltiplo HSBC Bank Brazil, HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. HSBC Rest of Asia-Pacific including the Bank Argentina and HSBC Bank Panama S. A.
Middle East HSBC Bank Panama, which owns subsidiaries in Costa Rica, Honduras, Colombia, Nicaragua and El HSBC offers personal, commercial, global banking Salvador.
HSBC is also represented by subsidiaries and markets services in mainland China, mainly in Chile, the Bahamas, Peru, Paraguay and Uruguay through its local subsidiary, HSBC Bank China and by a representative office in Venezuela.
In Company Limited HSBC Bank China.
HSBC addition to banking services, HSBC operates also participates indirectly in mainland China insurance businesses in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, through its three associates, Bank of Panama, Honduras and El Salvador.
In Brazil, HSBC Communications 19.01 per cent owned, Ping An offers consumer finance products through its Insurance 16.78 per cent and Industrial Bank subsidiary, Losango.
12.78 per cent, and has a further interest of 8 per cent in Bank of Shanghai.
87 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Geographical regions Summary Europe In the analysis of profit by geographical regions include intra-HSBC items of US$2,492 million 2007: that follows, operating income and operating expenses US$1,985 million: 2006: US$1,494 million.
