Risk management of insurance operations.
Four sub-committees report to the operations Committee, focusing on market and liquidity risk, Audited credit risk, operational and insurance risk.
The processes and controls employed to monitor each HSBC operates a bancassurance model which risk are described under their respective headings provides insurance products for customers with below.
whom the Group has a banking relationship.
Insurance products are sold to all customer groups, The main contracts manufactured by HSBC are mainly utilising retail branches, the internet and as follows: phone centres.
Personal Financial Services customers attract the majority of sales and comprise Life insurance business Audited the majority of policyholders.
HSBC offers its customers a wide range of insurance and investment Life insurance contracts with discretionary products, many of which complement other bank and participation features DPF allow policyholders consumer finance products.
to participate in the profits generated from such business, which may take the form of annual Many of these insurance products are bonuses and a final bonus, in addition to providing manufactured by HSBC subsidiaries.
Certain minimum return levels are underwrites the insurance risk and retains the risks also guaranteed.
The largest portfolio is in Hong and rewards associated with writing insurance Kong.
contracts, retaining both the underwriting profit and the commission paid by the manufacturer to the bank Credit life insurance business is written to distribution channel within the Group.
HSBCs underpin banking and finance products.
The policy exposure to risks associated with manufacturing pays a claim if the holder of the loan is unable to insurance contracts in its subsidiaries and its make repayments due to early death or management of these risks are discussed below.
Where the Group considers it operationally Annuities are contracts providing regular more effective, third parties are engaged to payments of income from capital investment for manufacture insurance products for sale through either a fixed period or during the annuitants HSBCs banking network.
The Group works with a lifetime.
Payments to the annuitant either begin on limited number of market-leading partners to provide inception of the policy immediate annuities or at a the products.
These arrangements earn HSBC a designated future date deferred annuities.
Term assurance and critical illness policies HSBCs bancassurance business operates in all provide cover in the event of death term assurance five of the Groups geographical regions with over and serious illness.
30 legal entities, the majority of which are Linked life insurance contracts pay benefits to subsidiaries of banking legal entities, manufacturing policyholders which are typically determined by insurance products.
Management of these insurance reference to the value of the investments supporting manufacturers set their own control procedures in the policies.
addition to complying with guidelines issued by the Group Insurance Head Office.
This is headed by Investment contracts with DPF allow HSBCs Managing Director of Insurance, supported policyholders to participate in the profits generated by a Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial by such business.
The largest portfolio is written in Officer and Chief Risk Officer, the latter appointed France.
Policyholders are guaranteed to receive a in 2008.
The role of Group Insurance Head Office return on their investment plus any discretionary includes setting the control framework for bonuses.
In addition, certain minimum return levels monitoring and measuring insurance risk in line with are guaranteed.
Group practices, and drawing up insurance-specific Unit-linked investment contracts are those policies and guidelines for inclusion in the Group where the principal benefit payable is the value of Instruction Manuals.
The control framework for assigned assets.
monitoring risk includes the Group Insurance Risk Committee, which oversees the status of the Other investment contracts include pension significant risk categories in the insurance contracts written in Hong Kong.
