Increased regulation of the financial services A number of double taxation agreements entered into industry could have an adverse effect on between countries also affect the taxation of the HSBCs operations Group.
Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in the interpretation of tax law.
It also HSBC, its subsidiaries and its affiliates are subject to includes the risk of changes in tax rates and the risk extensive and increasing regulation, accounting of consequences arising from failure to comply with standards and interpretations thereof and legislation procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to in the various countries in which the Group operates.
manage tax risks could lead to increased tax charges, From time to time, new laws are introduced, including financial or operating penalties, for not including tax, consumer protection, privacy and complying as required with tax laws.
other legislation, which affect the operating environment in which the Group operates.
As a Key performance indicators result of the recent interventions by governments in response to global economic conditions, it is widely The Board of Directors and the Group Management expected that there will be a substantial increase in Board monitor HSBCs progress against its strategic government regulation and supervision of the objectives.
Progress is assessed by comparison with financial services industry, including the imposition the Groups strategy, its operating plan targets and its of higher capital requirements and restrictions on historical performance using both financial and noncertain types of transaction structure.
such new regulations could require additional capital As a prerequisite for the vesting of Performance to be injected into HSBCs subsidiaries and Shares, the Remuneration Committee must satisfy affiliates, require HSBC to enter into business itself that HSBC Holdings financial performance transactions that are not otherwise part of its current has shown a sustained improvement in the period Group strategy, prevent HSBC from continuing since the award date.
In determining this, the current lines of operations, restrict the type or Remuneration Committee will take account of all volume of transactions HSBC may enter into, limit relevant factors but in particular comparisons against HSBCs subsidiaries and affiliates ability to declare the total shareholder return TSR comparator dividends to HSBC, or set limits on or require the group with regard to the financial key performance modification of rates or fees that HSBC charges on indicators KPIs described below.
certain loan or other products.
HSBC may also face increased compliance costs and limitations on its Financial KPIs ability to pursue business opportunities.
Separately, the Basel II Accords requirement for financial To support the Groups strategy and ensure that institutions to increase their capital ratios in response HSBCs performance can be monitored, to deteriorating market conditions may have management utilises a number of financial KPIs.
The secondary effects on lending, which could table below presents these KPIs for the period from exacerbate the current market downturn.
At a business level, the KPIs are measures, alone or in combination, could have an complemented by a range of benchmarks which are adverse effect on HSBCs operations.
relevant to the planning process and to reviewing business performance.
In the UK for example, the recent Banking Bill includes a Special Resolutions Regime which gives HSBC has published a number of key targets wide powers in respect of UK banks and their parent against which future performance can be measured.
companies to the UK Treasury, the FSA and the Financial targets have been set as follows: the return Bank of England in circumstances where any such on average total shareholders equity over the UK bank has encountered, or is likely to encounter, medium term has been set at 15-19 per cent: the cost financial difficulties.
efficiency ratio has been set in the range of 48-52 per cent: and the TSR in the top half of that achieved by HSBC is subject to tax-related risks in the peers.
The cost efficiency ratio has been set as a countries in which it operates, which could range within which the business is expected to have an adverse effect on its operating remain in order to accommodate the need for results continued investment in support of future business growth.
HSBC is subject to the substance and interpretation of tax laws in all countries in which it operates.
2 As a percentage of net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
3 Other income comprises net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions less net interest income and net fee income.
4 Total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk charges.
5 Net operating income divided by average risk-weighted assets.
6 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average invested capital.
7 The percentage increase in dividends per share since the previous year, based on the dividends paid in respect of the year to which the dividend relates.
8 Basic earnings per ordinary share is defined in Note 13 on the Financial Statements.
9 The return on average total shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by the average total shareholders equity.
Revenue growth provides an important guide mainly due to lower fees on cards and equity-related to the Groups success in generating business.
In 2008, total revenue grew by 3.4 per cent to Cost efficiency is a relative measure that US$81.7 billion, 2.1 per cent on an underlying basis, indicates the consumption of resources in generating reflecting the resilience of HSBCs income revenue.
Management uses this to assess the success generating capabilities in these exceptionally of technology utilisation and, more generally, the difficult economic circumstances.
productivity of the Groups distribution platforms Revenue mix represents the relative distribution and sales forces.
The cost efficiency ratio for 2008 of revenue streams between net interest income, deteriorated by 10.7 percentage points to 60.1 per net fee income and other revenue.
This included writing off goodwill in the US.
understand how changing economic factors affect Excluding this, the cost efficiency ratio improved by the Group, to highlight dependence on balance sheet 2.2 percentage points to 47.2 per cent as income utilisation for income generation and to indicate grew faster than costs.
success in cross-selling fee-based services to Credit performance as measured by riskcustomers with loan facilities.
This understanding adjusted margin is an important gauge for assessing assists management in making business investment whether credit is correctly priced so that the returns decisions.
Comparison of the revenue mix between available after recognising impairment charges meet 2005 and 2007 shows a trend of net fee income the Groups required return parameters.
The ratio increasing at a faster rate than net interest income.
for 2008 was 4.8 per cent, showing a decline of This trend has been reversed in 2008 as net fee 1.2 percentage points over 2007, as loan impairment incomes contribution fell by 3.4 percentage points 18 charges rose at a faster rate than income on higher be invested in the underlying shares.
The TSR average risk-weighted assets.
benchmark is an index set at 100 and measured over one, three and five years for the purpose of Return on average invested capital measures comparison with the performance of a group of the return on the capital investment made in the competitor banks which reflect HSBCs range and business, enabling management to benchmark HSBC breadth of activities.
As the comparator group against competitors.
In 2008, the ratio of 4.0 per cent includes companies listed on overseas markets, a was 11.3 percentage points lower than that reported common currency is used to ensure that TSR is in 2007.
This decrease reflected the decline in profit measured on a consistent basis.
The TSR levels at driven by goodwill impairment, the significant the end of 2008 were 84.5, 84.5, and 98.5 over one, increase in loan impairment charges, write-downs in three and five years respectively.
HSBCs TSR over credit trading, leveraged and acquisition finance, and all periods, while disappointing in absolute terms, monoline exposures.
The comparative period has significantly outperformed the peer group as the included dilution gains which were not repeated.
current financial crisis has had a significantly more HSBC aims to deliver sustained dividend per adverse impact on their performance and rating.
share growth for its shareholders.
The total dividend Management believes that financial KPIs must for 2008, based on the year to which the dividends remain relevant to the business so they may be relate rather than when they were paid, amounts to changed over time to reflect changes in the Groups US$0.64, a reduction of 28.9 per cent on 2007, composition and the strategies employed.
reflecting the decline in profitability, prevailing business conditions and capital requirements.
This Non-financial KPIs basis differs from the disclosure in the five-year comparison on page 4.
HSBC has chosen four non-financial KPIs which are important to the future success of the Group in Basic earnings per share EPS is a ratio that delivering its strategic objectives.
These nonshows the level of earnings generated per ordinary financial KPIs are currently reported internally share.
EPS is one of two KPIs used in rewarding within HSBC on a local basis.
employees and is discussed in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 315.
EPS Employee engagement for 2008 was US$0.47, a decline of 71.5 per cent on 2007.
This, in part, reflected the effect of recognising Employee engagement is a measure of employees goodwill impairment in North America as well as the emotional and rational attachment to HSBC.
It is broad based impact of the global economic crisis.
critical to the long-term success of the Group and, as Excluding the goodwill impairment, EPS would such, an employee engagement target was included have been US$1.36, a decline of 17.6 per cent over in the 2008 objectives for Group Executives see 2007 and in line with that delivered in 2005 and Directors Remuneration Report, page 315.
In 2007, EPS grew by 17.9 per cent over that In 2008, HSBC conducted its second Global reported in 2006.
People Survey covering HSBCs permanent Return on average total shareholders workforce worldwide.
The 2008 participation rate equity measures the return on average shareholders of 93 per cent improved on the 2007 equivalent of investment in the business.
This enables 88 per cent, which was already around the highest management to benchmark Group performance in the industry.
against competitors and its own targets.
In 2008, the The Groups employee engagement score rose ratio was 4.7 per cent or 11.2 percentage points from 60 per cent in 2007 to 67 per cent in 2008.
In lower than in 2007 of which 8.6 percentage points achieving 67 per cent, HSBC exceeded its target for related to the goodwill impairment recognised.
This 2008 of 62 per cent, the external global norm and the absolute performance is not regarded as satisfactory, sector norm.
being lower than managements target range of between 15 and 19 per cent.
The 2008 survey covered 13 dimensions which included assessing for the first time whether action Total shareholder return TSR is used had been perceived to have been taken on the results as a method of assessing the overall return to of the 2007 survey.
Employees rated HSBC above shareholders on their investment in HSBC, and is the external global norm across all dimensions.
defined as the growth in share value and declared HSBC exceeded the external best-in-class norm for dividend income during the relevant period.
TSR is a Corporate Sustainability, and the dimensions key performance measure in rewarding employees.
covering Strategy and Vision, Reputation, Direct In calculating TSR, dividend income is assumed to 19 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued KPIs Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax Manager and Leadership were close to this norm.
IT performance and systems reliability HSBC tracks two key measures as indicators of IT Brand perception performance: namely, the number of customer In order to manage the HSBC brand most transactions processed and the reliability and effectively, the Group tracks brand health amongst resilience of systems measured in terms of service Personal Financial Services and Commercial availability targets.
Banking customers in each of HSBCs major markets.
The survey is conducted on a consistent Number of customer transactions processed basis by accredited, independent, third-party The number of customer transactions processed organisations.
A weighted scorecard of brand reflects the dependency on IT in the delivery measures produces an overall score for each market channels that customers use to interact with HSBC.
on a 100-point scale, which is then benchmarked Monitoring the volumes by channel enables the against HSBCs main competitors.
The scores from Group to allocate resources appropriately.
Overall, each market are then weighted according to the riskthe results show the desired decrease in staff-assisted adjusted revenues in that market to obtain the overall transactions.
Self-service transactions increased as a Group score.
result of the redesign of the Groups distribution In 2008, Personal Financial Services customers network and the continuing rollout of One HSBC judged HSBCs brand to be 9 points stronger than its Technologies, HSBCs project to standardise its competitors 9, up from 6 points in 2007 and primary systems, products and processes.
Internet above the 8 point target.
Commercial Banking transactions unexpectedly decreased as a direct result customers judged the brand to be 6 points higher of lower online trading volumes in retail securities in than HSBCs competitors 6, the same as in 2007.
To improve efficiency HSBC aims to manage the rate of increase in IT transaction processing costs For 2009, HSBC will track brand health in more to below the volume increase.
During 2008, competitors were acquired shows the 2005 to 2008 volumes per delivery or withdrew from certain markets, so HSBC rechannel: benchmarked its 2008 performance in respect of Number of customer transactions millions both brand and customer satisfaction for Personal Financial Services and Commercial Banking.
For 2, 2,50 500 0 2009, the benchmark is 4 with a target of 5 for 2, 2,00 000 0 the former and, for the latter, the equivalent numbers are 6 and 7, respectively.
1, 1,50 500 0 Customer satisfaction 1, 1,00 000 0 Customer recommendation is an important driver of 50 500 0 business growth for HSBC.
HSBC uses a consistent measure of customer recommendation around the 0 0 B Br ran anc ch h C Call all Cr Cre ed diitt I In nt te er rn net et S Se elf lf- -S Ser ervic vice e Ot Oth he er r Ot Oth he er rs s C Ce ent ntre re- -A Age gent nt ca car rd d Te Terrm miin na all ee-C Ch han ann ne els ls pay payme ment nt, world to continue to improve the services provided c cllear eariin ng, g, e ettc c by the Group to customers of Personal Financial 2005 2006 2007 2008 Services and Commercial Banking.
This measurement is carried out by accredited, Percentage of IT services meeting or exceeding independent, third-party organisations and the targets resulting recommendation scores are benchmarked HSBCs IT function establishes with its end-users against competitors.
service levels for systems performance, such as The 2008 customer recommendation target for systems running 99.9 per cent of the time or credit Personal Financial Services increased from 1 to 2, card authorisations within two seconds, and monitors failing to meet the target of 3 by a small margin.
the achievement of each of these commitments.
The Commercial Banking met the target of 7 over following chart shows the percentage of IT services competitors, up from 6 in 2007. meeting or exceeding the agreed service targets by region.
Overall, the results show a trend of In 2009, HSBC has adopted a new benchmark improving service performance.
of 1 and a 2009 target of 3 for Personal Financial Services and a benchmark of 4 and a target of 4 for Commercial Banking.
