HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Non-life Insurance risk Non-life insurance business handling procedures designed to ensure compliance Audited with regulations.
This is supplemented with stress testing.
Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and other damage to property, accident and health, Insurance contracts sold by HSBC relate, in the repayment protection and commercial insurances.
main, to core underlying banking activities, such as savings and investment products, and credit life Motor insurance business covers vehicle products.
The Groups manufacturing focuses on damage and liability for personal injury.
For fire and personal lines, i. e. contracts written for individuals, other damage to property, the main focus in most which tend to be of higher volume and lower markets is providing individuals with home and individual value than commercial lines.
They thus contents insurance, with cover for selected contribute to diversifying insurance risk.
commercial customers largely written in Asia and Latin America.
Life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set A very limited portfolio of liability business is centrally, supplemented as appropriate with written, other than that included in the motor book.
measures which take account of specific local Credit non-life insurance is concentrated in market conditions and regulatory requirements.
For North America and Europe, and is originated in example, manufacturing entities are required to conjunction with the provision of loans.
Payment obtain authorisation from Group Insurance Head protection insurance PPI products were Office to write certain classes of business, with suspended in the UK pending a final report from the restrictions applying to commercial and liability nonCompetition Commission on their provision by the life insurance, in particular.
The report was issued in Local ALCOs and Risk Management early 2009.
The business is in the process of Committees are required to monitor certain risk assessing the impact of the reported findings on exposures, mainly for life business where the focus credit protection products in the UK.
is on reviewing the risks associated with the duration Given the nature of the contracts written by the and cash flow matching of insurance assets and Group, the risks to which HSBCs insurance liabilities.
operations are exposed fall into two principal Reinsurance is also used as a means of categories: insurance risk and financial risk.
The mitigating exposure, in particular to aggregations of following section describes the nature and extent of catastrophe risk.
Specific examples are as follows: these risks and HSBCs approach to managing them.
The majority of the risk in the insurance business Accident and health insurance.
Potential derives from manufacturing activities.
exposure to concentrations of claims arising from isolated events, such as earthquakes or a Insurance risk pandemic, are mitigated by the purchase of Audited catastrophe reinsurance.
Insurance risk is a risk, other than financial risk, Motor insurance.
Reinsurance protection is transferred from the holder of a contract to the arranged to avoid excessive exposure to larger issuer, in this case HSBC.
The principal insurance losses, particularly from personal injury claims.
risk faced by HSBC is that, over time, the combined Fire and other damage to property.
Portfolios at cost of claims, administration and acquisition of the risk from catastrophic losses are protected by contract may exceed the aggregate amount of reinsurance in accordance with information premiums received and investment income.
The cost obtained from professional risk-modelling of a claim can be influenced by many factors, organisations.
including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings Although reinsurance provides a means of element, the performance of the assets held to managing insurance risk, such contracts expose the support the liabilities.
Performance of the underlying Group to counterparty risk, the risk of default by the assets is affected by changes in both interest rates reinsurer see page 267. and equity prices see page 263.
The following tables provide an analysis of HSBCs insurance risk appetite is proposed by HSBCs insurance risk exposures by geographical local businesses and authorised centrally.
The Group region and by type of business.
By definition, HSBC manages its exposure to insurance risk by applying is not exposed to insurance risk on investment formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims- 256
