Impairment allowances and charges on loans and advances that are either individually loans and advances to customers and banks assessed or collectively assessed, and collective Audited impairment allowances on loans and advances classified as not impaired.
40.5 34.9 51.5 28.3 57.2 41.7 Collectively assessed allowances as a percentage of collectively assessed loans and advances.. 0.5 0.3 0.6 3.9 3.5 1.7 Total allowances as a percentage of total loans and advances 0.9 0.4 0.9 4.0 4.0 1.9 1 Impaired loans and advances are those classified as CRR 9, CRR 10, EL 9 or EL 10 and all retail loans 90 days or more past due.
2 Collectively assessed loans and advances comprise homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant, and loans subject to individual assessment where no impairment has been identified on an individual basis, but on which a collective impairment allowance has been calculated to reflect losses which have been incurred but not yet identified.
3 Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired are those classified as CRR1 to CRR8 and EL1 to EL8 but excluding retail loans 90 days past due.
4 The 2007 collectively assessed impaired loans and advances for North America have been increased from US$7,963 million to US$9,241 million as a result of the reclassification of an element of a credit card portfolio as impaired.
There has been no effect on impairment allowances.
2 As a percentage of loans and advances to banks.
3 As a percentage of loans and advances to customers.
2 In 2004, Charge to income statement was Net charge to profit and loss account: Impairment allowances were Provisions: Individually assessed impairment allowances were Specific provisions: and Collectively assessed impairment allowances were General provisions.
3 Collectively assessed impairment allowances 2004: General provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowances or provisions.
Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
4 Includes movement in impairment allowances against banks.
2 Impaired loans for 2007 have been restated as a result of the reclassification of an element of a credit card portfolio as impaired.
2008 compared with 2007 and recoveries of allowances declined by 10 per cent Unaudited to US$1.4 billion.
Loan impairment charges increased by 40 per cent to In Europe, new loan impairment charges were US$24.1 billion from US$17.2 billion in 2007.
The US$4.0 billion, a rise of 24 per cent compared with commentary that follows is on a constant currency 2007.
This primarily reflected higher impairment basis.
charges in Global Banking and Markets following a significant charge against a single European New allowances for loan impairment charges commercial real estate corporate customer.
rose by 37 per cent compared with 2007.
Releases 229 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Impairment allowances Charges 2008 2007 Impairment charges against banks rose in the UK US credit quality showed significant due to exposures to the Icelandic banks in 2008. deterioration across the portfolio, driven by the New loan impairment charges rose in Turkey as continued weakness of the US economy.
The reasons delinquency rates rose across credit cards, personal behind the deterioration in US credit quality, the loans and corporate lending in light of the effects on the US personal lending portfolio and deteriorating economic environment.
Elsewhere, actions taken as a result are discussed in more detail impairment charges on the commercial portfolio rose on page 210.
Partly offsetting the effect of the in the UK, particularly in the final quarter of 2008 as deterioration was a reduction in overall lending as the weakening property market led to higher HSBC continued to reduce its exposure in the US.
impairment charges against construction companies In US card and retail services, impairment and businesses dependent upon the real estate sector.
charges rose, driven by portfolio seasoning, higher In France, the impact of declining commercial credit levels of personal bankruptcy filings and continued quality more than offset lower balances.
Impairment weakness in the US economy.
Delinquency allowances against firms in the financial sector rose increased in the geographical regions most affected due to exposure to a single asset management firm in by house price falls and rising unemployment.
Credit quality in the UK personal lending portfolio remained broadly stable, reflecting the In Commercial Banking, impairment charges strength of HSBCs loan book in a period of rose from a low base driven by deterioration in the significant economic uncertainty.
Mortgage lending commercial real estate loan book in the US, and in the UK remained well secured as risk mitigation higher impairment charges against firms in the actions taken since 2006 reduced risk exposure to manufacturing, export and commercial real estate some of the problems now being uncovered in the sectors in Canada.
Higher impairment charges in UK residential property market.
Credit quality in the Global Banking and Markets reflected weaker credit unsecured portfolios of M&S Money, HSBC Bank fundamentals in the US in 2008.
Impairment and Partnership Cards deteriorated slightly in 2008, allowances against firms in the financial sector rose particularly in the second half of the year, due to the due to rising delinquencies, despite government weakening UK economy.
Releases and recoveries in Europe declined by Releases and recoveries in North America rose 27 per cent, driven by the deterioration in economic by 55 per cent to US$180 million.
In Latin America, new loan impairment charges rose by 37 per cent to US$2.8 billion.
The In Hong Kong, new loan impairment charges most significant increase was in Mexico, reflecting more than doubled from a low base, driven by higher impairment charges in the credit card deterioration in credit quality in the commercial portfolio due to a combination of higher average portfolio in the second half of the year as the balances from organic expansion and growing economy and trade flows weakened.
Residential delinquency rates driven by a deterioration in credit mortgage lending continued to be well-secured, as quality as the 2006 and 2007 vintages continued to regulatory restrictions constrained origination loanseason and move into later stages of delinquency.
to-value ratios to below 70 per cent.
Management action to improve the quality of new In Rest of Asia-Pacific, new loan impairment business included tightened underwriting, enhanced charges rose by 59 per cent to US$1.3 billion, collection strategies and better managed customer primarily in India and the Middle East.
The commercial portfolio in impairment charges in India were driven by a Mexico also experienced higher impairment charges combination of rising delinquency rates in consumer due to credit quality deterioration among small and lending, as credit conditions deteriorated, and medium sized enterprises as the economy weakened.
Increased charges in the Middle In Brazil, higher impairment charges were driven by East were due to rising delinquencies as growth rates a combination of balance growth and credit quality declined and the property market retreated as deterioration in the vehicle finance and payroll loan economic conditions deteriorated on the back of portfolios.
2007 compared with 2006 New loan impairment charges in North America Unaudited rose by 37 per cent to US$16.8 billion, driven by the continued deterioration in credit quality in the HSBC Loan impairment charges rose by 63 per cent to Finance loan portfolio and, to a lesser extent, in US$17.2 billion from US$10.5 billion in 2006.
230 commentary that follows is on a constant currency US credit quality deteriorated as mortgage basis: delinquencies rose, house prices declined, refinancing credit became less available in the New allowances for loan impairment charges market and the macroeconomic outlook worsened.
rose by 52 per cent, compared with 2006.
Releases and recoveries of allowances increased by 1 per cent Other factors affecting the rise in US loan to US$1.6 billion.
impairment charges included normal seasoning of the portfolio, a higher proportion of unsecured In Europe, new loan impairment charges were personal lending and a return to historical norms US$3.5 billion, a rise of 8 per cent compared with from the unusually low levels of bankruptcy filings 2006.
This partly reflected growth in commercial experienced in 2006, following changes enacted to lending, where charges remained low compared with US bankruptcy law in 2005. historical amounts but rose from the exceptionally low levels experienced in 2005 and 2006.
Increased Delinquency rates rose across all parts of the charges also reflected growth in credit card lending HSBC Finance personal lending portfolio, with in Turkey.
In the UK, refinements to the mortgage services and consumer lending methodology used to calculate roll rate percentages experiencing significant rises in delinquency which resulted in a higher charge in the consumer finance flowed through subsequent stages through to operations in the first half of the year.
As the housing downturn began to have this, loan impairment charges were marginally lower more effect on the broader economy, delinquency than in 2006. rates in credit cards and vehicle finance rose in the final quarter of 2007.
A change in product mix in the Releases and recoveries in Europe were broadly cards portfolio towards higher yielding products also in line with 2006. contributed to higher impairment charges as this In Hong Kong, new loan impairment charges of segment of the portfolio seasoned.
US$287 million were recorded, an increase of 19 per Releases and recoveries in North America cent, due to the growth in credit card balances and decreased to US$116 million.
In the US consumer new corporate loan charges.
finance business, collection staff increased in all Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong lending portfolios as part of the response to the decreased to US$75 million, primarily in the deteriorating credit environment.
This reflected the low level of In Latin America, new loan impairment allowances added in recent years.
charges rose by 63 per cent to US$2.0 billion.
The most significant increase was registered in Mexico, In Rest of Asia-Pacific, new loan impairment reflecting strong growth in balances, normal charges rose by 10 per cent to US$834 million, with portfolio seasoning and a rise in delinquency rates higher loan impairment charges arising in the in credit cards.
Charges for commercial lending in commercial loan books in Thailand and Malaysia.
Mexico fell as increased delinquency rates in the This was offset by a decline in loan impairment small and medium-sized business portfolios were charges for personal lending, particularly in Taiwan offset by impairment allowance releases.
Products and Indonesia, where charges returned to more with high credit losses were discontinued or regular levels after an upsurge in 2006 due to restructured.
Loan impairment charges in Brazil rose regulatory changes which affected collection activity marginally, due to growth in store loans and credit and minimum payments.
With corporate and commercial loan impairment Releases and recoveries in Latin America charges low in recent years, releases and recoveries increased to US$272 million.
In Brazil, credit decreased by 6 per cent to US$220 million.
models were changed during 2007 to align with New loan impairment charges in North America credit behaviour in underlying portfolios.
rose by 76 per cent to US$12.2 billion, driven by the continued deterioration in credit quality in the US consumer finance loan portfolio.
