HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review Principal activities Strategic direction Challenges and uncertainties Principal activities HSBC is, therefore, continuing to invest primarily in the faster growing markets and, in the HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial more developed markets, by focusing on businesses services organisations in the world, with a market which have international connectivity.
Central to capitalisation of US$114 billion at 31 December these reshaping activities is a policy of maintaining 2008.
HSBCs capital strength and strong liquidity position.
Through its subsidiaries and associates, HSBC provides a comprehensive range of banking and The Group has identified three main business related financial services.
Headquartered in London, models for its customer groups and global businesses HSBC operates through long-established businesses that embody HSBCs areas of natural advantage: and has an international network of some 10,000 businesses with international customers for properties in 86 countries and territories in five whom developing markets connectivity is geographical regions: Europe: Hong Kong: Rest of crucial Global Banking and Markets, Private Asia-Pacific, including the Middle East and Africa: Banking, the large business segment of North America and Latin America.
Within these Commercial Banking and the mass affluent regions, a comprehensive range of financial services segment of Personal Financial Services: is offered to personal, commercial, corporate, institutional, investment and private banking clients.
businesses with local customers where Services are delivered primarily by domestic banks, efficiency can be enhanced through global scale typically with large retail deposit bases, and the small business segment of Commercial consumer finance operations.
Taken together, the Banking and the mass market segment of five largest customers of HSBC do not account for Personal Financial Services: and more than one per cent of HSBCs income.
products where global scale is possible through There were no significant acquisitions during building efficiency, expertise and brand global the year for details of acquisitions see page 418. product platforms such as global transaction HSBC disposed of its seven French regional banks banking.
for US$3.2 billion in July 2008 see page 418.
The means of executing the strategy, and further utilising the linkages within the Group, are clear: Strategic direction the HSBC brand and global networks will be HSBCs strategic direction reflects its position as leveraged to reach new customers and offer The worlds local bank, combining the largest further services to existing clients: global emerging markets banking business and a uniquely cosmopolitan customer base with an efficiency will be enhanced by taking full extensive international network and substantial advantage of local, regional and global financial strength.
economies of scale, in particular by adopting a common systems architecture wherever The Groups strategy is aligned with key trends possible: and which are shaping the global economy.
In particular, HSBC recognises that, over the long term, objectives and incentives will be aligned to developing markets are growing faster than the motivate and reward staff for being fully mature economies, world trade is expanding at a engaged in delivering the strategy.
greater rate than gross domestic product and life expectancy is lengthening virtually everywhere.
Challenges and uncertainties Against this backdrop, HSBCs strategy is focused Current economic and market conditions on delivering superior growth and earnings over time may adversely affect HSBCs results by building on the Groups heritage and skills.
Its origins in trade in Asia have had a considerable The global economy has entered the most severe influence over the development of the Group and, as downturn for 80 years, with the financial services a consequence, HSBC has an established and industry facing extraordinary turbulence.
A shortage longstanding presence in many countries.
The of liquidity, lack of funding, pressure on capital and combination of local knowledge and international extreme price volatility across a wide range of asset breadth is supported by a substantial financial classes are putting financial institutions under capability founded on balance sheet strength, largely considerable pressure.
This is leading governments attributable to the scale of the Groups retail deposit and central banks to undertake unprecedented bases.
intervention designed to stabilise the global and 12 domestic financial systems, to stimulate new lending subjective and complex judgements.
These and to support systemically important institutions at include forecasts of economic conditions and risk of failing.
Many developed economies have how predicted economic scenarios might impair entered recession and growth has slowed in many the ability of HSBCs borrowers to repay their emerging countries, with serious adverse loans or might affect the value of assets.
As a consequences for asset values, employment, consequence, this process may be less capable consumer confidence and levels of economic of making accurate estimates which, in turn, activity.
Commodity prices have significantly may undermine the reliability of the process.
retrenched, in many cases from recent historical The demand for borrowing from creditworthy highs, interest rate yield curves have flattened, customers may diminish as economic activity interest rates have fallen in absolute terms and trade slows.
Global equity markets have experienced severe declines and various currencies, Lower interest rates will reduce net interest including sterling, have depreciated significantly income earned by HSBC on its excess deposits.
Emerging markets have HSBCs ability to borrow from other financial suffered as portfolio investments have been institutions or to engage in funding transactions repatriated and cross-border inter-bank funding has on favourable terms, or at all, could be been withdrawn.
Numerous governments and central adversely affected by further disruption in the banks have responded by proposing programmes to capital markets or deteriorating investor make substantial funds and guarantees available to sentiment.
boost liquidity and confidence in their financial systems, as well as cutting taxes and lowering Market developments may affect consumer interest rates.
It is not known whether these confidence and may cause declines in credit responses will be effective in addressing the severe card usage and adverse changes in payment economic and market conditions or whether recently patterns, leading to increases in delinquencies proposed measures will be implemented as initially and default rates, write-offs and loan proposed.
impairment charges beyond HSBCs expectations.
HSBCs earnings are affected by global and local economic and market conditions.
Dramatic Loan impairment allowances and write-offs are declines in 2007 and 2008 in the housing markets in likely to rise as a result of a deterioration in the US, the UK and elsewhere have combined with payment patterns and increased delinquencies increasing unemployment to affect negatively the and default rates caused by weakening credit performance of real estate-related exposures, consumer confidence and increased business resulting in significant write-downs of asset values failures.
A worsening of these economic factors by financial institutions, including HSBC.
These may exacerbate the adverse effects of these write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but difficult market conditions on HSBC and others spreading to other securities and loans, have caused in the financial services industry.
many financial institutions to seek additional capital, HSBC expects to face increased regulation and to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with supervision of the financial services industry, larger and stronger competitors or, in some cases, to following new or proposed regulatory measures fail.
in countries in which it operates.
A worsening of these conditions may exacerbate Trade and capital flows may further contract as the impact of these difficult market conditions on a result of protectionist measures being HSBC and other financial institutions and could introduced in certain markets.
have an adverse effect on HSBCs operating results.
In particular, the Group may face the following Increased government ownership and challenges in connection with these events: control over financial institutions and further consolidation in the financial industry, which HSBCs ability to assess the creditworthiness of could significantly alter the competitive its customers or to estimate the values of its landscape.
assets may be impaired if the models and techniques it uses become less accurate in their As a worldwide financial institution, HSBC predictions of future behaviour, valuations or is exposed to these developments across all its estimates.
The process HSBC uses to estimate businesses, both directly and through their impact losses inherent in its credit exposure or assess on its customers and clients.
Local variations exist, the value of certain assets requires difficult, however, reflecting regional circumstances and 13 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Challenges and uncertainties presenting challenges to HSBC which are specific sales requirements and liquidity and reserve ratios to those areas.
are likely, and these will lead to a higher cost of compliance, greater standardisation and slower Europe product approvals.
International trade is expected to continue to contract, affecting import and export In the UK, the economy has entered recession and volumes and reducing HSBCs earnings from trade the currency has fallen in value against the US financing.
The quality of the asset book will dollar, the yen and the euro.
Changes in the deteriorate if economic factors beyond HSBCs marketplace are emerging following the partcontrol do not improve, reducing customer credit nationalisation of some major financial institutions, ratings and, as a consequence, increasing riskand political interaction with the regulatory weighted asset allocations and capital requirements.
environment is becoming more frequent as the This could be exacerbated if capital continues to be government seeks to stimulate lending to preserve repatriated from emerging markets to more economic activity.
A period of low interest rates will developed economies to take advantage of lower reduce deposit spreads and HSBCs retail business asset prices, adversely affecting emerging markets model will be more dependent on transactional fees balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves.
Pension funding requirements, However, Asia is expected to adapt quickly to secure in particular for UK defined benefit schemes, will recovery from the global recession, led by mainland place increased financing demands on corporates, China and India.
which may lead to unfunded commitments being drawn down, adding to pressure on system liquidity.
The fall in global demand for oil products and The recent deterioration in credit quality is expected related prices, and the contraction in financial to continue as the economy contracts, with loan surpluses held by key oil-producing countries impairment charges rising as a result.
Market following the declines in capital markets, will reduce volatility is also expected to continue.
the ability of some countries in the Middle East to maintain spending, borrowing and investment In France, changes in the marketplace are slowly domestically and internationally.
This will result in emerging following government measures to the cancellation or postponement of infrastructure stimulate lending and preserve economic activity.
A projects which, together with weakening property period of low interest rates will not adversely impact prices, is expected to reduce both credit cover and spreads in the short-term but will have an adverse revenue streams for financial institutions.
The effect in later years.
HSBCs retail business model is availability of economically priced, long-term dependent on banking fees to maintain profitability funding is likely to contract.
Business activity and and a recovery in financial markets is necessary in private investment will also slow as consumer order to enhance brokerage and management fees confidence declines.
These factors will combine to and stimulate fund management activities.
place pressure on net revenues and on capital Deterioration in credit quality is expected to requirements.
continue as the economy contracts, with commercial loan impairment charges rising as a result.
Personal North America loan impairment charges are expected to remain at around current levels unless there is a very deep In the US, the steep decline in the housing market, recession.
with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, and rising unemployment have resulted in significant Conditions are likely to remain difficult in a write-downs of loans and advances and mortgagenumber of markets in which HSBC currently trades backed securities.
The effect of these write-downs and volatility is expected to continue.
subsequently spread to other capital market activities, leading many financial institutions to seek Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific additional capital, merge with larger and stronger In Asia-Pacific, a prolonged period of low interest institutions and, in some cases, fail.
Many lenders rates is expected which will put pressure on HSBCs reduced or stopped providing funding to borrowers, net interest income from its strong deposit base.
including to other financial institutions.
This market With capital market and currency volatility endemic, turmoil and resultant tightening of credit have led to customers are likely to seek capital protection and an increased level of delinquencies, a fall in become increasingly rate and risk sensitive, seeking consumer confidence, increased market volatility out products which offer deposit insurance and and a widespread reduction in business activity in government guarantees.
Regulatory reforms in the general.
To date, various government intervention areas of wealth management product complexity, measures designed to stabilise the markets, including 14 the decision of the Federal Reserve to reduce interest uncertainty over the accessibility of financial rates to unprecedentedly low levels, appear to be resources and may reduce capital resources as having an impact on the trading of both guaranteed valuations decline.
Rating agencies, which determine and non-guaranteed debt in early 2009.
A prolonged HSBCs own credit ratings and thereby influence the period of low Federal funds rates will put pressure Groups cost of funds, take into consideration on deposit spreads earned on HSBCs deposit base.
management effectiveness and the success with It is likely that these conditions will continue to which HSBCs liquidity risk factors are managed.
adversely affect the Groups results into 2010, the Actions by third parties and independent market degree to which remains uncertain.
participants, such as rating agency downgrades of instruments to which HSBC has exposure, can result Latin America in reduced liquidity and valuations of those instruments.
HSBCs liquidity could also be Markets in Latin America are expected to be affected constrained by an inability to access the debt capital by recession in the developed world, particularly in markets due to a variety of unforeseen market the US.
Output will fall as a decline in the demand dislocations or interruptions.
for exports will adversely affect the export sector, and these factors are likely to combine with currency The extreme market conditions facing the volatility to weaken the balance sheets of financial financial services industry have been reflected in institutions.
This may lead to a further contraction in shortages of liquidity, lack of funding, pressure on the availability of credit, increasing the likelihood of capital and extreme price volatility across a wide bankruptcies and unemployment and reducing range of asset classes.
Illiquidity of these assets has economic activity and consumption.
Lower prevented the realisation of existing asset positions commodity prices and reduced remittance inflows and has constrained risk distribution in ongoing are likely to affect economies in the region, banking activities.
The extreme market conditions particularly in Mexico and Central America.
have also highlighted the significant benefits of a Exchange rates are likely to remain under pressure as strong diversified core deposit base leading to growth stalls, and inflation may rise.
The possibility increased competition for such deposits and the risk of a combined credit crunch and stagflation in Latin of deposit migration.
HSBCs Global Banking America cannot be ruled out.
The authorities may and Markets business operates in the markets react with stricter prudential regulation and price affected by illiquidity and extreme price volatility, controls.
Public finances will come under strain if oil either directly or indirectly, through exposures to and other commodity prices remain low, restricting securities, loans, derivatives and other commitments, the authorities room for manoeuvre.
and HSBC has made substantial write-downs and impairments on illiquid legacy credit and structured Risks associated with liquidity and funding, credit positions.
While it is difficult to predict how which are inherent in HSBCs business, have long the conditions described above will exist and been greatly increased by the current global which of HSBCs markets, products and other market conditions businesses will be affected, continuation of these factors could have an adverse effect on the Groups HSBCs business model depends upon its ability results.
to access financial resources whenever required to meet its obligations.
To this end, HSBC seeks to HSBC has significant exposure to maintain a diversified and stable funding base counterparty risk comprising core retail and corporate customer deposits and institutional balances and to augment HSBCs ability to engage in routine transactions to this with wholesale funding and portfolios of highly fund its operations and manage its risks could be liquid assets diversified by currency and maturity adversely affected by the actions and commercial which are held to enable HSBC to respond to soundness of other financial services institutions.
HSBCs earnings Financial institutions are extremely interdependent are affected by its ability to properly value financial because of trading, clearing, counterparty or other instruments.
In certain illiquid markets, determining relationships.
As a consequence, a default by, or the value at which financial instruments can be decline in market confidence in, individual realised is highly subjective, and processes to institutions, or anxiety about the financial services ascertain value and estimates of value, both of which industry generally, can lead to further individual require substantial elements of judgement, and or systemic difficulties, defaults and losses.
assumptions and estimates which may change over HSBC has exposure to virtually all major industries time, are required.
Increased illiquidity adds to and counterparties, and it routinely executes 15 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Challenges and uncertainties KPIs transactions with counterparties in financial services, on dividend flows and tax in the jurisdictions in including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, which it operates.
These factors may also negatively investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other affect revenues from the trading of securities and institutional clients.
Many of these transactions investment in securities, the effect being accentuated expose HSBC to credit risk in the event of default by through certain international trading markets, its counterparty or client.
Where counterparty risk particularly those in emerging market countries, has been mitigated by taking collateral, HSBCs being typically smaller, less liquid and more volatile credit risk may be exacerbated if the collateral it than developed trading markets.
HSBCs holds cannot be realised or has to be liquidated at subsidiaries and affiliates ability to pay dividends prices which are insufficient to recover the full could be restricted by changes to official banking amount of its loan or derivative exposure.
The measures, exchange controls and other requirements.
failure of one of HSBCs counterparties could have Because HSBC prepares its accounts in US dollars, an adverse effect on its results.
while a substantial part of its assets, liabilities, assets under management, revenues and expenses are HSBC operates in a highly competitive denominated in other currencies, changes in foreign environment, and competition could exchange rates have an effect on its reported income intensify as a result of current global market and shareholders equity.
For a detailed discussion of conditions global and regional factors that impact the results of HSBCs operations, see page 12.
Consolidation in the financial services industry is increasingly concentrating activity in companies that Operational risks are inherent in HSBCs are capable of offering a wide array of financial business products at competitive prices, with globalisation exposing HSBC to competition in capital markets HSBC is exposed to many types of operational risk, and financial services at global and local levels alike.
including fraudulent and other criminal activities In addition, technological advances, the growth of both internal and external, breakdowns in e-commerce, regulatory developments and public processes or procedures and systems failure or nonsector participation or guarantees have made it availability.
HSBC is also subject to the risk of possible for non-depository institutions to offer disruption of its business arising from events that are products and services that traditionally were the wholly or partially beyond its control for example preserve of banks.
The prominence in recent years natural disasters, acts of terrorism, epidemics and of sovereign wealth funds, private equity and hedge transport or utility failures which may give rise to funds as alternative sources of funding which has losses in service to customers and or economic loss increased competition for traditional financial to HSBC.
All of these risks are also applicable where institutions may ease as investors seek safer, more HSBC relies on outside suppliers or vendors to traditional alternatives.
Competition may further provide services to it and its customers.
intensify or the competitive landscape may change as the consolidation of financial services companies HSBC is subject to legal risks, which have an continues and others are brought into part or full adverse effect on the Groups reputation public ownership in response to the current market The risks to HSBCs reputation arise from a variety conditions.
HSBCs ability to grow its businesses, of sources with the potential to cause harm to the and therefore its earnings, is affected by these Group and its ability to operate.
These issues require competitive pressures and is dependent on HSBCs the Group to deal appropriately with potential ability to attract and retain talented and dedicated conflicts of interest: legal and regulatory employees.
requirements: ethical issues: anti-money laundering laws or regulations: privacy laws: information HSBC is subject to political and economic security policies: sales and trading practices: and the risks in the countries in which it operates conduct of companies with which it is associated.
HSBC operates through an international network Failure to address these issues appropriately may of subsidiaries and affiliates in 86 countries and give rise to additional legal and compliance risk to territories around the world.
Its results are therefore HSBC, with an increase in the number of litigation subject to the risk of loss from unfavourable political claims and the amount of damages asserted against developments, currency fluctuations, social HSBC, or subject HSBC to regulatory enforcement instability and change in government policies on actions, fines or penalties.
such matters as expropriation, authorisations, international ownership, interest-rate caps, limits 16
