HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil Background Overview Background and disclosure policy This section contains disclosures about the Audited effect of the recent market turmoil on HSBCs securitisation activities and other structured As a result of the widespread deterioration in the products.
HSBCs principal exposures to the US and markets for securitised and structured financial the UK mortgage markets primarily take the form assets, and consequent disruption to the global of credit risk from direct loans and advances to financial system since mid-2007, it has become customers which were originated to be held to increasingly difficult to observe prices for structured maturity or refinancing, details of which are credit risk, including prime tranches of such risk as provided on page 208. the markets for these assets became illiquid.
The resulting constraint on the ability of financial Financial instruments which were most affected institutions to access wholesale markets to fund such by the market turmoil include exposures to direct assets added additional downward pressure on all lending held at fair value through profit or loss and asset prices.
As a consequence, many financial ABSs, including mortgage-backed securities institutions have recorded considerable reductions in MBSs and collateralised debt obligations the fair values of their asset-backed securities CDOs, and exposures to and contingent claims ABSs and leveraged structured transactions, most on monoline insurers in respect of structured credit significantly in sub-prime mortgages but in other activities and leveraged finance transactions which asset classes too.
were originated to be distributed.
In light of increasing illiquidity and the risk to In accordance with HSBCs policy to provide capital from further write-downs, many financial meaningful disclosures that help investors and other institutions took steps during 2008 to reduce stakeholders understand the financial position, leveraged exposures, build liquidity and raise performance and changes in the financial position of additional capital.
However, credit conditions the Group, the information provided in this section suffered additional deterioration in the second half of goes beyond the minimum levels required by the year, as the economic outlook worsened and accounting standards, statutory and regulatory unemployment rose, intensifying the pressure on the requirements and listing rules.
In the specific context global financial system.
Volatility in money markets of facilitating an understanding of the recent market also increased during the second half of 2008, turmoil in markets for securitised and structured resulting in wider interest spreads, and markets for assets, HSBC has considered the recommendations securitised and structured financial assets continued relating to disclosure contained within the reports to be thoroughly constrained.
This instability issued by the Financial Stability Forum on triggered a series of significant events including the Enhancing Market and Institutional Resilience default of a number of major financial institutions, April and October 2008, the Committee of and the taking into public ownership of banks in a European Banking Supervisors on Banks number of countries.
Transparency on Activities and Products Affected by the Recent Market Turmoil June and October Deterioration in the measured fair value of 2008 and the International Accounting Standards assets supported by sub-prime mortgages continued Board Expert Advisory Panel on Measuring and in 2008 with the primary market for all but US disclosing the fair value of financial instruments in government-sponsored issues remaining weak.
markets that are no longer active October 2008.
In Spreads widened due to credit and liquidity concerns addition, HSBC has considered feedback from as delinquencies on the underlying mortgages investors, regulators and other stakeholders on the continued to increase beyond the levels priced into disclosures that investors would find most useful.
securitisations issued in recent years.
The impact widened beyond sub-prime related assets, with the The specific topics covered in respect of measured fair value of securities backed by Alt-A HSBCs securitisation activities and exposure to collateral, in particular, suffering significant structured products are as follows: deterioration.
overview of exposure: During 2008, governments and central banks business model: worldwide took unprecedented measures designed to risk management: stabilise and increase confidence in financial accounting policies: markets.
These measures included providing vast nature and extent of HSBCs exposures: amounts of liquidity via emergency funding, fair values of financial instruments: and extending guarantees of financial assets, and special purpose entities.
launching various forms of rescue plans.
