with the primary objective of ensuring, where Holdings is monitored by its Structural Positions practical, that HSBCs consolidated capital ratios Review Group.
and the capital ratios of individual banking A number of cross currency interest rate subsidiaries are largely protected from the effect of swaps entered into as part of HSBC Holdings changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved management of interest rate risk arising on certain by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio long-term debt capital issues do not qualify for of structural exposures in a given currency to riskhedge accounting treatment.
Changes in the market weighted assets denominated in that currency is values of these swaps are taken directly to the broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary income statement.
HSBC Holdings expects that in question.
these swaps will be held to final maturity with the The Groups capital ratios were affected by the accumulated changes in market value consequently strengthening US dollar in the latter part of 2008. trending to zero.
The effect on the Groups consolidated tier 1 and Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature total ratios is estimated to have been a reduction of that are not denominated in the functional currency approximately 40 basis points and approximately of either the provider or the recipient are accounted 50 basis points respectively.
These movements for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying were within approved tolerance levels.
amount of these assets due to exchange differences HSBC may also transact hedges where a are taken directly to the income statement.
These currency in which it has structural exposures is loans, and the associated foreign exchange considered to be significantly overvalued and it is exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated possible in practice to transact a hedge.
hedges were in place during 2007 and 2008.
The principal tools used in the management of Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign market risk are the projected sensitivity of HSBC exchange contracts which are accounted for under Holdings net interest income to future changes in IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign yield curves and interest rate gap re-pricing tables operation, or by financing with borrowings in the for interest rate risk, and VAR for foreign exchange same currencies as the functional currencies rate risk.
There was no ineffectiveness arising from these hedges in the year ended 31 December 2008.
Net interest income sensitivity HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings monitors net interest income Audited sensitivity over a 5-year time horizon reflecting the longer-term perspective on interest rate risk As a financial services holding company, HSBC management appropriate to a financial services Holdings has limited market risk activity.
The table below sets out the activities predominantly involve maintaining effect on HSBC Holdings future net interest sufficient capital resources to support the Groups income over a 5-year time horizon of an diverse activities: allocating these capital resources incremental 25 basis point parallel fall or rise in all across the Groups businesses: earning dividend yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each and interest income on its investments in the quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2009.
Groups businesses: providing dividend payments to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest Assuming no management action, a series payments to providers of debt capital: and of such rises would decrease HSBC Holdings maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources.
planned net interest income for 2009 by It does not take proprietary trading positions.
US$60 million 2008: decrease of US$23 million and decrease cumulative net interest income by The main market risks to which HSBC US$554 million over a 5-year period from Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and 1 January 2009 2008: decrease of US$104 foreign currency risk.
Exposure to these risks arises million, while a series of such falls would increase from short-term cash balances, funding positions planned net interest income by US$60 million held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long- 2008: increase of US$23 million and increase term financial assets and financial liabilities cumulative net interest income by US$554 million including debt capital issued.
The objective of over a 5-year period from 1 January 2009 2008: HSBC Holdings market risk management strategy increase of US$104 million.
These figures is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise incorporate the impact of any option features in the volatility in reported income, cash flows and underlying exposures.
Market risk for HSBC 249 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Market risk HSBC Holdings Interest repricing gap VAR Instead of assuming that all interest rates move considered likely to move together.
The sensitivity together, HSBC groups its interest rate exposures of projected net interest income, on this basis, is into currency blocs whose interest rates are described as follows: Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to interest rate movements Unaudited US dollar Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2009 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter in 2009 0-1 year 81 10 11 60 2-3 years 351 20 77 254 4-5 years 358 54 64 240 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter in 2009 0-1 year 81 10 11 60 2-3 years 351 20 77 254 4-5 years 358 54 64 240 Change in 2008 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter in 2008 0-1 year 51 16 12 23 2-3 years 180 69 83 28 4-5 years 200 69 78 53 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter in 2008 0-1 year 51 16 12 23 2-3 years 180 69 83 28 4-5 years 200 69 78 53 HSBC Holdings principal exposure to changes The projected increase in HSBC Holdings in its net interest income from movements in interest sensitivity to moves in interest rates is mainly due to rates arises on short-term cash balances, floating rate new interest-bearing capital issues, the funds from loans advanced to subsidiaries and fixed rate debt which have been largely invested in non-interest capital securities in issue which have been swapped bearing equity investments in subsidiaries.
Interest repricing gap table The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above are illustrative only and are based on simplified scenarios.
The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses The figures represent the effect of pro forma the full term structure of interest rate mismatches movements in net interest income based on the within HSBC Holdings balance sheet.
The year on projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings year increase in the negative net interest rate gap in current interest rate risk profile and assumed changes the up to 1 year time bucket is due to an increase to that profile during the next five years.
Changes to in non-interest bearing equity investments in assumptions concerning the risk profile over the next subsidiaries which has been funded by new issues five years can have a significant impact on the net of interest bearing liabilities and by the capitalisation interest income sensitivity for that period.
The figures of interest bearing loans to subsidiaries.
do not take into account the effect of actions that could be taken to mitigate this interest rate risk, however.
These enhanced reports are Maximum 56.1 30.9 considered to be more suitable risk management measures for the longer term profile of a bank The foreign exchange risk largely arises from holding company balance sheet.
loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the Value at risk provider or the recipient and which are accounted Total foreign exchange VAR arising within HSBC for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying Holdings in 2008 and 2007 was as follows: amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate differences are taken directly to the income statement.
These loans, and the associated foreign exchange exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated basis.
