HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Non-life Insurance risk Non-life insurance business handling procedures designed to ensure compliance Audited with regulations.
This is supplemented with stress testing.
Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and other damage to property, accident and health, Insurance contracts sold by HSBC relate, in the repayment protection and commercial insurances.
main, to core underlying banking activities, such as savings and investment products, and credit life Motor insurance business covers vehicle products.
The Groups manufacturing focuses on damage and liability for personal injury.
For fire and personal lines, i. e. contracts written for individuals, other damage to property, the main focus in most which tend to be of higher volume and lower markets is providing individuals with home and individual value than commercial lines.
They thus contents insurance, with cover for selected contribute to diversifying insurance risk.
commercial customers largely written in Asia and Latin America.
Life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled by high-level policies and procedures set A very limited portfolio of liability business is centrally, supplemented as appropriate with written, other than that included in the motor book.
measures which take account of specific local Credit non-life insurance is concentrated in market conditions and regulatory requirements.
For North America and Europe, and is originated in example, manufacturing entities are required to conjunction with the provision of loans.
Payment obtain authorisation from Group Insurance Head protection insurance PPI products were Office to write certain classes of business, with suspended in the UK pending a final report from the restrictions applying to commercial and liability nonCompetition Commission on their provision by the life insurance, in particular.
The report was issued in Local ALCOs and Risk Management early 2009.
The business is in the process of Committees are required to monitor certain risk assessing the impact of the reported findings on exposures, mainly for life business where the focus credit protection products in the UK.
is on reviewing the risks associated with the duration Given the nature of the contracts written by the and cash flow matching of insurance assets and Group, the risks to which HSBCs insurance liabilities.
operations are exposed fall into two principal Reinsurance is also used as a means of categories: insurance risk and financial risk.
The mitigating exposure, in particular to aggregations of following section describes the nature and extent of catastrophe risk.
Specific examples are as follows: these risks and HSBCs approach to managing them.
The majority of the risk in the insurance business Accident and health insurance.
Potential derives from manufacturing activities.
exposure to concentrations of claims arising from isolated events, such as earthquakes or a Insurance risk pandemic, are mitigated by the purchase of Audited catastrophe reinsurance.
Insurance risk is a risk, other than financial risk, Motor insurance.
Reinsurance protection is transferred from the holder of a contract to the arranged to avoid excessive exposure to larger issuer, in this case HSBC.
The principal insurance losses, particularly from personal injury claims.
risk faced by HSBC is that, over time, the combined Fire and other damage to property.
Portfolios at cost of claims, administration and acquisition of the risk from catastrophic losses are protected by contract may exceed the aggregate amount of reinsurance in accordance with information premiums received and investment income.
The cost obtained from professional risk-modelling of a claim can be influenced by many factors, organisations.
including mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, if the policy has a savings Although reinsurance provides a means of element, the performance of the assets held to managing insurance risk, such contracts expose the support the liabilities.
Performance of the underlying Group to counterparty risk, the risk of default by the assets is affected by changes in both interest rates reinsurer see page 267. and equity prices see page 263.
The following tables provide an analysis of HSBCs insurance risk appetite is proposed by HSBCs insurance risk exposures by geographical local businesses and authorised centrally.
The Group region and by type of business.
By definition, HSBC manages its exposure to insurance risk by applying is not exposed to insurance risk on investment formal underwriting, reinsurance and claims- 256 contracts, so they are not included in the insurance available overall measure of insurance exposure, risk management analysis.
because provisions for life contracts are typically set by reference to expected future cash outflows Life business tends to be longer-term in nature relating to the underlying policies.
The table for non than non-life business and frequently involves an life business uses written premiums as the best element of savings and investment in the contract.
available measure of risk exposure because policies Accordingly, separate tables are provided for life and are typically priced by reference to the risk being non-life businesses, reflecting their distinctive risk underwritten.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
2 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
Economic assumptions, such as investment returns and interest rates, are The above table of liabilities to life insurance usually based on market observable data.
Changes in policyholders highlights that the most significant underlying assumptions affect the liabilities.
The products are investment contracts with DPF issued in sensitivity of profit after tax and shareholders equity France, insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong to changes in both economic and non-economic Kong and unit-linked contracts issued in Hong assumptions are considered below.
Kong, Latin America and Europe.
Insurance risk arising from life insurance The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by depends on the type of business, and varies reference to a range of assumptions which include considerably.
The principal risks are mortality, lapse and surrender rates, mortality and expense morbidity, lapse, surrender and expense levels.
These assumptions typically reflect each 257 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Insurance risk The main contracts which generate exposure to of surrender charges, though other management mortality and morbidity risks are term assurance actions, such as managing the level of bonus contracts and annuities.
These risks are monitored on payments to policyholders, may be taken.
Expense a regular basis, and are primarily mitigated by risk is generally managed through pricing.
The level medical underwriting and by retaining the ability in of expenses in the contract will be one of the factors certain cases to amend premiums in the light of considered when setting premiums rates.
Audited the provision of loans, is concentrated in the US and Europe.
The above table of non-life net written insurance premiums provides an overall summary of the The main risks associated with non-life business non-life insurance activity of the Group.
Motor are underwriting risk and claims experience risk.
business is written predominantly in Europe and Underwriting risk is the risk that HSBC does not Latin America and represented the largest class of charge premiums appropriate to the cover provided non-life business in 2008.
Fire and other damage to and claims experience risk is the risk that portfolio property business is written in all major markets, experience is worse than expected.
HSBC manages most significantly in Europe.
Credit non-life these risks through pricing for example, imposing insurance, which is originated in conjunction with 258 restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and were sufficient assets to cover the liabilities to conditions, product design, risk selection, claims policyholders at the end of 2008.
It may not always handling, investment strategy and reinsurance policy.
be possible to achieve a complete matching of asset The majority of non-life insurance contracts are and liability durations, partly because there is renewable annually and the underwriters have the uncertainty over policyholder behaviour, which right to refuse renewal or to change the terms and introduces uncertainty over the receipt of all future conditions of the contract at that time.
premiums and the timing of claims, and partly because the duration of liabilities may exceed the Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing duration of the longest available dated fixed interest subsidiaries by type of contract investments.
In an environment where interest rates Audited and yield curves are falling, insurance operations are exposed to re-investment risk as higher yielding A principal tool used by HSBC to manage its assets held in the portfolio mature and are replaced exposure to insurance risk, in particular for life with lower yielding assets.
Given the objective to insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching.
hold rather than trade investments, the current Models are used to assess the effect of a range of portfolio of assets includes debt securities issued at future scenarios on the values of financial assets and a time when coupon rates were higher than those associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the observed in the current market.
As a result, the outcomes in determining how the assets and current yield of the debt securities exceeds that liabilities should be matched.
The scenarios include which may be obtained on current issues.
stresses applied to factors which affect insurance risk Management action has been taken in relation to such as mortality and lapse rates.
Of particular certain participating contracts to reduce short-term importance is the need to match the expected pattern bonus rates paid to policyholders to manage the of cash inflows with the benefits payable on the immediate strain on the business.
Should interest underlying contracts, which can extend for many rates and yield curves stay low for prolonged years.
The table below shows the composition of periods, further management actions may be needed.
assets and liabilities and demonstrates that there Insurance contracts Investment contracts Contracts Term Contracts with UnitAnnuassurwith UnitOther 1 2 3 DPF linked ities ance Non-life DPF linked Other assets Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2008 Financial assets: trading assets.............. 35 4 39 financial assets designated at fair value.................... 959 4,738 457 496 52 4,597 5,525 1,481 1,970 20,275 derivatives.................. 27 3 26 60 170 91 24 401 financial investments.
3 Other assets comprise shareholder assets.
4 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
5 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
6 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance.
260 The table below shows the composition of assets were sufficient assets to cover the liabilities to and liabilities by region and demonstrates that there policyholders for each region at the end of 2008.
2 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
3 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance.
261 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Market risk Financial risks Risk management procedures which reflect local Audited market conditions and regulatory requirements may be implemented by HSBCs insurance HSBCs insurance businesses are exposed to a range manufacturing subsidiaries in addition to policies of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk provided for Group-wide application through the and liquidity risk.
Market risk includes interest rate Group Instruction Manuals.
In many jurisdictions, risk, equity risk and foreign exchange risk.
The local regulatory requirements prescribe the type, nature and management of these risks is described quality and concentration of assets that these below.
subsidiaries must maintain to meet insurance Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to liabilities.
Within each subsidiary, ALCOs are financial risks, for example, when the proceeds from responsible for ensuring that exposures to financial financial assets are not sufficient to fund the risks remain within local requirements and risk obligations arising from non-linked insurance and mandates as agreed with Group Insurance Head investment contracts.
Certain insurance-related Office, and ensure compliance with the control activities undertaken by HSBC subsidiaries such as framework established centrally through the Group insurance broking, insurance management including Instruction Manuals.
captive management and the administration and The following table analyses the assets held in intermediation of insurance, pensions and annuities HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at are exposed to financial risks, but not to a significant 31 December 2008 by type of contract, and provides extent.
2 Comprise life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
5 Does not include financial assets of associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance.
6 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
7 Does not include financial assets of insurance manufacturing associate, Ping An Insurance.
The table demonstrates that for linked contracts, Market risk Audited HSBC typically designates assets at fair value.
For non-linked contracts, the classification of the assets Insurance and investment products manufactured by is driven by the nature of the underlying contract.
HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries typically comprise features or combinations of The table also shows that approximately features which may not be easily or exactly 62.9 per cent of financial assets was invested in debt replicated by investments.
Market risk arises when securities at 31 December 2008 2007: 55.4 per cent mismatches occur between product liabilities and the with 19.7 per cent 2007: 30.3 per cent invested in investment assets which back them: for example, equity securities.
mismatches between asset and liability yields and In life linked insurance, premium income less maturities give rise to interest rate risk.
charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets.
HSBC manages the financial risks of this product on Description of market risk behalf of the policyholders by holding appropriate Audited assets in segregated funds or portfolios to which the The main features of products manufactured by liabilities are linked.
Typically, HSBC retains some HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which exposure to market risk as the market value of the generate market risk, and the market risk to which linked assets influences the fees charged by HSBC these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed and thereby affects the recoverability of expenses below.
incurred by the Group in managing the product.
The assets held to support life linked liabilities Long-term insurance or investment products represented 19.4 per cent of the total financial assets may incorporate either one investment return of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at guarantee or a combination thereof, divided into the the end of 2008 2007: 29.7 per cent.
following categories: 263 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Market risk annuities in payment: within a prescribed range of average investment returns earned by predetermined market deferred annuities: these consist of two phases participants on the specified product.
the savings and investing phase and the retirement income phase: Subsidiaries manufacturing products with guarantees are usually exposed to falls in market annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to interest rates as they result in lower yields on the be no lower than a specified rate.
This may be assets supporting guaranteed investment returns the return credited to the policyholder every payable to policyholders.
In the current market year, or the average annual return credited to the environment, in which interest rates are falling, policyholder over the life of the policy, which managing this risk is of increasing importance.
may occur on the maturity date or the surrender date of the contract: The table below shows, in respect of each category of guarantee, the total liabilities to capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive policyholders established for guaranteed products, no less than the premiums paid plus declared the range of investment returns net of operating bonuses less expenses: and costs implied by the guarantees, and the range of market performance: policyholders receive an current yields of the investment portfolios supporting investment return which is guaranteed to be the guarantees.
2 Excluding guarantees from associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited 3 Excluding guarantees from associate insurance company, Ping An Insurance.
4 There is no specific investment return implied by market performance guarantees because the guarantees are expressed as lying within prescribed ranges of average market returns.
A certain number of these products have been such products are exposed to the risk of falls in the discontinued, including the US$576 million deferred market price of equity securities when they cannot annuity portfolio in HSBC Finance where, as be fully reflected in the discretionary bonuses.
An highlighted in the above table, the current portfolio increase in market volatility could also result in an yield is less than the guarantee.
On acquisition of increase in the value of the guarantee to the this block of business by HSBC Finance, a provision policyholder.
was established to mitigate the shortfall in yields.
Long-term insurance and investment products There has been no further deterioration in the typically permit the policyholder to surrender the shortfall since acquisition.
There are a limited policy or let it lapse at any time.
When the surrender number of additional contracts where the current value is not linked to the value realised from the sale portfolio yield is less than the guarantee implied by of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is the contract.
In particular, when The proceeds from insurance and investment customers seek to surrender their policies when asset products with DPF are primarily invested in bonds values are falling, assets may have to be sold at a with a proportion allocated to equity securities in loss to fund redemptions.
order to provide customers with the potential for A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term enhanced returns.
Subsidiaries with portfolios of insurance and investment products, especially with 264 DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to its local exiting, to the extent possible, investment market by investing in assets in countries other than portfolios whose risk is considered unacceptable that in which it is based.
These assets may be for example, by implementing asset denominated in currencies other than the reallocation strategies in order to manage risk subsidiarys local currency.
It is often not cost exposures.
effective for the subsidiary to hedge the foreign During 2008, the credit, market and liquidity exchange exposure associated with these assets, and risk functions in Group Insurance Head Office were this exposes it to the risk that its local currency will strengthened by the creation of two new positions, strengthen against the currency of the related assets.
Chief Credit Officer and Chief Market and Liquidity For unit-linked contracts, market risk is Risk Officer, both reporting to the Chief Risk substantially borne by the policyholder, but HSBC Officer.
Also, due diligence procedures were typically remains exposed to market risk as the enhanced during the current lower yield environment market value of the linked assets influences the fees to more critically assess embedded risk in respect of HSBC earns for managing them.
new products, for example, those including options and guarantees within the contract.
When such How the risks are managed product features are identified, the product proposal Audited is reviewed by Group Insurance Head Office to ensure that the key risks are identified and that the HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries related risk management procedures are adequate.
manage market risk by using some or all of the The frequency with which management reviews following techniques, depending on the nature of the certain exposures is increased in markets contracts they write: demonstrating increasing volatility to ensure that any for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to matters arising are dealt with in a timely fashion.
manage the liabilities to policyholders.
Bonus Each insurance manufacturing subsidiary is rates are managed by regularly evaluating their required to have a market risk mandate which sustainability.
The effect is that a portion of the specifies the investment instruments in which it is market risk is borne by the policyholder: permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of as far as possible, matching assets to liabilities.
market risk which it is permitted to retain.
It is the For example, for products with annual return or responsibility of the subsidiarys ALCO and the capital guarantees, HSBC invests in bonds Market and Liquidity Risk Committee subwhich produce returns at least equal to the committee to the Group Insurance Risk Committee investment returns implied by the guarantees: to ensure that each mandate is consistent with local regulations.
All mandates are reviewed and agreed using derivatives in a limited number of annually by Group Insurance Head Office, and instances: aggregate limits are approved by the Risk when designing new products with investment Management Meeting of GMB.
During 2008, market guarantees, evaluating the cost of the guarantee risk mandates were enhanced in some of the major and considering this cost when determining the insurance subsidiaries by introducing stop loss limits level of premiums or the price structure: and management action limits designed to control risk in certain portfolios.
periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain guarantees and How the exposures to risks are measured embedded optionality features linked to savings Audited and investment products.
The scope of the review would include pricing, risk management HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries and profitability a control introduced during monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly 2008.
Guaranteed products which expose the and report these quarterly to Group Insurance Head Group to risk beyond the levels deemed Office.
Exposures are aggregated and reported to acceptable in any of these categories are either senior risk management forums in the Group, altered or are no longer offered to customers: including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Committee, Group Insurance Risk Committee including features designed to mitigate market and the Group Stress Test Review Group.
risk in new products, such as charging surrender penalties to recoup losses incurred when The standard measures used to quantify the policyholders surrender their policies: and market risks are as follows: 265 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Market risk Credit risk for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the net HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries report present values of asset and expected liability the results of their stress tests every quarter to Group cash flows, in total and by currency, to a one Insurance Head Office, where the reports are basis point parallel upward shift in the discount consolidated and reviewed by the Group Insurance curves used to calculate the net present values: Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting and the Group Stress Test Review Group.
for equity price risk, the total market value of equity holdings and the market value of equity HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries holdings by region and country: and identify the assets and liabilities in their financial statements whose values are sensitive to each for foreign exchange risk, the total net short category of market risk and revalue them at various foreign exchange position and the net foreign market rates.
The outcome of the exercise is exchange positions by currency.
expressed in terms of the effect on profit for the year Although these measures are relatively and total equity under the stress-tested assumptions, straightforward to calculate and aggregate, there are after taking into consideration tax and accounting limitations with them.
The most significant treatments where material and relevant.
limitation is that a parallel shift in yield curves of The following table illustrates the effect on the one basis point does not capture the non-linear aggregated profit for the year and total equity under relationships between the values of certain assets and various interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange liabilities and interest rates.
Non-linearity arises, for rate and credit spread scenarios.
Where appropriate, example, from investment return guarantees and the impact of the stress on the PVIF is included in certain product features such as the ability of the results of the stress tests.
The relationship policyholders to surrender their policies.
If the yields between the values of certain assets and liabilities on investments held to support contracts with and the risk factors may be non-linear and, therefore, guarantees are less than the investment returns the results disclosed cannot be extrapolated to implied by the guarantees, shortfalls will be to the measure sensitivities to different levels of stress.
sensitivities are stated before allowance for the effect HSBC recognises these limitations and of management actions which may mitigate changes augments its standard measures with stress tests in market rates, and for any factors such as which examine the effect of a range of market rate policyholder behaviour that may change in response scenarios on the aggregate annual profits and total to changes in market risk.
equity of the insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to risk factors Audited 2008 2007 Effect on Effect on Effect on Effect on profit for total profit for total the year equity the year equity US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves........... 94 13 67 29 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves........... 82 24 71 49 10 per cent increase in equity prices 10 10 147 151 10 per cent decrease in equity prices 12 12 145 149 10 per cent increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies............ 28 29 12 12 10 per cent decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies............ 28 29 12 12 Sensitivity to credit spread increases 73 134 15 30 266 The sensitivity of the net profit after tax of protection products are included in the description of HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to the effects of life and non-life insurance risk on pages 257 to 258. increases in credit spreads is a fall of US$73 million HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are 2007: US$15 million fall.
The sensitivity is responsible for the credit risk, quality and consistent with the other sensitivities noted above, performance of their investment portfolios.
and is calculated using simplified assumptions based Investment credit mandates and limits are set by the on a one-day movement in credit spreads over a twosubsidiaries and approved by their local insurance year period.
A confidence level of 99 per cent, ALCOs and Credit Risk functions before being consistent with the Groups VAR, has been applied.
submitted to Group Credit Risk for concurrence.
The The effect of movements in credit spreads became form and content of the mandates must accord with more significant in 2008 due to increased volatility centrally set investment credit risk guidance in credit spreads.
regarding credit quality, industry sector concentration and liquidity restrictions, but allow for Credit risk the inclusion of local regulatory and country-specific Audited conditions.
The assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon Credit risk can give rise to losses through default internationally recognised credit ratings and other and can lead to volatility in income statement and publicly available information.
balance sheet figures through movements in credit spreads, principally on the US$33.2 billion 2007: Investment credit exposures are monitored US$29.8 billion non-linked bond portfolio.
The against limits by the local insurance manufacturing exposure of the income statement to the effect of subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to changes in credit spreads is small see the table on Group Credit Risk, the Group Insurance Credit Risk page 266.
49 per cent of the financial assets held by Meeting and the Group Insurance Risk Committee.
insurance subsidiaries are classified as either held to Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance Head maturity or available for sale, and consequently any Office on the investment credit exposures using changes in the fair value of these financial credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
investments, absent impairment, would have no The stresses are reported to the Group Insurance impact on the profit after tax.
HSBC sells certain unit-linked life insurance As noted above, under certain circumstances, contracts which are reinsured with a third-party.
the Group is able to dilute the effect of investment These insurance contracts include market return losses by sharing them with policyholders.
However, guarantees which are underwritten by the third-party.
when, for example, a contract includes a guarantee, HSBC is exposed to credit risk to the extent that the losses which would result in a breach of the third-party the counterparty is unable to meet the guaranteed benefits due to the policyholder are borne terms of the guarantees.
As highlighted in Market by the Group.
Risk above, the cost to the Group of market return In response to adverse credit market conditions, guarantees increases when interest rates fall, equity various initiatives were introduced during 2008 to markets fall or market volatility increases.
In better manage and report credit risk, including an addition, when determined by reference to a Early Warning Report which is produced on a discounted cash flow model in which the discount weekly basis to identify investments which may be rate is based on current interest rates, guarantee costs at risk of future impairment.
This report is circulated increase in a falling interest rate environment.
As a to senior management in Group Insurance Head consequence of the rise in these costs, the Groups Office and the Regional Chief Risk Officers, and counterparty exposure to the guarantees under the risk reduction strategies are implemented when reinsurance agreement at 31 December 2008 was considered appropriate.
Similarly, a watch list of greater than at 31 December 2007.
During 2008, investments with current credit concerns is circulated sales of these contracts ceased, reflecting the weekly.
adjusted risk appetite of the business The exposure to credit risk products and the management of the risks associated with credit 267 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Insurance operations Financial risks Credit risk Credit quality supporting non-linked liabilities are included in the Audited table as financial risk on assets supporting linked liabilities is predominantly borne by the The following table presents an analysis of treasury policyholder.
93.7 per cent 2007: 88.7 per cent of bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within the assets included in the table are invested in HSBCs insurance business by measures of credit investments rated as Strong.
The definitions of the four credit quality classifications are included on page 217.
Consequently, all such balances are reported under neither past due nor impaired.
2 Shareholders funds comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
3 Does not include treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities held by associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
4 Does not include treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities held by insurance manufacturing associate, Ping An Insurance.
The their equivalent, is shown below.
The Groups credit risk exposure to reinsurers is monitored by exposure to third parties under the reinsurance Group Insurance Head Office and is reported agreement described in the Credit Risk section above quarterly to the Group Insurance Risk Committee is included in this table.
and the Group Insurance Credit Risk Meeting.
2 Does not include reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts and reinsurance debtors of insurance manufacturing associate, Ping An Insurance.
270 Liquidity risk establishing committed contingency borrowing Audited facilities.
It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance Every quarter, HSBCs insurance manufacturing contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount of subsidiaries are required to complete and submit claims liabilities that may arise, and the timing of liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance Head Office their settlement and this leads to liquidity risk.
for collation and review by the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting.
Liquidity risk is To fund the cash outflows arising from claims assessed in these reports by measuring changes in liabilities, HSBCs insurance manufacturing expected cumulative net cash flows under a series of subsidiaries primarily utilise liquidity from the stress scenarios designed to determine the effect of following sources: reducing expected available liquidity and cash inflows arising from premiums from new accelerating cash outflows.
This is achieved by, for business, policy renewals and recurring example, assuming new business or renewals are premium products: lower, and surrenders or lapses are greater, than expected.
cash inflows arising from interest and dividends on investments and principal repayments of The following tables show the expected maturing debt investments: undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of cash resources: and investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2008. cash inflows from the sale of investments.
As indicated in the analyses of life and non-life insurance risks on pages 257 to 258, a significant HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries proportion of the Groups non-life insurance manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the business is viewed as short term, with the settlement following techniques: of liabilities expected to occur within one year of the matching cash inflows with expected cash period of risk.
There is a greater spread of expected outflows using specific cash flow projections or maturities for the life business where, in a large more general asset and liability matching proportion of cases, the liquidity risk is borne in techniques such as duration matching: conjunction with policyholders wholly in the case of unit-linked business.
maintaining sufficient cash resources: The profile of the expected maturity of the investing in good credit-quality investments insurance contracts as at 31 December 2008 with deep and liquid markets to the degree to remained comparable with 2007. which they exist: monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them where appropriate, for example, by debt issues or issuers: and Expected maturity of insurance contract liabilities Audited Expected cash flows undiscounted Within 1 year 1-5 years 5-15 years Over 15 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2008 Non-life insurance 1,178 1,186 115 1 2,480 Life insurance non-linked 2,527 7,789 16,695 14,432 41,443 Life insurance linked....... 1,295 1,251 3,269 5,390 11,205 1 Total..................... 5,000 10,226 20,079 19,823 55,128 At 31 December 2007 Non-life insurance 1,337 1,352 164 1 2,854 Life insurance non-linked 1,887 5,310 15,986 13,269 36,452 Life insurance linked....... 507 1,894 3,644 5,014 11,059 2 Total..................... 3,731 8,556 19,794 18,284 50,365 1 Does not include insurance contracts issued by associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance, or joint venture insurance companies, Hana Life and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
2 Does not include insurance contracts issued by insurance manufacturing associate, Ping An Insurance.
