HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Group performance Gains less losses from financial investments Net earned insurance premiums For assets held to meet liabilities under and its subsidiaries.
These cumulative gains investment contracts the corresponding reduction in will fully reverse over the life of the debt.
The the liability to customers is also reported within net cumulative adjustments to reserves when the policy income from financial instruments designated at fair is applied for the first time and the income value.
A reduction of US$1.8 billion in the movement statement subsequent applications of the policy, in fair value of liabilities held under investment reflecting the change in own credit spread since the contracts compared with an increase in the fair value fair value option was available, was US$1.6 billion of liabilities of US$940 million in 2007. after taking into account the US$3.1 billion credit in 2007.
2007 compared with 2006 Income from assets held to meet liabilities under Credit spreads widened significantly in the second insurance and investment contracts also rose, by half of 2007, leading to a substantial increase in net 32 per cent, reflecting primarily premium growth income from financial instruments designated at fair and higher investment returns on the portfolios held value compared with 2006.
This was primarily by the insurance businesses in the UK and Hong driven by a widening in credit spreads on certain Kong.
The change in fair value of liabilities under fixed-rate long-term debt issued by HSBC Holdings investment contracts declined by 7 per cent.
A reduction in net gains from 93 per cent higher on an underlying basis.
disposals was compounded by significant The increase was driven by the sale of shares impairments recognised on equity securities held in and various equity investments in all regions, the available-for-sale portfolio as certain investments including holdings in Euronext the European stock were marked down to reflect the prevailing market exchange, MasterCard in North America and a conditions.
In Private Banking, a gain The redemption of Visa Inc. Visa shares of US$91 million arose from the sale of a further following its IPO resulted in significant gains, and holding in the Hermitage Fund, compared with there were further gains from the sale of MasterCard US$117 million in 2006.
The gains in 2007 were Inc. MasterCard shares.
These were more than marginally offset by the non-recurrence of a offset by losses in Principal Investments and the US$101 million gain on the sale of part of HSBCs non-recurrence of various significant gains in 2007, stake in UTI Bank Limited in 2006. mostly in respect of Euronext, the European stock exchange, and a credit bureau in Brazil.
Declining equity markets caused impairments to be recognised against a number of strategic investments in Asia, held in the available-for-sale portfolio and on private equity investments, mainly in Europe.
The market turmoil in the US also led to impairments against investments in various US financial institutions.
