HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Pension risk Reputational risk Sustainability risk Insurance operations Life business Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy policies, which form an integral part of the internal rests with either the Trustees or, in certain control system see page 299, are communicated circumstances, a Management Committee.
The through manuals and statements of policy and are degree of independence of the Trustees from HSBC promulgated through internal communications and differs in different jurisdictions.
The policies cover ESG issues and set out HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which accounts operational procedures in all areas of reputational for approximately 63 per cent of the obligations of risk, including money laundering deterrence, the Groups defined benefit pension plans, is counter-terrorist financing environmental impact, overseen by a corporate Trustee.
This schemes anti-corruption measures and employee relations.
Trustee regularly monitors the market risks inherent The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and in the scheme.
co-operation between GMO departments and businesses is required to ensure a strong adherence Reputational risk to HSBCs risk management system and its Unaudited sustainability practices.
The safeguarding of HSBCs reputation is of Sustainability risk paramount importance to its continued prosperity Unaudited and is the responsibility of every member of staff.
HSBC regularly reviews its policies and procedures Sustainability risks arise from the provision of for safeguarding against reputational and operational financial services to companies or projects which run risks.
This is an evolutionary process which takes counter to the needs of sustainable development: in account of relevant developments and industry effect this risk arises when the environmental and guidance such as The Association of British social effects outweigh economic benefits.
Within Insurers guidance on best practice when responding Group Management Office, a separate function, to environmental, social and governance ESG Group Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to risks.
manage these risks globally working through local offices as appropriate.
Its risk management HSBC has always aspired to the highest responsibilities include: standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, takes account of reputational risks to its business.
This Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of includes oversight of HSBCs sustainability causes, including ESG issues and operational risk risk standards, management of the Equator events.
As a banking group, HSBCs good reputation Principles for project finance lending, and depends upon the way in which it conducts its sector-based sustainability policies covering business, but it can also be affected by the way in those sectors with high environmental, ethical which clients, to whom it provides financial services, or social impacts forestry, freshwater conduct themselves.
The training of Directors on infrastructure, chemicals, energy, mining appointment includes reputational matters.
and metals, and defence-related lending : undertaking an independent review of A Group Reputational Risk Committee transactions where sustainability risks are GRRC has been established at which relevant assessed to be high, and supporting HSBCs Group functions with responsibility for activities operating companies to assess similar risks of and functions which attract reputational risk are a lower magnitude: represented.
The primary role of the GRRC is to consider areas and activities presenting significant building and implementing systems-based reputational risk and, where appropriate, to make processes to ensure consistent application of recommendations to the Risk Management Meeting policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk and GMB for policy or procedural changes to reviews and capture management information to mitigate such risk.
measure and report on the effect of HSBCs lending and investment activities on sustainable Standards on all major aspects of business development: and are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions.
Reputational risks, providing training and capacity building within including ESG matters, are considered and assessed HSBCs operating companies to ensure by the Board, GMB, the Risk Management Meeting, sustainability risks are identified and mitigated subsidiary company boards, board committees and on a consistent basis and to either HSBCs own senior management during the formulation of policy standards, or international standards or local and the establishment of HSBC standards.
These regulations, whichever is the higher.
