HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Headquartered in London, HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world.
Its international network comprises some 10,000 properties in 86 countries and territories in Europe: Hong Kong: Rest of Asia-Pacific, including the Middle East and Africa: North America and Latin America.
With listings on the London, Hong Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda stock exchanges, shares in HSBC Holdings plc are held by over 210,000 shareholders in 120 countries and territories.
The shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares.
HSBC provides a comprehensive range of financial services to more than 100 million customers through four customer groups and global businesses: Personal Financial Services including consumer finance : Commercial Banking: Global Banking and Markets: and Private Banking.
Certain defined terms Unless the context requires otherwise, HSBC Holdings means HSBC Holdings plc and HSBC or the Group means HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries.
Within this document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Peoples Republic of China is referred to as Hong Kong.
When used in the terms shareholders equity and total shareholders equity, shareholders means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares classified as equity.
This document comprises the Annual Report and Accounts 2008 for HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiaries.
It contains the Report of the Directors and Financial Statements, together with the Independent Auditors Report thereon, as required by the UK Companies Act 1985.
The Annual Review 2008 of HSBC Holdings plc is published as a separate document.
The Report of the Directors on pages 12 to 314 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 315 to 328 have each been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of English law, and liability in respect thereof is also governed by English law.
In particular, the liability of the Directors for these reports is solely to HSBC Holdings.
