These entities are funded from HSBCs Audited largest banking operations and within clearly defined internal and regulatory guidelines and limits.
These Liquidity risk is the risk that HSBC does not have limits place formal restrictions on the transfer of sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations resources between HSBC entities and reflect the as they fall due, or will have to do so at an excessive broad range of currencies, markets and time zones cost.
This risk arises from mismatches in the timing within which HSBC operates.
Funding risk a form of liquidity risk arises when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset HSBCs liquidity and funding management positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms process includes: and when required.
projecting cash flows by major currency under various stress scenarios and considering the The objective of HSBCs liquidity and funding level of liquid assets necessary in relation thereto: management framework is to ensure that all foreseeable funding commitments can be met when monitoring balance sheet liquidity and advances due, and that access to the wholesale markets is to deposits ratios against internal and regulatory co-ordinated and cost-effective.
To this end, HSBC requirements: maintains a diversified funding base comprising maintaining a diverse range of funding sources core retail and corporate customer deposits and with back-up facilities: institutional balances.
This is augmented with wholesale funding and portfolios of highly liquid managing the concentration and profile of debt assets diversified by currency and maturity which maturities: are held to enable HSBC to respond quickly and managing contingent liquidity commitment smoothly to unforeseen liquidity requirements.
exposures within pre-determined caps: HSBC requires its operating entities to maintain maintaining debt financing plans: strong liquidity positions and to manage the liquidity profiles of their assets, liabilities and commitments monitoring depositor concentration in order to with the objective of ensuring that their cash flows avoid undue reliance on large individual are balanced appropriately and that all their depositors and ensure a satisfactory overall anticipated obligations can be met when due.
funding mix: and HSBC adapts its liquidity and funding risk maintaining liquidity and funding contingency management framework in response to changes in plans.
These plans identify early indicators of the mix of business that it undertakes, and to changes stress conditions and describe actions to be in the nature of the markets in which it operates.
taken in the event of difficulties arising from HSBC has continuously monitored the impact of systemic or other crises, while minimising recent market events on the Groups liquidity adverse long-term implications for the business.
positions and has changed behavioural assumptions where justified.
The impact of these recent market Primary sources of funding events is discussed more fully below.
The liquidity Audited and funding risk management framework will Current accounts and savings deposits payable on continue to evolve as the Group assimilates demand or at short notice form a significant part of knowledge from the recent market events.
HSBCs funding, and the Group places considerable importance on maintaining their stability.
For Policies and procedures deposits, stability depends upon preserving depositor Audited confidence in HSBCs capital strength and liquidity, The management of liquidity and funding is and on competitive and transparent pricing.
primarily undertaken locally in HSBCs operating HSBC also accesses professional markets entities in compliance with practices and limits set in order to provide funding for non-banking by the Risk Management Meeting RMM.
These subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to maintain a limits vary according to the depth and liquidity of presence in local money markets and to optimise the the market in which the entities operate.
It is HSBCs funding of asset maturities not naturally matched by general policy that each banking entity should be core deposit funding.
In aggregate, HSBCs banking self-sufficient when funding its own operations.
entities are liquidity providers to the interbank market, Exceptions are permitted for certain short-term placing significantly more funds with other banks treasury requirements and start-up operations or than they themselves borrow.
branches which do not have access to local deposit 235
