HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Risk management Accounting policies Nature and extent of exposures Risk management return which is referenced to those assets.
CDOs Audited may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.
As there is often The effect of the recent market turmoil on HSBCs uncertainty surrounding the nature of the underlying risk exposures, the way in which HSBC has collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by managed risk exposures in this context, and any residential mortgage-related assets, irrespective of changes made in HSBCs risk management polices the level of sub-prime assets, are classified as suband procedures in response to the market conditions prime.
are set out in the following sections: HSBCs holdings of ABSs and CDOs, and its Liquidity risk The impact of market turmoil direct lending positions, include the following on the Groups liquidity risk position see categories of collateral and lending activity: page 239. sub-prime: loans to customers who have Market risk The impact of market turmoil limited credit histories, modest incomes, high on market risk see page 242. debt-to-income ratios or have experienced credit Credit Risk Credit exposure see page 197. problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other creditAccounting policies related actions.
For US mortgages, US credit Audited scores are primarily used to determine whether a loan is sub-prime.
US home equity lines of HSBCs accounting policies regarding the credit are classified as sub-prime.
For non-US classification and valuation of financial instruments mortgages, management judgement is used to are in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 identify loans of similar risk characteristics to Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 sub-prime, for example, UK non-conforming Financial Instruments: Recognition and mortgages see below : Measurement, as described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements, and the use of assumptions and US home equity lines of credit HELoCs : a estimation in respect of valuation of financial form of revolving credit facility provided to instruments as described on page 63. customers, which is supported by a first or second lien charge over residential property.
Nature and extent of HSBCs Global Banking and Markets holdings of exposures HELoCs are classified as US sub-prime Audited residential mortgage assets: This section contains information on HSBCs US Alt-A: loans classified as Alt-A are regarded exposures to the following: as lower risk than sub-prime, but they share higher risk characteristics than lending under direct lending held at fair value through profit or normal criteria.
US credit scores, as well as the loss: level of mortgage documentation held such as ABSs including MBSs and CDOs: proof of income, are considered when determining whether an Alt-A classification is monoline insurers: appropriate.
Non-agency mortgages in the US credit derivative product companies CDPCs : are classified as Alt-A if they do not meet the and criteria for classification as sub-prime.
These are mortgages not eligible to be sold to the major leveraged finance transactions.
US Government agency, Ginnie Mae MBSs are securities that represent interests in a Government National Mortgage Association, group of mortgages.
Investors in these securities and government sponsored enterprises in the have the right to cash received from future mortgage mortgage market, Fannie Mae the Federal payments interest and or principal.
Where an MBS National Mortgage Association and Freddie references mortgages with different risk profiles, the Mac the Federal Home Loan Mortgage MBS is classified according to the highest risk class.
Corporation : Consequently, an MBS with both sub-prime and US government agency mortgage-related Alt-A exposures is classified as sub-prime.
assets: securities that are guaranteed by US CDOs are securities in which ABSs and or Government agencies, such as Ginnie Mae: certain other related assets have been purchased and US Government sponsored enterprises securitised by a third-party, or securities which pay a 150 mortgage-related assets: securities that are residential mortgage-related assets are included guaranteed by US Government sponsored in this category.
entities, including Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac: HSBCs exposure to non-residential mortgageUK non-conforming mortgage-related assets: related ABSs and direct lending includes: UK mortgages that do not meet normal lending commercial property mortgage-related criteria.
This includes instances where the assets: MBSs with collateral other than normal level of documentation has not been residential mortgage-related assets: provided for example, in the case of selfcertification of income, or where increased risk leveraged finance-related assets: securities factors, such as poor credit history, result in with collateral relating to leveraged finance lending at a rate that is higher than the normal loans: lending rate.
UK non-conforming mortgages are student loan-related assets: securities with treated as sub-prime exposures: and collateral relating to student loans: and other mortgage-related assets: residential other assets: securities with other  assets that do not meet any of related collateral.
The above table excludes leveraged finance transactions, which are shown separately on page 160.
Included in the above table are ABSs which are ABSs other than residential MBSs and held through SPEs that are consolidated by HSBC.
MBS CDOs with a carrying amount of Although HSBC includes these assets in full on its US$9.8 billion 2007: US$10.8 billion.
balance sheet, the risks arising from the assets are In the tables which follow, carrying amounts mitigated to the extent of third-party investment in and gains and losses are given for securities except notes issued by those SPEs.
For a description of those where risk is mitigated through specific credit HSBCs holdings of and arrangements with SPEs, derivatives with monolines.
The counterparty credit see page 173. risk arising from the derivative transactions The exposure detailed above includes long undertaken with monolines is covered in the positions where risk is mitigated by specific credit monoline exposure analysis on page 159. derivatives with monoline insurers monolines and US government-sponsored enterprises other financial institutions.
These positions mortgage-related assets shown in the table above comprise: include holdings of securities issued by Freddie Mac residential MBSs with a carrying amount of of US$8.0 billion 2007: US$6.8 billion and by US$0.9 billion 2007: US$2.1 billion : Fannie Mae of US$6.6 billion 2007: US$8.5 billion.
The following table shows the vintages of the for later vintages.
The majority of HSBCs holdings collateral assets supporting HSBCs holdings of US of US sub-prime MBSs are originated pre-2007: sub-prime and Alt-A MBSs.
Market prices for these holdings of US Alt-A MBSs are more evenly instruments generally incorporate higher discounts distributed between preand post-2007 vintages.
Transactions with monoline insurers were commuted and others matured.
Nevertheless, HSBCs overall credit exposure to monolines HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions increased as the fair value of the underlying entered into directly with monoline insurers securities declined, causing the value of the CDS HSBCs principal exposure to monolines is through protection purchased to increase.
The table below a number of over-the-counter OTC derivative sets out the fair value, essentially the replacement transactions, mainly credit default swaps CDSs.
cost, of the derivative transactions at 31 December HSBC entered into these CDSs primarily to purchase 2008, and hence the amount at risk if the CDS credit protection against securities held within the protection purchased were to be wholly ineffective trading portfolio.
because, for example, the monoline insurer was unable to meet its obligations.
In order to illustrate During 2008, the notional value of contracts that risk, the value of protection purchased is shown with monolines decreased as certain transactions 158 subdivided between those monolines that were rated column indicates the valuation adjustment the by S&P at BBB or above at 31 December 2008, provision taken against the net exposures, and and those that were below BBB BBB is the S&P reflects the assessed loss of value on purchased cut-off for an investment grade classification.
As protection arising from the deterioration in certain monolines were downgraded during 2008, creditworthiness of the monolines.
These valuation exposure to monolines rated below BBB at adjustments, which reflect a measure of the 31 December 2008 increased from the position as at irrecoverability of the protection purchased, have 31 December 2007.
The Credit risk adjustment been charged to the income statement.
HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers Net exposure Net exposure Notional before credit Credit risk after credit 12 13 amount risk adjustment adjustment risk adjustment US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2008 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline BBB or above 9,627 2,829 740 2,089 Monoline below BBB.... 2,731 1,104 752 352 12,358 3,933 1,492 2,441 At 31 December 2007 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties Monoline BBB or above 14,314 1,342 133 1,209 Monoline below BBB.... 1,120 214 214 15,434 1,556 347 1,209 For footnotes, see page 162.
The above table can be analysed as follows.
HSBCs exposure to debt securities which HSBC has derivative transactions referenced to benefit from guarantees provided by underlying securities with a nominal value of monoline insurers US$12.4 billion, whose value at 31 December 2008 Within both the trading and available-for-sale indicated a potential claim against the protection portfolios, HSBC holds bonds that are wrapped purchased from the monolines of some with a credit enhancement from a monoline insurer.
On the basis of a credit assessment As the bonds are traded explicitly with the benefit of of the standing of the monolines, a provision of this enhancement, any deterioration in the credit US$1.5 billion has been taken, leaving profile of the monoline insurer is reflected in market US$2.4 billion exposed, of which US$2.1 billion is prices and, therefore, in the carrying amount of these recoverable from monolines rated investment grade securities on HSBCs balance sheet at 31 December at 31 December 2008.
The provisions taken imply in 2008.
For wrapped bonds held in the trading aggregate that 74 cents in the dollar will be portfolio, the mark-to-market movement has been recoverable from investment grade monolines and reflected through the income statement.
For wrapped 32 cents in the dollar from non-investment grade bonds held in the available-for-sale portfolio, the monolines.
mark-to-market movement is reflected in equity unless there is objective evidence of impairment, in HSBCs exposure to direct lending and which case the impairment loss is reflected in the irrevocable commitments to lend to income statement.
No wrapped bonds were included monoline insurers in the reclassification of financial assets described on HSBC has outstanding liquidity facilities totalling page 145.
US$47 million to monoline insurers, of which US$2 million was drawn at 31 December 2008 2007: US$158 million, none drawn.
159 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Nature and extent of exposures Monolines Leveraged finance HSBCs exposure to Credit Derivative Leveraged finance transactions Product Companies Leveraged finance transactions include subCDPCs are independent companies that specialise in investment grade acquisition or event-driven selling credit default protection on corporate financing.
During the second half of 2008, HSBC exposures.
As corporate credit spreads widened reclassified US$6.5 billion of leveraged finance during the second half of 2008, increasing the loans from the held-for-trading category to loans and potential value of claims against the CDPCs, the receivables as detailed on page 146 as its intention creditworthiness of CDPCs became a focus.
At now is to hold these assets for the foreseeable future 31 December 2008, HSBC had purchased credit or until maturity.
Impairment on these reclassified protection from CDPCs with a notional value of assets is now recognised on an incurred loss basis.
US$6.4 billion 2007: US$5.7 billion which had a The following tables show HSBCs gross fair value essentially, replacement cost of commitments and exposure to leveraged finance US$1.2 billion 2007: US$218 million, against transactions arising from primary transactions and which a credit risk adjustment a provision of the movement in that leveraged finance exposure in US$228 million 2007: nil was held.
HSBCs additional exposure to leveraged value exposures at 31 December 2008 and 2007 finance loans through holdings of ABSs from its represented exposure to CDPCs with investment trading and investment activities is shown in the grade ratings.
The fall in unfunded exposures during 2008 markets developed in the second half of 2007 and primarily relates to the depreciation in sterling continued throughout 2008.
Consequently, income against the US dollar.
statement write-downs on leveraged finance transactions are presented for the three half-year As described in the background to market periods affected to date.
turmoil on page 144, the dislocation of financial Half-year to 31 December 30 June 31 December 2008 2008 2007 US$m US$m US$m Write-downs taken to income statement 278 195 Impairment of leveraged finance loans taken to the income statement.......... 26 For footnotes, see page 162.
As a result of the reclassification of certain US$3.6 billion to data processing 2007: leveraged finance loans from held-for-trading to US$3.8 billion and US$1.7 billion to loans and receivables, write-downs of US$1.2 billion communications and infrastructure 2007: were not taken to the income statement for the half US$2.7 billion.
During the year, 99 per cent year to 31 December 2008. of the total write-downs were against exposures in these two sectors.
At 31 December 2008, HSBCs principal exposures were to companies in two sectors: 161
