HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Liquidity and funding HSBC Holdings Market risk Sensitivity VAR HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash Audited flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level, and expects HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are interest to continue doing so in the future.
The ability of its and capital receipts from its subsidiaries, which it subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to deploys in short-term bank deposits.
HSBC HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, Holdings primary uses of cash are investments in their respective regulatory capital requirements, subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and statutory reserves, and financial and operating dividend payments to shareholders.
The wide range of HSBCs activities basis, HSBC Holdings replenishes its liquid means that HSBC Holdings is not dependent on a resources through the receipt of interest on, and single source of profits to fund its dividend payments repayment of, intra-group loans, from dividends paid to shareholders.
HSBC Holdings believes that, with by subsidiaries and from interest earned on its own its accumulated liquid assets, planned dividends and liquid funds.
interest from subsidiaries it will be able to meet HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent anticipated cash obligations.
Also, during 2008 liquidity risk by virtue of loan commitments and HSBC Holdings continued to have full access to guarantees given.
Such commitments are only capital markets at market rates and issued provided after due consideration of HSBC Holdings US$8.8 billion of capital instruments 2007: ability to finance these commitments and the US$4.4 billion.
likelihood of the need arising.
The undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to undiscounted cash flows on hedging derivative principal and all future coupon payments except for liabilities are classified according to their contractual trading derivatives.
Also, loan commitments are generally not recognised on the balance sheet.
