HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Overall principles Page executive remuneration issues during the year.
Remuneration policy unaudited Towers Perrin has been appointed by the Committee to provide remuneration data.
As global firms, these Remuneration Committee 315 firms also provided other consulting services to Overall principles............. 315 various parts of HSBC.
Other consultants are used Application to executive Directors................ 316 from time to time to advise on specific issues.
HSBC performance and market context........ 316 During the year the Group Chief Executive provided Executive Director remuneration.................. 317 regular briefings to the Committee.
This Service contracts 322 strategy provided a framework for the Remuneration Other directorships 323 Committee in carrying out its responsibilities during Non-executive Directors 323 the year and includes the following key elements: Fees................... 323 An assessment of reward with reference to clear Remuneration review audited and relevant objectives set within a balanced Directors emoluments... 324 scorecard framework.
Under Share plans 326 this framework, objectives are set under four categories Financial, Process including risk Remuneration Committee mitigation, Customer and People.
Whilst the achievement of financial objectives is very The Remuneration Committee meets regularly to important, the other objectives relating to consider human resource issues, particularly terms efficiency and risk mitigation, customer and conditions of employment, remuneration and development and the productivity of the Groups retirement benefits.
Within the authority delegated human capital are also key to financial by the Board, the Committee is responsible for performance and the development and approving the remuneration policy of HSBC sustainability of the Group over the short and including the terms of bonus plans, share plans and medium term: other long-term incentive plans and for agreeing the A focus on total compensation salary, bonus individual remuneration packages of executive and the value of long term incentives with Directors and other senior Group employees taking variable pay namely bonus and the value of into account the pay and conditions across the long term incentives differentiated by Group.
No Directors are involved in deciding their performance: own remuneration.
The use of considered discretion to assess the Following each meeting the Committee reports extent to which performance has been achieved to the Board on its activities.
The terms of reference rather than applying a formulaic approach of the Committee are available at which, by its nature, may encourage www.
inappropriate risk taking and cannot cover all The members of the Remuneration Committee scenarios: throughout 2008 were Sir Mark Moody-Stuart A significant proportion of variable pay being Chairman, J D Coombe and G Morgan.
At the deferred into HSBC Holdings Restricted Shares conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on to tie recipients to the future performance of the 30 May 2008 W S H Laidlaw became a member of Group and to retain key talent: and the Committee.
A total remuneration package salary, bonus, There were seven meetings of the Remuneration long-term incentive awards and other benefits Committee during 2008.
The table on page 291 gives which is competitive in relation to comparable details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
organisations in each of the markets in which The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP and HSBC operates.
Mercer Limited to provide independent advice on 315
