Share capital and reserves Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that proves the title of Authorised share capital the transferor.
The authorised share capital of HSBC Holdings at If a shareholder or any person appearing to be 31 December 2008 was US$7,500,100,000 divided interested in the Companys shares has been sent a into 15,000 million ordinary shares of US$0.50 each notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of which confers upon public companies the power to US$0.01 each: 401,500 divided into 10 million require information from any person whom the non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each and Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe 301,500 non-voting deferred shares of 1 each: and to be interested in the shares and has failed in 100,000 divided into 10 million non-cumulative relation to any shares the default shares to supply preference shares of 0.01 each.
the information requested within the period set out in The percentage of the total authorised share the notice, then the member is not entitled to be capital of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2008 present at or to vote the default shares at any general represented by the numbers of ordinary shares of meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares being a shareholder.
If the default shares represent at of 0.01 each, non-cumulative preference shares of least 0.25 per cent in nominal value of the issued US$0.01 each, non-cumulative preference shares shares of that class any dividend shall be withheld by of 0.01 each and non-voting deferred shares of the Company, without interest and no election for 1 each was approximately 99.9890, 0.0019, the scrip dividend alternative may be made.
transfer of any shares held by the member will be registered, except in limited circumstances.
Issued share capital Ordinary shares The issued share capital of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2008 was US$6,052,647,041 million Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles divided into 12,105,265,082 ordinary shares of of Association of HSBC Holdings, in a general US$0.50 each and 1,450,000 non-cumulative meeting of HSBC Holdings, every holder of ordinary preference shares of US$0.01 each: and 301,500 shares who is present in person or by proxy shall on comprising 301,500 non-voting deferred shares of a show of hands have one vote and every holder of 1 each.
ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall on a poll have one vote for every share he or she The percentage of the total issued share capital holds.
Where any shareholder is, under the rules of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2008 represented governing the listing of securities on any stock by the ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, nonexchange on which all or any shares of HSBC cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each Holdings are for the time being listed or traded, and non-voting deferred shares of 1 each was required to abstain from voting on any particular approximately 99.9925, 0.0002, and 0.0073 per resolution or restricted to voting only for or only cent respectively.
against any particular resolution, any votes cast by or on behalf of such holder in contravention of such Rights and obligations attaching to shares requirement or restriction will not be counted.
The rights and obligations attaching to each class of Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the share in the authorised share capital of HSBC Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, HSBC Holdings are set out in the Articles of Association of Holdings may, by ordinary resolution, declare HSBC Holdings.
Set out below is a summary of the dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary rights and obligations attaching to each class of shares, however, no dividend shall exceed the shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may in the case of the preference shares, redemption.
pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be To be registered, a transfer of shares must be in justified by the profits of HSBC Holdings available relation to a share which is fully paid up and on for distribution.
All dividends shall be apportioned which the Company has no lien and to one class of and paid proportionately to the percentage of the shares denominated in the same currency.
The nominal amount paid up on the shares during any transfer must be in favour of a single transferee or no portion or portions of the period in respect of which more than four joint transferees and it must be duly the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on stamped if required.
The transfer must be delivered terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as to the registered office of the Company or to its from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend 53 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Operating and Financial Review continued Financial summary Balance sheet Share capital and reserves accordingly.
Subject to the Articles of Association of terms, as the Board may determine prior to allotment HSBC Holdings, the Board may, with the prior of the relevant preference shares.
Whenever holders authority of an ordinary resolution of HSBC of the relevant preference shares are entitled to vote Holdings and subject to such terms and conditions as on a resolution at a general meeting, on a show of the Board may determine, offer to any holders of hands every such holder who is present in person or ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every shares of the same or a different currency, credited such holder who is present in person or by proxy as fully paid, instead of cash in any currency in shall have one vote per preference share held by him respect of the whole or some part, to be determined or her or such number of votes per share as the by the Board of any dividend specified by the Board shall determine prior to allotment of such ordinary resolution.
At the 2007 Annual General share.
Meeting shareholders gave authority to the Directors Subject to the Articles of Association, holders of to offer a scrip dividend alternative until the the relevant preference shares shall have the right to conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2012. a non-cumulative preferential dividend at such rate, Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the on such dates and on such other terms and conditions Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, if HSBC as may be determined by the Board prior to Holdings is wound up, the assets available for allotment thereof in priority to the payment of any distribution among the holders of ordinary shares dividend to the holders of ordinary shares and any will be distributed among such holders in proportion other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue to the number of ordinary shares held by them other than i the other preference shares in issue respectively, such distribution to be adjusted to take and any other shares expressed to rank pari passu account of any amount remaining unpaid on a therewith as regards income: and ii any shares holders share.
On a winding up, the liquidator may, which by their terms rank in priority to the relevant with the sanction of a special resolution of HSBC preference shares as regards income.
Dividends on Holdings and any other sanction required by law, the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 2 March divide among the shareholders in specie the whole or 2009 are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute any part of the assets of HSBC Holdings and may, discretion of the Board of Directors.
The Board of for that purpose, value any assets and determine how Directors will not declare a dividend on the Dollar the division shall be carried out as between the Preference Shares if payment of the dividend would shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the Preference shares profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings The non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each, to pay in full both dividends on the relevant the non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 preference shares and dividends on any other shares each the Dollar Preference Shares and the nonthat are scheduled to be paid on the same date and cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each carry the that have an equal right to dividends.
HSBC same rights and obligations under the Articles of Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any Association save in respect of the timing of and class of its shares ranking lower in the right to payment of proceeds from the redemption of each dividends than the preference shares nor redeem nor class of share, to the extent issued, and certain rights purchase in any manner any of its other shares and obligations that attach to each class of ranking equal with or lower than the preference preference share as determined by the Board prior to shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an allotment of the relevant preference shares.
The amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends Dollar Preference Shares are the only class of the on the preference shares for the then-current preference shares which have been issued and dividend period.
The preference shares carry no rights to Holders of the preference shares will only be participate in the profits or assets of HSBC Holdings entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of other than as set out in the Articles of Association HSBC Holdings if any dividend payable on the and subject to the Companies Act 1985, do not relevant preference shares in respect of such period confer any right to participate in any offer or as the Board shall determine prior to allotment invitation by way of rights or otherwise to subscribe thereof which, in the case of the Dollar Preference for additional shares in HSBC Holdings, do no not Shares in issue at 2 March 2009, is four consecutive confer any right of conversion and do not confer any dividend payment dates is not paid in full or in such right to participate in any issue or bonus shares or other circumstances, and upon and subject to such 54 shares issued by way of capitalisation of reserves.
new shares was US$16.821, being the US dollar equivalent of 8.132.
Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, holders 2.
136,165,605 ordinary shares were issued at par of the relevant preference shares have the right in a in May 2008 to shareholders who elected to winding up of HSBC Holdings to receive out of the receive new shares in lieu of the fourth interim assets of HSBC Holdings available for distribution dividend for 2007.
The market value per share to its shareholders, in priority to any payment to the used to calculate shareholders entitlements to holders of the ordinary shares and any other class of new shares was US$16.4022, being the US shares of HSBC Holdings in issue other than i the dollar equivalent of 8.132. other relevant preference shares and any other shares 3.
15,191,514 ordinary shares were issued at par in expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards July 2008 to shareholders who elected to receive repayment of capital: and ii any shares which by new shares in lieu of the first interim dividend their terms rank in priority to the relevant preference for 2008.
The market value per share used to shares as regards repayment of capital, a sum equal calculate shareholders entitlements to new to any unpaid dividend on the relevant preference shares was US$16.8421, being the US dollar shares which is payable as a dividend in accordance equivalent of 8.519. with or pursuant to the Articles of Association and the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the 4.
47,687,930 ordinary shares were issued at par in relevant preference shares together with such October 2008 to shareholders who elected to premium if any as may be determined by the receive new shares in lieu of the second interim Board prior to allotment thereof.
The market value per share used to calculate shareholders entitlements to HSBC Holdings may redeem the relevant new shares was US$15.2466, being the preference shares in accordance with the Articles of US dollar equivalent of 8.266.
Association and the terms on which the relevant preference shares were issued and allotted.
In the All-Employee share plans case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 2 March 2009, HSBC Holdings may redeem such 5.
In connection with the exercise of options under shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option 2010, subject to prior notification to the FSA.
plans: 27,491,176 ordinary shares were issued at prices ranging from 5.3496 to 7.6736 per Non-voting deferred shares share: 1,782,367 ordinary shares were issued at prices ranging from HK$103.4401 to The non-voting deferred shares are held by a HK$108.4483 per share: 805,885 ordinary subsidiary undertaking of HSBC Holdings.
Holders shares were issued at prices ranging from of the non-voting deferred shares are not entitled to US$13.3290 to US$14.7478 per share: and receive dividends on these shares.
In addition, on 46,698 ordinary shares were issued at 10.4217 winding up or other return of capital, holders are per share.
Options over 18,163,336 ordinary entitled to receive the amount paid up on their shares lapsed.
shares after distribution to ordinary shareholders of 10 million in respect of each ordinary share held 6.
2,667,632 ordinary shares were issued at by them.
The holders of the non-voting deferred 8.3124 per share in connection with a Plan shares are not entitled to receive notice of or to dEpargne Entreprise for the benefit of non-UK attend either personally or by proxy any general resident employees of HSBC France and its meeting of HSBC Holdings or to vote either subsidiaries.
personally or by proxy on any resolution to be 7.
Options over 32,951,305 ordinary shares were proposed thereat.
granted at nil consideration on 30 April 2008 to The following events occurred during the year nearly 70,000 HSBC employees resident in in relation to the share capital of HSBC Holdings: nearly 70 countries and territories under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option Scrip dividends plans.
36,524,050 ordinary shares were issued at par in Discretionary share incentive plans January 2008 to shareholders who elected to receive new shares in lieu of the third interim 8.
4,050,585 ordinary shares were issued at prices dividend for 2007.
The market value per share ranging from 6.2767 to 7.460 per share in used to calculate shareholders entitlements to connection with the exercise of options under 55
