For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims.
For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
2008 compared with 2007 A significant increase in the reinsurers share of claims incurred and movement in liabilities to Reported net insurance claims incurred and policyholders was primarily driven by the above movement in liabilities to policyholders decreased regulatory change plus an increase in a reserve by 20 per cent to US$6.9 billion.
HSBC acquired the provision on a unit-linked product in Hong Kong, remaining interest in HSBC Assurances in France in which was fully reinsured.
In addition, a significant March 2007 and, in October 2007, sold the Hamilton one-off reinsurance transaction was undertaken in Insurance Company Limited and Hamilton Life France during 2008.
Assurance Company Limited in the UK.
On an underlying basis, net insurance claims incurred and 2007 compared with 2006 movement in liabilities to policyholders fell by 22 per cent.
Reported net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders of The reduction in net insurance claims incurred US$8.6 billion were 83 per cent higher than in 2006 and movement in liabilities to policyholders following the acquisition of the remaining shares in primarily reflected the impact of markedly weaker HSBC Assurances in France in March 2007 and investment markets worldwide.
This led to a HSBC Bank Panama in late 2006.
The increase was reduction in liabilities to policyholders on unit- 32 per cent on an underlying basis.
linked and, to a certain extent, participating policies where policyholders participate in the investment Growth in net insurance claims incurred and performance of the assets supporting the liabilities.
movement in liabilities to policyholders was largely As noted above, the losses experienced on the assets driven by the life insurance business.
This reflected a held to support insurance contract liabilities are combination of business growth, and was in line reported in Net income from financial instruments with higher net earned insurance premiums and, designated at fair value.
where policyholders participate in the investment performance of the assets supporting the liabilities, The decline arising from market value higher investment returns on unit-linked and movements was partially offset by an increase in participating policies.
This was most notable in claims incurred and movement in liabilities to Hong Kong, the UK and Brazil.
There was an policyholders driven by new business growth, most offsetting increase in Net income from financial significantly in France, the UK and Hong Kong.
In instruments designated at fair value which reflected addition, 2007 was affected by the implementation these investment returns.
In addition, FSA rule of an FSA regulatory change, which led to lower changes in the UK led to a lower valuation of the gross liability valuations in that year, along with a liabilities to policyholders on life policies.
reduction in the corresponding reinsurers share.
