corporate loan portfolio and so enhance capital and from behavioural assumptions regarding the efficiency.
The mark-to-market of these transactions economic duration of liabilities which are is taken through the income statement.
contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts.
The prospective change in future net At 31 December 2008, the credit spread VAR interest income from non-trading portfolios will be on the credit derivatives transactions entered into reflected in the current realisable value of these by Global Banking was US$23.0 million 2007: positions, should they be sold or closed prior to US$19.7 million.
The VAR shows the effect on maturity.
In order to manage this risk optimally, trading income from a one-day movement in credit market risk in non-trading portfolios is transferred to spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a Global Markets or to separate books managed under 99 per cent confidence level.
the supervision of the local ALCO.
Gap risk The transfer of market risk to books managed by Global Markets or supervised by ALCO is usually Certain transactions are structured such that the risk achieved by a series of internal deals between the to HSBC is negligible under a wide range of market business units and these books.
When the conditions or events, but in which there exists a behavioural characteristics of a product differ from remote probability that a significant gap event could its contractual characteristics, the behavioural lead to loss.
A gap event could be seen as a change in characteristics are assessed to determine the true market price from one level to another with no underlying interest rate risk.
Local ALCOs are trading opportunity in between, and where the price required to regularly monitor all such behavioural change breaches the threshold beyond which the risk assumptions and interest rate risk positions to ensure profile changes from having no open risk to having they comply with interest rate risk limits established full exposure to the underlying structure.
movements may occur, for example, when there are adverse news announcements and the market for a In certain cases, the non-linear characteristics of specific investment becomes illiquid, making products cannot be adequately captured by the risk hedging impossible.
For example, both the flow from customer deposit accounts to alternative investment Given the characteristics of these transactions, products and the precise prepayment speeds of they will make little or no contribution to VAR or to mortgages will vary at different interest rate levels, traditional market risk sensitivity measures.
HSBC and where expectations about future moves in captures the risks for such transactions within its interest rates change.
In such circumstances, stress testing scenarios.
Gap risk arising is monitored simulation modelling is used to identify the impact on an ongoing basis, and HSBC incurred no gap of varying scenarios on valuations and net interest losses arising from movements in the underlying income.
market price on such transactions in 2008.
Once market risk has been consolidated in ABSs MBSs positions Global Markets or ALCO-managed books, the net exposure is typically managed through the use of The ABSs MBSs exposures within the trading interest rate swaps within agreed limits.
The VAR for portfolios are managed within sensitivity and VAR these portfolios is included within the Group VAR limits, as described on page 241, and are included see Value at risk of the trading and non-trading within the stress testing scenarios as described on portfolios above.
page 242. Credit spread risk Non-trading portfolios Audited At 31 December 2008, the sensitivity of equity to the effect of movements in credit spreads on the The principal objective of market risk management Groups available-for-sale debt securities was of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest US$1,092 million 2007: US$206 million.
sensitivity was calculated on the same basis as Interest rate risk in non-trading portfolios arises applied to the trading portfolio.
Including the gross principally from mismatches between the future exposure for the SICs consolidated within HSBCs yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result balance sheet at 31 December 2008, the sensitivity of interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is increased to US$1,145 million.
This sensitivity is complicated by having to make assumptions on struck, however, before taking account of any losses embedded optionality within certain product areas which would be absorbed by the capital note holders.
such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, 245
