Market risk captured by the transfer process, simulation Audited modelling is used to identify the impact of varying scenarios on valuations and net interest income.
The objective of HSBCs market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures in order HSBC uses a range of tools to monitor and limit to optimise return on risk while maintaining a market market risk exposures.
These include sensitivity profile consistent with the Groups status as one of analysis, value at risk VAR and stress testing.
the worlds largest banking and financial services organisations.
Sensitivity analysis Market risk is the risk that movements in market Sensitivity measures are used to monitor the market risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and risk positions within each risk type, for example, commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and present value of a basis point movement in interest equity prices will reduce HSBCs income or the rates, for interest rate risk.
Sensitivity limits are set value of its portfolios.
for portfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the market being one of the principal factors in HSBC separates exposures to market risk into determining the level of limits set.
Trading portfolios include those positions arising from market-making, Value at risk proprietary position-taking and other marked-toAudited market positions so designated.
VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses Non-trading portfolios include positions that that could occur on risk positions as a result of arise from the interest rate management of HSBCs movements in market rates and prices over a retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, specified time horizon and to a given level of financial investments designated as available for sale confidence.
and held to maturity, and exposures arising from The VAR models used by HSBC are based HSBCs insurance operations.
These Market risk arising in HSBCs insurance models derive plausible future scenarios from past businesses is discussed in Risk management of series of recorded market rates and prices, taking insurance operations on pages 255 to 274. account of inter-relationships between different markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign The management of market risk is principally exchange rates.
The models also incorporate the undertaken in Global Markets using risk limits effect of option features on the underlying approved by the GMB.
Limits are set for portfolios, exposures.
products and risk types, with market liquidity being a principal factor in determining the level of limits The historical simulation models used by HSBC set.
Traded Credit and Market Risk, an independent incorporate the following features: unit within Group Management Office, develops the potential market movements are calculated with Groups market risk management policies and reference to data from the past two years: measurement techniques.
Each major operating entity has an independent market risk management historical market rates and prices are calculated and control function which is responsible for with reference to foreign exchange rates and measuring market risk exposures in accordance with commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices the policies defined by Traded Credit and Market and the associated volatilities: and Risk, and monitoring and reporting these exposures VAR is calculated to a 99 per cent confidence against the prescribed limits on a daily basis.
level and for a one-day holding period.
Each operating entity is required to assess the HSBC routinely validates the accuracy of its market risks which arise on each product in its VAR models by back-testing the actual daily profit business and to transfer these risks to either its local and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled Global Markets unit for management, or to separate items such as fees and commissions, against the books managed under the supervision of the local corresponding VAR numbers.
Statistically, HSBC Asset and Liability Management Committee would expect to see losses in excess of VAR only ALCO.
The aim is to ensure that all market risks 1 per cent of the time over a one-year period.
The are consolidated within operations which have the actual number of excesses over this period can necessary skills, tools, management and governance therefore be used to gauge how well the models are to manage such risks professionally.
where the market risks cannot be adequately 241
