During February 2009, the credit ratings on a the purchase of US mortgage loans with the proportion of ABSs held directly by HSBC, Solitaire intention of structuring and placing and the SICs were downgraded.
In particular, securitisations into the market: Moodys Investor Services downgraded the ratings trading in ABSs, including MBSs, in secondary on substantially all the Groups holdings of US Alt-A markets: residential MBSs issued during 2006 and 2007. the holding of MBSs and other ABSs in balance As discussed on page 170, when assessing sheet management activities, with the intention available-for-sale ABSs for objective evidence of of earning net interest income over the life of impairment at the balance sheet date HSBC the securities: considers all available evidence including the performance of the underlying collateral.
A the holding of MBSs and other ABSs as part of downgrade of a securitys credit rating is not, of investment portfolios, including the SIVs, SICs itself, evidence of impairment.
Consequently, and money market funds described under Moodys action has no direct impact on the Special purpose entities below, with the measurement of impairment losses.
The impairment intention of earning net interest income and losses recognised on these securities at 31 December management fees: 2008 is set out on page 148.
MBSs or other ABSs held in the trading portfolio hedged through credit derivative Stress analysis protection, typically purchased from monoline Unaudited insurers, with the intention of earning the spread HSBCs regular impairment assessment uses an differential over the life of the instruments: and industry standard model with inputs which are leveraged finance: originating loans for the corroborated using observable market data where purposes of syndicating or selling them down in available.
At 31 December 2008, management order to generate a trading profit and holding performed a stress test on the available-for-sale ABS them in order to earn interest margin over their positions, based on the fair value of the positions at lives.
The outcome of the stress test was particularly sensitive to expected loss and Historically, these activities have not been a prepayment rates for Alt-A securities and the loss of significant part of Global Banking and Markets credit protection from certain monoline insurers on business, and Global Banking and Markets is not US Home Equity Lines of Credit HELoCs.
The reliant on them for any material aspect of its results of the stress test showed that, by applying business operations or profitability.
different inputs to those currently observed, a further The purchase and securitisation of US mortgage potential impairment charge to the income statement loans and the secondary trading of US MBSs was of some US$2 billion to US$2.5 billion could arise conducted in HSBCs US MBSs business.
This over the next three years.
These different inputs were business was discontinued in 2007. calculated by increasing the net impact of expected loss and prepayment rates for Alt-A securities by Special purpose entities between a third and a half depending on loan vintage and by removing all credit protection from monoline HSBC enters into certain transactions with insurers rated below AAA by S&P on the HELoC customers in the ordinary course of business which positions.
However, management believes that the involve the establishment of SPEs to facilitate loss which would be realised in cash terms would be customer transactions.
SPEs are used in HSBCs considerably lower than the impairment charge business in order to provide structured investment above and potentially cost some US$0.6 billion to opportunities for customers, facilitate the raising US$0.8 billion over the next four years.
of funding for customers business activities, or diversify HSBCs sources of funding and or Business model improve capital efficiency.
Audited The use of SPEs is not a significant part of Asset-backed securities and leveraged HSBCs activities and HSBC is not reliant on the finance use of SPEs for any material part of its business operations or profitability.
Detailed disclosures of HSBC is or has been involved in the following HSBCs sponsored SPEs are provided on page 173. activities in these areas: 149
