However, this cost is reinstated in Net trading income in HSBCs customer group and global business reporting.
2 Net trading income includes US$529 million 2007: US$34 million, associated with changes in the fair value of issued structured notes and other hybrid instrument liabilities derived from movements in HSBC issuance spreads.
2008 compared with 2007 The decline in non-qualifying hedges related to mark-to-market losses on cross-currency swaps as Reported net trading income fell by 33 per cent the US dollar appreciated and on interest rate swaps to US$6.6 billion, 32 per cent lower on an as interest rates fell in late 2008. underlying basis.
Widening credit spreads led to further gains on Net income from trading activities declined by credit default swap transactions in parts of the 81 per cent, driven by the continuing effect of the Global Banking portfolio.
market turmoil which led to US$5.4 billion of writedowns on legacy monoline credit exposures, credit 2007 compared with 2006 trading and leveraged and acquisition finance loans.
More information about the losses, the associated Reported net trading income increased by 20 per cent assets and residual exposure is provided in Impact to US$9.8 billion, 13 per cent on an underlying basis.
of Market Turmoil on pages 144 to 162.
Net interest income on trading activities more Record foreign exchange trading income was than doubled, mainly due to increased holdings of due to increased customer volumes and market shorter maturity assets in the UK.
volatility across all regions, as investors sought to Net trading income was significantly affected by reduce risk in the second half of 2008, driving a total of US$2.1 billion of write-downs on credit growth in global foreign exchange trading as trading, leveraged and acquisition financing demand for assets denominated in US dollars positions, and monoline credit exposures, resulting and Japanese Yen increased.
from deterioration in the credit market in the second Rates trading income rose substantially, with half of 2007.
The write-downs arose mainly in the record revenues in the first half of 2008 due to US and, to a lesser extent, the UK.
favourable positioning against movements in interest Income from foreign exchange trading increased rate yield curves as central banks responded to the by 40 per cent to a record result.
Revenues were market turmoil by lowering short-term interest rates.
driven by higher customer volumes, against the Revenues were also boosted by an increased number backdrop of a weakening US dollar and greater of deals, widening spreads and increased customer market volatility.
demand for trading and hedging products.
Trading income from structured derivatives fell The decline in equities trading income reflected by 26 per cent.
The structured credit business weaker equity markets, particularly in Hong Kong, incurred losses in the second half of the year in the where demand for structured equity products fell.
This was partly offset addition, following the alleged fraud at Madoff by higher trading income from other structured Securities, HSBC wrote off the value of units it held derivative products, following investment made in in funds that had invested with the company and technical expertise and systems in previous years.
The units had been acquired in connection with various financing Record results were achieved in the equities transactions HSBC had entered into with business, reflecting strong growth across all regions, institutional clients.
