synergies between it and other risk functions, such as with Global Retail Risk Management in the The GMO legal department oversees the global selection, design and implementation of systems legal function and is headed by a Group General and processes to protect the Group against fraud by Manager who reports to the Group Chairman.
There deterring fraudulent activity, detecting it where it are legal departments in 54 of the countries in which does occur and mitigating its effects.
There are also regional legal functions in each of Europe, North America, Latin Pension risk America, the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific.
Unaudited Operating companies must notify the HSBC operates a number of pension plans appropriate legal department immediately any throughout the world, as described in Note 8 on the litigation is either threatened or commenced against Financial Statements.
Some of these pension plans HSBC or an employee.
The appropriate regional are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the legal department must be immediately advised and HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme.
must in turn immediately advise the GMO legal department of any action by a regulatory authority, In order to fund these benefits, sponsoring group where the proceedings are criminal, or where the companies and in some instances, employees make claim might materially affect the Groups reputation.
regular contributions in accordance with advice from Further, any claims which exceed US$1.5 million or actuaries and in consultation with the schemes equivalent must also be advised to the appropriate Trustees where relevant.
The defined benefit plans regional legal department and the regional legal invest these contributions in a range of investments department must immediately advise the GMO legal designed to meet their long-term liabilities.
department if any such claim exceeds US$5 million.
The level of these contributions has a direct All such matters are then reported to the Risk impact on the cash flow of the Group and would Management Meeting of the Group Management normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient Board in a monthly paper.
funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the An exception report must be made to the local future service of active members.
However, higher compliance function and escalated to the Head of contributions will be required when plan assets are Group Compliance in respect of any breach which considered insufficient to cover the existing pension has given rise to a fine and or costs levied by a court liabilities as a deficit exists.
Contribution rates are of law or regulatory body where the amount is typically revised annually or triennially, depending US$1,500 or more, and material or significant issues on the plan.
The agreed contributions to the HSBC are reported to the Risk Management Meeting of Bank UK Pension Scheme are revised triennially.
GMB and or the Group Audit Committee.
A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise In addition, operating companies are required to from a number of factors, including: submit quarterly returns detailing outstanding claims investments delivering a return below that where the claim or group of similar claims exceeds required to provide the projected plan benefits.
US$10 million, where the action is by a regulatory This could arise, for example, when there is a authority, where the proceedings are criminal, where fall in the market value of equities, or when the claim might materially affect the Groups increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall reputation, or, where the GMO legal department has in the value of fixed income securities held: requested returns be completed for a particular claim.
These returns are used for reporting to the the prevailing economic environment leading to Group Audit Committee and the Board of HSBC corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs Holdings, and disclosure in the Interim Report and in asset both equity and debt values: Annual Report and Accounts, if appropriate.
a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the Global security and fraud risk scheme liabilities: and Unaudited scheme members living longer than expected Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group known as longevity risk.
level by Global Security and Fraud Risk.
This unit, which has responsibility for physical, fraud, The plans investment strategy is determined information and contingency risk, and security and in the light of the market risk inherent in the business intelligence, is fully integrated within the investments and the consequential impact on central GMO Risk function.
This facilitates potential future contributions.
