In the interests of clarity, this has been set out in date.
In determining whether HSBC Holdings has graphical form in the chart below.
achieved a sustained improvement in performance the Remuneration Committee will take account of all 100% relevant factors but in particular comparisons against 90% 80% the comparator group in areas such as revenue 70% growth and mix, cost efficiency, credit performance, 60% 50% cash return on cash invested, dividend performance 40% and TSR.
30% 20% If events occur which cause the Remuneration 10% Committee to consider that a performance condition 0% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 24% 52% has become unfair or impractical in either direction, Total Incremental EPS Delivered the right is reserved to the Remuneration Committee, if it considers it appropriate to do so, to amend, relax For the EPS element of the award, the base or waive the condition.
measure shall be EPS for the financial year preceding that in which the award is made the base Awards will vest in full immediately in cases of year.
Absolute growth in EPS will then be death.
In the event of redundancy, retirement on compared with the base year over three consecutive grounds of injury or ill health, early retirement by financial years commencing with the year in which agreement, normal retirement and where a the award is made.
Incremental EPS will be participant ceases to be employed by HSBC due to a calculated by expressing as a percentage of the EPS company ceasing to be part of HSBC, awards will of the base year the difference each year of the threenormally vest at the end of the vesting period on a year performance period between the EPS of that time-apportioned basis to the extent that the year and the EPS of the base year.
These percentages performance conditions have been satisfied.
In the will then be aggregated to arrive at the total event of a change of control, awards will normally incremental EPS for the performance period.
As vest immediately and on a time-apportioned basis to illustrated in the table below, an incremental EPS of the extent that the performance conditions have been 51 per cent over three years would equate to a satisfied.
Awards will normally be forfeited if the compound annual growth rate of 8 per cent.
participant is dismissed for cause or resigns from HSBC.
In all circumstances the Committee retains Illustration of incremental EPS of 51 per cent over discretion to ensure fair and reasonable treatment.
Arrangements from 2002 to 2004 Percentage difference between: Total incremental Between 2002 and 2004, awards of Performance Year 1 EPS Year 2 EPS Year 3 EPS EPS for the Shares were made under the HSBC Holdings and Base Year and Base Year and Base year performance EPS EPS EPS period Restricted Share Plan 2000.
Vesting was based on HSBCs relative TSR performance over a 8% 17% 26% 51% three-year period from the date of the award, If EPS in any of the Years 1, 2 or 3 is below the with full vesting of awards and transfer of shares base year, then the percentage difference between to participants being no earlier than the fifth that particular year and the base year is negative.
anniversary of the date of award.
For this purpose, EPS means the profit Only one set of awards the 2003 award was attributable to the Shareholders expressed in US outstanding at the start of 2008.
At the second and dollars, excluding goodwill amortisation, divided by final re-test of this award the performance targets the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in were not met and therefore the award lapsed.
issue and held outside the Group during the year in question.
In the event that the published EPS for the Funding base year is restated during the performance period The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share plans to adjust for changes in accounting standards, that comply with the Association of British Insurers restated EPS will be used for the purposes of the guidelines.
The Companys policy to date is to fund EPS performance condition.
long-term incentive awards of Performance Shares In addition, awards will not vest unless the and Restricted Shares under the HSBC Share Plan Remuneration Committee is satisfied that HSBC through employee benefit trusts which undertake Holdings financial performance has shown a market purchases of HSBC Holdings shares.
sustained improvement in the period since the award 321 Proportion of EPS Award Vesting
