on both reported and underlying bases.
This increase was driven by higher contributions Profit from associates and joint ventures rose due from Bank of Communications, Industrial Bank, and to increased contributions from HSBCs strategic The Saudi British Bank, partly offset by lower profits investments in mainland China.
Profit from Bank of from Ping An Insurance.
Communications, Ping An Insurance and Industrial Bank improved significantly, driven largely by the HSBCs share of profits from the Bank of thriving local economy.
Communications rose by 52 per cent to US$741 million, primarily driven by increased HSBCs share of profit from Ping An Insurance margins, as yields rose following higher base rates in rose by 101 per cent to US$518 million as a result of mainland China through most of 2008, and balance robust growth, notably from life insurance products, sheet growth.
Growth in revenues from the asset and the realisation of synergistic gains across Ping custody business, financial advisory services and An Insurances other business offerings.
bank card transactions also drove higher profits.
Profit from the Bank of Communications rose HSBCs share of profits from Ping An Insurance by 64 per cent to US$445 million as a result of decreased by 43 per cent, primarily due to the improved performance across the associates various impairment of Ping An Insurances investment in product offerings.
Increased income from credit and Fortis SA NV and Fortis N. V. Fortis Investments, treasury products and significant growth in fee following significant declines in its market value.
income contributed to the increase in profits.
Profits from the Saudi British Bank were higher HSBCs share of profits from the Saudi by 16 per cent due to strong balance sheet growth, British Bank decreased by 22 per cent to particularly in the lending portfolio, augmented by US$216 million, driven by the effects of a significant higher fees from cards, account services and trade.
correction to the local stock market in the second half of 2006.
Profits from Industrial Bank grew by 72 per cent, driven by increased investment income and balance A US$73 million adjustment to the embedded sheet growth.
value of HSBC Assurances, an associate in France, resulted in an increase in profits from associates.
The share of profits from joint ventures rose due to growth in HSBC Saudi Arabia Ltd and the recognition of profits in HSBC Merchant Services UK Ltd, the new merchant acquiring venture with Global Payments Inc. An adjustment to the embedded value of HSBC Assurances in 2007 did not recur.
