default and the amount of consequential loss, based contractually delinquent.
This period may be on the delinquency of accounts within a portfolio of extended, generally to 300 days past due but in no homogeneous accounts.
Other historical data and event exceeding 360 days past due, in the case of current economic conditions are also evaluated when HSBC Finances unsecured personal facilities other calculating the appropriate level of impairment than credit cards.
allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain Cases of write-off periods exceeding 360 days highly developed markets, models also take into past due are few but arise, for example, in a few account behavioural and account management trends countries where local regulation or legislation revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and constrain earlier write-off, or where the realisation of rescheduling statistics.
collateral for secured real estate lending extends When the portfolio size is small, or when beyond this time.
information is insufficient or not reliable enough to In the event of bankruptcy or analogous adopt a roll rate methodology, a formulaic approach proceedings, write-off may occur earlier than at the is used that allocates progressively higher percentage periods stated above.
Collections procedures may loss rates the longer a customers loan is overdue.
Loss rates reflect the discounted expected future cash flows for a portfolio.
Cross-border exposures Generally, historical experience is the most Management assesses the vulnerability of countries objective and relevant information from which to to foreign currency payment restrictions when begin to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In considering impairment allowances on cross-border circumstances where historical loss experience exposures.
This assessment includes an analysis of provides less relevant information about the inherent the economic and political factors existing at the loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date time.
Economic factors include the level of external for example, where there have been changes in indebtedness, the debt service burden and access to economic conditions or regulations management external sources of funds to meet the debtor considers the more recent trends in the portfolio risk countrys financing requirements.
Political factors factors which may not be adequately reflected in its taken into account include the stability of the country statistical models and, subject to guidance from and its government, threats to security, and the Group Finance and GMO Risk, adjusts impairment quality and independence of the legal system.
Impairment allowances are assessed in respect Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of of all qualifying exposures within these countries future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
performing, trade-related and of less than one Write-off of loans and advances years maturity: Loans are normally written off, either partially or in mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, full, when there is no realistic prospect of further other than in exceptional cases, held outside the recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally country concerned: after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of in the form of securities held for trading security.
In the case of residential mortgages and purposes for which a liquid and active market second lien loans in HSBC Finance, loan carrying exists, and which are measured at fair value amounts in excess of net realisable value are written daily: off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or when settlement is reached with the borrower.
If performing facilities with a principal excluding there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, and security of US$1 million or below: or foreclosure is pursued, unconstrained by delays performing facilities with maturity dates shorter required by law or regulation, the loan is normally than three months.
written off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 240 days contractually past Credit exposure due.
Maximum exposure to credit risk Unsecured personal facilities, including credit Audited cards, are generally written off at between 150 and HSBCs exposure to credit risk is spread over 210 days past due, the standard period being the end several asset classes, including derivatives, trading of the month in which the account becomes 180 days 197 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit exposure Collateral assets, loans and advances to customers, loans and As a consequence of the significant increase in advances to banks, and financial investments.
derivative balances, there was a decline in the The balance of exposure at 31 December 2008 proportion of total assets represented by most other represented a change in risk profile compared with a asset classes.
On a reported basis, the proportion of year ago as HSBC repositioned its balance sheet in total assets represented by derivative assets increased the face of unprecedented turmoil in financial by 12 percentage points while that deployed in loans markets.
The following commentary is on a constant and advances to customers declined by 5 percentage currency basis.
points and the proportion of trading assets declined by 2 percentage points.
Loans and advances to Derivative asset balances rose significantly as banks as a proportion of total assets declined by the financial turmoil of 2008 led to heightened levels 4 percentage points.
of volatility in the underlying markets to which the derivatives are referenced.
The rise in asset balances The most significant factor affecting HSBCs was primarily driven by interest rate derivatives as exposure to credit risk during 2008 was the the global fall in interest reference rates created continuing deterioration in credit conditions in the significant gaps between the fixed and floating US mortgage market.
HSBC also experienced components of interest rate swaps, which in turn led deterioration in credit quality in the commercial real to substantial mark-to-market increases in the value estate sector.
Loss experience remained concentrated of interest rate swap positions.
The widening credit in the personal lending portfolios, primarily in the spreads and significant volatility in credit and US with 85 per cent of loan impairment charges and foreign exchange markets created the environment in other credit risk provisions arising in Personal which credit derivative positions and foreign Financial Services in 2008 compared with 94 per exchange derivative assets increased.
In 2008, 9 per cent of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions arose in HSBC reduced exposure to banks as it tightened Commercial Banking, compared with 6 per cent in lending limits in response to declining credit quality.
In the UK, despite significant declines in Much of this lending was instead placed into house prices and activity in the housing market as a government issued or guaranteed debt, which whole, the credit quality of HSBCs mortgage contributed to an increase in financial investments.
business remained materially stable in 2008.
Loans and advances to customers in the The following table presents the maximum commercial sector grew while personal lending exposure to credit risk from balance sheet and offdeclined, primarily due to the continued run-off of balance sheet financial instruments, before taking parts of the portfolio in North America.
Amounts account of any collateral held or other credit due from non-bank financial institutions increased enhancements unless such credit enhancements due to the expansion of reverse repo lending with meet offsetting requirements.
For financial assets the London Clearing House in the UK and a recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum reclassification of cash collateral in the US.
exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount: Within trading assets, debt securities and for financial guarantees granted, it is the maximum treasury and other bills increased, primarily due to amount that HSBC would have to pay if the the consolidation on 30 September 2008 of five guarantees were called upon.
For loan commitments Constant Net Asset Value funds containing assets and other credit-related commitments that are upon consolidation of around US$40 billion held for irrevocable over the life of the respective facilities, trading.
For further details see pages 180 to 181. it is the full amount of the committed facilities.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$35,849 million 2007: US$317,834 million, reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments.
Collateral and other credit enhancements Treasury, other eligible bills and debt securities Audited Collateral held as security for financial assets other Collateral held against financial instruments than loans and advances is determined by the nature presented in the Maximum exposure to credit risk of the instrument.
Debt securities, treasury and other table above is described in more detail below.
eligible bills are generally unsecured, except for ABSs and similar instruments, which are secured by Items in the course of collection from other banks pools of financial assets.
Settlement risk arises in any situation where a Derivatives payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt of cash, The ISDA Master Agreement is HSBCs preferred securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are agreement for documenting derivatives activity.
It established for counterparties to cover the aggregate provides the contractual framework within which of HSBCs transactions with each one on any dealing activity across a full range of over-thesingle day.
Settlement risk on many transactions, counter products is conducted, and contractually particularly those involving securities and equities, binds both parties to apply close-out netting across is substantially mitigated by settling through assured all outstanding transactions covered by an agreement payment systems or on a  if either party defaults or other pre-agreed basis.
It is common, and HSBCs preferred practice, for the parties to execute a Credit Support Annex CSA in conjunction with the 199 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit exposure Concentration ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is Securities held for trading Unaudited passed between the parties to mitigate the marketcontingent counterparty risk inherent in the Total securities held for trading within trading assets outstanding positions.
were US$254 billion at 31 December 2008 2007: US$247 billion.
The largest concentration of these Loans and advances assets was government and government agency securities, which amounted to US$143 billion, or It is HSBCs policy, when lending, to do so on the 56 per cent of overall trading securities 2007: basis of the customers capacity to repay, rather than US$115 billion, 46 per cent.
This included rely primarily on the value of security offered.
US$32 billion 2007: US$16 billion of treasury and Depending on the customers standing and the type other eligible bills.
Corporate debt and other of product, facilities may be provided unsecured.
securities were US$82 billion or 32 per cent of Whenever available, collateral can be an important overall trading securities, 8 percentage points higher mitigant of credit risk.
than 2007s level of 24 per cent at US$60 billion.
The guidelines applied by operating companies Included within total securities held for trading were in respect of the acceptability of specific classes US$50 billion 2007: US$70 billion of debt of collateral or credit risk mitigation, and the securities issued by banks and other financial determination of valuation parameters are subject to institutions.
regular review to ensure that they are supported by A more detailed analysis of securities held for empirical evidence and continue to fulfil their trading is set out in Note 16 on the Financial intended purpose.
The principal collateral types Statements and an analysis of credit quality is employed by HSBC are as follows: provided on page 218. in the personal sector, mortgages over residential properties: Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills Unaudited in the commercial and industrial sector, charges At US$293 billion, total financial investments over business assets such as premises, stock and excluding equity securities were 8 per cent higher at debtors: 31 December 2008 than at the end of 2007.
Debt in the commercial real estate sector, charges securities, at US$252 billion, represented the largest over the properties being financed: and concentration of financial investments at 86 per cent of the total, compared with US$240 billion 89 per in the financial sector, charges over financial cent at 31 December 2007.
HSBCs holdings of instruments such as cash, debt securities and corporate debt, ABSs and other securities were equities in support of trading facilities.
spread across a wide range of issuers and In addition, credit derivatives, including credit geographical regions, with 48 per cent invested in default swaps and structured credit notes, and securities issued by banks and other financial securitisation structures are used to manage credit institutions.
In total, holdings in ABSs decreased by risk in the Groups loan portfolio.
US$24 billion due to a combination of movements in fair values, principal amortisations and write-downs.
HSBC does not disclose the fair value of collateral held as security or other credit Investments in securities of governments and enhancements on loans and advances past due but government agencies of US$114 billion were 38 per not impaired, or on individually assessed impaired cent of overall financial investments, 5 percentage loans and advances, as it is not practicable to do so.
US$41 billion of these investments comprised treasury and other eligible Concentration of exposure bills.
Audited A more detailed analysis of financial Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number investments is set out in Note 19 on the Financial of counterparties or exposures have comparable Statements and an analysis by credit quality is economic characteristics, or such counterparties are provided on page 218. engaged in similar activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry sectors, so that their The insurance businesses held diversified collective ability to meet contractual obligations is portfolios of debt and equity securities designated uniformly affected by changes in economic, political at fair value 2008: US$20 billion: 2007: or other conditions.
US$34 billion and debt securities classified as financial investments 2008: US$28 billion: 2007: 200 US$23 billion.
A more detailed analysis of fund trading accounts.
HSBC had no material securities held by the insurance businesses is set exposure to hedge funds affected by the out on page 262. administration of Lehman Brothers International Europe.
Derivatives HSBC managed its exposure to insurance Unaudited institutions closely within existing limits and Derivative assets at 31 December 2008 were experienced no material loss during 2008.
US$495 billion, a rise of 163 per cent from Commercial, industrial and international trade 31 December 2007, primarily foreign exchange, lending rose strongly during 2008, increasing its interest rate and credit derivatives.
The main drivers proportion of total lending by 2 percentage points to of growth were mark-to-market movements across 22 per cent of total gross loans and advances to the entire portfolio arising from volatility and customers on a reported basis.
Within this category, movements in interest rates and credit spreads.
the largest concentration of lending was to the service sector, which amounted to 6 per cent of total Loans and advances gross lending to customers.
Unaudited Loans and advances to banks were widely Loans and advances were well diversified across distributed across major institutions.
Lending to banks was managed downwards At constant exchange rates, gross loans and through 2008.
HSBC reduced limits to this sector in advances to customers excluding the financial response to a deterioration in credit quality which sector settlement accounts and reclassified ABSs at was most visible in the collapse of a number of US 31 December 2008 rose by US$54 billion or 7 per and Icelandic banks to which the Group had cent from 31 December 2007. advanced funds.
The expansion of sovereign Personal lending represented 46 per cent of total guarantees for some bank issuance increased appetite loans and advances to customers including the for these counterparties.
financial sector settlement accounts and reclassified ABSs.
Residential mortgages of US$243 billion 2008 compared with 2007 represented 25 per cent of total advances to Unaudited customers, the Groups largest concentration in a The commentary below analyses, on a constant single exposure type.
currency basis, the changes in lending noted in Corporate, commercial and financial lending, the table below, compared with the position at including settlement accounts, amounted to 53 per 31 December 2007.
On this basis, loans and cent of total loans and advances to customers advances to personal, corporate and commercial at 31 December 2008.
The largest industry customers increased by 7 per cent, and total gross concentrations were in non-bank financial loans and advances rose by 1 per cent.
institutions and commercial real estate lending at Total lending to personal customers was 10 per cent and 7 per cent, respectively, of total concentrated in North America US$196 billion, gross lending to customers.
the UK US$108 billion and Hong Kong Exposure to non-bank financial institutions US$46 billion.
Collectively, these regions principally comprised secured lending on trading accounted for 79 per cent of total personal lending, a accounts, primarily through repo facilities.
During decline of 1 percentage point from the level reported 2008, HSBC reduced unsecured exposure to hedge at 31 December 2007.
Total lending to personal customers declined by 3 per cent to US$440 billion at 31 December 2008.
2 Other personal loans and advances include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
3 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
Residential mortgages rose slightly to expansion in the Middle East.
Balances in mainland US$243 billion at 31 December 2008, comprising China grew strongly as the branch network 25 per cent of total loans and advances to customers expanded.
including the financial sector and settlement In North America, mortgage lending declined by accounts.
A significant increase in mortgage 15 per cent.
In the US, total mortgage lending lending in the UK, combined with more modest amounted to US$81 billion at 31 December 2008, increases in Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and a decline of 18 per cent since 31 December 2007.
In Latin America, more than offset a 15 per cent the mortgage services business, balances declined by decrease in the value of mortgage lending in North 21 per cent as there were no new originations and the America.
In consumer lending, In Europe, residential mortgage lending rose balances declined by 7 per cent as a result of by 22 per cent to US$87 billion.
Mortgage lending management actions taken to reduce risk in the rose by 26 per cent in the UK, driven by the portfolio, including further tightening underwriting successful launch of the RateMatcher campaign in criteria and increasing collateral requirements for April 2008, and a similarly successful campaign in new originations.
In HSBC USA, balances declined First Direct.
This was partly offset by a decline in by 32 per cent, primarily due to the sale of France due to the sale of the regional banks in July US$7.0 billion of mortgage portfolios during 2008 2008. and the fact that the majority of loan originations continued to be sold in the secondary markets.
In In Hong Kong, residential mortgage lending line with HSBCs reduced risk appetite, the rose by 11 per cent due to successful repricing wholesale and third-party correspondent prime initiatives which allowed HSBC to become the mortgage business of HSBC USA was closed in market leader for new mortgage lending during the November 2008. year.
In response to the weakening local economy and declining house prices in the second half of In Latin America, residential mortgage lending 2008, HSBC tightened lending criteria and increased increased, driven by continued growth in fixed rate pricing on new loans.
In Rest of Asia-Pacific, mortgage lending rose Other personal lending declined by 8 per cent to by 11 per cent, driven by continued business US$197 billion at 31 December 2008, representing 202 21 per cent of total loans and advances to customers 31 December 2007 and the mix was adjusted including the financial sector and settlement towards customers of higher credit quality.
growth was restricted as risk appetite was adjusted by closing certain products to new originations and In Europe, other personal lending declined tightening underwriting criteria on cards, leading to a by 11 per cent from the end of 2007 to sharp reduction in the number of cards issued in US$54 billion.
The decrease was primarily 2008. attributable to the UK as a stronger focus on secured lending restricted originations in the unsecured Loans and advances to corporate and portfolio.
The sale of certain non-core credit card commercial customers rose by 19 per cent to portfolios in the first half of 2008 also contributed to US$407 billion, with strong growth across all the decrease in the UK.
In France, balances declined regions.
Lending was primarily concentrated in due to the sale of the regional banks in the second Europe, where it accounted for 54 per cent of half of 2008.
In Turkey, continued expansion of the advances to this sector, of which more than branch network during 2008 resulted in higher 40 per cent were in the UK.
balances, particularly in credit cards and overdrafts.
In Europe, corporate and commercial advances In Hong Kong, other personal lending declined rose by 24 per cent.
In the UK, lending rose by by 2 per cent to US$13 billion.
HSBC remained the 35 per cent, driven by growth in lending to large market leader for credit cards in Hong Kong based corporates.
Balances declined in France due to the on cards in circulation, cardholder spending and sale of the regional banks in July 2008. balances.
In Hong Kong, corporate and commercial In Rest of Asia-Pacific, other personal lending lending rose by 19 per cent, driven by higher lending rose by 12 per cent, primarily due to strong growth in commercial, industrial and international trade, in the Middle East.
Elsewhere in the region, balances commercial real estate and other property-related rose in Malaysia and Indonesia.
In North America, other personal lending In Rest of Asia-Pacific, strong corporate and balances declined by 12 per cent to US$97 billion.
In commercial lending growth was experienced in the the US, consumer finance business and credit card Middle East and Singapore, which rose by 26 per lending fell due to the combined effect of tighter cent and 50 per cent respectively and, to a lesser underwriting criteria and lower marketing extent, in Malaysia, India and Taiwan, the latter due expenditure.
A reduction in non-credit card personal to the acquisition of the assets and liabilities of The lending reflected the decision to cease new business Chinese Bank in March 2008.
In the Middle East, in guaranteed direct mail loans and personal homethe corporate and commercial loan book continued owner loans in the second half of 2007, and tighter to grow, owing to an expansion of lending in UAE, underwriting criteria applied to originations in the particularly for trade and investment projects, in remainder of the portfolio.
In the mortgage services addition to general business growth.
In Singapore, business, second lien balances declined due to the higher lending was driven by strong demand from continued run-off of the portfolio following the the international trade sector.
Lending in Japan cessation of originations in 2007.
Lower vehicle declined due to the closure of inactive and finance lending at HSBC Finance reflected the unprofitable accounts, and lending in mainland discontinuation of certain product offerings and the China fell as a result of tightened government cessation of new vehicle loan originations from the regulations and tighter lending criteria in response to dealer and direct-to-consumer channels in July 2008. the weakening local economy.
This partly offset the HSBC USA also discontinued originations of strong growth elsewhere in the region.
indirect vehicle finance loans, but second lien loans In North America, corporate and commercial increased following a promotional campaign lending increased by 7 per cent, driven by growth in channelled through the branch network in the first HSBC USA and, to a lesser extent, in Canada.
In Canada, lower balances were In HSBC USA, higher lending to corporate and attributable to the disposal of the vehicle finance commercial clients reflected the targeted expansion businesses during the year.
of middle market activities and the drawdown of In Latin America, other personal lending rose by existing credit facilities, partly offset by a decline in 9 per cent to US$15 billion.
Lending growth was commercial real estate activity as the bank managed primarily concentrated in Brazil and reflected strong down its lending exposures in light of lower risk demand for payroll loans and vehicle lending.
In appetite and a deterioration in market conditions.
In Mexico, balances were broadly in line with Canada, corporate and commercial lending rose by 203 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit exposure Concentration 9 per cent, particularly in Western Canada, as Loans and advances to banks fell by 29 per cent demand remained strong for commercial loans.
to US$154 billion due to a significant decline in placement activity in Hong Kong and Europe.
This In Latin America, corporate and commercial was driven by a reduction in money market and lending rose by 20 per cent, driven by higher lending inter-bank placements in favour of treasury bills and in Brazil as a result of strong growth in the trade bank securities.
In the UK, a higher proportion of loans portfolio and working capital products.
assets were invested in government and governmentLoans and advances to the financial sector rose guaranteed debt.
Elsewhere, growth in Latin by 15 per cent with strong growth in the UK and America was primarily in Brazil, due to higher North America, largely in collateralised lending.
Lending balance were 46 per cent higher in the UK The following tables analyse loans by industry due to the increased use of secured funding facilities sector and by the location of the principal operations through the London Clearing House in the form of of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the repos.
In North America, higher lending was driven operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking by HSBC USA due to the reclassification from Corporation Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Other assets of cash collateral held with other Middle East Limited and HSBC Bank USA N. A. by institutions.
the location of the lending branch.
2 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$75,266 million 2007: US$82,854 million: 2006: US$74,518 million: 2005: US$66,020 million: 2004: US$56,222 million.
4 The figures for 2004 are net of suspended interest.
5 2004: Specific provisions on impaired loans.
6 Impaired loans for 2004-2007 have been restated as a result of the reclassification of an element of a credit card portfolio as impaired.
There has been no effect on impairment allowances.
205 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit exposure Concentration Cross border 2 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$75,266 million 2007: US$82,854 million.
4 The 2007 impaired loans for North America have been restated as a result of the reclassification of an element of a credit card portfolio as impaired.
Country distribution of outstandings and individually represent in excess of 1 per cent of cross-border exposures HSBCs total assets.
The classification is based on Unaudited the country of residence of the borrower but also recognises the transfer of country risk in respect of HSBC controls the risk associated with cross-border third-party guarantees, eligible collateral held and lending, essentially that foreign currency will not be residence of the head office when the borrower is a made available to local residents to make payments, branch.
In accordance with the Bank of England through a centralised structure of internal country Country Exposure Report Form CE guidelines, limits which are determined by taking into account outstandings comprise loans and advances relevant economic and political factors.
Exposures to excluding settlement accounts, amounts receivable individual countries and cross-border exposure in under finance leases, acceptances, commercial bills, aggregate are kept under continual review.
CDs and debt and equity securities net of short The following table summarises the aggregate positions, and exclude accrued interest and of in-country foreign currency and cross-border intra-HSBC exposures.
