assesses the customers ability to make the adjusted fixed rate loans as well as ARMs, and implementing payment and, as appropriate and in accordance with longer term modifications, providing assistance defined policies, HSBC Finance modifies the loans, generally for two to five years.
Under these allowing time for the customer to seek alternative expanded programmes, HSBC Finance modified financing or improve their individual situation.
over 92,000 loans in 2008 with an aggregate balance These loan modifications primarily provide for of US$13.5 billion.
The ARM Reset Modification temporary interest rate relief for up to 12 months by Programme covered some 13,000 loans, with an either maintaining the current interest rate for that aggregate value of US$2.1 billion.
period or resetting the interest rate to one lower than HSBC Finance also supports a variety of that originally required at the reset date.
At the end national and local efforts in home ownership of the relief period, the interest rate on the loan will preservation and foreclosure avoidance.
reset in accordance with the original loan terms, unless the borrower qualifies for, and is granted, a Credit quality of financial instruments further modification.
These loans are not included in Audited the renegotiated loans figures quoted above, because The four credit quality classifications set out and they were not contractually delinquent at the time of defined below describe the credit quality of HSBCs the modification.
lending, debt securities portfolios and derivatives.
HSBC Finance also significantly expanded its These classifications each encompass a range of Foreclosure Avoidance and Account Modification more granular, internal credit rating grades assigned Programmes designed to provide relief to qualifying to wholesale and retail lending business, as well as home owners by either loan restructuring or the external ratings attributed by external agencies to modification.
Following a strategic review, in the debt securities.
first quarter of 2008 these programmes were There is no direct correlation between the expanded in the consumer lending business, to help internal and external ratings at granular level, except those customers who did not qualify for assistance to the extent each falls within a single quality under previous programmes, and to help customers classification.
who required greater assistance than that available under previous programmes.
Quality classification definitions minimal following the adoption of recovery processes.
Strong: exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with Sub-standard: exposures require varying negligible or low probability of default and or degrees of special attention and default risk is of low levels of expected loss.
Retail portfolio segments show operate within product parameters and only longer delinquency periods of generally up to exceptionally show any period of delinquency.
90 days past due and or expected losses are higher due to a reduced ability to mitigate these Medium: exposures require closer monitoring, through security realisation or other recovery with low to moderate default risk.
accounts typically show only short periods of delinquency, with any losses expected to be Impaired: exposures have been assessed, individually or collectively, as impaired.
217 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Credit quality Risk ratings Past due but not impaired Risk rating scales For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external ratings have been aligned to the Compared with previous years, the basis of reporting four quality classifications.
The ratings of Standard has been changed to replace the former uniform and Poors are cited, with those of other agencies seven-grade portfolio quality scale, in order both to being treated equivalently.
Debt securities with extend the range of financial instruments covered in short-term issue ratings are reported against the the presentation of portfolio quality and to reflect the long-term rating of the issuer of those securities.
If more risk-sensitive rating systems introduced under major rating agencies have different ratings for the the Groups Basel II programme.
same debt securities, a prudent rating selection is The Customer Risk Rating CRR 10-grade made in line with regulatory requirements.
scale above summarises a more granular underlying Additional credit quality information in respect 22-grade scale of obligor probability of default of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs and PD.
All distinct customers Group-wide are rated assets held in consolidated SIVs and conduits is using one of these two PD scales, depending on the provided on pages 153 to 158 and 175 to 176, degree of sophistication of the Basel II approach respectively.
For the purpose of the following disclosure, The Expected Loss EL 10-grade scale for retail loans which are past due up to 89 days and are retail business summarises a more granular not otherwise classified as EL9 or EL10, are underlying EL scale for these customer segments: separately classified as past due but not impaired.
this combines obligor and facility product risk factors in a composite measure.
Consequently, all such balances are reported under neither past due nor impaired.
2 Includes asset-backed securities that have been externally rated as strong US$7,991 million, medium nil and sub-standard nil.
3 Impairment allowances are not reported for financial instruments whereby the carrying amount is reduced directly for impairment and not through the use of an allowance account.
4 The amounts for loans and advances for 2007 have been restated, as a result of a reclassification from Past due but not impaired to Impaired of an element of a credit card portfolio.
There has been no effect on impairment allowances.
Past due but not impaired gross financial days, but where the value of collateral is sufficient instruments to repay both the principal debt and all potential Audited interest for at least one year: and short-term trade facilities past due more than 90 days for technical Examples of exposures past due but not impaired reasons such as delays in documentation, but where include overdue loans fully secured by cash there is no concern over the creditworthiness of the collateral: mortgages that are individually assessed counterparty.
for impairment, and that are in arrears more than 90 Past due but not impaired loans and advances to customers and banks by geographical region Gross loans and Rest of advances Hong AsiaNorth Latin past due not 1 Europe Kong Pacific America America impaired US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2008 3,800 1,805 4,320 35,247 3,250 48,422 At 31 December 2007. 3,143 2,031 4,951 36,604 2,592 49,321 1 Restated for 2007 as a result of a reclassification of an element of a credit card portfolio as impaired.
