The rise in card fee income was mainly in the Lower equity market-related revenues, notably US and Mexico.
Income growth in the US was in Hong Kong, were driven by weakened investor driven by higher late and over-limit fees in addition sentiment, and reflected in the fall of 17 per cent in to higher balances.
Revenue from enhancement the aggregate of broking income, global custody and services on cards also increased.
In Mexico, the unit trust income.
Similarly, fund management fees credit card business continued to grow, both in declined as equity markets retreated and lower balances and in transaction volumes.
Higher income from funds under management HSBC announced revisions to its credit card fee products, broking services, unit trusts and global charging policies in the US in 2007, and this fed custody was driven by buoyant stock markets in through as expected in the form of a substantial Hong Kong and throughout the Rest of Asia-Pacific decline in overlimit fees, further compounded by region, enhanced by the launch of new investment lower cash advance and interchange fee income as a schemes.
In the UK, the divestment Increased account services income was due to in 2008 of the card acquiring business resulted in higher levels of customer activity in Europe, North reduced card acquiring fees.
Offsetting these factors America and Latin America.
In the US, growth in were rises in card fees in Hong Kong, the Middle credit card balances triggered an increased use of the East, India and Turkey.
In the UK, growth in the sale of Fee income from credit facilities rose, notably in fee-based packaged accounts contributed to a rise in the Middle East, in line with customer volumes.
Growth in fee income from trade and supply chain An increase in insurance fees was driven by products reflected higher volumes and customer higher life insurance commission income, boosted acquisition in India and, to a greater extent in the by new product offerings in Hong Kong.
Middle East, increased activity driven by commodity price inflation.
