Capital measurement and allocation Audited HSBCs capital management process continues In June 2006, the Basel Committee on Banking to stress the advantages and flexibility afforded by a Supervision published International Convergence of strong capital position and, through its policies, Capital Measurement and Capital Standards, known seeks to maintain a conservative stance with regard as Basel II.
Basel II is structured around three to equity leverage.
pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory The Capital Management Framework covers the review process and market discipline.
The Capital different capital measures within which HSBC Requirements Directive CRD implements Basel manages its capital in a consistent and aligned II in the EU and the FSA then gives effect to the manner.
These include market capitalisation, CRD by including the requirements of the CRD in invested capital, economic capital and regulatory its own rulebooks.
HSBC defines invested capital as the equity The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders.
basis and therefore receives information on the Economic capital is the capital requirement capital adequacy of, and sets capital requirements calculated internally by HSBC deemed necessary to for, HSBC as a whole.
Individual banking support the risks to which it is exposed, and is set at subsidiaries are directly regulated by their local a confidence level consistent with a target credit banking supervisors, who set and monitor their rating of AA.
Regulatory capital is the capital which capital adequacy requirements.
Although HSBC HSBC is required to hold as determined by the rules calculates capital at a Group level using the Basel II established by the FSA for the consolidated Group framework, local regulators are at different stages of and by HSBCs local regulators for individual Group implementation and local rules may still be on a companies.
Basel I basis, notably in the US.
In most An annual Group capital plan is prepared and jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are approved by the Board with the objective of also subject to the supervision and capital maintaining both the optimal amount of capital and requirements of local regulatory authorities.
the mix between the different components of capital.
HSBCs capital is divided into two tiers: The Groups policy is to hold capital in a range of different forms and from diverse sources and all Tier 1 capital comprises core equity tier 1 capital raising is agreed with major subsidiaries as capital, non-innovative preference shares and part of their individual and the Groups capital innovative tier 1 securities.
Core equity tier 1 management processes.
HSBC Holdings and its capital comprises shareholders funds and major subsidiaries raise non-equity tier 1 capital and minority interests in tier 1 capital, after subordinated debt in accordance with the Groups adjusting for items reflected in shareholders guidelines on market and investor concentration, funds which are treated differently for the cost, market conditions, timing, effect on purposes of capital adequacy.
The book values composition and maturity profile.
of goodwill and intangible assets are deducted in arriving at core equity tier 1 capital.
Each subsidiary manages its own capital required to support planned business growth and Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated meet local regulatory requirements within the loan capital, allowable collective impairment context of the approved annual Group capital plan.
allowances, minority and other interests in tier 2 As part of HSBCs Capital Management Framework, capital and unrealised gains arising on the fair capital generated in excess of planned requirements valuation of equity instruments held as is returned to HSBC Holdings, normally by way of available-for-sale.
Tier 2 capital also includes dividends.
reserves arising from the revaluation of properties.
HSBC Holdings is primarily the provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries.
These investments Various limits are applied to elements of the are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own capital base.
The amount of innovative tier 1 capital issuance and profit retentions.
HSBC securities cannot exceed 15 per cent of overall tier Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance 1 capital, qualifying tier 2 capital cannot exceed between the composition of its capital and that of its tier 1 capital, and qualifying term subordinated loan investment in subsidiaries.
capital cannot exceed 50 per cent of tier 1 capital.
275 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Capital management and allocation There are also limitations on the amount of may vary from time to time as the accounting collective impairment allowances which may be measure of impairment moves closer to or further included as part of tier 2 capital.
For regulatory away from the regulatory measure of expected purposes, banking associates are proportionally losses.
consolidated, rather than being recognised using The FSAs rules permit the inclusion of profits the equity method used for financial reporting.
in tier 1 capital to the extent that they have been The carrying amounts of investments in the verified in accordance with the FSAs General capital of banks that exceed certain limits and the Prudential Sourcebook by the external auditor.
excess of expected losses over impairment Verification procedures covering profits for the year allowances are deducted 50 per cent from each of to 31 December 2008 were completed by the tier 1 and tier 2 capital in the published disclosures.
external auditor on 2 March 2009 and therefore these This also applies to deductions of investments in profits have been included in the Groups tier 1 insurance subsidiaries and associates, but the capital.
Technically, from 1 January 2008, the FSAs FSA has granted a transitional provision, until regulatory reporting forms defer the recognition of 31 December 2012, under which those insurance these profits in tier 1 capital until the conclusion of investments that were acquired before 20 July 2006 the external auditors procedures.
may be deducted from the total of tier 1 and tier 2 Basel II provides three approaches of increasing capital instead.
HSBC has elected to apply this sophistication to the calculation of pillar 1 credit transitional provision.
The most basic, the The basis of calculating capital changed with standardised approach, requires banks to use external effect from 1 January 2008 and the effect on both credit ratings to determine the risk weightings tier 1 capital and total capital is shown in the table applied to rated counterparties, and groups other below, Capital Structure.
The Groups capital base counterparties into broad categories and applies is reduced compared with Basel I by the extent to standardised risk weightings to these categories.
which expected losses exceed the total of individual The next level, the internal ratings-based IRB and collective impairment allowances on IRB foundation approach, allows banks to calculate their portfolios.
These collective impairment allowances credit risk capital requirements on the basis of their are no longer eligible for inclusion in tier 2 capital.
internal assessment of the probability that a counterparty will default PD, but with For disclosure purposes, this excess of expected quantification of exposure at default EAD losses over total impairment allowances in IRB and loss given default LGD estimates being portfolios is deducted 50 per cent from core equity subject to standard supervisory parameters.
Finally, tier 1 and 50 per cent from tier 2 capital.
In addition, the IRB advanced approach allows banks to use their a tax credit adjustment is made to tier 1 capital to own internal assessment of not only PD but also the reflect the tax consequences insofar as they affect the quantification of EAD and LGD.
The regulatory availability of tier 1 capital to cover risks or losses.
measure of expected losses is calculated by Expected losses derived under Basel II rules multiplying PD by EAD and LGD.
The capital represent losses that would be expected in the resources requirement under the IRB approaches is scenario of a severe downturn over a 12-month intended to cover unexpected losses and is derived period.
This definition differs from loan impairment from a formula specified in the regulatory rules, allowances, which only address losses incurred which incorporates these factors and other variables within lending portfolios at the balance sheet date such as maturity and correlation.
and are not permitted to recognise the additional For credit risk, with FSA approval, HSBC has level of conservatism that the regulatory measure adopted the IRB advanced approach for the majority requires by the adoption of through-the-cycle, of its business with effect from 1 January 2008, with downturn and stressed conditions that may not exist the remainder on either IRB foundation or at the balance sheet date.
For consolidated group The effect of deducting the difference between reporting, the FSAs rules permit the use of other expected losses and total impairment allowances is regulators standardised approaches where they are to equate the total effect on capital with the considered equivalent.
The use of other regulators regulatory definition of expected losses.
As expected IRB approaches is subject to the agreement of the losses are based on long-term estimates and FSA.
A rollout plan, over the next few years, is in incorporate through-the-cycle considerations, they place to extend coverage of the advanced are expected to be less volatile than actual loss approaches, for both local and consolidated Group experience.
The impact of this deduction, however, 276 reporting, leaving a small residue of exposures on The second pillar of Basel II Supervisory the standardised approach.
Review and Evaluation Process SREP involves both firms and regulators taking a view on whether a Market risk is derived from fluctuations on firm should hold additional capital against risks not trading book assets arising from changes in values, covered in pillar 1.
Part of the pillar 2 process is the income, interest and foreign exchange rates and is Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process measured using VAR models with FSA permission ICAAP which is the firms self assessment of the or the standard rules prescribed by the FSA.
levels of capital that it needs to hold.
The pillar 2 Counterparty credit risk in the trading book and the process culminates in the FSA providing firms with non-trading book is the risk that the counterparty to a Individual Capital Guidance ICG.
The ICG transaction may default before completing the replaces the trigger ratio and is set as a capital satisfactory settlement of the transaction.
Three resources requirement higher than that required counterparty credit risk calculation approaches are under pillar 1. defined by Basel II to determine exposure values, being the standardised, mark to market and the Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline internal model method.
These exposure values are and aims to make firms more transparent by then used to determine capital requirements using requiring them to publish specific, prescribed details one of the credit risk approaches, standardised, IRB of their risks, capital and risk management under the foundation and IRB advanced.
Across the Group, Basel II framework.
On 10 November 2008, HSBC HSBC uses both VAR and standard rules approaches published summary qualitative pillar 3 disclosures for market risk and the mark to market and internal Interim Pillar 3 Disclosures 2008 for 30 June model method approaches for counterparty credit 2008 on the investor relations section of its website, risk.
It is the longer-term aim of HSBC to migrate www.
HSBC expects to publish the first more positions from standard rules to VAR for full set of pillar 3 disclosures for 31 December 2008, market risk and from mark to market to internal including quantitative tables, during the first half of model method for counterparty credit risk.
Basel II also introduces capital requirements for During 2007, HSBC was supervised under operational risk and, again, contains three levels of Basel I.
Under Basel I, banking operations are sophistication.
The capital required under the basic categorised as either trading book or banking book indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross and risk-weighted assets are determined accordingly.
revenues, whereas under the standardised approach it Banking book risk-weighted assets are measured by is one of three different percentages of gross means of a hierarchy of risk weightings classified revenues allocated to each of eight defined business according to the nature of each asset and lines.
Both these approaches use an average of the counterparty, taking into account any eligible last three financial years revenues.
Finally, the collateral or guarantees.
Banking book off-balance advanced measurement approach uses banks own sheet items giving rise to credit, foreign exchange or statistical analysis and modelling of operational risk interest rate risk are assigned weights appropriate to data to determine capital requirements.
HSBC has the category of the counterparty, taking into account adopted the standardised approach to the any eligible collateral or guarantees.
Trading book determination of Group operational risk capital risk-weighted assets are determined by taking into requirements.
account market-related risks such as foreign exchange, interest rate and equity position risks, and counterparty risk.
The pro forma position at 31 December 2007 has been adjusted accordingly.
2 Includes externally verified profits for the year to 31 December 2008.
3 Under FSA rules, unrealised gains losses on debt securities net of deferred tax must be excluded from capital resources.
4 Includes removal of the fair value gains and losses, net of deferred tax, arising from the credit spreads on debt issued by HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries and designated at fair value.
5 Includes a tax credit adjustment in respect of the excess of expected losses over impairment allowances.
6 Under Basel II, only collective impairment allowances on loan portfolios on the standardised approach are included in tier 2 capital.
7 Mainly comprise investments in insurance entities.
2 Pro forma capital items as at 1 January 2008 are unaudited.
Movement in tier 1 capital Movement in risk-weighted assets Audited Unaudited HSBC complied with the FSAs capital adequacy Total RWAs increased by US$24 billion.
Opening transition to Basel II at 1 January 2008 increased tier 1 capital at 1 January 2008 was reduced by RWAs by US$41 billion, meaning that RWAs on a US$3.3 billion arising from the transition to Basel II.
Basel II basis fell by US$17 billion during the year.
Profits attributable to shareholders of the parent Foreign exchange translation effects are estimated to company of US$5.7 billion included goodwill writehave reduced RWAs by US$80 billion, again a result offs of US$10.6 billion and profits from own credit of the strengthening US dollar, particularly against spread, net of deferred tax, of US$4.7 billion, neither sterling, resulting in an estimated underlying of which impact regulatory capital.
The resulting increase of US$63 billion.
Of this underlying contribution to tier 1 capital was therefore increase, US$26 billion was due to credit and US$11.6 billion.
Dividends to shareholders of counterparty risk RWAs, reflecting decreases in US$11.3 billion were partly offset by shares issued, North America being more than offset by increases including those issued in lieu of dividends, of in both Europe and Asia.
Market risk RWAs US$4.1 billion and innovative tier 1 securities issued increased by US$24 billion primarily due to the of US$2.1 billion.
The strengthening US dollar impact of market volatility.
Operational risk RWAs caused foreign currency translation differences, increased by US$13 billion because the three year mainly on the investment in non-US dollar averaging of gross revenues used in the calculation subsidiaries, which reduced tier 1 capital by now includes revenues for 2008 in place of 2005.
