All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC Troubled debt restructurings increased by 47 per undertakings which are banking counterparties cent in 2008, reflecting measures taken to mitigate 2007: 100 per cent.
risk in the US consumer finance business in response to the deterioration in mortgage loans.
The credit quality of loans and advances to HSBC undertakings is assessed as satisfactory risk, Unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more with 100 per cent of the exposure being neither past due nor impaired 2007: 100 per cent.
Unimpaired loans contractually past due 90 days or more increased.
Figures for 2004 to 2007 have been The long-term debt ratings of HSBC Group restated due to the reclassification of an element of issuers of financial investments are within the the North America credit card portfolio as impaired.
Standard & Poors ratings range of AA to AA There has been no effect on impairment allowances.
Impaired loans Risk elements in the loan portfolio Unaudited In accordance with IFRSs, HSBC recognises interest income on assets after they have been written down The disclosure of credit risk elements under the as a result of an impairment loss.
In the following following headings reflects US accounting practice tables, HSBC represents information on its impaired and classifications for publicly traded bank holding loans and advances in accordance with the disclosure companies: convention described on page 217. loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis: Potential problem loans accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal: and Credit risk elements also cover potential problem loans.
These are loans where information on troubled debt restructurings not included in possible credit problems among borrowers causes the above.
management to seriously doubt their ability to comply with the loan repayment terms.
There are no Interest forgone on impaired loans potential problem loans other than those identified in Audited the table of risk elements set out below, and as Interest income that would have been recognised discussed in Areas of special interest on page 210. under the original terms of impaired and restructured Areas of special interest includes further disclosure loans amounted to approximately US$1.9 billion about certain homogeneous groups of loans which in 2008 2007: US$1.1 billion.
Interest income from are collectively assessed for impairment, and such loans of approximately US$702 million 2007: represent the Groups most significant exposures to US$374 million was recorded in 2008. potential problem loans, including ARMs and statedincome products.
Collectively assessed loans and Troubled debt restructurings advances, as set out on page 223, although not classified as impaired until more than 90 days, are The SEC requires separate disclosure of any loans assessed collectively for losses that have been whose terms have been modified because of incurred but have not yet been individually problems with the borrower to grant concessions identified.
This policy is further described on page other than are warranted by market conditions.
These 196. are classified as troubled debt restructurings TDRs.
The definition of TDRs differs from the Risk elements Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past due or impaired quantified on page 216 insofar as The following table provides an analysis of risk for TDRs the delinquency status of the loan elements in the loan portfolios at 31 December for following restructuring may continue to be past due the past five years.
not impaired or, where appropriate, impaired.
In addition, the classification of a loan as a TDR may be discontinued after the first year if the debt performs in accordance with the new terms.
2 Classified as grades 6 and 7 in 2004 to 2007.
3 Ratio excludes trading loans classified as in default.
