HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Application HSBC performance and market context Executive Directors remuneration The Committee also takes into account Directors and other senior executives to achieve environmental, social and governance aspects when further alignment with shareholder interests.
determining executive Directors remuneration and The above approach applies to all executive oversees senior management incentive structures to Directors with the exception of the Group Chairman, ensure that such structures take account of possible S K Green, whose variable compensation since 2007 inadvertent consequences from these aspects.
has, at his request, been delivered exclusively through awards of Performance Shares and is thus Application to executive Directors no longer eligible to receive annual bonus payments: and S T Gulliver, whose variable compensation A number of specific changes to remuneration policy arrangements take into account wholesale banking for executive Directors and other senior executives market practice.
were made in 2007 and communicated to shareholders in the 2008 Directors Remuneration The approach will be carefully and regularly Report.
These changes, which are described in this reviewed during 2009 to take account of the volatile report, were made to ensure closer alignment with and challenging market conditions see following HSBCs business strategy.
They take into account section on HSBC Performance and Market Context competitive market practice and follow through the and, where appropriate, shareholders will be Groups global reward strategy for this senior consulted on any proposed changes in policy.
changes will also be described in future Directors Remuneration Reports.
In order to ensure that executive Directors remuneration packages are competitive, having The application of this policy to each regard to the market in which the Company component of executive Directors remuneration for competes for executive talent, the Remuneration 2008 is outlined in more detail below.
Committee determined to consider market data from a defined remuneration comparator group.
This HSBC performance and market initial group comprised nine global financial services context companies, namely Banco Santander, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, The last year was one of unprecedented volatility Deutsche Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland, Standard and turbulence in the global financial services sector Chartered and UBS.
These companies were selected which has continued into 2009.
In determining on the basis of their broadly similar business remuneration levels for 2008 and considering coverage, size and international scope, and are approaches to remuneration for 2009, the Committee subject to annual review for continuing relevance.
was mindful of this global market context.
In this volatile market environment it is difficult to Executive Director salaries are targeted at the appropriately apply measures such as total median of the remuneration comparator group, with shareholder return and earnings per share, and it is an opportunity for top quartile total compensation particularly important to take account of risk from a through variable pay for higher levels of short and medium term perspective.
The actual positioning of total compensation will depend on the performance of the Within this market context, HSBCs overall Group and individual performance assessed against a financial and non-financial performance was combination of financial and non-financial relatively strong in comparison to its peers.
objectives within an annual balanced scorecard.
The key achievements of the Group during The performance-related aspects of the 2008, with reference to its objectives set under the remuneration package consist of a bonus of up to relevant balanced scorecard categories, are 400 per cent of salary and Performance Share awards summarised below.
with a face value of up to 700 per cent of salary.
The financial objectives included a cost Taking into account the expected value of awards, efficiency target ratio which, excluding the writing the performance-related elements of pay make up off of goodwill in the US, was met and improved on around 80 per cent of the total remuneration compared to 2007.
Profit growth, as measured by package.
Annual bonus payments and Performance earnings per share EPS, and return on capital, as Share awards are not pensionable.
measured by return on average total shareholder A significant proportion of total compensation equity ROE, did not meet the targets set and were will be delivered in HSBC Holdings shares.
Share lower than the prior year, although the Groups ownership guidelines were increased for executive performance in these aspects relative to its peers remained strong.
