Stress testing allows senior management to HSBCs capital management approach is driven by formulate management action in advance of its strategy and organisational requirements, taking conditions starting to reflect the stress scenarios into account the regulatory, economic and identified.
The actual market stresses which occurred commercial environment in which it operates.
The throughout the financial system in 2008 have been Groups strategy underpins HSBCs Capital used to inform capital planning and further develop Management Framework which has been approved the stress scenarios employed by the Group.
The by the Group Management Board.
It is HSBCs Group has identified the following as being the policy to maintain a strong capital base to support material risks faced and managed through the the development of its business and to meet Capital Management Framework: credit, market, regulatory capital requirements at all times.
Through operational, interest rate risk in the banking book, its structured internal governance processes, HSBC pension fund, residual and insurance risks.
All of also maintains discipline over its investment these risks pose a significantly greater challenge in decisions and where it allocates its capital, seeking severe downturn economic conditions and the to ensure that returns on investment are appropriate management response to these risks has, after taking account of capital costs.
In addition, the correspondingly, been intensified.
level of capital held by HSBC Holdings and certain During 2008, with the Group now operating subsidiaries, particularly HSBC Finance, is under Basel II, it targeted a tier 1 ratio within the determined by rating targets.
range 7.5 to 9.0 per cent for the purposes of its longHSBCs strategy is to allocate capital to term capital planning.
In 2007, under the Basel I businesses based on their economic profit generation approach, HSBC managed its capital against a tier 1 and, within this process, regulatory and economic ratio of 8.25 per cent.
For 2009 onwards, in light of capital requirements and the cost of capital are key revised market expectations on capital strength and factors.
The responsibility for global capital higher volatility of capital requirements resulting allocation principles and decisions rests with the from procyclicality embedded within the Basel II Group Management Board.
Stress testing is used as rules, the upper end of the target tier 1 range is being 274
