HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance Biographies Directors Page Directors Corporate Governance Report 281 S K Green, Group Chairman Directors........... 281 Age 60.
Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Group Managing Directors 286 Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
Executive Director, Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets from 1998 to 2003.
Corporate governance codes.................... 294 Chairman of The British Bankers Association.
In 1992 he became Group Employee involvement 303 Treasurer of HSBC Holdings plc, with responsibility Employment of disabled persons.............. 303 for the HSBC Groups treasury and capital markets Remuneration policy.... 303 businesses globally.
He has worked in Hong Kong, Employee share plans 304 New York, the Middle East and London and has Subsidiary company share plans............... 308 immense international experience and knowledge of the HSBC Group.
Employee compensation and benefits....... 311 Corporate sustainability 312 M F Geoghegan, CBE, Group Chief Executive Corporate sustainability committee.......... 312 Age 55.
Chairman of the Group Management Sustainability risk 312 Board.
Chairman of HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC Social and community investment............. 312 Bank Canada, HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Health and safety 313 Limited and HSBC USA Inc. Deputy Chairman of Supplier payment policy 313 HSBC Bank plc.
A Director of The Hongkong and Dividends, shareholders and meetings......... 313 Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Chief Executive of Dividends for 2008 313 HSBC Bank plc from 2004 to 2006.
Responsible for Dividends for 2009 313 all of HSBCs business throughout South America Communication with shareholders........... 313 from 2000 to 2003.
President of HSBC Bank Brasil Notifiable interests in share capital.......... 314 S. A. Banco Mltiplo from 1997 to 2003.
Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares.......... 314 Mr Geoghegan is a career banker with over Annual General Meeting 314 35 years international experience with HSBC.
He has worked in the Americas, Asia, the Middle East Corporate Governance Report and Europe.
He established the Groups operations in Brazil in 1997 following the creation of Banco The information set out on pages 281 to 314 and HSBC Bamerindus S. A and in 2003 he was information incorporated by reference constitutes the honoured with a CBE in recognition of his Corporate Governance Report of HSBC Holdings.
contribution to British business interests in Brazil.
President and Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation.
Managing Director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1997 to 1999.
Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the Board of Directors in 2001.
Ms Catz brings to the Board a background in international business leadership, having helped 281 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Directors transform Oracle into the second biggest producer Mr Cheng is a career banker with extensive of management software and the worlds leading international business experience particularly in supplier of software for information management.
Mr Cheng was Chairman of the Process Review Panel for the Securities and Futures M K T Cheung, GBS, OBE Commission and is Chairman of the Standing Committee on Directorate Salaries and Conditions Age 61.
A non-executive Director since 1 February of Service of the Hong Kong Government.
A non-executive Director of Hang Seng Bank also Vice President of the Hong Kong Institute of Limited, HKR International Limited, Hong Kong Bankers.
From 1989 to 1991, he was seconded to the Exchanges and Clearing Limited and Sun Hung Kai Hong Kong Governments Central Policy Unit and Properties Limited.
A non-official member of the served as an adviser to the Governor of Hong Kong.
Executive Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Chairman of the Airport J D Coombe Authority Hong Kong, Chairman of the Council of the Hong Kong University of Science and Age 63.
Non-executive Chairman of Hogg Robinson Technology and a Council Member of the Open Group plc.
A Director of The member of the Group Audit Committee and of the Association of Former Council Members of The Remuneration Committee.
A non-executive Director Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and The of Home Retail Group plc.
A trustee of the Royal Hong Kong International Film Festival Society Academy Trust.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of executive Director and Chief Financial Officer of KPMG Hong Kong from 1996 to 2003.
Awarded the GlaxoSmithKline plc: member of the Supervisory Gold Bauhinia Star by the Hong Kong Government Board of Siemens AG: Chairman of The Hundred in 2008.
Group of Finance Directors and a member of the Accounting Standards Board.
Dr Cheung brings to the Board a wealth of experience in international business and financial Mr Coombe brings to the Board a wealth of accounting, particularly in Greater China and the experience in international business, financial wider Asian economy.
He retired from KPMG Hong accounting and the pharmaceutical industry.
As Kong in 2003 after more than 30 years distinguished Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline he had service with the firm.
He is a Chartered Accountant responsibility for the Groups financial operations and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered globally.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is a Accountants in England and Wales.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
V H C Cheng, GBS, OBE J L Durn Age 60.
Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
A non-executive Director of France since 1 February 2008.
A non-executive Director since 1 January Appointed a Group General Manager in 1995 and a 2008.
Chief Executive of Carrefour SA until 31 Group Managing Director in 2005.
Former appointments at Carrefour HSBC Bank China Company Limited and HSBC SA include: Chairman of its Management Board of Global Asset Management Hong Kong Limited Directors: Chief Financial Officer and Managing and a non-executive Director of HSBC Bank Director, Organisation and Systems.
Australia Limited and HSBC Bank Vietnam Mr Durn brings to the board a background in Limited.
A Director of Great Eagle Holdings international finance, retail and consulting in Limited and a Member of the Exchange Fund developed and emerging markets.
He joined Advisory Committee of the Hong Kong Monetary Carrefour SA in 1991 and held a number of positions Authority.
Vice Chairman of the China Banking within Carrefours businesses in Spain, southern Association.
Appointed a member of the National Europe and the Americas.
Committee of the 11th Chinese Peoples Political Consultative Conference CPPCC, and a senior R A Fairhead adviser to the 11th Beijing Municipal Committee of the CPPCC.
A Director of Swire Pacific Limited Age 47.
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and from 2005 to January 2008.
Awarded the Gold Director of Financial Times Group Limited.
A nonBauhinia Star by the Hong Kong Government executive Director since 2004.
Group Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
A Director of Pearson plc 282 and Chairman of Interactive Data Corporation.
Latin America and the Caribbean from 2006 to July A non-executive Director of The Economist 2007.
Chief Executive Officer, Mexico from 2002 to Newspaper Limited.
Senior Executive Vice-President, Commercial Executive Vice President, Strategy and Group Banking, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. from 1999 to Control of Imperial Chemical Industries plc: and 2002.
Managing Director of The Saudi British Bank Finance Director of Pearson plc.
Mrs Fairhead brings to the Board a wealth of Mr Flockhart is a career banker, being an experience in international industry, publishing, emerging markets specialist with over 30 years finance and general management.
As the former experience with HSBC across Latin America, the Finance Director of Pearson plc she oversaw the day Middle East and Asia.
In 2007 he was honoured with to day running of the finance function and was a CBE in recognition of his services to British directly responsible for global financial reporting business and charitable services and institutions in and control, tax and treasury.
She has a Masters in Mexico.
Business Administration from the Harvard Business School.
Group Managing Director of Li & Fung D J Flint, CBE, Group Finance Director Limited.
Joined HSBC as an executive Director in Chairman of the Corporate Sustainability 1995.
Chairman of HSBC Finance Corporation and a Committee.
Non-executive Deputy Chairman of Director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. A The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation non-executive Director of BP p. l. c. and a member of Limited.
A non-executive Director of Integrated the Consultative Committee of the Large Business Distribution Services Group Limited, Convenience Advisory Board of HM Revenue & Customs and Retail Asia Limited and an independent nonthe Business Government Forum on Tax and executive Director of Shui On Land Limited and Globalisation.
Co-Chairman of the Counterparty VTech Holdings Limited.
Former appointments Risk Management Policy Group III.
Chaired the include: non-executive Director of Bank of Financial Reporting Councils review of the Communications: Chairman of the Hong Kong Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Served on General Chamber of Commerce: the Hong Kong the Accounting Standards Board and the Standards Exporters Association: and the Hong Kong Advisory Council of the International Accounting Committee for the Pacific Economic Cooperation Standards Board from 2001 to 2004.
Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by the partner in KPMG.
Mr Flint has extensive financial experience Mr Fung brings to the Board 30 years particularly in banking, multinational financial experience in running a major international reporting, treasury and securities trading operations.
conglomerate specialising in supply chain In 2006 he was honoured with a CBE in recognition management through the borderless manufacturing of his services to the finance industry.
He is a of global consumer products.
During his leadership member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants the family business of Li & Fung has become one of of Scotland and the Association of Corporate the largest trading companies in Hong Kong with Treasurers and he is a Fellow of The Chartered over 80 offices worldwide.
Chief Executive of Global Banking and Age 57.
Chief Executive Officer of The Hongkong Markets and HSBC Global Asset Management.
An and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and executive Director since 1 May 2008.
Joined HSBC Global Head of Commercial Banking.
Appointed a Group Managing Director in Director since 1 May 2008.
A Director of Appointed a Group Managing Director in 2006.
HSBC Bank plc, HSBC North America Holdings Appointed Vice Chairman and a Director of HSBC Inc. HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA Bank Vietnam Limited on 24 November 2008.
A and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, HSBC Bank Corporation Limited.
Deputy Chairman and member Australia Limited, HSBC Bank China Company of the Supervisory Board of HSBC Trinkaus & Limited and Chairman of HSBC Bank Malaysia Burkhardt AG.
Co-Head of Global Banking and Berhad.
President and Group Managing Director Markets from 2003 to 2006.
Head of Global Markets 283 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Directors from 2002 to 2003.
Head of Treasury and Capital J R Lomax Markets in Asia-Pacific from 1996 to 2002.
Former Deputy Governor, Monetary Mr Gulliver is a career banker with over 28 Stability, at the Bank of England and member of years international experience with HSBC.
He has the Monetary Policy Committee.
A non-executive held a number of key roles in the Groups operations Director since 1 December 2008.
A member of worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, the Group Audit Committee since 1 March 2009.
Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates.
A non-executive director of The Scottish American Global Banking and Markets is the wholesale Investment Company PLC.
Former appointments banking division of the Group with operations in include: Director of the Bank of England from 2003 more than 60 countries and territories.
to 30 June 2008: Serving as Permanent Secretary at the UK Government Departments for Transport and J W J Hughes-Hallett, SBS Work and Pensions and at the Welsh Office: and Vice President and Chief of Staff to the President of Age 59.
Chairman of John Swire & Sons Limited.
A the World Bank from 1995 to 1996. non-executive Director since 2005.
A member of the Group Audit Committee and of the Nomination Ms Lomax brings to the board business Committee.
A non-executive Director of The experience in both the public and private sectors and Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation a deep knowledge of the operation of the UK Limited from 1999 to 2004.
A non-executive government and the financial system.
Director and former Chairman of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Limited.
A Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, KCMG director of China Festival 2008.
Chairman of Anglo American plc.
A nonDulwich Picture Gallery and the Esme Fairbairn executive Director since 2001.
A member of The Hong Kong Remuneration Committee and a member of the Association, the Governing Body of the School of Corporate Sustainability Committee.
A nonOriental and African Studies, University of London executive Director of Accenture Limited and Saudi and of the Governing Board of the Courtauld Aramco.
Chairman of the Global Business Coalition Institute of Art.
Awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star on HIV AIDS and the Global Compact Foundation.
by the Hong Kong Government in 2008.
Former appointments include: Director and Mr Hughes-Hallett brings to the Board a Chairman of The Shell Transport and Trading background in financial accounting and the Company, plc: Chairman of the Committee of management of a broad range of businesses in a Managing Directors of the Royal Dutch Shell Group number of international industries, including of Companies: and a Governor of Nuffield Hospitals.
aviation, property, manufacturing and trading, in the Sir Mark brings to the Board many years United Kingdom, Far East and Australia.
He is a experience of leading global organisations and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in of having worked during his career in nine England and Wales.
He works with many non-governmental organisations to improve companies commitment to W S H Laidlaw socially responsible activities.
Chief Executive Officer of Centrica plc.
A steering committee responsible for driving the global non-executive Director since 1 January 2008.
A governance initiative of the World Economic Forum, member of the Remuneration Committee.
Former an independent foundation committed to developing appointments include: Executive Vice President of a world-class corporate governance system.
Chevron Corporation: independent non-executive Director of Hanson PLC: Chief Executive Officer G Morgan of Enterprise Oil plc: and President and Chief Age 63.
Non-executive chairman of SNC-Lavalin Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation.
Group Inc. A non-executive Director since 2006.
A Mr Laidlaw brings to the Board significant member of the Remuneration Committee.
A member international experience, particularly in the energy of the Board of Trustees of The Fraser Institute and sector, having had responsibility for businesses in the Manning Centre for Building Democracy.
executive Director of HSBC Bank Canada from 1996 to 2006.
Former appointments include: Founding President, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of EnCana Corporation: Director of Alcan Inc. and Lafarge North America, Inc. 284 Mr Morgan brings to the Board a background in J L Thornton technical, operational, financial and management Age 55.
A non-executive Director since 1 December positions and has led large international companies 2008.
Non-executive Chairman and Director of in the energy and engineering sectors.
He has been HSBC North America Holdings Inc since recognised as Canadas most respected Chief 1 December 2008.
Professor and Director of the Executive Officer in a national poll of Chief Global Leadership Program at the Tsinghua Executives.
He is currently a business columnist University School of Economics and Management.
for Canadas largest national newspaper.
Chairman of the Brookings Institution Board of Trustees.
Director of Ford Motor Company, Intel N R N Murthy, CBE Corporation, Inc. News Corporation, Inc. National Age 62.
Chairman and Chief Mentor and former Committee on United States-China Relations and Chief Executive Officer of Infosys Technologies China Unicom Hong Kong Limited.
A non-executive Director since 1 May Asia Society, China Institute and The China Foreign 2008.
A member of the Corporate Sustainability Affairs University.
Member of the Council on Committee.
An independent non-executive Director Foreign Relations, the China Securities Regulatory of Unilever plc and New Delhi Television Limited Commission International Advisory Committee and and a Director of the United Nations Foundation.
A China Reform Forum International Advisory former independent non-executive Director of DBS Committee.
Former appointments include: Director Group Holdings Limited and DBS Bank Limited.
of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited from 2005 until 20 November 2008: and President Mr Murthy brings to the Board experience in Co-Chief Operating Officer of the Goldman Sachs information technology, corporate governance and Group, Inc. from 1999 until 2003. education, particularly in India.
He founded Infosys Technologies Limited in India in 1981 and was its Mr Thornton brings to the Board experience that Chief Executive Officer for 21 years.
Under his bridges developed and developing economies and leadership, Infosys established a global footprint and the public and private sectors.
He has a deep was listed on NASDAQ in 1999.
During his career knowledge of financial services and education he has worked in France and India.
During his 23 year career with Goldman Sachs, he played a key role in S M Robertson, senior independent non-executive the firm's global development and was Chairman of Director Goldman Sachs Asia.
Non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce Sir Brian Williamson, CBE Group plc and the founder member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP.
Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc.
A Director since 2006 and senior independent nonnon-executive Director since 2002.
Chairman of the executive Director since May 2007.
A Director of NYSE the Nomination Committee.
A non-executive Euronext and Climate Exchange plc.
A senior Director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, The adviser to Fleming Family and Partners.
Former Economist Newspaper Limited and Royal Opera appointments include: Chairman of London House, Covent Garden Limited.
A trustee of the International Financial Futures and Options Eden Project Trust and of the Royal Opera House Exchange: Gerrard Group plc: Resolution Life Endowment Fund.
Former appointments include: Group Limited: and non-executive Director of Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International: Resolution plc, the Financial Services Authority and Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
and the Court of The Bank of Ireland.
Mr Robertson brings to the Board a background Sir Brian brings to the board extensive in international corporate advisory with a wealth of experience in futures, options and commodities experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant trading internationally.
He established the London banking, investment banking and financial markets.
International Financial Futures and Options During his career he has worked in France, Exchange in the 1980s and led the Exchanges Germany, the UK and the USA.
development of its electronic trading platform in the mid-1990s.
He is a member of the Guild for International Bankers.
Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director 285
