Economic profit Economic profit decreased by US$14.8 billion to a loss of US$8.2 billion.
Profit attributable fell, while HSBCs internal performance measures include average shareholders equity increased marginally.
economic profit, a calculation which compares the The decline in profit was predominately driven by return on financial capital invested in HSBC by its the US$10.6 billion goodwill impairment charge shareholders with the cost of that capital.
HSBC relating to the North American Personal Financial prices its cost of capital internally and the difference Services business, alongside a significant increase in between that cost and the post-tax profit attributable loan impairment charges and write-downs in credit to ordinary shareholders less goodwill previously trading, leveraged and acquisition finance, and amortised in respect of the French regional banks monoline exposures.
The comparative period sold in 2008 represents the amount of economic included dilution gains of US$1.0 billion excluding profit generated.
Economic profit generated is used minority interests which were not repeated.
These by management as a means of deciding where to effects were partially offset by fair value gains on allocate resources so that they will be most own debt, driven by a widening of credit spreads, of productive.
US$6.6 billion compared with US$3.1 billion in In order to concentrate on external factors rather 2007.
The lower return on average invested capital than measurement bases, HSBC emphasises the trend led to a decrease in economic profit and an erosion in in economic profit ahead of absolute amounts within economic spread, which fell by 11.3 percentage business units.
In order to ensure consistency and points compared with 2007.
Excluding the goodwill comparability with the five-year strategic plan impairment charge, the economic profit spread completed in 2008, the cost of capital on a decreased by 3.6 percentage points compared with consolidated basis remains at 10 per cent.
2 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after: adding back the average balance of goodwill amortised pre-transition to IFRSs or subsequently written-off, directly to reserves less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008 : deducting the average balance of HSBCs revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use.
This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRSs and will run down over time as the properties are sold: deducting average preference shares and other equity instruments issued by HSBC Holdings, and: deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
3 Return on invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company less goodwill previously amortised in respect of the French regional banks sold in 2008.
