The higher delinquency rate risk provisions were US$24.9 billion in 2008, an for prime first lien mortgages was in part due to increase of 45 per cent over 2007, 46 per cent on an lower balances following US$7.0 billion of portfolio underlying basis.
A deterioration in credit quality was Loan impairment charges in the US card and experienced across all customer groups and retail services portfolios rose, again driven by geographical regions as the global economy slowed.
increasing unemployment, portfolio seasoning, The rise in Group loan impairment charges and other higher levels of personal bankruptcy filings and credit risk provisions also reflected an underlying continued weakness in the US economy which was 8 per cent increase in lending to customers most apparent in regions with the most significant excluding the financial sector and settlement declines in house prices and rising unemployment.
Loan impairment charges in Commercial Loan impairment charges rose significantly in Banking in North America more than doubled from the US by 38 per cent to US$16.3 billion, due to a low base in 2007, due to deterioration across the credit quality deterioration across all US portfolios commercial real estate, middle market and corporate in Personal Financial Services.
banking portfolios in the US and, to a lesser extent, In the US consumer lending portfolio, loan higher loan impairment charges against firms in the impairment charges rose as delinquency rates manufacturing, export and commercial real estate deteriorated sharply and the economy declined sectors in Canada.
markedly in the second half of 2008, most notably in In the UK, a modest decline in loan impairment the first lien portfolio.
This was particularly apparent charges in Personal Financial Services reflected the in the geographical regions most affected by house non-recurrence of a methodology change at HFC in price depreciation and rising unemployment rates.
In 2007 which resulted in higher impairment charges.
mortgage services, loan impairment charges rose as Credit quality in the Personal Financial Services 2005 and 2006 vintages matured and moved into the portfolio remained broadly stable, reflecting early later stages of delinquency.
This was partly offset by risk mitigation through the tightening of lending the benefit of lower balances as run-off continued, controls and the sale of non-core credit card albeit at a slowing pace as house price depreciation portfolios during the year.
Credit quality in the restricted refinancing options for customers.
In unsecured portfolios deteriorated slightly in 2008, HSBC USA, loan impairment charges rose as credit particularly in the second half of the year, due to the quality worsened across the real estate secured weakening UK economy.
Loan impairment charges portfolio and private label cards.
Delinquencies rose in the commercial portfolio rose in 2008 as the 34 weakening property market led to higher impairment 2007 compared with 2006 charges against construction companies and Reported loan impairment charges and other credit businesses dependent upon the real estate sector, risk provisions were US$17.2 billion, a 63 per cent particularly in the final quarter of the year.
Impairment charges against banks rose due to some exposure to the Icelandic banks in 2008.
In addition, Loan impairment charges increased by 58 per rising levels of personal indebtedness resulted in cent, reflecting substantially higher losses in the US lower releases and recoveries of charges than in consumer finance loan book, primarily in mortgage 2007. lending, but also in the credit cards portfolio in the final part of the year.
US delinquency rates increased Higher loan impairment and other credit risk during 2007 as falling house prices constrained provisions within Global Banking and Markets in customers ability to refinance their loans.
Europe reflected increased charges against certain corporate accounts and impairment recorded on The rise in Group charges also reflected an available-for-sale debt securities.
underlying 7 per cent increase in lending to customers excluding lending to the financial sector In Mexico, loan impairment charges rose by and settlement accounts.
US$513 million or 69 per cent, primarily in the credit card portfolio.
This was due to a combination In North America, loan impairment charges of higher lending volumes from organic expansion increased by 79 per cent to US$12.2 billion.
The and higher delinquency rates which were driven by main factor driving this deterioration was the impact a deterioration in credit quality as the portfolio of the weaker housing market on both economic continued to season and move into the later stages of activity and the ability of borrowers to extend or delinquency.
Management took action to enhance refinance debt.
In addition, seasoning and mix collection activity and improve the quality of new change within the credit cards portfolio, and business.
Impairment charges in the commercial increases in bankruptcy filings after the portfolio also rose due to credit quality deterioration exceptionally low levels seen in 2006 following among small and medium-sized enterprises as the changes in legislation, added to loan impairment economy weakened.
In Hong Kong, the rise in loan impairment The real estate secured portfolios experienced charges was driven by weakness in parts of the continuing deterioration in credit quality as a lack of export sector within the commercial portfolio in the demand for securitised sub-prime mortgages and second half of 2008.
In Global Banking and Markets, falls in house prices severely restricted refinancing credit impairment charges within Balance Sheet options for many customers.
Loan impairment Management principally reflected losses on debt charges rose by 41 per cent to US$3.1 billion and by securities and paper issued by financial institutions 139 per cent to US$4.1 billion in the mortgage previously rated at investment grade which failed in services business and in consumer lending, the year.
Delinquency rates exceeded recent historical trends, particularly for those loans In Rest of Asia-Pacific, the growth in loan originated in 2005 and 2006.
Performance was impairment charges reflected a combination of the weakest in housing markets which had previously expansion of consumer lending and credit quality experienced the steepest home price appreciation, as deterioration in India and the Middle East.
In well as in second lien products and stated income addition, higher impairment charges in Commercial products.
Banking were driven by a deterioration in credit quality in the second half of the year.
US card services experienced an increase in loan impairment charges from a combination of growth in For the Group as a whole, the aggregate balances, higher losses in the final part of the year as outstanding customer loan impairment allowances the economy slowed, a rise in bankruptcy rates to at 31 December 2008 of US$23.9 billion represented near historical levels, and a shift in portfolio mix to 2.6 per cent of gross customer advances net of higher levels of non-prime loans.
reverse repos and settlement accounts, compared with 2.0 per cent at the end of 2007.
In the UK, loan impairment charges rose, primarily in the consumer finance business.
Delinquency rates on mortgages in the UK offered through HSBC Finance remained stable throughout 2007, with delinquency rates for loans offered in 2006 and 2007 lower than in the preceding two 35
