HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Personal lending At 31 December 2008, HSBC had in-country practicable of all new receivable originations of all foreign currency and cross-border amounts products by the branch-based consumer lending outstanding to counterparties in Japan of between business of HSBC Finance in North America see 0.75 per cent and 1.0 per cent of total assets: in page 70. aggregate, US$24.4 billion.
Various underwriting controls are applied At 31 December 2007, HSBC had in-country before a loan is issued, and delinquency is managed foreign currency and cross-border amounts through collection and customer management outstanding to counterparties in Hong Kong, procedures.
The expected occurrence and degree of Belgium and Ireland of between 0.75 per cent and delinquency varies according to the type of loan 1.0 per cent of total assets.
The aggregate inand the customer segment.
Delinquency levels tend country foreign currency and cross-border amounts to increase in the normal course of portfolio ageing.
outstanding were Hong Kong, US$19.7 billion, As a result, loan impairment charges usually relate Belgium, US$19.3 billion and Ireland, to lending originated in earlier accounting periods.
As discussed in Challenges and Uncertainties At 31 December 2006, HSBC had in-country on page 12, rising unemployment has been the foreign currency and cross-border amounts major factor in the deterioration in credit quality of outstanding to counterparties in Australia and Hong personal lending portfolios in 2008.
Further Kong of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of weakening in consumers confidence and capacity total assets.
The aggregate in-country foreign to service financial commitments may result in currency and cross-border amounts outstanding deteriorating payment patterns and increased were Australia, US$17.1 billion, Hong Kong, delinquencies and default rates and, as a US$13.9 billion.
consequence, higher loan impairment allowances and write-offs.
HSBC monitors the effect of these Areas of special interest factors on its personal lending portfolios and keeps under review a range of measures designed to limit Personal lending the Groups exposure and mitigate the effect on Unaudited customers.
HSBC provides a broad range of secured and Loan impairment allowances are sensitive to unsecured personal lending products to meet changes in the level of unemployment, particularly customer needs.
Given the diverse nature of the at the current time in North America, which affects markets in which HSBC operates, the range is not customers future ability to repay their loans.
For standardised across all countries but is tailored to example, had there been an additional 1 per cent meet the demands of individual markets while increase in unemployment in North America, loan using appropriate distribution channels and, impairment allowances could have been higher by wherever possible, common global IT platforms.
between US$0.7 billion and US$1.5 billion as at Personal lending includes advances to 31 December 2008.
The relationship between customers for asset purchase, such as residential changes in unemployment and loan impairment property and motor vehicles, where the loans are charges cannot be predicted with any degree of typically secured on the assets being acquired.
For example, sharp increases in HSBC also offers loans secured on existing assets, unemployment may not have a linear impact on the such as first and second liens on residential level of increase in loan impairment charges.
property: unsecured lending products such as Please refer to page 205 for further analysis of overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans: and debt gross loans and advances by region and pages 34 consolidation loans which may be secured or and 229 for discussion of loan impairment charges unsecured.
At the end of February 2009, HSBC and other credit risk provisions.
The commentary that follows is on a constant real estate secured portfolios contributed to these currency basis.
At 31 December 2008, total personal lending Other personal lending in the US fell by 11 per was US$440 billion, a decline of 3 per cent from the cent to US$90 billion as a result of actions taken by balance at 31 December 2007.
In 2008, personal HSBC since 2007 to reduce risk in the portfolio, lending accounted for 85 per cent of the Groups including the elimination of guaranteed direct mail loan impairment charges and other credit risk loans to new customers, the discontinuance of provisions.
Within personal lending, total loan personal homeowner loans and a general tightening impairment charges and other credit risk provisions of underwriting criteria.
Card balances declined by of US$21.2 billion were concentrated in North 5 per cent to US$47 billion as HSBC reduced credit America US$16.1 billion and, to a lesser extent, in lines, closed dormant accounts and curtailed Latin America US$2.1 billion and Europe marketing expenditure, which together lowered US$2.0 billion.
These loan impairment charges originations in line with HSBCs reduced appetite represented, respectively, 39 per cent, 5 per cent and for risk in this segment at this time.
5 per cent of each regions total Personal Financial Motor vehicle finance loans in the US fell by Services net operating income before loan 18 per cent to US$11 billion, again reflecting impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
reduced risk appetite and lower origination.
In July, Total US personal lending at 31 December 2008 the decision was taken to discontinue all new motor was 15 per cent less than at the end of 2007, at vehicle loan originations from the dealer and directUS$171 billion, as HSBCs strategy to run off its to-consumer channels within the North America existing portfolio and improve credit quality on new vehicle finance business of HSBC Finance as originations took effect.
Residential mortgage management determined that the business was subbalances fell by 18 per cent to US$81 billion, driven scale and did not have sufficient market strength to by decisions taken in 2007 to end new correspondent provide an acceptable level of risk-adjusted returns.
channel originations in Mortgage Services and limit In the UK, gross loans and advances to personal new originations in the consumer lending business customers rose by 14 per cent to US$108 billion, due through tighter underwriting standards.
Portfolio to strong growth in residential mortgage lending run-off, charge-off of impaired loans and the sale of following successful campaigns during 2008 at US$8.2 billion of loans during 2008 from the US HSBC Bank and First Direct.
Other personal lending 209 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Mortgage lending declined by 11 per cent to US$29 billion, driven by UK offer a range of products predominantly lower originations, reduced marketing activities and designed for the needs of customers with nonlower customer appetite for unsecured borrowing.
standard or less favourable credit profiles.
Offset Credit quality in the unsecured portfolios of M&S mortgages are products linked to a current or savings Money, HSBC Bank and Partnership Cards in the account, where the interest earned is used to repay UK showed a slight deterioration in 2008, mortgage debt.
particularly in the second half of the year, due to the weakening UK economy.
US mortgage lending In Latin America, in response to rising US mortgage lending, comprising residential impairment charges and the weaker economic mortgage and second lien lending, made up 22 per conditions, HSBC moderated loan growth from that cent of the Groups gross loans and advances to achieved in the previous year, with gross loans and personal customers at 31 December 2008. advances to personal customers rising by 11 per cent Balances declined by 18 per cent from to US$20 billion compared with 31 per cent in 2007.
31 December 2007, as the Mortgage Services Loan impairment charges were 20 per cent higher in portfolio continued to run-off and tighter Brazil but 57 per cent higher in Mexico following underwriting standards were applied to originations strong growth in recent years in lending portfolio for the consumer lending portfolio.
As the bulk of seasoning and credit deterioration.
As a consequence the mortgage lending products sold in the US of this experience, in Mexico, HSBCs other consumer lending branch network are for refinancing personal lending balances at 31 December 2008 and debt consolidation, rather than for house were US$3.7 billion, 1 per cent lower than at purchase, the limited availability of home equity 31 December 2007 as management realigned the severely restricts the number of eligible customers.
business towards customers of higher credit quality.
As a consequence, HSBC began the process of repositioning its consumer lending business in 2008, Mortgage lending products reducing exposure to lower tiers of sub-prime credit Unaudited and expanding its range of lending for real estate The Group offers a wide range of mortgage products loans to include both government-sponsored entity designed to meet customer needs, including capital and conforming loan products.
At the end of repayment mortgages subject to fixed or variable February 2009, HSBC authorised the discontinuation interest rates and products designed to meet demand as soon as practicable of all new receivable for housing loans with more flexible payment originations of all products by the branch-based structures.
HSBC underwrites both first lien consumer lending business of HSBC Finance in residential mortgages and loans secured by second North America see page 70. lien mortgages.
Mortgage lending in HSBC USA also declined, Interest-only mortgages are those for which following a series of management actions to reduce customers make regular payments of interest during risk in the portfolio.
These included closing the the life of the loan and repay the principal from the prime wholesale and third-party correspondent sale of their home or alternative sources of funds.
mortgage business in November 2008, selling Introductory interest-only mortgages are typically US$7.0 billion in loans during 2008, and continuing where the interest-only element is for a fixed term at to sell newly originated residential mortgages to the the start of the loan, after which principal US government-sponsored mortgage agencies.
Affordability mortgage balances in HSBC Affordability mortgages include all products Finance declined from US$19 billion at where the customers monthly payments are set at 31 December 2007 to US$14 billion at 31 December a low initial rate, either variable or fixed, before 2008.
These mortgages continued to experience the resetting to a higher rate once the introductory heightened levels of delinquency that began to period is over.
These include adjustable-rate emerge in late 2006.
They are no longer originated mortgages ARMs, loans on which the interest through the consumer lending branch network.
In rate is periodically changed based on a reference aggregate, HSBC Finances mortgage balances price.
HSBC Finance no longer originates or declined to US$74 billion at 31 December 2008 acquires interest-only loans or ARMs.
31 December 2007: US$87 billion as set out in the table on page 211.
Within this, the portfolio of Affordability mortgages are primarily offered in real estate secured business originated through the the US and the UK.
Under the HFC and Beneficial branch network was US$46 billion at 31 December brands, HSBC Finance and HFC Bank Ltd HFC 210 2008, of which approximately 95 per cent were Further discussion of credit trends in the US fixed rate loans and 87 per cent were first lien.
At mortgage lending portfolio and management actions 31 December 2008, the mortgage services business taken to mitigate risk is provided in US personal had approximately 250,000 accounts and lending credit quality on page 212.
US$28 billion in balances outstanding.
Approximately 59 per cent were fixed rate loans and 84 per cent were first lien.
2 Restated to show HSBC Finance management basis, consistent with the current year, and US balances only.
3 Stated income lending forms a subset of total mortgage services lending across all categories.
UK mortgage lending majority of lending is to existing customers holding a current or savings account relationship with the Mortgage lending in the UK rose significantly in bank.
At 31 December 2008, less than 2 per cent of 2008 and overall credit quality was maintained the banks book consisted of lending to purchase despite a significant deterioration in the housing property for rent to third parties, for which the bank market.
The withdrawal of many competitors from applies higher collateral requirements.
the market and the consequent repricing of mortgage products allowed HSBC Bank to expand its share of In the UK, affordability mortgages have the new lending market while staying within its experienced relatively low levels of delinquency, targeted customer segments.
In December 2008, reflecting the different credit profiles of the HSBC announced that it will make available up to customers, compared with those in the US, and the US$22 billion of new UK residential mortgages in tighter underwriting criteria.
Interest-only mortgage balances rose from Total mortgage lending in the UK rose US$22 billion at 31 December 2007 to from US$64 billion at 31 December 2007 to US$32 billion at 31 December 2008, driven by an US$80 billion at 31 December 2008.
This was increase in balances at First Direct.
The majority of driven by the success of the RateMatcher mortgage these mortgages were offset mortgages linked to a campaign in the first half of 2008 in generating current account and are classified as interest-only.
new business, and an increase at First Direct due Second lien balances, which were all held to growth in offset mortgage lending following a by HFC UK, declined by US$770 million to similarly successful campaign.
US$1.2 billion at 31 December 2008 due to run-off The maintenance of good credit quality in and severely tighter underwriting criteria.
In the first difficult market conditions is attributable to the half of 2008, HFC UK ceased originating loans business model pursued by HSBC in the UK.
Bank originates virtually all new business through its The credit quality of the UK mortgage portfolio own salesforce and does not rely on business remained broadly stable as a consequence of the introduced through third parties.
Also, HSBC does business model and underwriting criteria described not allow customer self-certification of income.
The 211 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Mortgage lending US personal lending above.
Additionally, HSBC Bank is now benefiting At HSBC Bank, 30 days or more delinquency from having intentionally reduced its market share in rates were unchanged from 31 December 2007 to 2006 and 2007 as property prices continued to rise.
The portion of mortgages with a loan to value ratio The following table shows the levels of greater than 90 per cent declined as virtually no new mortgage lending products in the various portfolios loans were originated at this level.
The average loan in the US and the UK, together with the rest of the to value ratio for new business in 2008 was 58.7 per HSBC Group.
cent, the lowest for 5 years.
2 Loan to value ratios are generally based on values at origination date.
3 Balances at 31 December 2007 have been restated to exclude mortgages in the UK that are fixed for a period of time before reverting to a standard variable rate.
US personal lending credit quality personal lending portfolio as the economy Unaudited weakened, levels of unemployment and personal bankruptcy filings rose, and house price depreciation The deterioration in credit quality which began in the became more pronounced the S&P Case-Shiller sub-prime mortgage portfolio in 2006 accelerated in 10-City Composite Index of house prices showed a 2008 and spread across the remainder of the US 212 decline of 19 per cent in 2008.
These factors branch network rose most rapidly in those states restricted the ability of many customers to refinance most severely affected by continued house price and access equity retained in their homes.
depreciation and rising unemployment, particularly in California, Florida, New York, Virginia, Two months or more delinquencies in Maryland, New Jersey, Illinois, Pennsylvania, mortgages originated through the HSBC Finance Massachusetts and Ohio.
2 HSBC Finance lending is shown on a management basis and includes loans transferred to HSBC USA Inc, which are managed by HSBC Finance.
In the US real estate secured portfolios, two Residential mortgages months and over contractual delinquency ratios at The unprecedented turmoil in the mortgage lending the end of 2008 were higher across the portfolio market continued in 2008.
Investors remained than during 2007 and the first half of 2008, for unwilling to purchase securitised credit, and this the reasons described above.
There was also a resulted in a sharp contraction in the supply of significant effect on delinquency ratios from liquidity to the mortgage market.
As the portfolios aged, fewer refinancing options were available for outstanding balances fell as new lending in certain customers as house prices fell and housing equity portfolios ceased, risk mitigation efforts and changes declined, a number of market participants exited the to product offerings which began in 2007 and sub-prime mortgage industry, and the remaining continued in 2008 resulted in lower originations providers tightened their underwriting criteria.
and US$8.2 billion in mortgage portfolios were sold during the year.
Equity withdrawal had been the principal source of credit available to sub-prime borrowers dealing Both dollar and percentage two months and over with unforeseen financial needs.
With this source of contractual delinquency in the real estate secured funds heavily restricted, consumers faced increasing portfolios of HSBC Finance and HSBC USA difficulty in maintaining their contractual payment increased following a voluntary one month schedules as they confronted the challenges of rising suspension of final court proceedings in foreclosure unemployment and increases in the costs of living, cases relating to owner-occupied properties, particularly in the first half of the year.
implemented in December 2008, which was in Compounding the situation, mortgage interest rates addition to actions taken by a number of states to remained high for much of 2008 as credit spreads on slow foreclosure proceedings.
Within these interbank lending widened due to the turmoil in the portfolios, dollar delinquencies rose sharply in 2008 global financial system.
as credit quality in the consumer lending portfolio, most notably for first lien products, and in mortgage The increase in delinquency rates was services, continued to deteriorate, particularly in the accompanied by a rise in loss severities as falling second half of the year.
In mortgage services, the house prices led to a reduction in the amounts rise in the fourth quarter of 2008 was despite lower recoverable from foreclosure and repossession.
balances following portfolio run-off and the sale of These factors were partly offset by a decline in portfolios during the year, and was partly caused by lending balances as HSBC continued to manage the above-mentioned action on foreclosure.
213 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest US personal lending Loan delinquency in US Second lien loans have a risk profile The branch-based consumer lending business characterised by higher loan-to-value ratios because, continued to experience rising delinquency levels, in many cases, the second lien loan was taken out to particularly on first lien loans in the states most complete the refinancing or purchase of the property.
exposed to falling house prices and rising For HSBC Finance second lien mortgages, the unemployment: 63 per cent of the increase in proportion of customers two months or more behind amounts of two months or more contractual on contractual payments rose from 11.2 per cent at delinquency was concentrated in the ten states noted 31 December 2007 to 15.9 per cent at 31 December above.
Delinquencies rose across all vintages, with 2008.
Loss on default of second lien loans typically the most pronounced increase for first lien loans approaches 100 per cent of the amount owed as any extended in 2006 and 2007.
This trend was equity in the property is applied initially to the first experienced across the rest of the industry in the US.
lien loan, particularly during periods of house price Two months or more delinquencies rose from 4.2 per depreciation when its value is eroded to the point cent of loans and advances at 31 December 2007 to where there is no surplus available to support the 12.1 per cent at 31 December 2008 and delinquent repayment of second liens.
balances increased to US$5.6 billion.
In this environment, HSBC took additional measures to Stated-income mortgages, which represented a tighten underwriting standards, including reducing small part of the HSBC Finance loan book, also the loan to value ratio for residential mortgages, continued to decline.
These mortgages are of higher ceasing to underwrite certain products and raising than average risk as they are underwritten on the the credit requirements for certain risk factors.
As a basis of borrowers representations of annual income result, originations declined to 38 per cent of the and are not verified by receipt of supporting levels recorded in 2007. documentation.
These loan balances declined from US$8.3 billion at 31 December 2007 to At HSBC USA, delinquencies rose as credit US$5.7 billion at 31 December 2008.
Two months or quality deterioration was experienced across the real more delinquency rates on stated-income loans rose estate secured portfolio, driven by house price from 19.0 per cent at 31 December 2007 to 27.7 per depreciation and the US economic weakness.
The percentage rise was Delinquency rates of prime first lien mortgages primarily attributable to lower balances and portfolio were also affected by the sale of US$7.0 billion of ageing as the portfolio continued to run off.
mortgage portfolios during the year.
Originations declined as HSBCs risk appetite in the US reduced.
In the mortgage services business, credit quality Two months or more delinquencies in prime first continued to deteriorate as 2005 and 2006 vintages lien mortgages rose from 1.1 per cent at continued to season and move into later stages of 31 December 2007 to 3.4 per cent at 31 December delinquency as economic conditions worsened.
2008, and in second lien mortgages from 1.8 per cent Amounts of two months or more delinquency in to 3.5 per cent over the same period, on a mortgage services rose by 9 per cent during the year management basis.
The rise in delinquency was to US$4.7 billion at 31 December 2008.
These appreciably worse in third-party originations and, in represented an increased proportion of a reducing response, HSBC USA closed its wholesale and thirdportfolio, rising from 11.9 per cent to 17.0 per cent.
party correspondent mortgage business in November An increase in foreclosures in process during the 2008, curtailed certain stated-income mortgage fourth quarter, arising from a voluntary one month products, tightened underwriting criteria and sold suspension of final court proceedings in foreclosure US$7.0 billion of mortgage portfolios during 2008. cases relating to owner occupied properties, As a result, stated-income mortgage balances implemented in December 2008 and the actions declined from US$2.4 billion at 31 December 2007 taken by a number of states to slow foreclosure to US$2.2 billion at 31 December 2008. proceedings, affected total lending in mortgage services at 31 December 2008.
HSBC has been proactive in approaching customers to provide financial assistance in HSBC undertook several actions during 2008 to restructuring their debts to avoid foreclosure and, as reposition HSBC Finance, including closure of more a result, HSBC has restructured and modified loans than 200 consumer lending branches, reducing the that it believes could be serviced on revised terms.
network to approximately 800 branches, and For further details, see US loan modifications on tightening credit criteria for originations.
These page 216. actions followed the decisions taken in 2007 to cease purchasing mortgages from third-party The aggregate balances of loans which reached correspondents and to close the wholesale business, their first interest rate reset continued to decline in Decision One, in September 2007, thereby ending 2008.
As interest rates fall, the effect of the reset on new originations for the mortgage services business.
214 Credit cards from the dealer and direct-to-consumer channels, having earlier terminated a number of dealer US credit card portfolio two or more months relationships, particularly in the Northeast of the US.
delinquencies rose from 5.7 per cent at 31 December 2007 to 6.6 per cent at 31 December 2008.
In the Other personal lending private label cards portfolio, two or more months delinquencies rose from 3.4 per cent at 31 December Higher delinquency rates were experienced in the 2007 to 4.3 per cent at 31 December 2008.
Higher HSBC Finance unsecured lending portfolio, delinquency rates in both portfolios were driven by excluding credit cards.
The increase was driven by continued deterioration in the US economy, a deterioration in credit quality due to the weakness significantly higher unemployment rates, portfolio in the US economy, combined with portfolio seasoning and higher levels of personal bankruptcy seasoning as the lending book aged.
declined due to tightened credit criteria which resulted in lower originations.
Management actions Motor vehicle finance were taken in 2007 and continued in 2008 to reduce risk in the portfolio including the tightening of Two months or more delinquencies in vehicle underwriting criteria.
finance rose from 3.7 per cent at 31 December 2007 to 5.0 per cent at 31 December 2008, in part due to The following tables provide a detailed analysis portfolio ageing following the decision in July 2008 of loan delinquency in the US.
