Winning organisation Our business spans some 180 markets and employs more than 50,000 people worldwide.
We work hard to ensure we have the right employees and work environment to drive our strategy and deliver results.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 24 Business review Performance and strategy Image: Employees in discussion at our global head office in London.
We believe that engaged and committed employees at every level of the business are critical to achieving business results and to delivering our Winning organisation strategy.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 25 Business review Winning organisation Ensuring we have the right people and the right work environment to deliver our vision.
We have robust recruitment and performance management processes and competitive remuneration policies in place to attract, develop and retain the right talent.
Developing talent Our accelerated global Management We aim to develop leaders Trainee programme enables many of at all levels, who have a clear our graduate recruits to go on quickly vision for the business and to senior leadership roles and helps will energise those around provide us with a sustainable pool of them.
culture that embraces change and innovation is also central As in previous years, around 1,000 to our strategy, together of our people attended our in-house with attracting, growing and international management development retaining talent and ensuring programmes in 2008. continuous improvement We continue to monitor our succession throughout the Group.
plans and talent pools via our internal audit process and talent reviews.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 26 Business review Performance and strategy go online at www.
com annualreport2008 90% Employee response rate in our 2008 Your Voice opinion survey Our reputation as an employer Employee engagement Your Voice During 2008, with the help of We believe that engaged and To help us measure our progress, independent research consultants committed employees at every level we collect views from employees IMRB International, we conducted of the business are critical to achieving themselves.
Our largest employee extensive research amongst current and excellent business results and to delivering opinion survey is Your Voice, which prospective employees in 14 countries our Winning organisation strategy.
involves all our employees internationally, to try to capture what makes us unique at every level of the business.
We encourage employees to contribute as an employer, and to help us better to individual discussions, team briefings, Your Voice is conducted every 2 years communicate these attributes.
publications, internal blogs and surveys, and was run in late 2008.
Response This process provided insights into and we work to create an environment rates are usually very high and some expectations of employers in general where employees feel they can speak 90 per cent of employees took part and British American Tobaccos honestly about our company and the in the latest survey.
desirability as an employer in particular.
issues of importance to them.
Benchmarking Building on the research findings, we We also carry out a twice-yearly global Your Voice is conducted independently have defined a theme of Bring Your communications cascade to support by Towers Perrin ISR, a specialist Difference that will now become the timely and relevant business briefings company that benchmarks employee underlying message of our recruitment between leaders and their teams.
opinion within British American Tobacco campaigns internationally and will help against a comparator group of other us describe British American Tobacco as Fast Moving Consumer Goods FMCG an organisation that: companies.
Many of the companies in this group e. g. Diageo, Nestl, Cocabrings together people from diverse Cola and Danone also appear in the cultures and backgrounds who have peer group of FMCG companies used new ideas and experiences: to assess our performance in the long values individuality and empowers term incentive plan see page 71. people to excel: supports employees with strong systems and inspiring leaders: enables employees to contribute to communities where we operate: and ensures that our people feel appreciated for the difference they bring.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 27 Business review Winning organisation Your Voice survey 2008 British American Tobacco vs. ISR global FMCG companies norm Categories Favourable scores Differences from benchmark Corporate responsibility 80 7 Efficiency and productivity 68 7 Developing talent 63 7 Performance and reward 58 7 Strategic leadership 76 6 Innovation 68 6 Engagement 77 5 Communication and information 72 4 People leadership 71 4 Guiding principles 69 4 Managing growth and change 61 4 0 25 50 75 100 -10 0 10 Differences from benchmark bars indicate a statistically significant difference 2008 survey results Employees everywhere will have been The high-level category results for the Since the last survey in 2006, we have affected by these changes and we will 2008 survey are shown above.
Our successfully managed a huge amount look closely at the survey results to gauge employees have rated us higher than of change, from factory closures to large how our people feel about the way the norm against the comparator group scale acquisitions and re-organisations we have managed changes and their of companies in all 11 categories, from in many of our regions.
impact on the future of the business.
Developing talent 7 per cent higher to Managing growth and change 4 per cent higher.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 28 Business review Performance and strategy go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR 87% LWCIR: Lost workday cases through injury x 200,000 total hours worked From 2006, the figure Of Your Voice respondents proud 08 0.40 includes cases of assault as to be associated with our business 07 0.39 well as accidents.
06 0.42 05 0.49 04 0.48 03 0.55 Challenges ahead We are committed to a work environment The real benefit of Your Voice comes free from harassment, bullying and from our response to it.
We do not discriminate be discussing the findings further with against people with disabilities who employees globally, regionally and apply for jobs, and they get the same locally and devising action plans.
opportunities for promotion, training and career development as other staff.
In particular, the 2008 survey has pointed to the need to inform our Employment Principles employees more about current business Our Employment Principles set out performance, to bring about more our commitment to good employment Learning from Your Voice integration of our information systems practices and workplace related human Our survey in 2008 showed that and to be more adept at pursuing and rights.
The Principles are available to our people understand the Groups exploiting local business opportunities.
com and vision and strategy, and we remain our intranet.
All our companies have Employee share ownership ahead of external benchmarks on committed to the Employment We continue to encourage employee pay and benefits.
Principles and are required to share ownership through the provision demonstrate that they are embedding In all 11 categories of the survey, of employee share plans, including them in the workplace and encouraging employee opinion at British Sharesave, the Partnership Share key suppliers to meet similar standards.
American Tobacco was more Scheme and the Share Reward Scheme.
Adherence is monitored through our positive than in the other FMCG Work environment audit process.
companies in the Towers Perrin ISR We measure how well we create a benchmark group.
safe place to work by using the Lost There are some areas we need to Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR.
For example, as we move The 2008 LWCIR was 0.40, an increase towards more regional and area from 0.39 in 2007 largely due to structures, people think access to the 2 acquisitions.
The highest information and the integration proportions of injuries were slips and of IT systems is now more critical.
trips at 26.6 per cent 21 per cent in 2007, manual activity at 21 per cent 87 per cent of the respondents 9 per cent in 2007 and vehicle related were proud to be associated with at 17.3 per cent 26 per cent in 2007. our business and 90 per cent Entrapment accidents were reduced to indicated that they understood 9.8 per cent compared with 24 per cent how their role contributed to in 2007. achieving the Groups strategy.
The 2008 survey showed that 82 per cent of respondents would recommend British American Tobacco as a good place to work.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 29 Business review
