Regional and financial review 21% Latin America of Group volume Strong revenue and profit growth were the results of an improved product mix, driven by the growth in the Global Drive Brands and exchange rate benefits.
Mark Cobben Director, Latin America and Caribbean Profit in Latin America increased by In Chile, volumes were slightly up with 78 million to 759 million, mainly as the strong growth of Kent and Lucky 147 billion a result of an excellent performance in Strike, while profit was higher due to Brazil and exchange rate movements.
price increases and product mix Volumes At constant rates of exchange, profit benefits, partially offset by higher 2% would have increased by 25 million marketing investment.
Volumes were down In Venezuela, volumes were lower 2 per cent at 147 billion after declines following high excise-driven price in Mexico and Venezuela.
2,246 million increases in the last quarter of 2007 In Brazil, profit grew strongly, benefiting and price rises in 2008.
Increased illicit Revenue 13% from higher margins, an improved trade resulted in a lower market share, product mix and a stronger local adversely affecting profit.
Market share increased on Volumes in the Central America and volumes in line with last year.
Leaf Caribbean area were down as a result 759 million export results improved substantially, of lower industry volumes and the benefiting from higher volumes, higher Profit resurgence in illicit trade.
However, pricing and the appreciation of the 11% profit increased as margins improved US dollar.
and the local currencies strengthened.
Volumes in Mexico were lower, resulting in a reduced market share.
A price increase in January was not sufficient to fully recover the earlier excise increase and, combined with higher marketing investment behind the GDBs, resulted in a reduced profit.
In Argentina, profit rose mainly as a result of a stronger local currency.
Higher margins and an improved product mix, due to the good performance of Lucky Strike, were offset by higher variable costs and higher salaries due to inflationary pressures.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 41 Business review
