Directors report Introduction The Annual Report is published on www.
A printed The Directors present their report and the audited financial copy is mailed to shareholders on the UK main register who statements for the Group and the Company for the year have elected to receive it.
Otherwise, such shareholders are ended 31 December 2008.
A report from the Directors on notified that the Annual Report is available on the website corporate governance is set out in the Corporate governance and will, at the time of that notification, receive a short statement and the Remuneration Committee report is in the Performance Summary which sets out an overview of the Remuneration report.
Groups performance, headline facts and figures and key dates in the Companys financial calendar as well as a Notice Business review of Annual General Meeting and Proxy Form.
Specific local The Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 require the Company mailing and or notification requirements will apply to to set out in this report the development and performance shareholders on the South African branch register.
of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2008, including an analysis of the position of Principal activities the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description British American Tobacco p. l. c. is a holding company which of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
owns, directly or indirectly, investments in the numerous companies constituting the British American Tobacco Group The table below sets out the information relevant to the of companies.
The principal subsidiaries and associates are Directors report including the information that fulfils the listed on the Principal subsidiary undertakings and Principal Business review requirements that may be found in the other associate undertakings pages.
All subsidiary undertakings sections of the Annual Report.
All the information detailed in are involved in activities directly or indirectly related to these sections is incorporated by reference into this Directors the manufacture, distribution or sale of tobacco products.
report and is deemed to form part of this report: Group results and dividends Information Location in Annual Report 2008 The Group results are addressed fully in the financial statements Chief Executives review Business review and in the Business review.
The Board recommends to Our strategy Business review shareholders a final dividend of 61.6p per ordinary share including environmental, social, of 25p for the year ended 31 December 2008.
If approved community and employee matters by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on covering employee involvement 30 April 2009, the dividend will be payable on 6 May 2009 and employment of disabled persons to shareholders registered on either the UK main register or the new South African branch register on 13 March 2009 the Key Group risk factors Business review record date.
The ex-dividend trading dates are 9 March 2009 Regional and financial review Business review on the JSE Limited JSE and 11 March 2009 on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
As the Group reports in sterling, Directors responsibilities in relation Responsibility of Directors dividends are declared and payable in sterling except for to the financial statements: shareholders on the branch register in South Africa whose Directors declaration in relation dividends are payable in rand.
to relevant audit information: Directors responsibility statement A rate of exchange of :R 14.32310 as at 24 February 2009 the closing rate for that date as quoted on Bloomberg, results Directors interests in shares Remuneration report in an equivalent final dividend of 882.30296 SA cents per including share options and ordinary share.
From the close of business on 6 March 2009 deferred shares until the close of business on 13 March 2009, no transfers Research and development Business review between the UK main register and the South African branch register are permitted and no shares may be dematerialised Share capital employee share Remuneration report or rematerialised between 9 March 2009 and 13 March 2009, plan voting rights both days inclusive.
This Directors report has been drawn up and is presented Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2008 in accordance with, and reliance upon, applicable English with 2007 comparatives are given in note 8. company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 56 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Annual General Meeting Directors interests and indemnities The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Mermaid Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, Conference & Events Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, remuneration and their interests in the shares of the Company London EC4V 3DB at 11.30am on 30 April 2009.
Details of including interests in share options and deferred shares as at the business to be proposed at the meeting are contained 31 December 2008 are given in the Remuneration report.
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is sent to No Director had any material interest in a contract of all shareholders and is also published on www.
significance other than a service contract with the Company Directors or any subsidiary company during the year.
Details of the The following persons are the current Directors of the Company: Executive Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors, their emoluments Chairman and share interests including interests in share-based payments Jan du Plessis are given in the Remuneration report.
Executive Directors The Companys practice has always been to indemnify Paul Adams Chief Executive its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Ben Stevens Finance Director Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under Non-Executive Directors which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, Sir Nicholas Scheele Senior Independent Director in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and Karen fide Segundo to the maximum extent permitted by law, in respect of all Robert Lerwill costs, charges, expenses or liabilities, which they may incur Ana Maria Llopis in or about the execution of their duties to the Company, Christine Morin-Postel or any entity which is an associated company as defined Anthony Ruys in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or as a result of Thys Visser duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Company or any such associated company.
Nicandro Durante was appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer on 1 January 2008.
Paul Rayner ceased to Going concern be Finance Director with effect from the conclusion of the The Groups business activities, together with the factors Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008.
Ben Stevens was likely to affect its future development, performance and appointed to the Board with effect from 3 March 2008 and position are set out in the Business review.
The financial succeeded Paul Rayner as Finance Director on 30 April 2008. position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, Kenneth Clarke Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent facilities and borrowing position are described in the Director also retired as a Director at the conclusion of the Financial review and notes 21 and 24 in the Notes on the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008.
Sir Nicholas accounts provide further detail on the Groups borrowings Scheele, a Non-Executive Director, became Senior and management of financial risks.
The Key Group risk factors Independent Director on 1 May 2008. include an analysis of financial risk and the Groups approach to financial risk management.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Directors named below retire from the Board at the forthcoming The Group has at the date of the report, sufficient existing Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves financing available for its estimated requirements for the for reappointment: Paul Adams: Jan du Plessis: Robert Lerwill: next twelve months.
This, together with its proven ability to and Sir Nicholas Scheele.
generate cash from trading activities, the performance of the Groups Global Drive Brands, its leading market positions in Thys Visser, a Non-Executive Director since 2001, will retire a number of countries and its broad geographical spread, from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General as well as numerous contracts with established customers Meeting on 30 April 2009.
The Company is looking to recruit and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries, at least 1 further Non-Executive Director to the Board.
provides the Directors with the confidence that the Group is Biographical and related information about the Directors well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite is given on the Board of Directors and Management Board the current financial conditions and uncertain outlook in the pages and will also be given in the Secretarys letter in the general global economy.
Notice of Annual General Meeting for those Directors who are offering themselves for reappointment.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 57 Directors report and accounts Directors report continued After reviewing the Groups annual budget, plans and code BTI, came into effect from the commencement of financing arrangements, the Directors consider that the trading on the JSE on 28 October 2008.
Group has adequate resources to continue operating for The Restructurings resulted in around 90 per cent of the the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate combined shareholding of CFR and Remgro or around to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 27 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company the Annual Report.
being distributed to their shareholders, with the remaining Auditors 10 per cent or around 3 per cent of the issued share capital Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company being retained by Reinet Investments to reappoint  LLP as the Companys S. C. A. Reinet, a listed Luxembourg investment company.
auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their The distributions, which took place in November 2008, remuneration.
The Audit Committee will recommend the were followed by a rights issue by Reinet in December 2008, appropriate level of fees to the Board following its annual which could be subscribed to using the Companys shares.
assessment as set out on the Corporate governance pages.
The residual Reinet shareholding in the Company is shown in Significant shareholders below.
Share capital As at 31 December 2008, the Company had: As at 23 February 2009, the latest practicable date prior to publication, 231,499,893 ordinary shares of the Company 1 an authorised share capital comprising 2,858,265,349 being 11.6 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share ordinary shares of 25p each with an aggregate nominal value capital excluding treasury shares were on its South African of 714.57 million and 241,734,651 convertible redeemable branch register.
preference shares CRPS of 25p each with an aggregate nominal value of 60 million: and The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE Alternext U. S. the rebranded identity of the former American 2 an allotted and fully paid share capital of 2,025,031,151 Stock Exchange or Amex, in the form of American Depositary ordinary shares of 25p each with an aggregate nominal value Receipts ADRs under the symbol BTI with a CUSIP number of 506 million including treasury shares and shares owned 110448107.
Each ADR represents 2 of the Companys by the employee share trusts.
The CRPS are no longer in issue ordinary shares and at 31 December 2008, 29,391,326 with 50 per cent being redeemed for cash in June 2000 and ADRs were outstanding, represented by 58,782,652 ordinary 50 per cent converted into the same number of ordinary shares shares.
The Company has unlisted trading privileges for its in June 2004, in accordance with the terms of their issue.
ADR programme and none of its securities are listed on any Stock market listings United States securities exchange or registered pursuant to The ordinary shares of the Company as British American the securities laws of the United States.
On 1 December 2008, Tobacco p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded Citibank, N. A. succeeded The Bank of New York Mellon as on the main market of the London Stock Exchange for listed depositary for the Companys ADR programme, a change securities since 8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and which is expected to bring enhanced benefits to the holders ISIN: GB0002875804.
of ADRs by way of reduced dividend fees and, for many, shorter dividend payment periods.
On 8 August 2008, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA CFR, which held an interest of 19.4 per cent in the Companys Significant shareholders ordinary shares and Remgro Limited Remgro, which held an At 25 February 2009, the following substantial interests interest of 10.7 per cent, in both cases through R&R Holdings 3 per cent or more in the Companys ordinary share capital SA, announced details of restructurings that would result in voting securities had been notified to the Company: their respective shareholders becoming direct shareholders in Percentage Number of of issued the Company the Restructurings.
Previously, the Company ordinary shares share capital had agreed, if requested, to obtain a secondary listing for its Legal & General Group Plc 100,685,501 5.04 ordinary shares on the JSE Limited in South Africa JSE with Reinet Investments S. C. A.
84,303,670 4.22 a view to facilitating the Restructurings the Listing Request.
Note: The percentage of issued share capital shown excludes treasury shares.
On 7 August 2008, the Company received the Listing Request and applied to the JSE for a secondary listing of all of the Purchase of own shares issued ordinary shares of the Company.
This was granted by From March 2008, the Board continued its on-market the JSE and the Companys secondary listing in the tobacco programme of buying back the Companys ordinary shares sector, under the abbreviated name BATS and the trading of 25p each under the authority granted by shareholders in British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 58 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, the Company 1.75 billion for general corporate purposes the Facility.
was given authority to purchase up to 201,800,000 of its Pursuant to the Facility, should a borrower other than ordinary shares.
The minimum price that may be paid for the Company cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of such shares is 25p and the maximum price is an amount the Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market outstanding advances made to it.
Where there is a change prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share as derived of control in respect of the Company, the lenders can require from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
business days immediately preceding the day on which the On 7 August 2007, British American Tobacco Mexico, S. A. ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
fide C. V. as borrower and the Company, B.
A. T. International During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company made Finance p. l. c. and B.
A. T Capital Corporation as guarantors on-market repurchases totalling 22,071,274 of its own ordinary entered into a term credit facility arrangement with Barclays shares, representing 1.1 per cent of the issued share capital Capital as mandated lead arranger, HSBC Bank plc as excluding treasury shares as at 31 December 2008 and for agent and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant an aggregate consideration of 400 million.
In accordance to which the lenders agreed to make available to the borrower with the Companys policy, all of these repurchased shares US$690 million to refinance existing facilities and for general are held as treasury shares and as at 31 December 2008 the corporate purposes the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, number of treasury shares was 28,960,054.
Whilst treasury should the borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary shares are held no dividends are paid on them and they have of the Company, the borrower shall immediately repay any no voting rights: treasury shares may be resold at a later date.
Where there is a change of control in respect of the Company, the lenders can require all amounts The present authority for the Company to purchase its own outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
shares will expire at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
In the context of the current financial and macroeconomic climate On 13 February 2008, and as amended on 1 May 2008, the Directors have decided, in February 2009, to discontinue B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. and BATIF Dollar Limited the share buy-back programme until further notice.
However, as borrowers and the Company and B.
A. T. International the Directors are seeking fresh authority for the Company Finance p. l. c. as guarantors entered into a term credit to purchase its ordinary shares in order that the appropriate facility agreement with Barclays Capital and J. P. Morgan plc mechanisms are in place to enable the share buy-back as mandated lead arrangers, Barclays Bank PLC as agent programme to be reinstated at any time when, in the opinion and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant to of the Directors, the exercise of the authority would result in which the lenders agreed to make available to the borrowers an increase in the Companys earnings per share and would 420 million to finance certain acquisition activities and be in the interests of its shareholders generally.
other associated costs the Facility.
As at 31 December 2008, 395 million had been drawn under the Facility and no It is proposed that the authority for the Company to purchase further drawings may be made.
Pursuant to the Facility, its own shares be extended to enable the Company to purchase should a borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary its shares listed on the JSE.
The appropriate resolution will of the Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any be put to shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, outstanding advances made to it.
Where there is a change of details of which are contained in the Notice of Annual General control in respect of the Company, the lenders can require Meeting which is sent to all shareholders and is also published all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
On 1 May 2008, British American Tobacco Ttn Mamulleri Significant agreements change of control Sanayi five Ticaret Anonim S irketi as borrower and the Company The following significant agreements contain certain termination and B.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. as guarantors entered and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of into a term credit facility agreement with Barclays Capital and control of the Company.
J. P. Morgan plc as mandated lead arrangers, Barclays Bank On 8 March 2005, the Company, B.
A. T. International Finance PLC as agent and certain financial institutions as lenders p. l. c. B.
A. T Capital Corporation and British American Tobacco pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make available to the Holdings The Netherlands B. V. as borrowers and, in the case borrower860 million to finance certain acquisition activities of the Company, as a borrower and guarantor entered into and other associated costs the Facility.
As at 31 December a revolving credit facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc as 2008,759 million had been drawn under the Facility and agent and certain financial institutions as lenders pursuant no further drawings may be made.
Pursuant to the Facility, to which the lenders agreed to make available to the borrowers should the borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 59 Directors report and accounts Directors report continued of the Company, the borrower shall immediately repay any Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2008 applicable English outstanding advances.
Where there is a change of control in law, the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 respect of the Company, the lenders can require all amounts the Companies Acts.
This summary is qualified in its entirety outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
by reference to the Companies Acts and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, a copy of which Details of the change of control provisions contained in is available on www.
the Companys long-term incentive plans are given in the Remuneration report.
A resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 April 2009 to adopt new Articles of Association In connection with the merger of the Company with to: 1 reflect the phased introduction of the provisions of the Rothmans International B. V. the Company entered into 2006 Act which will come into effect on 1 October 2009: and a Standstill Agreement dated 11 January 1999 with R&R 2 to incorporate a minor amendment requested by the JSE Holdings S. A. then named Rothmans International Holdings following its approval of the Companys secondary listing in S. A., CFR then called Compagnie Financire Richemont AG October 2008.
If adopted, the substance of the new Articles and Rembrandt Group Limited Rembrandt together the of Association will be reflected in the summary of the articles R and R Parties.
Pursuant to a deed of release and adherence which will appear in the 2009 Annual Report.
dated 18 January 2002, Rembrandt was released from its obligations under the Standstill Agreement and replaced by The UK government proposes to implement the EU Shareholder Remgro, an investment holding company formed as a result Rights Directive by way of regulations to be published in of the restructuring of Rembrandt in August 2000.
The Regulations will affect to the Standstill Agreement, the R and R Parties gave certain companies articles of association and the way they run undertakings to the Company concerning the acquisition meetings and so, given the timetable for these changes, it is and disposal of its ordinary shares including concert party anticipated that shareholders will be asked to approve further arrangements and the exercise of voting rights at general amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at the meetings of the Company.
The Company also made certain 2010 Annual General Meeting.
undertakings regarding the issue and repurchase of its Share capital share capital.
All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, Further to the Restructurings referred to above and the accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be terms of the Standstill Agreement, the Standstill Agreement required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
terminated on 3 November 2008 at the point when the Objects and purposes number of ordinary shares in the Company held by the The Company is incorporated under the name of British R and R Parties fell below 15 per cent.
In the context of change American Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and of control provisions in force throughout most of 2008, the Wales under registered number 3407696.
The Companys provisions of the Standstill Agreement would have terminated objects and purposes are set out in the fourth clause of its if: 1 a general offer, made by a person being independent of Memorandum of Association and cover a wide range of the R and R Parties, had become wholly unconditional: or 2 activities, including the principal objective of carrying on the date on which a court scheme, having the effect of giving the business of a holding company.
The Memorandum of control of the Company to such a person, had become effective.
Association grants the Company a broad range of general Contractual arrangements powers to effect that objective.
Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual Directors and other arrangements with many third parties in support The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of of the Groups business activities covering input materials Directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary filter tow, tobacco leaf and wrapping materials, logistics resolution of the shareholders of not fewer than 5 Directors, and distribution.
Such contracts and arrangements may be not subject to any maximum, who shall manage the business deemed to be essential to 1 or more operating companies of the Company.
The quorum for meetings of Directors is 2 but there are no contracts or arrangements considered to be Directors.
The Directors may delegate any of their powers to essential to the operation and understanding of the business a committee which must consist of 1 or more Directors and or the Group as a whole.
if thought fit 1 or more other persons.
The quorum at Memorandum and Articles of Association a meeting of a committee may be decided upon by the The following description summarises certain provisions of Directors at the meeting at which the committee is appointed, the Companys current Memorandum of Association and its provided that any committee with 2 or more members Articles of Association as adopted by special resolution at the shall have a quorum of 2 Directors.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 60 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be Director voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate concerning a matter in which he has an interest other than an annual sum of 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by virtue of his interest in shares in the Company.
However, by ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
The remuneration in the absence of some other interest not indicated below, a of the Executive Directors is determined by the Remuneration Director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a quorum for Committee which is comprised of independent Non-Executive the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning Directors.
the following matters: Directors appointment and removal 1 the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution in respect of money lent to, or an obligation incurred by may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, him for the benefit of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries: either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the Directors shall retire at the next Annual 2 the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or General Meeting and will put himself herself forward to be indemnity in respect of an obligation of the Company or any of reappointed by the shareholders.
its subsidiaries for which the Director has assumed responsibility in whole or part and whether alone or jointly with others At each Annual General Meeting, at least one-third of under a guarantee or indemnity or by the giving of security: the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation or, if their number is not 3 or a multiple of 3, the number 3 any proposal concerning his being, or intending to constituting at least one-third, shall retire from office.
become, a participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting Notwithstanding this, at the Annual General Meeting every of an offer of any such shares, debentures or other securities Director who was not appointed at either of the 2 previous for subscription, purchase or exchange: Annual General Meetings and who has served as a Director 4 any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement for more than 2 years since his appointment shall retire.
benefits scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries including Articles of Association, the Directors to retire by rotation but without being limited to an employees share scheme, will be those who have been in office the longest since their which does not accord to any Director any privilege or appointment or last reappointment.
A Director who retires advantage not generally accorded to the employees and or at an Annual General Meeting and is not reappointed shall former employees to whom the arrangement relates: retain office until the meeting appoints someone in his place or, if it does not do so, until the end of the meeting.
5 any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being a company in which the Director is interested only Without prejudice to the provisions of the Companies Acts as an officer, creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not or any claim to damages for breach of any contract the the holder of or beneficially interested in 1 per cent or more Director may have with the Company or a subsidiary, the of the equity share capital of that company or of any other shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, remove any Director company through which his interest is derived and not from office before the expiration of his period of office and entitled to exercise 1 per cent or more of the voting rights may, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person in his available to members of the relevant company disregarding, place.
A Director so appointed shall be subject to retirement for the purposes of this proviso: i any shares held by a at the same time as if he had become a Director on the day Director as bare or custodian trustee and in which he has no on which the Director in whose place he is appointed was beneficial interest: ii any shares comprised in an authorised last appointed.
unit trust scheme in which the Director is interested only as Borrowing powers a unit holder: and iii any shares of that class held as treasury Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors shares : and may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow 6 any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and money and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property, officers liability insurance.
assets present and future and uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to the provisions of the Memorandum The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax and Articles of Association to issue debentures, debenture to any extent, either generally or in respect of any particular stock and other securities whether outright or as security for matter, any provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any from voting at a meeting of the Directors or of a committee third party.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 61 Directors report and accounts Directors report continued Directors interests may be dealt with, either before or at the time that such a Notwithstanding his office, a Director: conflict of interest arises, provided that the authorisation is only effective if: may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company i any requirement as to the quorum at the meeting at is otherwise interested: which the matter is considered is met without counting the Director in question or any other interested Director: and may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any ii the matter was agreed to without their voting or would transaction or arrangement with any body corporate have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted.
promoted by the Company or in which the Company If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been is otherwise interested: and authorised by the Directors then subject to such terms and will not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the conditions, if any, as the Directors may think fit to impose Company for any benefit which he derives from any from time to time, and subject always to their right to vary or such office or employment or from any such transaction terminate such authorisation or the permissions set out below : or arrangement or from any interest in any such body 1 the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential corporate and no such transaction or arrangement will be information relating to such matter, or such office, employment liable to be avoided because of any such interest or benefit.
or position, to the Company if to make such a disclosure For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the would result in a breach of a duty or obligation of confidence Directors that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the owed by him in relation to or in connection with that matter, nature and extent specified in the notice in any transaction or or that office, employment or position: arrangement in which a specified person or class of persons is 2 the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether interested is deemed to be a disclosure that the Director has in meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude himself an interest in any such transaction of the nature and extent so from information which will or may relate to that matter, or specified: and an interest of which a Director has knowledge that office, employment or position: and and of which it is unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge is not treated as an interest.
3 a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director of the Company, be accountable to the Company for any benefit A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest which he derives from any such matter, or from any such in a transaction by virtue of a person connected to the office, employment or position.
However, the Director and the Company must still take a view each time a matter is Dividend rights being considered as to whether the interests of the Directors Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary connected persons mean that a Director should be treated as resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends interested in a transaction.
in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends if it appears The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, that such dividends are justified by the profits available for as they may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject distribution.
No dividend shall be paid otherwise than out always to their right to vary or terminate such authorisation of profits available as specified under the provisions of the authorise, to the fullest extent permitted by law: Companies Acts.
1 any matter which would otherwise result in a Director The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary infringing his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or resolution of the shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares credited may conflict, with the interests of the Company and which as fully paid instead of cash in respect of the whole or part may reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of all such dividends as may be specified by the resolution.
of interest including a conflict of interest and duty or conflict Any general meeting declaring a dividend may, upon the of duties : recommendation of the Directors, direct payment or 2 a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment satisfaction of such dividend to be wholly or partly by the or position in addition to this office as a Director of the distribution of specific assets.
Where difficulty arises in regard Company and may authorise the manner on which a conflict to distribution, the Directors may ignore fractions or issue of interest arising out of such office, employment or position fractional certificates, fix the value for distribution of any assets British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 62 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 and may determine that cash shall be paid to any shareholder special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending in order to adjust the rights of such members.
the Companys Memorandum or Articles of Association and resolutions relating to certain matters concerning a Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the winding-up of the Company.
date when it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, be forfeited and shall cease to be owed by the Company.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there The Company can cease sending dividend warrants and is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions require cheques by post or otherwise if these have been returned the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the undelivered to, or left uncashed by, the shareholder on at votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order least 2 consecutive occasions, or, if following 1 such occasion, to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of the reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the members new Company is a minimum of 2 shareholders present in person address.
No dividend shall bear interest against the Company, or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative s of a unless provided by the rights attached to the share.
corporation which is a shareholder and entitled to vote.
Voting rights In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every to a casting vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting and every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a Winding-up general meeting has 1 vote regardless of the number of shares If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy.
On a the sanction of a special resolution and any other sanction poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has required by law, subject to the provisions of the Acts, divide 1 vote for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder among the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of or his duly appointed proxy entitled to more than 1 vote the Company, and may, for that purpose, value any assets and need not use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the determine how the division is to take place as between the same way.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
Alternatively, with the same sanction, the liquidator may vest the whole the chairman of the meeting: or any part of the assets in trustees upon trusts for the benefit the Directors: of the shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to accept any asset upon which there is a liability.
not less than 5 shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting: Transfer of shares Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than usual form or in any other form which the Directors may approve one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, having the right to vote at the meeting excluding any where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
voting rights attached to treasury shares : or The Directors can, in their absolute discretion, refuse to a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is right to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares not fully paid, provided that such a refusal would not prevent on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not dealings in shares in certificated form which are not fully paid less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all shares from taking place on a proper basis.
The Directors may also conferring that right excluding any voting rights attached refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form to treasury shares.
whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered by proposing and passing of 2 kinds of resolutions: office of the Company or such other place as the Directors may appoint and is accompanied by a certificate for the ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the the receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final transferor to make the transfer: dividends, the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the increase of authorised share capital is in respect of only 1 class of share: and and the grant of authority to allot shares: and is in favour of not more than 4 transferees.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 63 Directors report and accounts Directors report continued In the case of uncertificated shares transfers shall be registered The Company may, by special resolution, reduce its share only in accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated capital, its capital redemption reserve and any share premium Securities Regulations 2001 so that Directors may refuse account in any way.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies to register a transfer which would require shares to be held Acts, the Company may purchase its own shares, including jointly by more than 4 persons.
redeemable shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares or cancel them.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of shares, they must give the transferee notice of this refusal as soon as Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares practicable and in any event within 2 months of the There are no provisions in the Articles of Association instrument of transfer being lodged with the Company.
whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a No fees may be charged for the registration of a transfer of certain percentage of the Companys shares are required shares.
Subject to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although 2001, the registration of transfers of shares or of any class there are such requirements under the Companies Acts.
of shares may be suspended for such periods, not exceeding The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial 30 days in any year, as the Directors may determine.
Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights notify the Company and the Financial Services Authority under the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors of the percentage of the voting rights in the Company he to cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: Acts, the Directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express reaches, exceeds or falls below 3 per cent and or authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Articles any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of Association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, of an acquisition or disposal of shares or financial but which in either event cannot last for more than 5 years.
instruments: or Under the Companies Acts, the Company may also not allot reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share a result of any change in the number of voting rights scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders attached to shares in the Company.
to allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for Alteration of share capital specified persons.
The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: Under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 1 increase its share capital by such amount as the resolution may, by notice in writing, require a person that the Company prescribes: knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during 2 consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares the 3 years preceding the date of notice interested in the of a larger amount than its existing shares: Companys shares, to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the 3 sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out than is fixed by the Companys Memorandum of Association: in that Act.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules further 4 determine that, as between the shares resulting from deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or such a sub-division, any of them may have any preference debentures of the companies of which they are Directors or advantage as compared with the others: and and certain associated companies.
5 cancel shares which, at the date of the passing of the The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in any person, and diminish the amount of its share capital the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties by the amount of the share so cancelled.
to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 64 Directors report and accounts Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 General meetings and notices Accordingly, shareholders authority will be sought at At least 21 clear days written notice of an Annual General the Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2009 to renew Meeting is required.
Any general meeting which is not an Annual the existing authority for a further period of 4 years.
General Meeting is called an Extraordinary General Meeting Full details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
for which at least 14 clear days written notice is required.
Creditor payment policy Variation of rights Given the international nature of the Groups operations, If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes there is not a global standard code for the Group in respect of shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may only of payments to suppliers.
In the UK, the operating subsidiaries be varied, either in such a manner as provided by those rights have signed up to the Better Payment Practice Code under or in the absence of any provision, with the consent in writing which each company undertakes to: 1 seek agreement on of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that payment terms with its suppliers at the outset of each transaction: class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a 2 explain its payment procedures to its suppliers: 3 pay bills separate meeting of holders of such shares.
At any separate in accordance with the agreed terms and all legal requirements: meeting, the necessary quorum is 2 persons together holding or and 4 inform suppliers without delay when contesting an representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal amount of invoice and settle disputes quickly.
Details of the Code are the issued shares of the class but at an adjourned meeting available on the website, www.
shall be any 1 person holding shares of the class or his proxy.
Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for agreeing Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to terms and conditions for their business transactions when any shares, those rights shall be deemed to be varied by the orders for goods and services are placed, ensuring that reduction of the capital paid up on those shares and by the suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including creation or issue of further shares ranking in priority for payment the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These of a dividend or in respect of capital or which confer on the arrangements are adhered to provided that suppliers meet holders voting rights more favourable than those conferred by their contractual commitments.
the first-mentioned shares, but shall not otherwise be deemed Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking as it is an investment holding Company and had no trade pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
Repurchase of shares OECD Guidelines Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the in which it operates and, in this context, notes the OECD Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in their current form.
be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby Intra-group pricing reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
The prices agreed between Group companies for intra-group sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for royalties, Charitable and political contributions commissions, services and fees are based on the normal Payments for charitable purposes in 2008 amounted to commercial practices which would apply between 18.4 million 2007: 16.1 million, 2.1 million of which was independent businesses.
No donation was made to any political party registered in the UK under the Political On behalf of the Board Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Subsidiaries Nicola Snook of the Company in Australia, Canada and South Africa made Secretary contributions to non-EU political parties in their respective countries of incorporation totalling 69,041 2007: 85,183.
25 February 2009 The Companys current authority to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure expires on 28 April 2009.
Although the Company has no current intention of making donations to political parties in the EU or incurring EU political expenditure, it remains possible that circumstances might arise in which it would be considered to be in the interests of the Company to do so.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 65 Directors report and accounts
