Productivity Following the productivity savings of more than 1 billion over 2003-2007, we continued our cost-saving momentum into 2008.
The savings are both a source of operating profit growth and revenue for reinvestment in the business.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 14 Business review Performance and strategy Image: Employees at our factory in Izmir, Turkey.
The number of cigarette factories within the Group has been reduced from 83 to 49 since 2000.
This consolidation, undertaken with care for affected employees and communities, has removed excess capacity and means many more factories now serve more than 1 market.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 15 Business review Productivity Effectively and efficiently deploying global resources to increase profits and generate funds to reinvest in our business.
Savings in supply chain, overheads and indirect costs amounted to 245 million in 2008, keeping us on track to achieve our 800 million savings target by 2012.
Supply chain Most of the productivity improvements resulted from our continuous focus Our focus is on smart cost on primary supply chain efficiencies.
management, marketing These were largely as a result of further efficiency and capital standardisation and simplification as effectiveness.
This includes supply chain planning and sourcing ensuring that we use our became less local and more global, marketing resources and in an above-market model.
capabilities in the most efficient way, reducing unnecessary We have moved or removed more than complexity and using our cash 400 billion cigarettes worth of capacity and other assets effectively.
internationally since 2003 and have reduced real product costs every year We are saving money by turning in that period.
a multinational business operating The number of cigarette factories within in over 180 markets into an the Group has been reduced from 83 integrated global enterprise to 49, including acquisitions, since that can take advantage of its 2000.
Both the Zevenaar factory in the scale.
Greater integration across Netherlands and the Paarl factory in our supply chain is helping us South Africa ceased production in 2008, to reduce costs, increase speed to while further factories were added with market and improve effectiveness.
the acquisition of Tekel and the cigarette We are also reducing our and snus businesses of Skandinavisk overheads and indirect costs Tobakskompagni.
anything other than leaf, The consolidation of factories around wrapping materials, cigarette the Group has been undertaken making machinery and labour.
responsibly and with care for affected employees and local communities.
It has removed much of our previous excess capacity and means that more of our factories are now serving a larger number of markets.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 16 Business review Performance and strategy go online at www.
com annualreport2008 245 million Productivity savings in 2008 800 million Productivity savings target 2008-2012 Taking advantage of this new model above-market planning processes, and means we have had to become more to work with Global Operations to align effective and efficient at above-market the global processes that are expected planning.
This is crucial for ensuring to leverage further productivity we meet market demands on time improvements.
and in full, deliver speedier roll-out of Other priorities for 2009 include innovations and leverage the benefits establishing a global process for of scale.
Sales and Operations Planning, further Globally and regionally we are aligning standards and specifications, continuing to achieve considerable other initiatives to improve crossGlobal Leaf Pool Initiative savings by consolidating purchases regional product sourcing and more Our Global Leaf Pool GLP of materials and services, reducing effective global roll-out of innovations.
organisation, launched at the duplication and standardising data We will continue to build a consumerend of 2007, has given us better and processes.
led, customer-focused, high-performing, visibility of the amount and Moving to an above-market planning globally-integrated supply chain, location of tobacco leaf we model is also enabling us to rationalise dedicated to enabling our companies have around the Group.
our machine technology and establish to win.
This is a key aspect of the The GLP is now responsible for a more cost-effective operational base Groups strategy and we will see many the planning, procurement and for the future.
more areas of our supply chain being deployment of all internationally managed at a global level.
Much of the machinery in factories traded tobacco leaf across the being closed or downsized is transferred Overheads and indirects Group, and for agreeing domestic elsewhere and we continue to invest Moving above-market is allowing us crop sizes.
to streamline our processes and reduce This has allowed us to reduce leaf One example is our industry-leading, overheads.
stocks by the equivalent of more flexible Robopacker, developed to Throughout the year, we continued to than 1 months supply, saving the replace the requirement for hand improve our management of what we business 111 million in working packing for cigarettes with complex, spend on indirect purchases.
The GLP is improving our ability to Global operations have the right quantity and quality From 1 January 2009, following the of tobacco to meet the growth split of our former Europe region into requirements of our brands.
Eastern and Western Europe regions, our European Operations will be managed as part of Global Operations.
This will allow European Operations to continue developing and refining its Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 17 Business review
