21% Asia-Pacific of Group volume Very good organic volume growth of 5 per cent led to the strong growth of 15 per cent in revenue and 20 per cent in profit an excellent result.
John Daly Director, Asia-Pacific In Asia-Pacific, profit rose by down due to lower industry volumes, 132 million to 804 million, mainly although market share increased strongly 153 billion attributable to strong performances in with outstanding performances from Pakistan, Vietnam, Bangladesh, Australia Craven A, Dunhill and State Express 555.
Volumes and Malaysia and also benefiting from 5% Volumes in South Korea were higher favourable exchange rates.
At constant than last year and market share was rates of exchange, profit would have up as a result of the good performance increased by 79 million or 12 per cent.
Good profit growth Volumes at 153 billion were 5 per cent 2,151 million was achieved through higher margins, higher as good increases in Pakistan, increased volumes and an improved Revenue Bangladesh and South Korea were 15% product mix, partially offset by the partially offset by lower volumes in weakening of the currency.
Vietnam, Malaysia and Sri Lanka.
In Taiwan, volumes were slightly Profit in Australia was up as a result down despite the significant growth 804 million of higher margins and exchange of Dunhill.
Profit was lower, adversely rate movements, partially offset by Profit impacted by the marketing investment the impact of increased competitor 20% behind Dunhill.
In New Zealand, profit improved, benefiting from price In Pakistan, volume and market rises, cost efficiencies and exchange share continued to grow strongly.
Volumes in Australia and volume growth, coupled with higher New Zealand were similar to last year, prices, resulted in a profit increase, but both Dunhill and Pall Mall increased however, this was more than offset market share.
by the weakening of the currency.
In Malaysia, strong profit growth was In Bangladesh, strong growth in achieved as a result of price increases, volumes, price increases and a better a better product mix and continued product mix resulted in an impressive productivity savings.
Dunhill and increase in profit.
Pall Mall grew market share, with good Profit in Sri Lanka was well ahead, results from Kent after its relaunch in benefiting from price rises, a better August 2008.
Volumes were lower due product mix and continued productivity to the overall industry decline, the high improvements.
Volumes were lower, levels of illicit trade and another although overall market share grew significant excise increase during with the good performances of Dunhill the third quarter of 2008. and Pall Mall.
In Vietnam, strong profit growth was achieved through higher prices, a solid performance in the premium segment and cost saving initiatives.
Volumes were British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 40 Business review
