17% Africa and Middle East of Group volume Excellent performances by many markets in the region were complemented by the acquisition of the Tekel cigarette assets.
The integration in that market is progressing according to plan.
Andrew Gray Director, Africa and Middle East Profit in the Africa and Middle East Profit in Nigeria increased as a result region grew by 69 million to of good volume growth, a favourable 120 billion 536 million mainly as a result of the exchange rate, an improved product acquisition of Tekel and the good mix, productivity benefits and higher Volumes performance in Nigeria.
19% rates of exchange, profit would have In the Middle East, profit and volumes increased by 76 million or 16 per cent.
were higher due to the impressive Volumes were 19 per cent higher at growth of Dunhill in Saudi Arabia.
120 billion, following increases in 1,797 million Strong sales across the Caucasus led Nigeria, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, to volume, market share and profit Revenue coupled with the additional volumes 24% increases as Kent performed well.
from the acquisition of Tekel during the year.
These increases were partially In Turkey, the acquisition of the offset by the disposal of the Chesterfield cigarette assets of Tekel was completed trademark in South Africa.
in June 2008 and was successfully 536 million integrated with the existing business, In South Africa, profit was only Profit which reached break even in 2008 slightly higher than last year, adversely 15% following good organic volume growth.
impacted by the weaker exchange rate.
GDBs grew strongly with good In local currency, profit growth was performances by Kent and Pall Mall.
achieved as a result of higher prices and an improved product mix, partially offset by the decline in volumes.
Volumes and market share were lower following the termination of the Chesterfield trademark license agreement at the end of 2007.
Dunhill and Peter Stuyvesant continued to deliver strong share performances, while Kent performed well after its migration from Benson & Hedges.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 42 Business review
