Directors report go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Management Board The role of the Management Board The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises the Executive Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. together with the executives shown on this page.
The Management Board has delegated responsibility for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy set by the Board of Directors, and for creating the conditions for their successful day-to-day operation.
Peter Taylor British Director, Americas Group Human Resources Director Group Operations Director Joined British American Tobacco in 1993.
Joined British American Tobacco in 1988.
He has Joined British American Tobacco in 1980 and has He has held a number of senior roles across held a number of senior human resources roles in worked in a variety of operational and general the Group including General Manager in the Group and his responsibilities have covered management roles across the Group.
He was Switzerland, Argentina, Russia and Germany.
Europe, Africa, the Middle East and central and appointed Group Operations Director in 2003.
56 He has been a member of the Management south Asia.
He has been Group Human Resources 10.
Neil Withington British Board since October 2007.
51 Group Legal and Security Director and General 2.
Jean Marc Levy Swiss Counsel Director, Asia-Pacific Director, Western Europe Appointed Group Legal and Security Director Joined the Management Board as Regional Appointed Director, Western Europe in April 2008. and General Counsel of British American Tobacco Director for Asia-Pacific in October 2004.
After beginning his career with the Kraft-Jacobsin 2000, having previously been the Groups Deputy He held a number of senior management roles Suchard Group he joined British American Tobacco General Counsel.
He joined the Group in 1993 for Rothmans International in Europe and the in 1994 as Marketing Director in Switzerland.
He after a career at the Bar and in the chemical and Far East before becoming Area Director for the went on to hold a variety of marketing and general pharmaceutical industries.
He has been a Director Middle East and North Africa in 2001.
52 management roles in Europe and South East Asia.
46 of Reynolds American Inc. since July 2004.
Michael Prideaux British Director, Eastern Europe Group Corporate and Regulatory Affairs Director Appointed Director, Eastern Europe in May 2008.
Appointed Group Corporate and Regulatory Affairs He joined British American Tobacco in 1989 and Director in 1998 following the demerger of B.
A. T has held a variety of marketing positions in Europe Industries.
A. T Industries in 1989 from and South East Asia.
He was appointed President Charles Barker, a leading financial and corporate of British American Tobacco Japan in 2000 before public relations, advertising and design agency, being made Area Director, BAT Australasia and where he was Chief Executive.
58 Managing Director, BAT Australia in 2004.
Andrew Gray Brazilian British Group Marketing Director Director, Africa and Middle East Joined the Group as a Marketing Director and as Appointed Director, Africa and Middle East in a Territorial Director in 1991, having had various January 2008.
He joined British American Tobacco senior marketing and business appointments in 22 years ago and has held a variety of senior Procter & Gamble and Jacobs Suchard.
He has marketing and general management roles in been a member of the Management Board since Latin America including President of Souza Cruz 1996.
58 and also in Central America, the Caribbean and Malaysia.
44 Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 55 Directors report and accounts
