Growth Our Global Drive Brands grew by 16 per cent in 2008 and we continue to have a strong brand balance across price segments and geographies.
Successful acquisitions have also helped us raise our market share in key markets.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 08 Business review Performance and strategy Image: A British American Tobacco Turkey trade marketing representative delivers cigarettes to an independent retailer in Istanbul.
Direct Store Sales like this give us more control over distribution, help to strengthen our retailer relationships and improve our access to market information.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 09 Business review Growth Increasing our volume and value share of the global tobacco market through organic growth and mergers and acquisitions.
Our business is about offering adult consumers high quality brands that they will choose over competitors products.
It is not about boosting the number of smokers, increasing the amount they smoke or targeting the underage.
Our approach to marketing Organic growth means Our International Marketing Standards, increasing our market share in revised in 2007, detail our commitment existing markets and entering to marketing appropriately and only new markets.
To achieve organic to adult consumers.
The Standards growth, we focus on key market apply to all our companies globally segments that offer the best and govern our tobacco marketing long-term prospects, including across all areas including print, premium and international billboards, electronic media, brands.
We also aim to optimise the Visit www.
performance of our Global Drive Our updated Standards were rolled Brands and seek opportunities out during a 12 month period and for profitable volume growth all our companies were expected to in the value-for-money and confirm their adherence to them low-price segments.
We see by 30 June 2008. innovative products that offer To track implementation, a self-assessment consumers meaningful, valueadded differentiation as key audit of adherence was conducted by to organic growth.
all Group companies shortly after this deadline.
The assessment reported an Strategically important and overall adherence rate of 97 per cent financially attractive mergers but it also identified some areas where and acquisitions can also provide we were not yet meeting our updated us with growth opportunities.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 10 Business review Performance and strategy go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Strategic segment volume in 22 key markets Global Drive Brand volume growth billions billions Since 2004, our 4 GDBs 135 Based on data from the 22 08 187 ASU30 Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike markets, our share in each 135 07 161 and Pall Mall have segment in 2008 was ASU30 increased combined 222 29%, Lights 27%, IBs 06 146 Lights volume by 64%.
222 It excludes Tekel and 05 125 186 ST acquisition volumes.
IBs 04 114 177 160 2008 Premium 155 2007 Instances of non-adherence were In geographic terms, our brand Dunhill principally related to inconsistencies contributions are evenly split between 37 billion cigarettes sold in 2008 in interpretation of the Standards at developed and developing markets, 7% volume growth a local level.
The self-assessment although some 73 per cent of our 2008 was another good year for Dunhill.
highlighted the need for clarification volume comes from developing markets.
Continuing its growth in volume, share of this interpretation around certain and value terms, it delivered accelerated Our continued focus on strengthening promotional activities and for sanctions margin growth due to an improved our GDBs is complemented by our that may be applied to retailers who sell product mix.
investments in local and regional brands to the underage.
where they play a strategic role in a Innovation and modernisation continues We have issued additional guidance particular market.
This gives us the to build consumer preference for Dunhill to our companies to help address flexibility to respond appropriately as the perfectionist in tobacco.
packaging variant was launched in Taiwan, the exclusive Reloc resealable Action plans are now in place to help We are confident that the balance of our pack, to positive consumer response.
us achieve 100 per cent adherence by brand portfolio across price segments The new Dunhill Fine Cut variant the end of 2009.
Progress against these and geographies will allow us to navigate continues to see good performance.
plans will be monitored through the through challenging economic times.
Regional Audit and CSR Committees Overall, the Dunhill cigar business Strong performance of and the Board CSR Committee.
This was achieved Global Drive Brands by delivering an exceptional quality Balanced and innovative brand portfolio 187 billion cigarettes sold in 2008 product and by expansion into new Our Global Drive Brands GDBs Kent, 16% volume growth markets.
The Dunhill tobacco expertise Dunhill, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall Our GDBs grew by 16 per cent or was also reaffirmed in 2008 when cover the premium and value-for-money 25 billion cigarettes in 2008, leading the Dunhill Signed Range cigar won VFM segments and are at the forefront our growth in the premium segment.
excellent ratings in various prestigious of our successful innovations, our Almost a quarter of the rise was cigar publications.
product refinements and our trade attributed to brand migrations.
They account for Our premium organic volume grew 26 per cent of our global volume sales by 5 per cent, while VFM volumes and our overall brand mix is broadly grew by over 4 per cent in the year.
balanced among premium, mid-price and low-price.
Total Group volumes increased to 715 billion, up 4 per cent, due to a combination of organic volume growth of 1 per cent and the benefits of the Turkish and Scandinavian acquisitions.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 11 Business review Growth 37 billion 63 billion 25 billion Cigarettes sold in 2008 Cigarettes sold in 2008 Cigarettes sold in 2008 18% volume growth 9% volume growth 7% volume growth 62 billion Other International Brands Cigarettes sold in 2008 143 billion cigarettes sold in 2008 22% volume growth 1% volume growth Kent Lucky Strike Pall Mall 63 billion cigarettes sold in 2008 25 billion cigarettes sold in 2008 62 billion cigarettes sold in 2008 18% volume growth 9% volume growth 22% volume growth Kent had a very strong year, its sixth Lucky Strike saw another year of solid Pall Mall delivered a strong performance consecutive year of double-digit growth.
growth, achieving significant volume in 2008, driven by good organic volume With annual sales surpassing 63 billion and share growth in France, Spain and and share growth in established markets cigarettes, Kent is our largest premium Italy.
The brand also saw double-digit such as Romania, the Netherlands, brand.
volume growth in 7 of its top 10 markets.
The brand also continues to grow geographically and is Kent continued to record strong volume Lucky Strike is particularly successful now present in more than 80 markets.
growth in Russia and also benefited among Adult Smokers Under 30, from successful brand migrations in accounting for more than 60 per cent Brand migrations played a significant South Africa and Malaysia, increasing of its sales.
We focus on maintaining part in Pall Malls growth notably Kents presence in Africa and Asia.
popularity in this segment by delivering sizeable migrations in Mexico and packaging options and taste experiences Pakistan.
Migrating consumers from Kents role at the forefront of that consumers value, such as the under-performing brands to 1 of our innovations continues.
Kent Nanotek, Barrel Blend introduced successfully GDBs reduces operational complexity a superslim king size variant, was a in Latin America.
for us and our trading partners.
Nanotek is sold at a premium relative to the Kent The introduction of Lucky Strike The Pall Mall range expanded further main range and achieved significant mentholated variants Piperita and with the introduction of variants such volume sales in 2008, representing Nites continues to yield positive results as Virginia Fine Cut, Krystal-Frost and some 10 per cent of Kents global for the brand in Germany, Brazil, Peru Extra Kings, as well as snus.
Kent Mintek also yielded and Hong Kong.
pack formats were also introduced positive growth in Japan, Hong Kong, across western Europe and Australasia, This year Lucky Strike successfully Chile and Malaysia.
helping drive growth across all tobacco expanded its offer in France to include categories where the brand competes.
The variants Full and Smooth Taste were launched in Germany to positive consumer response.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 12 Business review Performance and strategy go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Other International Brands volume growth 16% billions Since 2004, other GDB volume growth in 2008 08 143 International Brands 07 141 excluding the 4 GDBs have risen by over 17%.
06 134 05 127 04 122 5% Premium organic volume growth in 2008 Other International Brands The Win Win Win strategy 143 billion cigarettes sold in 2008 Forging partnerships with global trade 1% volume growth partners, with whom we can become In addition to our GDBs, we also the long-term chosen partner around support a set of other International the world, gives us a significant Brands, accounting for over 20 per cent competitive advantage.
To help us of our volumes in 2008.
Several of achieve these kinds of relationships, these brands saw good volume growth, we regularly evaluate our customer notably Kool in Japan, State Express 555 service performance among retailers.
in China and Asia Pacific Global Travel In 2008, 23 markets were surveyed Retail, John Player Gold Leaf in Kent Nanotek and we continued to achieve top Bangladesh, Pakistan and the Gulf Kent Nanotek builds on the scores among global FMCG companies.
Cooperation Council countries, success of our Kent Global Drive In 12 markets, British American Tobacco and Rothmans in Egypt.
Brand and comes with a specially was rated as the best overall supplier in designed contemporary style of Trade marketing and distribution the FMCG industry and in 5 further pack.
It sells at a premium relative Managing business-to-business markets we were the best overall to the Kent main range, offering relationships with retailers makes up tobacco supplier.
an innovative cigarette in a a large part of our trade marketing Direct Store Sales DSS superslim king size format.
We work Where appropriate, we believe that with our retail partners to ensure they Nanotek is available in 3 variants direct and exclusive distribution, or DSS, can offer the products our consumers to suit the different preferences is the most effective way of serving retail want to buy, where they want them, of adult consumers.
DSS gives us greater control when they want them, at the right have grown by an impressive over the sales and distribution process, quality and quantity.
300 per cent in 2008 to more helps to improve retailer relationships, than 6 billion cigarettes.
It now and allows us greater direct access to accounts for some 10 per cent market and consumer information.
Around 48 per cent of our volume sales is now distributed through DSS.
We launched Kent Nanotek in 16 markets in 2008, bringing the total number of markets where it is now available to 31.
It is also sold through Global Travel Retail.
It has performed very strongly in eastern Europe during the year, particularly in Russia, Romania and Ukraine.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 13 Business review
