35% Europe of Group volume The integration of Skandinavisk Tobakskompagni into the Group is largely complete and significant synergy benefits will be delivered over time.
The results are in line with expectations.
Jean-Marc Lvy Director, Western Europe In Europe, profit at 1,213 million was Volumes in Germany declined as up 371 million, as a result of the ST industry volumes shrank while market 254 billion acquisition and excellent performances share was slightly lower.
However, in Russia, Uzbekistan, Romania and Pall Mall performed well by growing Volumes Spain, with growth in Germany, France, volume and market share.
Profit 4% Switzerland and Italy, partially offset increased as a result of higher margins by decreases in Hungary, the Czech from a combination of price increases, Republic and Belgium.
These results reduced product costs and overhead benefited from the more favourable savings.
4,745 million pricing environment, an improved While industry volumes in France were Revenue product mix and exchange rates.
30% lower, volume and market share grew, At constant rates of exchange, profit led by Dunhill, Lucky Strike and Pall would have increased by 235 million Mall.
Profit increased as a result of or 28 per cent.
higher prices and overhead savings.
1,213 million Excluding the benefit from the acquisition In Switzerland, Parisienne, Lucky Strike of ST, profit increased by 280 million, Profit and Pall Mall continued to grow market up 33 per cent, or 144 million, up 44% share and profit increased due to higher 17 per cent at constant rates of exchange.
Regional volumes were up 4 per cent In the Netherlands, profits were down at 254 billion, benefiting from the as a result of slightly lower volumes, acquisition of ST. Volume increases in despite an increase in market share.
Poland, Romania, Uzbekistan, Switzerland Industry volumes in Belgium were and Spain were more than offset by severely impacted by last years excisedecreases in Russia, Italy, Germany, driven price increase and, together Ukraine and the Czech Republic.
with the sale of the pipe and cigar The acquisition of ST in the middle of business in 2007, resulted in lower the year resulted in significant additional profit.
Market share improved, assisted profit for the region.
by the successful migration of Winfield to Pall Mall.
In Italy, Lucky Strike performed very well although overall volumes were In Spain, strong profit growth and adversely impacted by the decline of higher volumes were achieved due to local brands and the disposal of some the excellent volume and share growth brands in 2007.
Profit increased as a of Lucky Strike, coupled with a more result of lower product costs due to favourable pricing environment.
continuing productivity programmes and reduced overheads, partly offset by reduced volumes.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 38 Business review Regional and financial review A substantial increase in profit was achieved in Russia, driven by the significant growth in the premium brand portfolio, despite lower overall volumes.
David Fell Director, Eastern Europe In Russia, a strong performance by The accelerated decline of industry the premium brands, Kent, Dunhill shipments in Poland was the result of and Vogue, continued to improve the significant excise-driven price increases product mix and, with higher prices, during the last 2 years.
Volumes market conditions continued and with were lower as a result of the decline the increase in illicit trade, profitability in low price and local brands following was adversely impacted.
Volumes price increases that were not immediately increased as a result of the inclusion followed by competitors.
Profit in Romania increased significantly, In Hungary, volumes were slightly benefiting from higher volumes, price down although Dunhill and Pall Mall increases and the improved product performed well despite price competition.
mix, partially offset by higher marketing This, coupled with higher marketing investment.
The strong growth of investment, led to lower profit.
volumes, driven by the continued In Ukraine, volume and market share success of the Global Drive Brands decreased slightly due to the decline led to increased market share.
of low-priced local brands, largely offset The tobacco market in the Czech by the excellent performance of Kent.
Republic was heavily impacted during Results improved significantly with the 2008 by the effect of the trade buying improved mix, price increases and cost at the end of 2007 in anticipation of an control, despite the volume decline and excise increase, resulting in lower profit higher marketing spend.
The impressive performance of Kent in Kazakhstan and Pall Mall in Uzbekistan led to increased volumes and, with higher prices and better cost control, resulted in higher profit.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 39 Business review
