In this section This section aims to provide a ten point overview of ICAP as a company, our vision and strategic goals and the markets in which we operate.
03 Who we are 03 What we do 04 How we work 05 Our vision and strategic goals 05 How we measure our progress 06 Our markets and opportunities 07 How we have performed 08 How we manage our business 08 How we are rewarded 09 Financial summary ICAP in ten 03 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 1 Who we are About ICAP ICAP is the worlds premier voice and electronic interdealer broker and the source of global market information and commentary for professionals in the international financial markets.
The Group is active in the wholesale markets in interest rates, credit, commodities, foreign exchange and equity derivatives.
ICAP has an average daily transaction volume in excess of $1.5 trillion, more than 60% of which is electronic.
2 What we do We operate in both established and The role of the interdealer broker emerging markets and our electronic networks deliver global connectivity to customers.
Hedge funds We believe that we can best provide Commercial and Corporates investment banks the service our customers need Central banks by combining the strengths of our people together with technology setting the standard for our industry.
ICAP provides specialist intermediary broking services to trading professionals in the wholesale financial markets.
An interdealer broker draws together liquidity and matches buyers and sellers $1.5 trillion so that deals can be executed by its customers, ICAP has an average daily receiving a commission when a transaction transaction volume in excess is completed.
of $1.5 trillion The majority of markets in which ICAP operates rely on voice broking skills, particularly in more bespoke, less liquid products.
However, electronic broking of more liquid, commoditised products is growing rapidly.
ICAPs combined solution brings together both voice and or electronic access to our markets.
Read more Business review: Page 16 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 04 3 How we work Our geographic, divisional and market capability Geographic Markets ICAPs businesses are broadly distributed across The broad range of wholesale markets covered 60 locations in more than 30 countries worldwide.
by ICAP can be divided into the following groups: We break our business down across three regions: interest rates, credit, commodities, FX, equities, emerging markets and information.
These groups are Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA aligned with the way our customers manage their The Americas businesses and, as a result, ICAP is able to explain Asia Pacific the drivers of performance more clearly.
The markets ICAP has a strong presence in all the major financial markets and in each group have different drivers to their growth.
regional centres in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
EMEA and the Americas are the two largest regions.
This year we expanded into In the past we have defined our market rather narrowly but, as new locations such as Shanghai, Rio fide Janeiro and Tel Aviv.
we expand and further diversify the business, a broader definition Our combined global electronic network covers more than 6,000 is necessary.
In addition to the above interdealer broking markets, workstations on 2,000 dealing floors spread across 50 countries.
we need to consider the scale of markets such as shipping, post-trade services and equity derivatives.
On this basis, ICAP estimates its share Divisions including Link of this expanded market to be 20%22%.
Our target is to have 35% of this larger market.
ICAPs businesses are also divided across three divisions Previously ICAP based its market share analysis on publicly available data voice broking, electronic broking and information: from a group of similar competitors and we believe we have maintained Voice market share of 30%31% using this basis.
Voice brokers play a crucial role in a large number of the markets in which ICAP is already active and in the development of new, innovative markets.
As new products emerge, ICAP voice brokers help to develop these nascent, illiquid markets, drawing together counterparties and facilitating price discovery and liquidity.
Electronic The combination of ICAPs electronic spot FX and fixed income electronic broking businesses has created a global multi-product network platform that we believe has further major growth potential.
We also aim to integrate our networks and systems with those of our customers 61 32 7 | | post-trade systems.
This year we added Traiana to our existing portfolio Percentage contribution to of post-trade services.
Group operating profit Information from voice, electronic and ICAP is also the source of global market information and commentary information divisions for professionals in the international financial markets.
Our market data offers real-time, end-of-day and historical market data sourced from our global interdealer trading platforms across a broad range of asset classes.
Read more Geographic performance: Page 17 Read more Divisional performance: Page 18 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and Read more Market performance: Page 20 exceptional items.
05 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 4 Our vision and strategic goals 5 How we measure our progress Key performance indicators Our vision is to create the global exchange for The charts below describe some of the important OTC financial products and to build a global brand KPIs used by management to measure our in wholesale financial services.
In the business review we describe goal has been clear and consistent for several the other important measures of our performance years to be the leading global intermediary and the progress that we are making towards our in the wholesale OTC markets by a clear margin.
Share of the global OTC market We aim to have at least a 35% share of Target: 35% overall interdealer market revenue and 2006 28%29% 2007 30%31% 2008 30%31% 1 1 2 Operating profit split between voice, electronic and information generate 50% of our operating profit from Target: 50% of profit derived from electronic broking Voice Electronic Information electronic broking.
2006 78% 15% 7% 2007 69% 22% 9% 2008 61% 32% 7% We believe that we can build and maintain Staff compensation as percentage of revenue close long-term relationships with our customers 2006 60% by leveraging our people and technology in 2007 57% a unique business model that sets the standard 2008 56% for our industry.
3 New business Read more Group Chief Executive Officers review: Page1 1 2006 12% 2007 16% 2008 20% Voice revenue per voice broker 2006 413,000 2007 454,000 2008 499,000 Notes: 1 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
2 60% of ICAPs information divisions operating profit is derived from electronic broking.
3 Revenue derived from businesses acquired or started in the previous three years.
Read more KPIs: Page 31 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 06 6 Our markets and opportunities Market growth and scale Market drivers and outlook ICAP is a growth business in a growing market.
We will continue to expand our business in the key Many factors continue to support this growth including: focus areas, complete the integration and expand Capital Shipbrokers and the Link equity derivatives instability in currencies, interest rate and credit markets leading business, build our global cash equities business, to continuing price volatility and the basis for further growth in interest rate and credit derivatives, FX, commodities and listed expand in post-trade services and extend the product futures markets: coverage on our electronic broking platforms.
the overall commitment of capital to trading in these markets, The expansion of electronic broking in the more whether from banks or from hedge funds: liquid and commoditised markets itself feeds additional increasing use, by a wider audience, of derivatives to reduce risk exposure, not only in the financial markets but in commodities growth through: and in newer markets such as insurance: driving lower transaction costs which increase trading volumes commoditisation of flow markets and the increasing focus on by encouraging the development of algorithmic and other highly electronic trading and commitment of capital to proprietary and price sensitive trading strategies: algorithmic trading strategies by dealers and their customers: concentrating volumes among fewer, electronic, venues: rapid growth in equity derivatives driven by rising stockmarkets enabling lower post-trade transaction costs through automated and the search for yield: confirmation and STP, thereby increasing customer efficiency and continuing liberalisation of emerging markets and the growth in attracting extramarginal volumes.
onshore and local currency fixed income, derivatives and credit There is an increasing number of expansion opportunities for the markets: and Group, both large and small, as the worlds financial markets grow increasing regulatory pressure for best execution and price and innovation continues.
Industry consolidation is also likely transparency, which favours electronic trading venues.
to continue and the current environment offers many attractive Our very broadly diversified businesses, both geographically and in the opportunities to acquire businesses.
individual markets, means our exposure to changes in market volumes There are many powerful, structural reasons to be positive about in any single market is restricted.
the future of ICAPs business and of the markets in which we operate.
We estimate that the underlying annual growth rate of industry revenues, in the medium term, will be more than 10%, although there are periods when volatility and volumes in our markets can be very high.
The active markets we have enjoyed since June 2007 have continued into the new financial year and we believe that higher volatility will continue to drive volume growth.
Read more Markets: Page 20 07 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 7 How we have performed These record results demonstrate a very strong experienced the positive impact of these higher performance from ICAP.
We have benefited from levels of activity and we benefited from substantial higher volatility in the interest rate, FX, equity, operating leverage, particularly in the electronic commodities and in parts of the credit and business.
The outlook for the business is very emerging markets that began in June 2007. positive, our strategy remains unchanged and Both our electronic and voice broking businesses our priorities are clear.
Geographic Once again EMEA was the most profitable region with the highest Revenue m Growth % operating profit margin.
In Asia, the strongest growth came from the EMEA 610.0 21 emerging markets and interest rate businesses, the latter boosted by a very The Americas 527.8 15 significant input from electronic broking.
Revenue and operating profit increased substantially in the Americas, dollar weakness reduced this on Asia Pacific 166.6 14 a headline basis: the profitability of the region improved during the year.
Total 1,304.4 18 Divisions Voice Revenue m Growth % ICAP continued to have the largest share of the global interdealer voice Voice 990.8 14 broking market revenue in 2007 08, with strong growth.
ICAP has Electronic 273.9 38 identified several key markets that we believe have greater structural Information 39.7 growth potential for the next three to five years.
It is on these focus areas that we are concentrating for the expansion of our voice broking business Total 1,304.4 18 emerging markets, credit, cash equities and equity derivatives, and commodities including shipping increasingly diversifying our revenue base.
Electronic Electronic broking had an outstanding year with record volumes, revenue and profit.
Average daily electronic broking volumes in March 2008 reached the highest level ever as volatility continued in the global financial markets.
Electronic broking revenue increased significantly, by 38% to 273.9 million, primarily in existing markets.
The operating profit margin improved from 28% to 39%: driving the share of our operating profit from electronic broking to 32% compared with 22% in 2007.
The current product portfolio encompasses over 30 products, up from 20 products a year ago.
Information A significant part of the revenue of ICAPs information division is drawn from the electronic broking businesses.
ICAPs market information portfolio includes real-time, end-of-day and historical market data including real-time, low latency feeds from the EBS platform and transactional historical data from the EBS and BrokerTec platforms.
Markets There was a sharp steepening of interest rate yield curves following Revenue m Growth % the start of the credit crisis in June 2007, particularly in the dollar, Interest rates 546.6 17 with a flight to quality by investors.
The re-pricing of risk in the credit Credit 158.5 27 markets since June 2007 led to very active markets in both credit default indices and single name credit default swaps, and volumes Commodities 131.3 30 in the credit derivatives markets continued to grow very rapidly.
FX 196.6 23 The commodities markets in both EMEA and the Americas have been very Equities 108.6 10 active, with the oil markets particularly volatile, and we benefited from Emerging markets 123.1 7 these conditions and the addition of our acquisitions in shipping.
There was Information 39.7 very strong growth in two of the newer markets: carbon emissions and freight derivatives.
Equity derivatives and FX have also experienced Total 1,304.4 18 significant volume growth and several periods of high volatility.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 08 8 How we manage our business Our management team We have built this business to a very strong competitive position in our markets with a very capable management team, who between them have many years experience in our industry.
The Global Executive Management Group consists of the four executive directors of ICAP and six members of senior management and meets six times a year.
Our voice broking business is organised on a geographic basis whereas the electronic broking and information business and technology have global reporting lines.
We rely heavily on the quality of our management team to drive up our operating profit margins through market share growth and tight cost control, and to extract the scale economies that make these businesses so sustainable.
As a people business, a key attribute of our management team is our ability to recruit and retain the highest quality staff: brokers, marketing and sales staff, support staff, technology professionals and many others.
Executive members Global Executive of ICAP plc board Management Group Michael Spencer David Casterton Mark Yallop 9 How we are rewarded George Macdonald Matthew Lester Steve McDermott Executive directors remuneration John Nixon Ron Purpora Doug Rhoten The policy behind the remuneration of David Rutter executive directors is that performance-related pay should be the main component of the Governance package.
Half the variable remuneration is ICAP is headed by an experienced board of directors consisting of a paid in equity and all deferred compensation non-executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, three further is share-based.
The principles of the directors executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The boards remuneration policy have been developed over responsibilities include ICAPs long-term objectives and commercial strategy, acquisitions and major investments as well as overseeing a number of years to reward and recognise ICAPs overall risk management and control and compliance functions.
the rapid and substantial growth of the Group.
There is a clear division between the roles and the responsibilities of This ensures complete alignment of executive the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman directors remuneration with the interests is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive of shareholders.
The chart below sets out the Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business.
fixed and performance-related elements of the remuneration of the three executive directors Risk in office at the year end.
ICAP has established an overall risk governance structure which helps ensure the independence of risk management responsibilities from the Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer commercial side of the Group and strengthens the influence of the risk function in the strategic and tactical decisions of the Group.
The Group has classified its exposures into seven risk types: operational, credit, Mark Yallop Group Chief Operating Officer market, liquidity, regulatory, reputation and strategic risks.
ICAP has put in place a group-wide risk management framework to address these risks, enhancing the risk management discipline across the Group.
Matthew Lester Group Finance Director Read more ICAP plc board: Page 36 Fixed percentage Performance-related percentage Read more Global Executive Management Group: Page 14 Read more Corporate governance: Page 41 Read more Risk: Page 24 Read more Remuneration report: Page 45 09 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements 10 Financial summary ICAP has demonstrated very strong financial performance and cash flows, with record revenue, profit and EPS.
Group revenue rose by 18% to 1,304.4 million.
Electronic revenue and operating profit increased by 38% to 273.9 million and by 93% to 106.9 million respectively.
With a robust balance sheet and a strong control environment, ICAP is in an excellent position to continue to grow.
2008 2007 Variance m m % Revenue 1,304.4 1,106.3 18 Operating expenses 988.4 874.5 13 Other income 15.7 15.9 1 Operating profit 331.7 247.7 34 Net finance costs 6.4 2.1 Associates net of tax 4.9 6.0 18 Profit before tax 330.2 251.6 31 Profit before tax statutory 275.1 213.8 29 Variance pence pence % Dividends per share 15.65 12.3 27 Earnings per share basic 24.5 19.3 27 adjusted basic 31.3 24.6 27 Variance m m % Net assets 833.4 793.7 5 Free cash flow 231.7 190.1 22 Net debt cash 58.8 19.5 Excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arisng on consolidation and exceptional items.
Read more Financial statements: Pages 54121
