ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 14 Global Executive Management Group The Global Executive Management Group consists of the four executive directors of ICAP and six members of senior management and meets six times a year.
Michael Spencer Mark Yallop Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Operating Officer Aged 52 Aged 48 He was the founder of Intercapital in 1986 As Group Chief Operating Officer, he is and became Chairman and Chief Executive chairman of the group risk committee.
of Intercapital in October 1998, following He had previously been Group Chief the Exco Intercapital merger.
He is deemed, Operating Officer of Deutsche Bank Group, with IPGL and its subsidiary INFBV, to have following many years involvement in trading an interest of 21.09% in ICAP plc.
in the derivatives, foreign exchange and cash IPGLs other interests include City Index markets.
He was also a director of ISDA from and investments in a variety of other financial 1996 to 1998. services companies.
Michael Spencer has been non-executive Chairman of Numis Corporation plc since April 2003.
In February 2007, he was appointed the Conservative Party Treasurer.
Matthew Lester John Nixon Group Finance Director Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Electronic Broking Aged 44 Aged 53 As Group Finance Director, he is chairman In addition to electronic broking and ICAPs of the finance committee.
Previously he information business, he is also responsible worked for Diageo plc in a number of for strategic acquisitions.
He has 30 years senior finance roles, most recently as Group experience in the interdealer broking industry.
He is a Chartered Prior to his full-time involvement with ICAP, Accountant and a member of the main he was a non-executive director of ICAP plc committee of The 100 Group of from 1998 to 2002.
He was previously the Finance Directors.
Chief Executive Officer of Tullett and Tokyo Forex, now part of Tullett Prebon, where he worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, London and New York.
15 ICAP plc Annual Report 2008 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements David Casterton George Macdonald Chief Executive of ICAP London and EMEA Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Asia Pacific Aged 50 Aged 60 With effect from 1 June 2008 he will be With effect from 1 June 2008 he will be responsible for all voice broking, technology based in Sydney, Australia, as the Chief and support functions in London and EMEA.
Executive Officer of ICAP Asia Pacific.
Currently he is responsible for ICAPs He is currently Chief Executive Officer interest rate business in London.
Prior to of London, Europe and Asia Pacific.
He was joining ICAP in 1995 he was with MW Joint Managing Director, Tullett & Tokyo Marshalls and Guy Butler International.
Australia, a company he established as a partner in 1982.
Prior to that he held senior management positions with Butler Till Ltd in London and with Guy Butler International in London and Sydney.
Stephen McDermott Ron Purpora Chief Operating Officer of ICAP Americas President of ICAP North American Securities Aged 51 Aged 52 He was, until March 2008, an executive He also serves as President of First Brokers director of ICAP plc.
He has recently Securities, a subsidiary of ICAP.
Within the overseen the integration with EBS and the industry he serves as a board member of the interface between the Groups voice and Depository Trust Clearing Corporation and a electronic broking businesses.
He was member of its HR compensation committee.
appointed a director of the US operations He is a director of the Securities Industry in December 1995 having joined the foreign and Financial Market Associations primary exchange business of Garban in 1986. dealer committee.
He is also a board member of Columbia Universitys Executive Masters of Science and Technology Management.
Douglas Rhoten David Rutter Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Americas Deputy Chief Executive Officer of ICAP Electronic Broking Aged 53 Aged 45 He is also a director of SIF ICAP, ICAPs Prior to joining ICAP in 2003 he was a joint venture in Latin America.
He is a significant shareholder in Prebon.
His tenure founding member of The Green Exchange at Prebon began in 1988 and he served and former member of the US Federal in various capacities including Global Reserve Bank Foreign Exchange Committee.
Chief Executive Officer of Prebon Energy and Managing Director of the Americas.
He has served on several corporate boards of entities in the e-commerce field.
