IG Group Holdings plc 18 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Group Operating and Financial Review Group Operating and Financial Review for the year ended 31 May 2008 Business objective Introduction The Groups objective is to maximise shareholder value by pursuing The Accounting Standards Board issued Reporting Statement: the following strategies: Operating and Financial Review in January 2006.
This statement does not have mandatory force and is not an accounting or reporting Maintaining a leading position in the markets in which the standard.
The directors have considered the recommendations of this Group operates: reporting statement as appropriate in producing this operating and Continuing to broaden the client base: financial review OFR.
A discussion of the Groups performance and Expanding the Groups international reach: and future prospects has been included in the Chief Executives Report.
Continuing to deliver product and technological innovation.
In applying this framework, the directors believe that they have adequately discharged their responsibilities under Section 234ZZB of Business strategies the Companies Act 1985 to provide a balanced and comprehensive The Chief Executives Report provides an overall assessment of the review of the development and performance of the business.
Groups progress during the year and prospects for the future with reference to the business strategies outlined below.
Nature, objectives and strategies Maintaining a leading position in the markets in which the Group operates The Groups businesses The Group is widely recognised as the market leader in the financial The Group has operated in two principal areas of activity throughout spread betting market, which is predominantly a UK business.
It also the year: financial and sport.
has a market leading position in a number of the countries where it Financial offers CFDs.
The Groups strategy is to continue to strengthen market position by offering the broadest range of products and by offering Contracts for difference CFDs, spread bets and exchange traded quality and speed of execution.
futures on equities, equity indices, precious and base metals, soft commodities, exchange rates, interest rates and other financial Continuing to broaden the client base markets.
Exchange traded options and CFDs and spread bets on options on certain of these markets.
Financial binaries, including The Group continues to broaden the client base, both directly and exchange traded and OTC binary options and fixed odds bets on through introducers, from what has historically been a relatively many of these markets.
The operation of a regulated futures and narrow but sophisticated group of predominantly retail clients.
includes attracting a greater proportion of leisure-oriented clients for the Groups fixed odds offerings and more market professionals Sport and institutional clients for its CFD business.
Further developing the business of market making on betting and financial exchanges, as Spread bets and fixed odds bets on sporting and other events.
well as white-labelling opportunities where the Groups products are branded and distributed in the name of third parties, will extend the reach of the Groups products.
