IG Group Holdings plc Marketing Activity Report and Financial Statements 2008 03 Our global marketing strategy utilises engaging Marketing creative treatments across multiple media, to ensure high visibility in each of our Activity territories n support of our world-leading brands we deploy a global marketing strategy.
This utilises a variety of engaging creative treatments across multiple media, to ensure high visibility in each of our territories.
Our activity includes print and online advertising, I event sponsorship, and a continued presence at seminars and investment shows.
Innovation as standard In April 2008 we ran the first advert in our Innovation as Standard campaign for IG Index in the UK, to showcase our new iPhone dealing service.
The campaign has served to underline that IG continues to lead the way in both platform and product innovation within the spread betting industry.
This series of press and online adverts taps into our history of innovation and reputation as pioneers of spread betting.
During a year of significant technological development, the campaign has allowed us to feature each successive new product or feature from IG Index over the course of spring and summer 2008, months that have seen record levels of client recruitment.
Education Another key driver of client recruitment and trading activity is our education service, comprising the TradeSense course and an ongoing seminar programme.
The Spread Betting with Confidence adverts featured in national UK Sunday newspapers and supported by online and email marketing spoke to prospective clients who feel they need more knowledge and training before they try spread betting for the first time.
Global marketing IG Markets, our CFD service, has a truly global client base.
To this end we have distinctive ongoing campaigns promoting IG Markets across Europe and also in Australia, Singapore and the US.
Our expansion in Europe and Asia Pacific has been supported by extensive direct advertising.
Back in the UK, our leisure brands are promoted in a lighter vein, capturing the unique thrill of the betting experience.
For example, we have recently launched an eye-catching new campaign for extrabet.
com, bringing the quit while youre ahead proposition to life through a recurring comic strip theme.
IG Group Holdings plc 04 Report and Financial Statements 2008 Technology
