Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Chief Executives Business Review engineering modi cations is expected to satisfactory safety case, these may allow Dungeness Fuel Plug Status be around 50m, and will be incurred in future operation at higher loads.
Following The length of refuelling outages at financial year 2008 09.
An arrangement an update to the safety case using the Dungeness B has been temporarily is in place to incentivise suppliers to return latest inspection data, the unit was extended since September 2006 to the units to service ahead of schedule.
returned to service in May 2008 and is address an issue with certain welds currently operating at around 70% load, the within the fuel plug units.
A crimping We have managed our trading book to buy maximum allowed load within our target device which mitigates the issue has been back power which we had contracted to sell temperature limits.
prior to Hartlepool and Heysham 1 power As our work has progressed we have stations being taken out of service.
As at Hinkley Point B Reactor 4 is also operating identi ed the need for further con rmatory 18 May 2008 we had incurred a total net at around 70% load.
Hinkley Point B testing to support a safety case, following cost of 70m in relation to power buybacks Reactor 3 has been running at around which the plug units can be crimped and in respect of financial year 2007 08 and 64% load, and boiler balancing work is refuelling can proceed.
50m in respect of financial year 2008 09. to be performed in a scheduled boiler We continue to manage our trading book outage next financial year.
Hot Box Dome Status position in line with the expected phased Load was reduced on Heysham 1 Reactor 2 return to service of the units.
The statutory boiler outage at to approximately 80% of full load in Hunterston B Reactor 4 is currently October 2006 to reduce the surface Boiler Issues Status underway.
Boiler inspections and temperature on the Hot Box Dome, below Following the completion of boiler modi cations will also be undertaken 380C.
Over the course of the year we inspections and required repairs at Hinkley during the planned statutory outage at partially recovered output to Point B and Hunterston B, all four units Hinkley Point B Reactor 4 later this financial approximately 87% of full load.
returned to service during May 2007 and year, 2008 09.
As a result of updated boiler June 2007.
We have been operating at modelling, the Hinkley Point B Reactor 3 We plan to submit a revised safety case reduced load to limit boiler tube boiler inspection planned for this financial to the Regulator later this financial year, temperatures.
year, 2008 09, has been deferred and it will applicable to all four units at Hartlepool be combined with the planned statutory and Heysham 1, to increase the operating A further planned boiler inspection outage outage next financial year, 2009 10.
This would at Hunterston B Reactor 3 was undertaken reduced duration outage is still planned enable the potential for Heysham 1 between February 2008 and April 2008. this summer for Hinkley Point B Reactor 3, Reactor 2 to increase to approximately During the outage, a number of previously to complete a number of plant 95% of full power.
isolated boiler tubes were returned to modi cations and carry out graphite service and further boiler balancing work core inspections.
Heysham 2 Fuelling Machine Status was undertaken.
Thermocouples were The intermittent problem with the fuelling installed in one boiler to provide additional Overall, boilers are assessed as the plant machine at Heysham 2 was determined to temperature measurements.
A number of system at most risk of causing generation be related to the turret top bearing and has prototype boiler tube bifurcation insulation losses across the fleet and therefore been corrected.
boxes clamshells were installed for considerable investment focus is placed evaluation.
Subject to satisfactory on mitigating these risks.
operating results and development of a 08 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
