Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague CBE 60 G Dr Stephen Billingham 50 Bob Davies 59 ACG Chairman Finance Director Non-Executive Director Sir Adrian Montague joined British Energy as Stephen Billingham was appointed as Bob Davies was appointed as an Chairman in November 2002.
He is currently Finance Director in September 2004. independent Non-Executive Director in Chairman of Friends Provident plc, Michael Immediately prior to joining British Energy, May 2006.
He was chairman of Biffa Plc Page International plc, Infrastructure he was the Group Finance Director of WS until April 2008.
He was previously Chief Investors Limited and a Director of London Atkins plc, the engineering consultancy Executive of Arriva plc, the UK transport First, Skanska AB, CellMark AB, and F&C and support services group during its services group, from 1998 until April 2006, Asset Management plc and a Trustee of successful financial recovery.
He led a prior to which he was Chief Executive of the Historic Royal Palaces.
Before joining finance team which signed one of the East Midlands Electricity plc.
He holds British Energy he undertook a number of London Underground Public Private an LLB in Law and Economics from the senior roles in the implementation of the Partnerships.
He was previously Group University of Edinburgh and is a Fellow of Governments private finance policies.
Treasurer of the engineering group BICC plc the Chartered Institute of Management He was awarded a CBE in 2001 and was now Balfour Beatty plc and held finance Accountants.
He is a Director of Barratt knighted in December 2005. positions in Severn Trent plc, Burmah Oil Developments plc and Northern Business plc and British Telecom plc.
In addition he chairs the CBI Bill Coley 65 Council, North East Region and the Board Chief Executive Dr Pascal Colombani 62 CRST of Governors of the University of Bill Coley was appointed as Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Sunderland.
He is Chairman of the in April 2005, having served as an Dr Pascal Colombani was appointed as an Remuneration Committee.
independent Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director in since June 2003.
During his 37 year career June 2003.
He holds a Doctorate in Nuclear John Delucca 65 ACGR with Duke Power he held a variety of Physics and presently holds directorships at Non-Executive Director management and executive roles, Alstom SA, Rhodia SA, Technip SA, Valeo SA John Delucca was appointed as an culminating in Group President between and is an Associate Director and Senior independent Non-Executive Director in 1997 and 2003.
He is a Non-Executive Adviser for Energy and High Technology February 2004.
He holds an MBA in Finance Director of Peabody Energy Corp. ER Jahna at A. T. Kearney.
He was, until 2003, from Fairleigh-Dickinson University School Enterprises and WANO.
Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer of of Graduate Study.
He has held a variety of the Commissariat lEnergie Atomique, a senior roles in US business.
Most recently, member of the Electricit fide France Board from 2003 until March 2005, he was of Directors and the Non-Executive Executive Vice-President and Chief Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Areva, Financial Of cer of the REL Consultancy the international nuclear engineering group.
Prior to that, from 1998 to 2002, he He is a Knight of the Legion of Honour and was Executive Vice-President, Finance and an Of cer of the Order of Merit.
He is Administration and Chief Financial Of cer Chairman of the Technical Performance of Coty Inc.
He is a Director of Tier Oversight Committee.
Technologies Inc, and Non-Executive Director and chair of the audit committees of ITC Deltacom, Endo Pharmaceuticals Holdings Inc. and the Elliott Company.
He is Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee.
32 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
indd 32 10 10 6 08 11:53:03 6 08 11:53:03 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Ian Harley 58 ACGS David Pryde 58 ACGST Robert Walvis 61 ACRT Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ian Harley was appointed as an David Pryde was appointed as an Robert Walvis was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director independent Non-Executive Director in independent Non-Executive Director in in March 2002 and became Senior September 2004.
He has extensive trading August 2007.
He held a number of senior Independent Director and Deputy and risk management experience and has managerial positions with Royal Dutch Chairman in July 2007.
Prior to joining held various senior management positions Shell Group from 1971 until 2001, including British Energy he held a variety of posts in in trading businesses, including Global Head Chairman of the Global Corporate Centre the Finance, Retail Banking and Wholesale of Precious Metals Trading, Global Head of where he was responsible for worldwide Banking Divisions of Abbey National and Commodity Derivatives Trading and strategic planning, external and spent nine years on their Board.
He is a Marketing and Global Head of Futures and environmental affairs.
He holds a Masters Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Options Brokerage at JP Morgan.
He was Degree in chemical engineering from Accountants and Fellow and Past President e-commerce strategist for JP Morgan Chase Delft University in the Netherlands.
He is of the Institute of Bankers.
He is currently Investment Bank and sat on the Boards of also a Non-Executive Director of Johnson Chairman of Rentokil Initial Pension Trustee the Commodity Exchange, the Chicago Matthey plc, Balfour Beatty plc and Limited, Croham Hurst School, JW Mercantile Exchange and the Futures Associated British Ports Holdings Limited Educational Limited and Remploy Limited.
He is Chairman of the and is the Non-Executive Chairman of the He is Chairman of the Court of Governors Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland of the Whitgift Foundation and a Director Groep NV.
He is chairman of the of South London Church Fund and Sir Robert Walmsley 67 GRST Commercial Risk Committee.
Southwark Diocesan Board of Finance.
Non-Executive Director A denotes member of the Audit Committee He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Sir Robert Walmsley was appointed as an C denotes member of the Commercial Risk independent Non-Executive Director in Committee August 2003.
Previously he served in the G denotes member of the Governance and Royal Navy where his final appointment Nominations Committee was as Controller of the Navy and member R denotes member of the Remuneration of the Navy Board as a Vice Admiral, starting Committee in 1994.
During his naval career he held a S denotes member of the Safety, Health and number of nuclear-related posts including Environment Committee service as the Chairman of the Naval Nuclear T denotes member of the Technical Technical Safety Panel and Director General, Performance Oversight Committee Submarines.
After retiring from the Navy, he was appointed as Chief of Defence Procurement a Permanent Secretary grade post in the Civil Service, occupying that position from 1996 until 2003.
He is an independent Director of General Dynamics Corporation, the Major Projects Association, EDO UK Limited and Cohort plc.
He is Chairman of the Governance and Nominations Committee.
British Energy Group plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE front.
