Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions DIRECTORS REPORT Other Statutory Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Non-adjusting Post Balance Sheet Events Share Capital and Takeover Directive Details of post balance sheet events are provided in note 38 to Details of British Energy Group plcs share capital are included the consolidated financial statements.
Substantial Shareholdings The Company has two classes of shares, ordinary shares of 10p As at 28 May 2008 the Company had been noti ed of the each and one special rights redeemable preference share of 1 following interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share the Special Share.
capital of the Company: The Special Share is redeemable at par at any time after Holder % 30 September 2006 at the option of the Secretary of State, after consulting the Company.
This share, which may only Invesco Limited 14.97 be held by and transferred to one or more of Her Majestys Prudential Plc M&G Investment Management Ltd 7.09 Secretaries of State, another Minister of the Crown, the Solicitor Franklin Resources, Inc 6.19 for the affairs of Her Majestys Treasury or any other person Capital Group Companies Inc 5.10 acting on behalf of the Crown, does not carry any rights to AllianceBernstein LP 4.79 vote at general meetings, but entitles the holder to attend and Legal & General Investment Management 4.77 speak at such meetings.
The Special Share confers no rights to Barclays PLC 4.21 participate in the capital or pro ts of the Company beyond its nominal value.
The consent of the holder of the Special Share is The Company has not been noti ed of any other interest in the required for certain matters including the alteration or removal issued ordinary share capital of the Company of 3% or more.
of the provisions in the Companys Articles of Association relating to the Special Share and to the limitations on shareholdings.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers The Groups policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers In addition, consent of the holder of the Special Share is when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that required in relation to, amongst others, certain amendments suppliers are made aware of these terms and abide by the agreed to the Articles of Association of British Energy Bond Finance plc, terms.
The Company had no trade payables at 31 March 2008 British Energy Limited, British Energy Generation Limited or 2007: nil and the Group had trade payables of 256m at British Energy Generation UK Limited, or a disposal by the 31 March 2008 2007: 200m.
During the year, suppliers to the Company of its shares in these companies.
However, the holder Group were paid within an average of 60 days 2007: 57 days.
For of the Special Share will only be entitled to withhold consent the purpose of this analysis supplier purchases exclude payments to such an amendment or disposal if, in the holders opinion, to BNFL, the Groups principal supplier, which are generally made the matter in question would be contrary to the interests of against an agreed contract pro le.
Charitable and Political Contributions Where any person other than the Permitted Person as fide ned The Group made charitable donations during the year of in the Articles of Association has an interest of 15% or more in 197,499 2007: 195,485, which included amounts to both the Companys Shares the Special Shareholder may require that registered charities and community groups.
No political person to dispose of all or part of the relevant shareholding if donations were made during the year 2007: nil.
it believes that the ownership or control of the shares by that person would be contrary to the interests of national security.
Employees The Group is committed to involving employees in the business As part of the arrangements made at the time of Restructuring, through a policy of communication and consultation.
British Energy Group plc has an obligation to make annual Cash Arrangements have been established for the regular provision of Sweep Payments to the NLF should certain criteria be met.
information to all employees through brie ngs, staff conferences The NLF has the right to convert some or all of its entitlement and well established formal consultation procedures.
to receive Cash Sweep Payments into convertible shares and to hold or sell those shares.
The Cash Sweep Payment percentage The Group is committed to its equal opportunities policies, was 35.1% as at 31 March 2008.
Had the NLF converted the which include promoting training and career development for remainder of the Cash Sweep Payment percentage at this date, all employees.
Full and fair consideration for all vacancies and the NLF would have held up to 35.1% of the enlarged equity opportunities will be given to men and women, people with share capital of British Energy Group plc.
disabilities and those from ethnic minorities, regardless of marital status, age, religion or sexual orientation.
The policy is supported The Company knows of no agreements between holders by a Code of Practice on harassment that recognises that all of securities which would result in restrictions on transfer employees have the right to be treated with dignity and respect.
of securities or on voting rights.
The Group operates a Share Incentive Plan, which is an all-employee performance related share scheme.
More details of the Share Incentive Plan, and the Groups other share schemes, are set out in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
British Energy Group plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
indd 49 1 10 6 08 14:14:26 0 6 08 14:14:26 Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 Mid AW Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read Revisions Other Statutory Information The Group has investments in its own shares, held in relation Auditors to the Groups share incentive schemes, through shareholdings The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their held by British Energy Employee Share Trust and Abbey National willingness to continue in of ce and a resolution that they be AESOP Trust.
At 31 March 2008 1,913,946 Shares were held in re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The maximum number of own shares held during the Authority is delegated to the Audit Committee to approve the year was 1,946,438.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating fees of  LLP.
to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Murray eld The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Stadium Conference Centre on 17 July 2008 at 11 am.
A letter Board members and changes to the Articles of Association from the Chairman detailing the business to be considered at accord with normal Scottish company law provisions.
The the meeting, together with a Notice of Meeting, accompanies Board has power to purchase its own shares and is seeking this Annual Report.
renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
This Directors Report comprising pages 06 to 50 was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 May 2008 and signed on its Rights of termination upon a change of control exist in an behalf by: IT support contract and in the documentation governing two of BEPETs trading arrangements.
Such right of termination is removed however in the case of BEPET if it chooses to collateralise its exposure prior to such change of control by way of cash or in one of the arrangements, by way of a letter of credit, bank guarantee or similar instrument.
Furthermore, the parent company guarantee agreements relating to certain Robert Armour contracts with BNFL for the supply of AGR fuel and spent fuel Company Secretary management services require to be transferred to any new ultimate parent company at the request of BNFL in the event of a change of control.
The Company also has the bene t of certain bilateral letter of credit facilities which can be used to support calls for collateral in lieu of cash.
These agreements contain provisions which give the lender a right to terminate the respective facility upon a change of control.
Although a change of control is not an event of default under the Groups Bonds, holders are entitled individually to require the redemption of their bonds at a make whole amount as a result of a change of control.
There are no provisions in place to compensate directors or senior employees on change of control.
50 British Energy Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 M M6005 BE midd.
