TOP TEN HOLDINGS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2008 Regal Beloit United States 3.08% 2007: 2.49% Regal Beloit is a leading global manufacturer of commercial industrial electric motors, HVAC heating, ventilation and air conditioning motors, electric generators and mechanical motion controls.
The company continues to benefit from legislation which is forcing a shift towards higher efficiency HVAC motors.
This is an area where Regal Beloit has a strong presence following its acquisition of the GE HVAC businesses.
The GE acquisitions also brought in new, ambitious management and increased economies of scale which have been positive for the company.
Smaller acquisitions in Europe, the US and Asia have continued non-organic growth in key markets.
With increasing emphasis being placed on energy efficiency as a means to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and with multiple new product launches in this area, Regal Beloit looks well-placed to grow despite a challenging industrial environment and continues to trade at an attractive valuation.
com Clean Harbors United States 2.81% 2007: 1.94% Clean Harbors is North Americas leading provider of environmental and hazardous waste management services.
With an infrastructure of 49 waste management facilities, including six incineration locations and six wastewater treatment centers, the company provides services to over 45,000 corporate and public entities.
Headquartered in Massachusetts, Clean Harbors has more than 100 locations strategically positioned in 36 states, six Canadian provinces, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
The company continues to look to expand their market share in North America and is well positioned to grow through closure of in-house industrial waste treatment plants that are unable to meet increasingly stringent legislation.
The forthcoming US economic stimulus bill will include provisions for hazardous and industrial waste clean up projects that the company is likely to benefit from.
In December 2008, Clean Harbors completed a transition from the NASDAQ onto the NY Stock Exchange.
com Pall Corp United States 2.80% 2007: 1.98% Pall is the worlds largest filtration company with around a 10 per cent market share in a US$35bn market.
Pall solves complex contamination, separations, purification and detection problems for diverse customers.
The company has a reputation for targeting high value added niches, for product innovation and aggressive geographical expansion, resulting in high single digit sales growth.
As with all filtration businesses, Pall has a substantial replacement parts business, which has defensive characteristics in times of economic uncertainty.
Approximately 75 per cent of company sales are of consumables and services, where margins are higher than for fixed equipment remaining 25 per cent sales.
Pall has offices and production facilities in more than 33 countries and its principal manufacturing operations are in the US, UK, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Germany.
com Ormat Technologies United States Israel 2.77% 2007: 2.60% Ormats core business is to build, own and operate geothermal power plants as well as selling the underlying technology.
Geothermal power, which harnesses the heat of the earth, has huge potential.
The company estimates an immediate global potential of 148,000 MW, compared with 9,500 MW installed capacity at the end of 2007.
Longer term, the US Department of Energy estimates that the potential of geothermal energy worldwide is 50,000 times the worlds oil and gas reserves.
In addition to a large untapped resource, the ability to deliver base load power, low technology risk and compelling economics are expected to drive strong growth in geothermal power.
Legislative support is also strong, in particular US state renewable energy targets encourage geothermal 10 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC TOP TEN HOLDINGS CONTINUED development.
Currently 25 states and DC recognise geothermal generation as eligible for these targets.
As the market leader in this segment, Ormat should be a key beneficiary of this growth.
Ormat has supplied more than 950 MW of geothermal power plants, and owns 410 MW of generation capacity.
com Itron Inc. United States 2.66% 2007: 2.80% Itron is the leading global solutions provider for the collection, analysis and application of electric, gas and water usage data.
The company employs a number of key technologies including automated meter reading AMR, energy management systems and transmission and distribution software.
Building on its market leading position in the US and especially in the electrical segment, Itron acquired Actaris during 2007 for US$1.6bn, providing a strong foothold in the European markets for the gas and water segments.
Following this acquisition, and with global penetration rates for AMR still relatively low around 6 per cent, Itron is well positioned to achieve further growth.
Forthcoming spending in the US from economic stimulus bill provisions focused on the smart grid should benefit the company.
com Kurita Water Industries Japan 2.46% 2007: 1.68% Kurita Water offers a number of proprietary technologies, products and services in the water treatment field.
The company has established a strong position in the Japanese and Asian markets, and has a framework that no competitor can easily penetrate.
Particular areas of strength are the provision of ultrapure water systems, development of prefabricated water-treatment products, and a strong sales network.
Amid continued deterioration in market conditions for the machinery sector, Kurita has a good chance of securing growth through the expansion of its service business.
co. jp english Covanta United States 2.42% 2007: 1.84% Covanta is the worlds largest owner and operator of Energy-from-Waste EfW power generation projects.
The companys facilities convert municipal solid waste into renewable energy for communities predominantly in the US, where Covanta produces almost 10 per cent of Americas non-hydro renewable electricity.
Covanta operates 35 facilities in North America, Europe and Asia.
EfW facilities process 14 per cent of municipal solid waste in the US, and the technology is supported by federal and state level incentive schemes.
In Europe recent legislation aimed at diverting waste from landfill encourages the development of EfW projects, and the technology is used extensively in Japan.
The business model is non-cyclical and benefits from long-term visibility, and strong free cash flow.
com Mueller Water Products United States 2.36% 2007: 1.69% Mueller Water Products is a leading North American manufacturer and marketer of infrastructure and flow control products for use in water distribution networks and treatment facilities.
Its product portfolio includes engineered valves, hydrants, pipe fittings and ductile iron pipes, which are used by municipalities as well as the commercial and residential construction industries.
The company should benefit from programmes boosted in the US economic stimulus spending package.
Furthermore, the US Environmental Protection Agency has estimated that $300bn of investment is needed in drinking water infrastructure out to 2022, and this is also a long term driver of the stock.
Exposure to construction is a concern as late cycle end markets are key drivers and visibility has declined in recent months.
However, the company is well positioned to recover when confidence returns to the market.
com 11 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC TOP TEN HOLDINGS CONTINUED Mayr-Melnhof Karton Austria 2.33% 2007: 2.07% Mayr-Melnhof is the worlds largest producer of recycled fibre based cartonboard, with a 65 per cent share of the European market.
The company manufactures 1.7m tonnes of carton board through a network of 8 plants.
Mayr-Melnhof has been an active consolidator in its sector, with a strong track record in integrating acquisitions, increasing efficiency and otherwise extracting maximum value.
The company now stands to benefit from growth in particular in Eastern European markets.
The defensive nature of Mayr-Melnhofs business, its strong market share and strong balance sheet remain attractive despite market difficulties.
com Pentair United States 2.32% 2007: 1.89% Pentair is a global diversified company serving the commercial, municipal and residential markets through innovative solutions.
The water segment represents 70 per cent of revenues focused on filtration and flow technologies used in operations throughout the entire water cycle.
The company is focused on the US, but diversifying into Europe and Asia.
Following a key partnership with GE, formed in 2008, Pentair now has access to a stronger, global salesforce and technology sharing benefits.
The strategy going forward is to undergo aggressive cost reductions to deliver results in a difficult economic environment.
com 12 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC
