MANAGERS REPORT Notwithstanding weak markets in the second half, the Companys full year performance was ahead of many funds investing in the environmental space, some of which saw declines of 30-40 per cent priced in pounds sterling.
With a 23 per cent decline in diluted NAV ex income during the year, the Company performed slightly behind small cap markets the MSCI World Small Cap Index declined 22 per cent.
This reflects a relatively strong first half the Company NAV was down 4 per cent vs. MSCI World Small Cap Index down 10 per cent and pronounced relative weakness in the second half, when the Company NAV declined 20 per cent vs. a 13 per cent decline for the MSCI World Small Cap Index.
Overall, positive performance in 2008 relative to competing funds was due to our focus on companies with more defensive business models, visible earnings and strong balance sheets.
The ongoing theme of sector consolidation also provided some upside, with two of IEMs holdings acquired by large multinationals.
The main contributors to weak performance were typically companies with high debt levels, requirements for new project debt or to refinancing existing debt, or exposure to falling commodity prices.
Drivers of Environmental Markets in 2008 Many of the long term drivers of Environmental Markets have developed positively during 2008, with political leaders continuing to support the sector, and in a number of cases, using spending on environmental infrastructure as a stimulus for the global economy.
Nevertheless, in the shorter term and along with the rest of the market, the environmental sector has faced a number of difficulties as financial markets have collapsed.
The main challenges that have affected the sector have been macroeconomic weakness, falling oil and commodity prices and lack of credit availability.
This affects a number of sectors such as renewable energy and metals recycling.
Notwithstanding this, for the short term, the diversity of the investment universe has allowed the Company to focus on sectors with greater earnings visibility such as hazardous waste and filtration, which have been less exposed to these issues.
Over the medium term, we expect all the above issues to be addressed.
Over the longer term, we were encouraged in November 2008 to see the International Energy Agency raise its forecast oil price to US$200 by 2030.
In last years annual report, we highlighted the emergence of a mini-bubble in the solar power market which had led to very high valuations.
During 2008, the share prices of all solar companies fell significantly as it emerged that demand growth was slowing and that margins were falling due to overcapacity in the industry.
As detailed later in this report, we have started to buy shares in selected solar companies where we now see attractive valuations and a strong long term technological competitive advantage.
Development of Companies and Markets by Sub-Sector Alternative Energy and Energy Efficiency Legislative support for the alternative energy and energy efficiency sub-sector saw continued positive momentum in 2008.
The election of Barack Obama signalled a sea-change in US environmental policy, with proposals for aggressive medium-term goals for 10 per cent of electricity generation from renewables by 2012 compared to less than 4 per cent in 2007 and implementation of a cap-and-trade programme to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 80 per cent by 2050.
More imminently the US economic stimulus bill includes ca.
US$63bn direct spend and tax incentives for alternative energy and energy efficiency.
Developments in Europe were also positive, with the EU 5 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED formally adopting a Climate and Energy Package to target 20 per cent of energy from renewables by 2020, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 per cent by 2020 relative to a 1990 baseline, and to extend the EU Emissions Trading Scheme into a third phase beyond 2012.
These legislative targets will underpin the growth prospects of portfolio companies in the medium term.
In the second half of 2008, a collapse in the price of oil and subsequently global power prices, together with the reduced availability of credit, had a negative impact on the renewable energy sector.
Many companies have scaled back their forecasts for the coming year, and although the medium-term outlook is positive, in the near-term there is great uncertainty.
Our concerns regarding the solar sector at the end of 2007 appear to be playing out going into 2009.
An oversupply situation is widely recognised, and average selling prices have fallen, impacting company profitability and growth prospects.
As discussed above, we have exploited share price weakness to add holdings in companies with strong long term competitive advantages.
Energy efficiency markets remained positive over the year, with a further raft of European standards for energy efficient products announced.
In the US a significant proportion of the forthcoming stimulus bill will be directed towards energy efficiency in buildings and on improving the efficiency of the power grid.
Although construction markets remain weak, a growing number of governments are implementing building standards for energy efficiency and subsidies for insulation that bode well for these environmental markets in the long-term.
Key contributors to performance included Fuel Systems Solutions natural gas engines, US, which became the focus of investor attention during the period of high oil prices and Xantrex solar inverter technology, Canada, which was acquired by Schneider Electric.
Conversely, renewable energy companies suffered for reasons described above and equipment manufacturers and project developers were both hit, with Gamesa wind turbines, Spain and Canadian Hydro Developers renewable project developer, Canada particularly weak.
Water Treatment and Pollution Control Water scarcity issues continued to preoccupy governments over the year.
In the UK, the government announced plans for a review of water charging that could lead to compulsory meters in areas of water stress by 2030.
In Australia the governments plans for recovering from the worst drought on record included investing AU$12bn over ten years on improving water productivity and efficiency of use.
The familiar theme of investment requirements in water infrastructure continued to gain global attention.
In China, 9 per cent of a fiscal stimulus package totalling RMB 4trn will focus on the environmental sector including urban sewage and water treatment projects.
The US stimulus package includes ca.
US$18bn spend on water infrastructure, a sector that has been consistently under-funded in past years.
Although this commitment will take some time to translate into actual projects, we are confident that several portfolio companies will benefit.
In pollution control, the European Parliament and Member States agreed a deal to cut carbon dioxide emissions from cars.
The final compromise gave manufacturers an extra two years to meet targets compared to proposals made in 2007.
Nevertheless, a target of an average of 120g of carbon dioxide per km for each manufacturer will be phased in from 2012, via a combination of vehicle motor technology, technical improvements and the use of alternative fuels.
In China, the Beijing Olympics focused attention on pollution issues in the country.
Several measures to curb air pollution were put into effect over the period, and have been continued following their success.
6 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED At the stock level, defensive business models allowed Kurita water treatment, Japan and Clarcor pollution control, US to outperform.
In addition, consolidation continued in the sector, with Whatman separations technology, UK acquired by General Electric in April.
Exposure to the ailing automotive sector caused weakness in Horiba testing and measuring, Japan, and falling commodity prices led to declines in Bioteq pollution control, Canada.
Waste Technologies and Resource Management The legislative drivers continued to tighten in the waste sector, with environment ministers from the EU Member States approving a new Waste Framework Directive that sets the first ever EU-wide recycling targets.
By 2020, all EU countries must recycle 50 per cent of their household waste and 70 per cent of construction and demolition waste.
In the US, the Recycling Investment Saves Energy Act was signed into law, providing tax breaks for business to buy recycling equipment.
This should lead to significant investment over the medium term, which will benefit portfolio holdings such as Tomra recycling technology, Norway.
Falling commodity prices were another key feature of 2008, driven by slowing growth in emerging markets and recession in the rest of the world.
This had an adverse impact on metal recyclers Metalico US and Sims Group Australia.
Highly leveraged companies that outperformed in 2007 such as Transpacic Industries waste management, Australia had a difficult year, due to concerns about these companies ability to refinance and service debt.
Strong performers in the portfolio were Clean Harbors waste management, US and Covanta waste-to-energy, US reflecting the relatively defensive nature of their businesses in an economic downturn.
China Everbright water and waste project developer, Hong Kong also performed well due to new project announcements and strong outlook for infrastructure investment in China under this countrys US$585bn stimulus package.
Portfolio Activity and Current Structure The Company started the year with 87 listed companies.
Since that time we have sold out of 7 companies and we have invested in 8 new companies.
As a result the Company was invested in a total of 88 listed companies on 31 December 2008.
IEM continues to favour profitable companies, which represented 93 per cent of the portfolio at year end, flat on last year.
Alternative energy & energy efficiency ended the year at 42 per cent of the total portfolio, water treatment & pollution control at 25 per cent and waste technologies & resource management at 33 per cent.
There were no material changes in the sub sector weightings.
In terms of company size, 8 per cent of the portfolio is invested in micro caps with a market capital of less than 100m, 48 per cent in companies between 100m and 1bn and 39 per cent in companies above 1bn, which is an increase of 9 per cent reflecting the bias towards larger more liquid, less volatile companies in the aftermath of the financial crisis.
The balance of 5 per cent is in unquoted companies, discussed below.
Taking advantage of the drop in valuations of Asian equities, and following good progress by our research resource in Hong Kong, the portfolio weighting invested in the Rest of World increased 4 per cent to 14 per cent.
The remaining 44 per cent is invested in North America and 42 per cent in Europe.
7 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Unquoted Companies IEMs activity in unquoted companies has been extended during the year with 2 new additions to the portfolio, both in the wind turbine sector.
Emergya Wind Technologies EWT, Netherlands and Nordic Windpower US.
We also completed 4 follow-on investments in Ensyn biomass pyrolysis, UK, Sterecycle waste technology, UK, New Earth Solutions waste technology, UK and EWT.
Acknowledging the severity of the market declines in environmental markets stocks, particularly in the second half of 2008, we marked down the value of holdings in 4 unquoted companies.
The net impact of the valuation adjustments is that the total unquoted companies portfolio was held at 16.0 m at the year end, being 7 per cent below cost price.
The Company ended the year with a portfolio of 7 unquoted companies, representing approximately 5 per cent of the IEM portfolio.
Following the year end, and reflecting continued deterioration in market conditions, we have marked down further the values of 2 unquoted investments since the year end resulting in a further aggregate downward NAV reduction of 4.3m.
Given the challenging environment, we continue to focus resources on the existing unquoted portfolio, whilst selectively reviewing new opportunities with compelling fundamentals and low valuations.
Outlook for 2009 Despite the ongoing recession affecting a number of markets, we are optimistic about the prospects for the Company, which we expect to benefit from several positive developments in 2009, including infrastructure spending and further environmental legislation.
New policy in the United States should provide a significant catalyst to performance, and many holdings stand to benefit from government stimulus packages.
The portfolio continues to emphasize companies in the more defensive environmental markets such as hazardous waste, filtration and the power generation IPP sectors while we are preparing to increase exposure to selected early-cycle, inexpensive companies.
We also anticipate an easing of credit conditions later in the year, and will look for value in companies that will be the principal beneficiaries of this development.
As at the end of January being the date of the most recent available data, the IEM portfolio was trading on 12x the average portfolio earnings over the next twelve months which is a substantial discount to the historical range.
While we recognise that the 6 per cent forecast earnings growth for the portfolio over the next 12 months may be revised down further, and that short term volatility is likely, we remain positive on the long term prospects for the Company.
We will continue to post monthly updates on sector news and on the Companys performance on www.
Impax Asset Management Ltd. 17 March 2009 8 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC
