Auditors Other statutory information In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each Payment policy of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date of approval of this report The policyofthe Groupistoagree termsofpayment with suppliers prior to entering confirms that: into a contractual relationship.
In the absence of a specic agreement, it is the policy of the Group to pay suppliers on a monthly basis.
The Group had below 30 days s so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened in purchases outstanding at 30 June 2008 2007: below 30 days, based on the total the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and amount invoiced by non-programme trade suppliers during the year ended 30 June s the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to 2008.
Programme creditors include significant balances which are not yet contractually make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as dened and to due.
In respect of amounts both contractually due and invoiced, the outstanding establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
number of days purchases is below 30 days 2007: below 30 days.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will be Financial instruments proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with information on our risk management objectives and policies, and our exposure to price risks, credit risks, By order of the Board, liquidity risks and cash ow risks, can be found in note 23 to the accounts.
Dave Gormley Company Secretary Share capital 30 July 2008 Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and changes in the share capital during the year are disclosed in notes 24 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Shareholder information item on pages 112 to 119 contains details of the rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares.
The information disclosed to the Company, as at 30 July 2008, under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority in respect of holdings exceeding the 3% notication threshold is detailed in Shareholder information Major shareholders on page 113.
Charitable contributions and community and environmental activities The Bigger Picture Review, the Groups sixth Corporate Responsibility Review, which does not form part of the Annual Report, will be published in October 2008, and will provide further information on the Groups commitment to corporate responsibility, including community and environmental activities see www.
An overview of the Groups community and environmental activities is also included in the review of the business on page 18.
During 2008, the Group donated 2,021,649 2007: 1,881,125 to charities in the UK in the form of cash.
The Groups total community investment cash, time, in kind and management costs will be published in the Corporate Responsibility Review.
Political contributions Political contributions of the Group in the UK during the year ended 30 June 2008 amounted to approximately 2,300 2007: nil.
The Group offers selected employees the opportunity to participate in a leadership skills programme, which can include, at the employees choice, volunteering for a range of community focused projects.
During the year ended 30 June 2008, as part of the programme, four of the Groups employees chose to volunteer at a youth focused working group led by the Conservative Party.
The time spent at the working group by those employees equated to approximately 2,300 of salary cost, although not all of the time spent was within the employees hours of work for the Group.
We do not anticipate that such an activity will be repeated.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Cumberland Hotel, Great Cumberland Place, London W1H 7DL on 26 September 2008 at 10.00am, is available for download from the Companys corporate website at www.
Going concern After making enquires, the Directors have formed the judgement, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
