Summary Directors report Directors report Charitable contributions and community and A more detailed Directors report is included in the environmental activities Companys Annual Report which is available for The Bigger Picture Review, the Groups sixth Corporate download from the Companys corporate website Responsibility Review, which does not form part of the at www.
Annual Review, will be published in October 2008, and will provide further information on the Groups Dividends commitment to corporate responsibility, including The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year community and environmental activities ended 30 June 2008 of 9.625 pence per ordinary share see www.
which, together with the interim dividend of 7.125 pence paid to shareholders on 18 April 2008, will make a total An overview of the Groups community and dividend for the year of 16.75 pence 2007: 15.50 pence.
environmental activities is also included in the Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting Companys Annual Report which is available for AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 14 November download from the Companys corporate website.
2008 to shareholders appearing on the register at the Directors close of business on 24 October 2008.
The names and biographical details of the Directors Share capital of the Company are given on pages 26 and 27.
On 30 July 2008, the following companies, or their At the Companys 2008 AGM Andrew Griffith and Daniel subsidiary undertakings, held more than 3% of the Rimer will retire and offer themselves for reappointment Companys share capital: in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
David Evans, Allan Leighton, James Murdoch and Lord News UK Nominees Limited Wilson of Dinton retire from the Board by rotation and, a subsidiary of News Corporation 39.14% being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment at Brandes Investment Partners L. P. 3.12% this AGM.
Lord Rothschild will also retire from the Board The Capital Group Companies, Inc 3.10% by rotation at this years AGM but will not be seeking Legal & General Group plc 3.03% reappointment by the shareholders.
David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind are subject to annual reappointment Corporate governance in accordance with requirement A.
7.2 of the Combined The Company is committed to maintaining high Code, as they have served as Non-Executive Directors standards of corporate governance in its management for longer than nine years.
of the affairs of the Group and when accounting to shareholders.
The Company values its dialogue with Annual General Meeting both institutional and private investors.
For the benefit The notice convening the AGM, to be held at The of private investors, the Company produces this shortCumberland Hotel, Great Cumberland Place, London form Annual Review which contains the information W1H 7DL on 26 September 2008 at 10.00am, is available believed to be of most interest to them.
for download from the Companys corporate website at www.
A more detailed corporate governance report is included in the Companys Annual Report which is available for By order of the Board, download from the Companys corporate website at Dave Gormley www.
Company Secretary 30 July 2008 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 28 Annual Review 2008
