Programming The business, its objectives and its strategy We provide subscribers with a broad range of programming options.
Programming is Introduction an important factor in generating and maintaining subscriptions to the Sky Channels.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group operate the With respect to the channels we own and operate, we incur significant expense to leading pay television broadcast service in the UK and Ireland as well as broadband acquire exclusive UK and Ireland television rights to lms, exclusive UK and Ireland and telephony services.
We acquire and commission programming to broadcast on our television rights to broadcast certain sports events live and television rights to other own channels and supply certain of those channels to cable operators for general entertainment programming.
We also produce and commission original retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the UK and Ireland.
We entertainment programming and have acquired the rights to market the television retail channels both our own and third parties to DTH subscribers and certain of our services of third parties to DTH subscribers.
own channels to a limited number of DSL subscribers reference in this Annual Report to the number of DTH subscribers includes the number of DSL subscribers to whom Currently, we own, operate, distribute and retail 25 Sky Channels via our DTH service Sky retails its content directly.
We also make three of our channels available free-toor 28 including multiplex versions of the Sky Channels, but excluding simulcast air via the UK DTT platform as part of the branded Freeview offering and we have channels and the business channels SkyVenue and the Pub Channel.
A multiplex of announced that we are developing plans to replace these channels with new pay TV a channel is a time-shifted version of that channel, a version that is manifestly linked channels on the DTT platform see Government Regulation Broadcasting Act by theme to the principal channel or a version where the content is transmitted at Licences below.
We also simulcast some of the Sky Channels or programming from some of the Sky Channels in high denition.
A simulcast channel is a simultaneous At 30 June 2008, there were 8,980,000 DTH subscribers to our television service, and transmission of programmes on other channels.
We currently retail to our DTH 1,248,000 subscribers of the cable operators to whom we supply certain of our subscribers 149 Sky Distributed Channels including multiplex versions of certain channels, in the UK and Ireland.
Up to 28 February 2007, the Group supplied certain channels the Sky Distributed Channels.
We do not own the Sky Distributed of the Sky Basic Channels to Virgin Media see Cable distribution UK below.
This Channels, although we have an equity interest in certain of them.
In addition to the supply arrangement has now ceased although the Group continues to provide Virgin Sky Distributed Channels, we currently retail to our DTH subscribers the digital audio Media with versions of the Sky Premium Channels.
According to estimates of services Music Choice and Music Choice Extra, as well as the Sky Box Ofce service a Broadcasters Audience Research Board BARB, as at 30 June 2008, there were pay-per-view service offering movies, sporting events and concerts.
12.5 million homes in the UK receiving certain of our channels via DTT see DTT distribution below.
Our total revenue in scal 2008 was 4,952 million 2007: 4,551 The Sky Distributed Channels packages as at 30 June 2008, were as follows: million, as set out in the table below.
3rd Party 2008 2007 Package Channels For the year to 30 June m m Variety Mix 32 Retail subscription 3,769 3,406 Style&CultureMix 24 Wholesale subscription 181 208 Kids Mix 20 Advertising 328 352 Knowledge Mix 21 Sky Bet 44 47 Music Mix 17 Installation, hardware and service 276 212 News & Events Mix 11 Other 354 326 ROI Bonus Mix 10 Revenue 4,952 4,551 Adult Nightly 9 Disney Cinemagic 2 We operate principally within the UK and Ireland, with activities conducted primarily MUTV 1 from the UK.
Our revenue principally arises from services provided to retail and Chelsea TV 1 wholesale customers within the UK with the exception of 365 million 2007: 289 million which arises from services provided to other countries.
Disney Cinemagic also available as a bonus to subscribers of both Movies Mix packages.
On 28 July 2008, the Military History channel launched as part of the Knowledge Mix.
Our scal years end on the Sunday nearest to 30 June in each year.
References in this document to a scal year ended 30 June is to the scal year ending on the Sunday In addition the HD service includes six third party Channels.
We publish our financial statements in British pounds sterling.
References to US dollars, dollars, US$, $ and are to the currency of the United States US, references to Euro and E are to the currency of the participating European Union countries, and references to pounds sterling, pence and p are to the currency of the UK.
For information with respect to exchange rates, see Shareholder Information Exchange Rates.
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
In addition our consolidated financial statements also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Certain terms used herein are dened in the Glossary of terms which appears at the end of this Annual Report.
The Company, a public company limited by shares and domiciled in the UK, operates under the laws of England and Wales.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 25 April 1988.
Our principal executive ofces are located at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD, England.
The percentage gures given for each means of delivery include homes which receive television services via more than one of such delivery means.
The Sky Channels, and their multiplex versions, as at 30 June 2008, were as follows: According to BARB estimates, during the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2008, the Sky Channels including Sky Box Ofce and Sky Box Ofce Events but excluding Sky Channel Multiplex EPG Channel Basic SkyPoker.
com and Sky Vegas accounted for an estimated 16.3% of viewing of all Multiplexes Simulcasts Genre Premium satellite and cable channels excluding BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4 and S4C, not Sky Movies Premiere Sky Prem 1 Sky Premiere HD Movies Premium Channel 4, in Wales only and five collectively the traditionally analogue terrestrial Sky Movies Comedy Movies Premium channels in homes that are able to receive those channels in the UK Multi-Channel Sky Movies Action Movies Premium Homes or an overall 7% viewing share of all channels including the traditionally Sky Movies Family Movies Premium analogue terrestrial channels available within Multi-Channel Homes during the same Sky Movies Drama Movies Premium period.
Sky Movies SciFi and Horror Movies Premium For the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2008, BARB estimates that 52% of all viewing in UK Sky Movies Classics Movies Premium homes with digital satellite reception equipment digital satellite homes was of Sky Movies Modern channels available via digital satellite other than the traditionally analogue terrestrial Greats Movies Premium channels.
BARB estimates that, in the same period, Sky Channels accounted for 24% Sky Movies Indie Movies Premium of multi-channel viewing i. e. viewing of all channels excluding the traditionally Sky Movies Screen1 Sky Screen 1HD Movies Premium analogue terrestrial channels in UK digital satellite homes, with an overall 12.3% Sky Movies Screen 2 Sky Screen 2HD Movies Premium viewing share across all channels available including the traditionally analogue Sky Sports 1 Sky Sports HD1 Sports Premium terrestrial channels within UK digital satellite homes.
Sky Sports 2 Sky Sports HD2 Sports Premium Sky Sports 3 Sky Sports HD3 Sports Premium We hold equity interests in ventures that own 17 not including time-shifted multiplex Sky Sports Xtra Sports Premium versions of the Sky Distributed Channels including certain Premium Sky Distributed Sky Sports News Sports Basic Channels which are operated and distributed in the UK for the purposes of this ling, Sky One Sky One HD Entertainment Basic any reference to the UK in relation to the distribution of the Sky Channels and Sky Sky Two Entertainment Basic Distributed Channels includes the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands namely Sky Three Entertainment Basic Attheraces, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr. Nick Jr. 2, Nicktoons, National Geographic Channel, Sky News News Basic National Geographic HD, Nat Geo Wild, Chelsea TV, MUTV, Paramount Comedy, Sky Real Lives Sky Real Lives 1 Paramount Comedy 2, The History Channel, Military History, The History Channel HD, Sky Real Lives 2 Lifestyle & Culture Basic The Biography Channel and Crime and Investigation Network.
We also have a 33.33% Sky Arts Sky Arts HD Lifestyle & Culture Basic equity interest in the venture operating the Sky News Australia Channel, which is Sky Travel Shopping Basic based in Australia.
Sky Vegas Gaming Basic SkyPoker.
com Gaming Basic Premium channels Sky Premium Channels We retail packages of channels to our DTH subscribers.
The way they are packaged Sky Movies channels offers subscribers a choice of up to six mixes of both Sky Basic Channels and Sky Sky Movies features 10 channels of different genres divided into two packs: Distributed Channels.
Each mix contains channels broadly within a specic genre of interest, to which subscribers have the option to add a combination of Sky Premium Pack 1 Channels and Premium Sky Distributed Channels.
Sky Movies Comedy Sky Movies Family We also offer Sky Box Ofce to all our DTH subscribers.
On the DTH platform, the Sky Sky Movies Classics Premium Channels, the Sky Basic Channels other than Sky News, Sky Box Ofce, Sky Movies Modern Greats Music Choice, Music Choice Extra and the Sky Distributed Channels are encrypted in Sky Movies Screen 1 order to limit access to paying subscribers only.
Pack 2 Virgin Media see Cable distribution UK below carries versions of the Sky Sky Movies Action Thriller Premium Channels including multiplex channels on its digital networks see Sky Sky Movies Sci-Fi Horror Premium Channels below.
Sky Movies Indie Sky Movies Drama We also broadcast versions of three of the Sky Channels, Sky News, Sky Sports News Sky Movies Screen 2 and Sky Three, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK as part of the Freeview offering see Distribution DTT Distribution below.
We have announced that we are Sky Movies Comedy, Family, Classics, Modern Greats, Action Thriller and Drama developing plans to replace these channels with new pay TV channels on the DTT broadcast 24-hours per day, seven days a week.
Sky Movies Sci-Fi Horror broadcasts platform see Government Regulation Broadcasting Act Licences below.
from 8am 5am, seven days a week and Sky Movies Indie broadcasts from 9am 5am seven days a week.
The channels principally broadcast the output of recent We also operate a High Denition TV HD service.
The Sky HD service channel line release movies, made-for-television movies and certain library movies in respect of up consists of: Sky One HD, Sky Arts HD, FX HD, Eurosport HD, National Geographic which we are typically granted exclusive UK and Ireland rights to broadcast during the HD, Discovery HD, The History Channel HD, Rush HD, Sky Box Ofce HD two screens, relevant pay television window by major Hollywood and independent US and Sky Sports HD three channels and Sky Movies HD three screens.
BBC HD, Channel 4 European licensors.
HD and Luxe TV HD are also available on our platform.
Customers can elect to subscribe to Pack 1, Pack 2 or both packs.
Sky DTH and digital According to surveys produced by BARB, as of 30 June 2008, an estimated 34% of the cable subscribers subscribing to both packs receive Sky Movies Premiere and Sky estimated 25.7 million television homes in the UK were equipped with digital satellite Movies Premiere 1 free.
The movies are recent theatrical releases, made for video and and South Africa, plus all summer tours to these three countries made by England, made for TV movies, including foreign lm content.
Sky Movies Premiere typically Scotland, Wales, Ireland and British and Irish Lions and exclusive rights to domestic broadcasts five new lms per week, and two lms from the previous week every day competitions in those territories, including the Super 14 Tournament and Currie Cup for seven days.
Sky Movies Premiere 1 is a one hour delayed multiplex of the until December 2010: viii exclusive live rights to the Ryder Cup and the PGA Premiere channel, broadcast from 11am 3am.
European Tour until 2012: and ix exclusive live rights to the Hickstead Royal International Horse Show until 2010.
We also purchase rights to broadcast a wide There are three Sky Movies HD channels dedicated to movies broadcast in high range of additional sports programming on both an ad hoc and longer term basis.
denition: Sky Movies Screen 1 HD, Sky Movies Screen 2 HD and Sky Movies Premiere HD.
Sky Movies Screen 1 HD is available to subscribers to our HD service who also Premium subscription channels retailed by Sky subscribe to Pack 1 and Sky Movies Screen 2 HD is available to subscribers to our HD Disney Cinemagic service who also subscribe to Pack 2.
Sky Movies Premiere HD is available to Under an agreement with The Walt Disney Company Limited, we have the exclusive subscribers of our HD service who subscribe to both Pack 1 and Pack 2.
Sky Movies rights to distribute, via DTH in the UK and Ireland, Disney Cinemagic and its multiplex Screen 1 HD, Sky Movies Screen 2 HD and Sky Movies Premiere HD are a simulcast of channel as bonus channels to those of our DTH subscribers receiving both Sky Movies Sky Movies Screen 1, Sky Movies Screen 2 and Sky Movies Premiere respectively.
packs see Sky Movies channels above, and to other DTH subscribers as a stand Screen 1 and HD simulcast broadcasts midday 4am and Screen 2 and HD alone premium channel.
simulcast broadcasts 11am 3am, both seven days a week.
Chelsea TV Sky Sports channels Chelsea Digital Media Limited a company in which we own a 35% equity interest, Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 each provides on average 22 hours of sports operates a digital subscription pay television channel dedicated to showing certain programming per day, including live coverage of sports events.
programming relating to Chelsea Football Club Chelsea TV.
We offer Chelsea TV to our DTH subscribers as a stand alone premium channel.
Sky Sports 3 currently offers, on average, 18 hours of sports programming per day.
It is available without extra charge to DTH and cable subscribers who subscribe to both MUTV Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
We are party to a joint venture, MUTV Limited, with Manchester United PLC.
We own a 33.33% equity interest in MUTV Limited which operates a digital subscription pay Sky Sports Xtra is available as a stand alone premium channel as well as being television channel dedicated to showing certain programming relating to Manchester provided free as an additional channel to DTH and cable subscribers who subscribe to United Football Club MUTV.
We offer MUTV to our DTH subscribers as a stand both Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2.
Sky Sports Xtra currently offers, on average, 16 alone premium channel.
hours of sports programming per day.
Music Choice Extra Sky Sports HD1, Sky Sports HD2 and Sky Sports HD3 are available to subscribers to our In addition to Music Choice, which is included in certain of our Basic Packages see HD service who are entitled to the corresponding standard denition channel.
This Basic Channels Basic Sky Distributed Channels below, we offer Music Choice Extra, year the Sky Sports HD channels have included live HD coverage of Englands domestic which consists of an additional 38 digital audio channels, to our DTH subscribers as a Test matches, one day internationals and county matches in cricket, Engage Super stand alone premium channel.
League rugby, Heineken Cup and Guinness Premiership rugby, the US Open, US PGA and selected European Tour events in golf, the NFL Super Bowl and a range of live Basic Channels football including matches from the Football Association Premier League FAPL, Sky Basic Channels Coca-Cola Football leagues, Carling Cup, UEFA Champions League, FA Cup, Scottish Cup Sky One is the general entertainment agship channel of the Sky Channels and is and some international games.
available to our DTH and certain DSL and cable subscribers.
It is targeted primarily at a 16-44 age group audience and includes UK-commissioned drama, factual and family In March 2006 the European Commission rendered legally binding the FAPLs entertainment series and major event programming in addition to first-run acquired commitment to sell live TV rights in six balanced packages, with no one bidder being US series.
According to BARB surveys, during the 52 weeks ended 30 June 2008, Sky allowed to buy all six packages.
In May 2007, the Group successfully bid for four of One was viewed by approximately 37% of individuals in all UK television homes and those six available packages each of 23 games of exclusive live UK audio visual rights Sky One Two Three combined by approximately 69% of individuals in all UK television to FAPL football, and four of the seven packages of live audio visual rights for homes.
Sky One is simulcast in HD, available to subscribers to our HD service and broadcast in Ireland.
In addition, the Group has near live long form rights to 242 includes a range of Sky One programmes in high denition including all major new games per season of FAPL football in both the UK and Ireland in the case of the UK, commissions and acquisitions.
in a joint bid with British Telecommunications plc BT and mobile clips rights to FAPL football in both the UK and Ireland.
The bid for mobile clips rights in the UK was Sky Two broadcasts primarily a catch-up schedule of programming from Sky One and made by the Group in partnership with News Group Newspapers.
In all cases these is complemented by Sky Ones programming library and some exclusive content and is rights run from the beginning of the 2007 08 season to the end of the 2009 10 available to our DTH and certain DSL and cable subscribers.
schedule of programming from Sky Ones library, content from Sky Travel, Sky Real Lives and Sky Arts, as well as some exclusive content.
Sky Three is also currently In addition to those FAPL rights, our programming rights for the Sky Sports channels shown on some cable networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as part of the include exclusive live rights to broadcast, in the UK and Ireland, a range of sport Freeview offering in the UK.
including a number of football, rugby union, rugby league, cricket, motor sport, golf, boxing and tennis events.
Those events include: i broadcast rights to Football League Sky News provides national and international news to viewers in the UK, Ireland and matches and the Carling Cup for the 2008 09 to 2011 12 domestic football seasons: ii across the globe.
The channel is broadcast unencrypted on Astra satellites see broadcast rights to the UEFA Champions League for the 2008 09 to 2011 12 seasons: Satellites below, and distributed to viewers via cable and satellite networks in iii exclusive live rights to Englands primary domestic cricket matches and all of Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
It is also currently shown on some cable Englands home test matches and one day internationals for the 2006 to 2009 networks in the UK and Ireland and on DTT as part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
domestic cricket seasons: iv exclusive live rights in English for the International Cricket Tours of India from 2006 to 2010: v a number of rugby union matches including Sky Sports News provides 24-hour national and international sports news coverage.
It autumn international matches, Guinness Premiership matches, England A Team is currently available to our DTH subscribers, some cable and DSL customers in the UK matches from the 2005 06 to 2009 10 seasons: vi exclusive live rights to the and Ireland and in the UK on DTT as part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
The business, its objectives and its strategy As at 30 June 1 continued In thousands 2008 2007 Distribution of Sky Channels Sky Arts broadcasts arts-oriented programming, including classical music, opera, DTH homes 8,980 8,582 literature, theatre, cinema and dance.
It is currently available to our DTH subscribers.
2 Cable homes 1,248 1,259 Some programmes on Sky Arts are simulcast in HD, available to all subscribers to our Total Sky pay homes 10,228 9,841 HD service.
3 4 DTT homes 9,200 9,139 Sky Real Lives and its multiplexes Sky Real Lives 1 and Sky Real Lives 2 focus on real 1 Each of the above figures includes homes that receive Sky Channels via more than one life human interest stories appealing to a female audience.
The Sky Real Lives channels means of distribution.
are available to our DTH subscribers.
2 The number of cable homes is reported to us by the cable operators.
3 The DTT homes number consists of the Office of Communications Ofcom estimate of Sky Travel is an entertainment and travel retail business incorporating a channel and a the number of homes where DTT is the only platform.
The number of DTT homes for all website.
Sky Travel, broadcasts entertainment and teleshopping programming and is periods disclosed above is based on Ofcoms Digital Television Update published quarterly currently available to our DTH subscribers and some cable subscribers in the UK and in arrears.
Sky Travel programming also features on Sky Three, which currently 4 Latest data available is at 31 March 2008 with an estimated number of DTT homes of broadcasts on DTH and on DTT as part of the Freeview offering in the UK.
the teleshopping programming on Sky Travel on DTH and users of the skytravel.
co. uk website are able to purchase a wide range of ights, hotels and holiday packages by the telephone or internet.
DTH distribution As at June 2008, the total number of DTH subscribers in the UK and Ireland was Sky Vegas and SkyPoker.
com are interactive television channels which currently 8,980,000, representing a net increase of 398,000 subscribers in the scal year.
DTH broadcast on a 24-hour a day basis and are currently available to our DTH subscribers.
We define DTH churn as the number of DTH subscribers over a given period who terminate their subscription in its entirety, net of former subscribers who reinstate their subscription in that period Basic Sky Distributed Channels where such reinstatement is within a twelve month period of the termination of their Our agreements with the owners of the Sky Distributed Channels typically grant us the original subscription.
In scal 2008, we derived 3,769 million 76% of our revenue exclusive right to offer these channels to residential DTH subscribers in the UK and from DTH subscription revenue 2007: 3,406 million 75%.
As at 30 June 2008, we had a total of 8,980,000 DTH subscribers, with 65% of The owners of the Sky Distributed Channels generally sell their own advertising time subscribers taking a combination of Sky Basic Channels and at least one Sky Premium on their channels, although we act as an advertising sales representative for certain of Channel as well as Sky Distributed Channels.
these channels see Advertising below.
Of more than 8,980,000 DTH subscribers: 3,714,000 were Sky subscribers, 1,604,000 Pay-per-view were Multiroom subscribers and 498,000 were Sky HD subscribers.
Our Sky Box Ofce service currently offers our DTH subscribers over 50 screens of television premieres of movies and occasional live sports and other special events on a The standard price inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a residential DTH subscriber pay-per-view basis.
We have acquired certain exclusive DTH rights from Hollywood and of our basic package containing the largest number of basic channels known as the independent distributors, which enable us to show their movies on Sky Box Ofce.
Sky Variety Mix is currently 16 per month in the UK andE20 per month in Ireland.
Box Ofce HD offers at least 10 movies each week in high denition on a pay-perThe range of prices inclusive of VAT, where applicable to a DTH subscriber taking view basis.
We also offer seven screens of adult movies, between 10.00pm and one or more basic channel Mixes with Sky Premium Channels which varies depending 5.30am, to our DTH subscribers via our 18 Plus Movies service.
upon the number of basic channel Mixes and Sky Premium Channels taken is currently 26 to 45 in the UK, andE39 toE68 in Ireland.
Sky Anytime on TV In March2007the GrouplaunchedSky AnytimeonTV, an on-demandservice that We also offer a number of our services, including Sky HD, to commercial DTH provides access to selected programmes that are added to the service overnight with subscribers in the UK and Ireland under a range of contracts.
The types of contract, approximately 30 hours of content available at any one time.
Viewers have seven days and the channels, which are available to any particular commercial subscriber depend to watch programmes or store them on their Sky planner see description of Sky in primarily upon the type of business premises within which such subscribers wish to DTH Distribution below as newer programmes are added and older programmes show our services.
Our commercial DTH subscribers include ofces, retail outlets, are deleted.
Sky Anytime on TV uses additional storage capacity on relevant set-top hotels, pubs and clubs.
Each such operator with a SMATV system is considered to be a boxes to automatically store selected programmes for viewing on-demand and the single commercial DTH subscriber regardless of the number of points e. g. rooms in a customers personal recording capacity remains unaffected.
Sky Anytime on TV is hotel within the premises the television signal is distributed to.
As at 30 June 2008, available to all Sky HD customers and customers with the latest generation of Sky there were approximately 44,695 subscribers to our commercial DTH services in the set-top boxes at no extra charge in accordance with their subscriptions for example, UK and Ireland including approximately 5,078 commercial DTH subscribers operating customers who subscribe for the Sky Movies channels will have access to certain Sky a SMATV system.
Movies programming on Sky Anytime on TV at no extra charge.
The majority of our UK DTH commercial customers are subscribers under our pubs Distribution and clubs subscription agreement.
Under that agreement, the subscription prices range We distribute our programming services directly to DTH subscribers through the from 89 to 3,001 per month exclusive of VAT.
In Ireland, prices to pubs and clubs packages described above.
Cable subscribers, by contrast, contract with cable operators, subscribers range from E278 toE686 per month exclusive of VAT.
which in turn acquire the rights to distribute certain of the Sky Channels from us, which they combine with other channels from third parties and distribute to their Digital satellite reception equipment subscribers.
Since 28 February 2007, Virgin Media has not carried certain of the Sky UK Channels over its cable networks see Cable distribution UK below.
DTT viewers In order to receive our DTH service, subscribers are required to have a digital satellite must have either an integrated digital television set or an appropriate set-top box see system which includes a satellite dish and LNB low noise block converter, a digital Competition Digital Terrestrial Television Top Up TV below.
satellite receiver set-top box, a smart card see Technology and Infrastructure below and a remote control.
We also provide installation and equipment repair services.
In scal 2008, 1.3 million digital satellite reception Standard installation for all new DTH subscribers taking the free standard set-top box systems were newly installed in the UK by or on behalf of one of our subsidiaries offer during scal 2008 was 30 with an additional 30 charge for weekend 2007: 1.3 million.
From 1 July 2008 all new DTH subscribers will pay 60 for a standard installation whether the installation is booked on a weekday or on the weekend or Ireland 30 for new DTH subscribers joining with a Sky or Sky HD box or Sky Broadband In Ireland, both satellite equipment and subscriptions to our DTH services are offered and Sky Talk.
Non-DTH subscribers taking up the free standard set-top box offer directly by us and through a large number of Irish retailers.
Some of the channels which is different from purchasing our freesat proposition, see Distribution Free-tooffered in Ireland differ from those offered in the UK.
view Satellite Proposition below during scal 2008 were, and currently are, charged 120 for standard installation regardless of whether the installation is booked for a Sky Active weekend or a weekday.
We offer our viewers enhanced and interactive services.
We offer enhanced broadcast applications behind a number of Sky Channels, including Sky Movies Active behind our The services received by a non-subscriber taking up the free Digibox offer depend movie channels, Sky Sports Active behind our sports channels, Sky News Active upon the number of unencrypted services and free encrypted services available on the behind Sky News and the interactive betting service available behind SkyPoker.
com Astra and Eutelsat satellite systems, and also upon whether the non-subscriber and Sky Vegas.
We offer interactive services which can be accessed whilst the receives encrypted channels from third party broadcasters on a subscription or payprogramming on the channel to which the interactive service relates stays in view.
We provide an interactive television platform for the development and delivery of During scal 2008, we have continued to offer the Sky box, a set-top box that we interactive television services by means of either stand-alone portals including the Sky have developed which contains two satellite tuners and an integrated PVR allowing Active portal or in conjunction with certain broadcast channels.
Such interactive programming to be recorded directly on to a hard-disk contained within the box.
This services include betting, customer services, interactive advertising, games, competitions, enables DTH subscribers to watch one live satellite programme or a previously voting, and quizzes.
recorded programme while simultaneously recording another or to simultaneously record two programmes, to pause or rewind live television and to record automatically Sky Active is currently offered at no additional charge to all of our DTH subscribers and some series of programmes.
each viewers telephone line is the return path for these interactive services via a modem in the set-top box.
During scal 2008 the standard cost to DTH subscribers of a Sky box was between 99 and 149.
From 1 July 2008, the standard cost to DTH subscribers of a Sky box Third party channels and third party stand-alone interactive portals such as QVC, is a one-off fee of either 75 or 150 depending on the services to which they PlayJam, Teletext Holidays, Ladbrokes, Directgov, and NHS Direct Interactive make use subscribe.
A DTH subscriber can only receive one discounted Sky box.
of the interactive potential of the digital DTH platform.
Third party broadcasters such as the BBC, ITV, Channel 4, five, Nickelodeon, and the Disney Channel have launched Sky customers need a Sky subscription to use the Sky recording features.
DTH interactive services on our DTH platform.
Third party channels may offer such subscribers receive the Sky subscription for free.
Customers who do not subscribe to interactivity in conjunction with Sky Active orprovide theirinteractive services a Sky package non-DTH subscribers pay a monthly charge of 10 for the Sky independently, including making use of competing interactive infrastructures connected subscription.
DTH subscribers with a Sky subscription and a compatible Sky box can to our DTH platform.
also receive Sky Anytime TV at no extra cost.
This is an on-demand service which provides a selection of programming on the Sky box hard-disk which a customer can Sky Bet watch whenever they like.
The Group offers a range of betting and gaming services under the Sky Bet, Sky Poker, Sky Vegas and Sky Bingo brands in relation to which the Group acts as During scal 2008 the standard cost to DTH subscribers of a Sky HD box was bookmaker and operator.
The Sky Bet xed odds sports betting service has since between 199 and 299.
From 1 July 2008, the standard cost to DTH subscribers of a 1 September 2007 been licensed by the UK Gambling Commission and is available Sky HD box is a one-off fee of either 75 or 150 depending on the services to across multiple platforms, including by means of set-top boxes including Sky and which they subscribe.
A DTH subscriber can only receive one discounted Sky HD box.
Sky HD, by telephone, WAP and on the internet and customers can bet on virtual DTH subscribers currently pay a monthly subscription fee of 10 for the HD service in dog and horse racing on the Sky Vegas channel.
Skys gaming operations, which addition to the subscription fee for the package of channels taken.
Sky HD customers include poker, bingo and an online casino are licensed in Alderney in the Channel require a Sky subscription to use the Sky recording features of the Sky HD box.
com launched in February 2007 on DTH.
Customers can participate The subscription is free for DTH subscribers or 10 a month for non-DTH subscribers.
through their set-top boxes or through the internet at www.
com and can have the option of watching the show on the SkyPoker.
Sky Bet also We also offer our DTH subscribers and non-DTH subscribers the opportunity to continues to develop a range of popular games products on the internet at purchase up to seven extra Digibox receivers or three Sky or Sky HD boxes for use www.
com and on the DTH platform, through both the Sky Vegas 24 7 games at the same residence as their original set-top box, which enables them to watch service and Sky Vegas interactive.
Sky Bingo was launched on the internet in different satellite programmes in different rooms at the same time using just one December 2007 and on interactive television in May 2008.
In scal 2008, we derived satellite dish.
DTH subscribers can purchase a Multiroom subscription for each extra 44 million of Sky Bet revenue encompassing betting and gaming 2007: 47 box at a cost of an extra 10 a month which provides all the channels included in his million.
The gambling business is certied by the Gambling charity Gamcare and has or her main DTH subscription package for one extra set-top box.
in place stringent social responsibility measures for the protection of minors and other vulnerable people.
We take active measures to prevent persons resident in the US During scal 2008, the standard cost of an extra standard box for a DTH subscriber participating in our internet gaming and betting services.
Such measures include geowas, and currently is, 49: the standard cost of the Sky box varied from 99 to 149: location checking software and credit card checks.
and the standard cost of the Sky HD box varied from 199 to 299, in each case providing the customer took up a Multiroom subscription.
From 1 July 2008, the On 23 January 2007, the Group completed its acquisition of 365 Media Group plc standard cost of an extra Sky or Sky HD box is 150.
DTH subscribers who do not 365 Media.
The total consideration for the acquisition was 105 million.
365 Media take up a Multiroom subscription, pay 399 for an extra Sky HD box, 199 for an is an operator of sports and gaming websites including the odds comparison service extra Sky box and 99 for an extra standard Sky box.
com which compares betting, gaming, poker and bingo odds of third party operators.
The customers of the 365 Media websites totalbet.
Digital subscriber line DSL and other xed line distribution Sky Player As at 30 June 2008, our broadband network covered approximately 72% of UK Sky Player is a PC-application that provides access to a range of on-demand households.
programmes and live channels including Sky Sports, Sky One and Sky Movies programming.
We also offer Sky Broadband Connect to our DTH subscribers in the UK who are not within the coverage area of our broadband network.
Sky Broadband Connect offers an Customers can access a range of entertainment, sports and movies content with Sky equivalent service to Sky Broadband Mid and costs 17 per month.
Sky Broadband Player via www.
com skyplayer provided they have a compatible computer and Connect customers will be offered Sky Broadband Base, Sky Broadband Mid or Sky operating system.
This offers downloads and streamed content to a customers home Broadband Max if and when our broadband network extends to their area.
The cost and availability of content depends on whether the customer is a DTH subscriber and what DTH subscription package they have.
Certain content is available Sky Talk on a pay-per-view and subscription basis.
Sky Talk is a telephony service available to all Skys DTH subscribers in the UK.
Sky Talk Freetime offers DTH subscribers free for up to one hour per call UK evening and Sky By Wire weekend calls and Sky Talk Unlimited offers DTH subscribers unlimited UK calls for up Sky By Wire refers to television services retailed directly by us over the xed line to one hour per call and unlimited calls to certain international destinations for 5 a networks of other operators.
The first such Sky By Wire offering was made available in month.
August 2004 when we began offering subscriptions to certain of the Sky Channels to households connected to the HomeChoice platform.
We now have Sky By Wire In October 2007 the Group launched Sky Talk Line Rental, an opportunity for DTH offerings available via a number of other platforms in Ireland Magnet Networks subscribers to take their telephony line rental directly from Sky.
This is available for Limited, Smart Telecom, Broadworks Communications and SCTV Digital.
10 a month to DTH subscribers who also take a Sky Talk product.
Following its acquisition of Video Networks Ltd the operator of the HomeChoice Online platform, Tiscali UK Limited Tiscali re-branded the platform as Tiscali TV on 1 March We own and operate a number of established websites including sky.
Tiscali now distributes pay television and broadband access services across its skysports.
whole unbundled local loop network.
Sky launched a full-service online portal in October 2007 encompassing e-mail, search Under arrangements with Tiscali, we have access to the Tiscali TV platform to enable and other new channels such as money, motoring, property and travel to sit alongside us to retail certain of the Sky Premium Channels to customers who already subscribe the existing verticals of skysports.
In addition, Tiscali provides us with certain customer management, billing and sales agency services in respect of our subscribers receiving Sky Premium Sky also extended its commitment to protection of its customers by introducing the Sky Channels via its platform.
In return for these services, we pay Tiscali a xed monthly Security Centre where users can obtain information and products relating to online fee per subscriber who subscribes to a Sky Premium Channel on the Tiscali platform.
In June 2007 the Group concluded an agreement with Tiscali to supply the Sky Basic Channels for retransmission to Tiscalis DSL subscribers as part of Tiscalis own retail Mobile networks pay-TV offering.
Sky Anytime on Mobile and Sky Mobile TV Sky Anytime on Mobile is a mobile phone application that provides access to Sky Easynet Sports, Sky News, Sky Oneand SkyMovies mobile content.
This offers news and The Group completed its acquisition of Easynet Group plc now Easynet Group Limited entertainment information on compatible mobile handsets.
It also allows customers to Easynet in January 2006.
Founded in 1994, Easynet is a global networking access the 7-day TV guide.
It is available at no extra cost to our DTH subscribers.
The company, providing customers with IP based wide area network solutions.
Easynet has application is available across all mobile networks to customers with a compatible operations in ten countries UK, Spain, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, handset with mobile internet access via GPRS or third generation cellular telephone Italy, Switzerland, USA and China enabling companies to connect their sites to a high systems 3G.
quality, secure and reliable Multi-protocol Label Switching MPLS network.
Easynet offers a portfolio of IP services including national and cross border IP virtual private In addition, customers on Vodafone, Orange or T-mobile mobile networks in the UK networks VPN, managed video conferencing services, internet connectivity, carrier or the Vodafone network in Ireland and with a compatible mobile handset can services, hosting and co-location in purpose built data centre facilities, and security subscribe to Sky Mobile TV.
Sky Mobile TV offers over 25 channels streamed direct solutions.
to the subscribers mobile phone.
Depending on the customers mobile network they can subscribe to up to four packages which cost from 3 to 5 per month or on a In the UK, Easynet engages in local loop unbundling LLU, which involves placing daily or weekly basis in Ireland.
equipment in BT exchanges enabling the Group to offer differentiated services to businesses and consumers.
As at 30 June 2008, the Group through its acquisition of We also offer 24-7 Football.
This allows customers to watch football clips on a Easynet and LLU that has been carried out by the Group since that acquisition had compatible mobile handset.
It is available on all mobile networks in the UK and certain unbundled 1,189 exchanges.
Irish networks and you do not need to be a DTH subscriber to register.
UK customers can either subscribe for 5 a month or buy each clip for 0.50.
Sky Broadband We launched Sky Broadband, our broadband internet access service in July 2006.
The We also syndicate various content alerts, text based and video clips under our brands service is available to all of our DTH subscribers in the UK.
For DTH subscribers covered by our broadband network, three different broadband Cable distribution products are available: Sky Broadband Base:Sky BroadbandMid:and SkyBroadband UK Max.
Sky Broadband Base is free with download speeds of up to 2Mb s and 2GB The combined cable operator businesses previously operated by Telewest Global, Inc monthly usage.
Sky Broadband Mid costs 5 per month and offers download speeds of Telewest and NTL Incorporated ntl were relaunched under a common brand, up to 8Mb s and 40GB monthly usage.
Sky Broadband Max costs 10 per month and Virgin Media, on 8 February 2007.
Virgin Media also operates the Virgin Mobile business in the UK The channels broadcast via DTT by us, together with a number of other channels and has entered into an exclusive licence agreement with Virgin Enterprises Limited broadcast free-to-air via DTT by other broadcasters, are marketed to consumers under for the use of the Virgin brand for its consumer business.
We have announced that we are developing plans to replace these three channels with new pay TV channels on the DTT platform.
An The Virgin Media re-brand coincided with the harmonisation of the television offering application to Ofcom to amend our Digital Television programme services licence across the legacy cable systems of ntl and Telewest.
Virgin Media continues to provide DPS to enable us to launch these new pay TV channels on the DTT platform was both analogue and digital cable services across its cable systems and accounts for a submitted in April 2007.
Ofcom has announced that it will publish a consultation substantial proportion of our wholesale revenue, which is revenue derived from the document on the Groups pay DTT proposal by the end of summer 2008 see supply of Sky Channels to UK and Irish cable platforms.
On 28 February 2007, our Government regulation Broadcasting Act licences below.
agreements with Virgin Media for the distribution of our basic channels on the legacy cable systems of ntl and Telewest expired and we have been unable to conclude any Free-to-view satellite proposition replacement agreement for the carriage of any of our basic channels on Virgin Medias We offer purchasers a freesat proposition with access to over 270 free-to-view platform and, therefore, the Sky Basic Channels are currently not distributed to Virgin television and radio channels including regional variants and interactive services, Medias cable customers.
On 12 April 2007, Virgin Media commenced legal without a monthly subscription fee.
Consumers can purchase a package of digital proceedings in the High Court against Sky in relation, amongst other things, to the satellite reception equipment, including a digital satellite smart card and standard supply of the Sky Basic Channels to Virgin Media see Government Regulation UK installation, for 150.
The free-to-view channels on DTH include Sky News, and a competition rules below.
In scal 2008, we derived 181 million in subscription fees range of television and radio channels provided by, among others, the BBC and ITV.
We estimate, based on public disclosures Access to the encrypted signals of Sky Three, Channel 4 and five is available as a by Virgin Media and the number of cable homesreportedto usbyother cable result of the provision of a digital satellite viewing card, which we provide as part of operators, that, as of 30 June 2008, Virgin Media subscribers represented greater than the package.
The purchasers of this proposition are not obliged to subscribe to our pay 99% of all cable television subscribers in the UK.
Virgin Media continues to carry television service: however, the proposition offers an easy upgrade path to our DTH versions of Sky Premium Channels on its digital networks and Sky Sports 1 and Sky pay television service.
Sports 2 on its analogue network.
Emerging forms of distribution Cable operators pay us a monthly per subscriber fee per channel in respect of their We are also evaluating various other possible new means of distributing our services subscribers to the Sky Basic Channels other than Virgin Media who no longer carry other than by DTH, cable, DSL and DTT, such as wireless broadband using Wimax or the Sky Basic Channels and a monthly per subscriber fee per channel package for the other similar technologies, mobile TV using technologies such as Digital Video Sky Premium Channels.
Cable operators are able to offer their subscribers any choice Broadcasting for Handhelds DVB-H, MediaFLO by Qualcomm, the internet, IP or combination of the Sky Premium Channels pursuant to the rate card terms on Wireless TDtv, General Packet Radio Service GPRS and UMTS 3G mobile which we supply such channels.
Where applicable, the Sky Basic Channels are not telephony.
included in our current wholesale rate card and we negotiate separate commercial arrangements with each cable operator for the carriage of these channels.
We also participate actively in the Digital Video Broadcasting DVB standardisation group both in the various working groups and at the level of the DVBs Steering We have contracts with Smallworld, Newtel and Wightcable for their distribution of all Board, which gives us early exposure to other emerging technologies.
of our basic standard denition channels.
These three regional cable operators operate the only other major pay TV cable services outside the Virgin Media network, covering Seasonality the Borders region, Jersey and the Isle of Wight respectively.
Historically DTH subscriber subscriptions to our channels have tended to be higher in the first half of our scal year, which, as a result of us expensing the cost of acquiring In addition, various of the Sky Channels are distributed on a number of narrowband customers as incurred, has tended to provide a modest weighting of profit towards the cable networks.
These are generally smaller cable operators that have limited channel second half of the year.
There can be no assurance that these trends will continue in capacity when compared with digital satellite or digital cable and accordingly do not the future.
generally carry all of the Sky Channels.
Marketing Ireland The principal types of marketing used by us to promote our products and services are We currently have arrangements in place with UPC Communications Ireland Limited press including both national and regional newspapers and magazines, media inserts, UPC for the re-transmission of certain of the Sky Channels, including Sky Basic and door drops, direct mailings, outdoor activity such as billboards and bus backs, on-air Sky Premium Channels, to their subscribers over the legacy networks of ntl Ireland and advertising on both national and regional radio and television channels on both Chorus previously the two leading Irish cable operators but which were brought under promotional and commercial airtime, outbound calling, on-line advertising on both the common ownership of UPCs parent company, Liberty Global Inc. in December third party websites and on sky.
com, advertising in our customer magazine, point of 2005.
UPC operates both analogue and digital cable services in Ireland.
sale advertising in retail outlets which sell our products and services and Sky retail stores.
In addition, various of the Sky Channels are distributed on a number of local cable networks in Ireland.
These are generally smaller cable operators that have limited Advertising channel capacity when compared with digital satellite or digital cable and accordingly In scal 2008, we derived 328 million of our revenue from advertising sales revenue do not generally carry all of the Sky Channels.
In Ireland, cable subscriber fees for the Sky Premium Channels are charged on a per We sell advertising for all of the 25 Sky Channels as well as for their multiplexes subscriber per channel package basis.
The level of prices charged to cable operators around all programmes that are broadcast on these channels.
We also act as the for most Sky Channels is lower than in the UK.
advertising sales representative for certain third party channels.
We sell advertising time across all of the Sky Channels and third party channels represented by us, and DTT distribution tailor distribution according to the target audience an advertiser is trying to reach.
We broadcast versions of three of our channels, Sky News, Sky Sports News and Sky Three, unencrypted free-to-air via DTT in the UK.
These channels are broadcast on a According to BARB estimates, across all UK Multi-Channel Homes, our average share DTT multiplex for which the licence is held by National Grid Wireless which owns and for all of the Sky Channels of commercial audiences excluding those of the BBC for operates shared wireless communications and broadcast infrastructure.
scal 2008 was 11%, a decrease from 12.05% at the end of the previous scal year.
According to Ofcom, cable The business, its objectives and its strategy networks currently cover approximately 45% of UK homes, whilst, according to the continued Commission for Communications Regulation ComReg the national communications regulatory authority in Ireland, cable and MMDS services cover nearly 80% of Irish UK household and tend to over-represent the 16-34 year old, ABC1 i. e. upmarket homes.
Approximately 13% of UK homes currently subscribe to a cable television and male demographic proles sought by many advertisers.
service, whilst approximately 51% of Irish homes currently subscribe to cable or MMDS television services.
Sponsorship In scal 2008, we derived 30 million of revenue from sponsorship 2007: 34 In January 2005, ntl and Telewest launched a VOD service in the UK.
This VOD service million, which is included in advertising sales revenue.
has now been rolled out to all of Virgin Medias digital TV subscribers.
The Virgin Media VOD services include movie and television programme content and provide We acquire programme sponsors for the Sky Channels and work alongside the sales viewers with pause and rewind functionality.
Digital cable subscribers to whom the teams of partner channels such as National Geographic Channel, Discovery Channel, services are available do not need to upgrade their equipment to receive the services The History Channel and Hallmark to help secure broadcast sponsors for their though some VOD services are only available for an additional fee depending on the channels.
As an additional service, Virgin Media also offers V, a HD PVR set-top box which enables its customers to record programming and watch Programme sponsorship is generally either title sponsorship e. g. Nintendo Wii HD content on the Virgin Media platform.
Gladiators or themed sponsorship e. g. Sci Fi programming on Sky One sponsored by EA Games.
IPTV services Two operators have developed the capability to deliver linear television channels via We outperform the television sponsorship sector delivering approximately 6.5% of total their DSL networks to homes: Kingston Communications in Kingston-upon-Hull which revenue from sponsorship against an industry average of approximately 4%.
closed its TV service in April 2006 and Tiscali through the acquisition of Video Networks Ltd VNL in August 2006.
Competition Introduction Tiscalis service was re-branded in March 2007 previously branded as HomeChoice Sky is a channel provider, a distributor of television services and a DTH satellite and offers access to a range of broadcast channels and video-on-demand content, platform service provider.
Sky also offers broadband and telephony services to its DTH including movies, packaged together with broadband internet access and telephony.
customers, as well as a range of other services including variants of VOD, games via According to Ofcom, as at November 2007, 36,000 television homes in the UK were both interactive TV and the internet, and gambling services via TV, telephone and the viewing linear television via a DSL platform.
Several other operators have or are developing the capability to combine linear Sky competes with a number of communications and entertainment companies to television channels delivered over the DTT platform and on-demand video services secure a supply of content, for audiences for that content, for advertising sales and for including paid for on-demand video services delivered via a DSL connection.
The customers to its content distribution, broadband and telephony services.
This principal operator with services currently available is BT, which launched its service competitive set is summarised below under the following headings: BT Vision in December 2006 and had 214,000 customers at the end of March 2008.
BTs service also incorporates PVR functionality and VOD services.
s competition from other video distributors and video distribution channels: s competition from broadband and telephony xed and mobile providers: Programming available over the internet s competition from other broadcasters: and Broadband-enabled telephone lines, principally using DSL technology, are being used s competition from sellers of advertising air time.
to deliver video content to consumers.
This includes content delivered on an ondemand basis for example, via the internet and broadcast content.
It also includes In recent years, large parts of telecoms network infrastructure have been upgraded delivery of content to consumers PCs, and to their television sets, via compatible setfrom circuit-switched networks to packet-switched IP networks.
These IP networks top boxes.
are able to carry video content in addition to voice and other data and, together with the digitalization of content, have facilitated a convergence between media and DSL services have grown signicantly in the UK in the recent past, both in terms of the telecoms companies.
number of providers, and the number of users.
According to British Telecom plc BT, as at 31 March 2008, there were 12.7 million DSL and LLU connections in the This technical convergence has also increased the propensity for companies to offer a UK including 4.3 million LLU lines.
However, only a very limited number of these bundle of services to customers typically, a triple play of broadband access, subscribers currently use these services for digital television as opposed to telephony and video content as they seek to make efficient use of their networks.
downloading content or viewing streamed content over the internet which is much more widespread.
Whilst consumer broadband DSL access remains principally focused on the provision of internet access, several operators have developed the capacity to Competition from other video distributors and video distribution channels deliver digital television via DSL lines.
Pay services Cable Services There are also a number of established and emerging operators offering video content Cable operators compete with Sky as an alternative service to DTH distribution.
to consumers via the internet whose websites services are accessible from the UK.
In the UK, the principal cable operator is now Virgin Media, which was formed as a The increase in the average speed of internet connections and the emergence of new result of the merger of ntl and Telewest.
Virgin Media provides both analogue and codecs such as MPEG-4 and WM9 means that consumers can also increasingly digital cable television services in the UK.
In Ireland cable television services are download video or watch streamed video over the internet.
Additionally, the use of provided principally by UPC Broadband a division of Liberty Global Inc. via its UPC peer-to-peer technology for both legitimate and illegitimate video downloading is Ireland, Chorus and ntl Ireland subsidiaries.
These offer both analogue and digital growing in popularity.
cable and multipoint microwave distribution system MMDS television services in Ireland.
Terrestrial broadcasters are making a selection of their programming available for download or streaming it via their websites, using a mixture of pay and free-to-air There are areas in the UK and Ireland where it may not be economically feasible to business models.
Channel 4s PC-based download service 4oD offers a free 30 day offer cable television services, including some ruralareas.
Downloaded episodes are available to watch on the users PC for 48 hours.
This window, which has been brought forward by some studios in recent It also distributes content supplied by the National Geographic channel and the FX years, can start as soon as three months following a movies UK cinema release.
Currently, the pay-per-view television VOD window generally commences two to three months later.
Sky has, to date, been able to develop a significant customer base for its The BBC launched its iPlayer service in December 2007 offering a large selection of TV pay-per-view services and movie channels, notwithstanding competition from the DVD and radio content for free through a PC-based application.
The iPlayer is also available industry.
However, such services will come under increasing pressure as EST on the Apple iPhone, iPod Touch and Nintendo Wii.
The BBC also streams BBC3 as a electronic sell through and VOD offerings continue to become more widely available simulcast online.
from services such as Lovelm, a subscription DVD rental service.
ITV offers a streaming catch up service for its content via its website, but has plans to Free-to-air services expand this signicantly.
As a result of the availability of free-to-air television channels some consumers choose to rely entirely on free-to-air services for television viewing rather than choosing also Five has recently added more content to its Demand Five PC VOD service and offers to subscribe to a pay television service.
Currently in the UK the principal means of free, pay to rent and pay to own content.
delivering free-to-air television services are: analogue television services, DTT and freesat propositions consisting of a service from Sky: and a separate, recently In November 2007, BBC Worldwide, ITV and Channel 4 announced plans to launch a launched proposition from the BBC and ITV.
joint venture VOD offering with the working title of Project Kangaroo.
The service will initially be developed for PC and later for set-top boxes.
It will aggregate content from Analogue television services each of the parties to the joint venture and offer third party content using a mix of adFive analogue terrestrial channels and regional variants are broadcast throughout the funded, download to own and download to rent models.
The launch date for the PC UK, although channel five is unavailable in some areas and bilingual channel S4C is service is currently set for 2009.
The joint venture has been referred to the broadcast instead of Channel 4 in Wales.
Additional local analogue terrestrial channels Competition Commission CC for consideration.
are broadcast in Northern Ireland.
In addition the BBC, ITV and Channel 4 have also made some of their series available The number of homes using analogue terrestrial as a primary TV reception means has to Apples iTunes service in the UK on a download to own basis enabling users to fallen as adoption of digital multi-channel TV services has grown.
On 11 July 2008 watchprogrammes ontheir PC or portable Appledevice.
Ofcom announced that, at 31 March 2008, analogue terrestrial was the main TV reception means in 3.3 million UK homes, down 7% since 31 March 2007.
The There are also a number of new operators offering a TV-like experience online.
Joost discontinuation of analogue television broadcasting is proceeding on a region by region is available as an expanded beta test to users in the UK and offers content for free.
basis with completion planned in 2012.
Babelgum has also launched offering video content for free online.
Currently, there is only a limited amount of content available on these services in the UK, but that Joost Four analogue terrestrial channels are broadcast throughout the Republic of Ireland.
in particular has been successful in securing content rights for distribution in other On 17 June 2008, the Commission for Communications Regulation announced that, at territories.
31 March 2008, analogue terrestrial was the main TV service in 352,000 Irish homes.
Several operators offer video content over the internet, such as YouTube, which Freeview compete for consumers leisure time.
In the UK, free-to-air channels on the DTT platform are marketed under the Freeview brand.
There are over 40 TV channels available in total as part of this DTT offering, although availability varies regionally, and over 25 radio channels.
There are Top Up TV which launched in March 2004 offers a pay television service via DTT.
Top also several television channels available on a regional basis within the UK.
Up TV changed its business model from the provision of pay linear television channels delivered via DTT into a VOD service with content downloaded using DTT capacity to Freeview services are currently able to be received by around 75% of UK homes.
It is the set-top box where it is stored on a hard disk and made available for viewing.
anticipated that this will increase signicantly by 2012 as the process of discontinuing Following the change, customers must now purchase a new Top Up TV set-top box, analogue television broadcasting progressively in different regions of the UK is available since October 2006, to receive the service.
The customer can use the box as completed digital switchover.
Digital switchover will release radio spectrum a PVR.
The set-top box also features conditional access technology allowing customers currently used to broadcast analogue television services, which could be used for a to subscribe to pay linear television channels available on DTT, for example, a Setanta number of purposes: for example, to expand the number of channels broadcast via Sports channel, which is also available through BT Vision set-top boxes.
DTT, to allow the broadcast of HD services via DTT, to increase the spectrum available for mobile telephony, or for a mobile television service or a mix of these things.
In As at June 2008, there were 50 encrypted digital satellite pay television channels for April 2008, Ofcom announced that spectrum will be made available for four HD DTH reception retailed independently of us available on a subscription or a pay-perchannels, one of which will be a BBC channel.
These include channels offered as part of the Setanta Sports subscription package Setanta Sports 1, Setanta Sports 2, Arsenal TV, Setanta Golf, Celtic TV, In November 2007, Whitehaven and Copeland became the first area within the UK to Rangers TV, Racing UK, LFC TV, NASN.
The remainder comprises specialist standalone have the signal for analogue terrestrial television switched off.
The target for full digital a ` la carte channels such as Zee TV and Sony TV Asia and adult channels.
switchover is 2012, with a phased switchover taking place in the run up to this date.
"Other DTH pay TV providers In order to receive Freeview services consumers purchase either a set-top box, which Partly as a result of Skys regulatory obligations to offer conditional access services, the is relatively inexpensive, or a television set with a built in DTT tuner an Integrated digital satellite platform is an open platform and there are alternative subscription Digital TV"", or IDTV."
Customers also have to ensure that they have a suitable aerial retail packages on that platform available from retailers other than Sky.
Sky competes to receive the signals it is estimated that an aerial upgrade, where necessary, costs with these subscription retail packages which include the Setanta Sports package and 150 on average.
the Zee TV and Playboy packages for subscription revenue.
In addition, in May 2007, the joint venture behind the Freeview brand launched a DVDs separate brand called Freeview Playback which has since been rebranded DVD sales and rentals, which have largely replaced sales of video cassettes, have Freeview and which certain suppliers are abletouse to market DTTPVRs.
Players performed well in the UK.
Fixed broadband in the UK is primarily offered via DSL or cable.
Cable coverage in the The business, its objectives and its strategy UK is 45% with Virgin Media the main cable operator.
BT provides DSL services with continued the BT network covering 99.6% of the population.
Other DSL providers are able to make use of the BT network to provide their services either taking a regulated which meet specic quality and functionality criteria are able to use the Freeview wholesale product from BT or installing their own equipment in BT local exchanges Playback logo for marketing purposes.
and rent the last mile from BT at regulated prices a process known as Local Loop Unbundling LLU.
Take-up of Freeview services has grown quickly since its launch in October 2002.
On 11 July 2008 Ofcom reported that, at 31 March 2008, 16.1 million homes were Sky uses partial LLU unbundling only the section of the copper used to deliver viewing DTT on at least one device and Freeview was the sole means of receiving broadband services as opposed to Full LLU which unbundles the copper in respect of digital multichannel TV services in 9.2 million UK homes.
both telephony and broadband elements and had unbundled 1,189 exchanges at 30 June 2008.
Other significant unbundlers are CPW 1,645 exchanges unbundled at 31 There is currently no DTT service in Ireland but DTT pilot projects have been ongoing March 2008, Tiscali UK 850 as at 31 March 2008 and Cable & Wireless C&W since August 2006.
The current phase is due for completion in August 2008 and 802 exchanges on completion of roll out.
C&W offers a wholesale LLU service to involves 1,000 homes across the east coast of Ireland.
Each trial participant has been other operators and in May 2007 agreed a 4-year deal to provide this service to Virgin provided with receiver equipment which has been specially adapted for the trial, and Media for areas outside of their cable network.
content provided from a number of sources e. g. the BBC News Channel and Sky News.
It is expected that a full service will roll out across Ireland in late 2008.
According to Ofcom, there were 15.6 million residential and small and medium-sized enterprises SME broadband connections as at 31 December 2007, of which 27% In July 2008, the Broadcasting Commission of Ireland announced its decision to award were BT Retail DSL: 27% were other BT Wholesale provided DSL excl.
LLU : 22% licences to operate three DTT multiplexes to Boxer DTT Limited.
Separately, RTE has were via Virgin Media cable and 24% were classied as other mainly LLU.
been assigned a single DTT multiplex to make the four existing analogue terrestrial free-to-air channels in Ireland available.
Average broadband download speeds continue to increase.
At the end of June 2007 the estimated average headline connection speed was 4.6Mbit s, up from 3.6Mbit s in Free-to-view satellite propositions 2006, according to Ofcom.
Currently Sky Broadbands highest download speed is up to All households with Sky DTH set-top boxes including Sky subscribers, former Sky 16Mbit s. Speeds available from providers are expected to increase further, particularly subscribers, and households who have never been Sky subscribers receive television from LLU and cable operators as cable continues to upgrade its network and BT rolls and radio services broadcast free-to-air via satellite to the UK and ROI.
There are now st out its 21 Century Network and trials a bre network roll out in Ebbseet in Kent, the over 250 such services.
In October 2004 Sky launched a hardware and installation first of its kind in the UK.
Virgin Media has announced that a broadband service proposition which enables households who wish to receive free-to-air television and offering speeds of 50Mbit s will be available to 70% of its customers by the end of radio services via satellite to do so without taking a Sky subscription.
From May 2008 the BBC and ITV began promoting the availability of new set-top Fixed telephony boxes and IDTV with built in DTH satellite tuners, which also receive a number of The majority of xed telephony services in the UK are provided by BT.
Other providers television and radio services that are broadcast to the UK and ROI free-to-air via can offer telephony services via Carrier Pre Select CPS or using BT Wholesales satellite, under the brand freesat.
These set-top boxes do not contain conditional Wholesale Calls product, whereby the customer pays them for calls but continues to access technology and therefore cannot be used to receive pay TV channels broadcast pay BT for line rental: via Wholesale Line Rental WLR, whereby the customer pays via satellite.
them for line rental this can be combined with CPS or Wholesale Calls to cover calls and line rental : and via Full LLU, whereby the customer pays them for calls and line There are currently five manufacturers of BBC ITV freesat receivers, which are sold by rental.
Sky has historically used CPS to deliver telephony services to its customers but independent retailers and four major high street multiples.
Prices range from around is in the process of migrating to use of the Wholesale Calls product from BT 50 for a SD receiver to around 120 for an HD receiver.
IDTVs manufactured by Wholesale to provide those services.
We also use WLR to provide line rental services to Panasonic are currently priced in excess of 1,000.
Installation of the appropriate our customers.
satellite reception equipment is arranged separately if required: install prices start from around 80.
The total number of BT Retail and Wholesale lines was 27.9 million at end June 2007, according to BT.
Of which, 23.6 million were BT Retail lines and 4.3 million were WLR HD receiving equipment enables consumers to view the BBC HD channel and a redlines.
The number of CPS lines for the same period was 6.1 million i. e. 22% of lines.
button ITV HD service, the latter of which is currently exclusive to the service.
Although Virgin Media reported 4.1 million telephony customers as at end March 2008. no PVR equipment designed for the freesat proposition is currently available, BBC ITV freesat have stated that this will be available soon.
Mobile telephony There are five mobile network operators MNOs active in the UK: Vodafone: Orange: In order to be received by the new BBC ITV freesat set-top boxes, existing channels T-Mobile: O2: and 3 Hutchison 3G only.
As at 31 March 2008 Vodafone had the most broadcast via satellite need to be congured to appear on both platforms.
Currently, subscribers in the UK 18.5 million followed by O2 18.4 million, T-Mobile the new set-top boxes and IDTVs can receive more than 80 TV and radio channels.
17.1 million, Orange 15.8 million and 3 Hutchison 4.4 million at end of December This number is expected to expand signicantly in the coming months as more 2007. services are congured to appear on both platforms.
There are several mobile virtual network operators MVNOs who take capacity from Competition from broadband and telephony providers MNOs but do not own their own network.
Virgin Mobile is the largest of these with Broadband and telephony services 4.4 million subscribers as at 31 March 2008.
Virgin Mobile uses T-Mobiles network Sky competes with other providers of broadband internet access and xed telephony in and its customers are included in the T-Mobile total.
These include BT, Virgin Media, Carphone Warehouse CPW, Tiscali, Orange and O2.
Sky does not currently offer these services in the Republic of Ireland.
Mobile TV services are available from several UK operators via third generation cellular telephone networks 3G networks.
Sky Mobile TV packs, which include a mix of Broadband content from Sky Sports, Sky News and other third party pay television channels, are According to the Ofce of National Statistics, broadband internet connections accounted available on Vodafone, Orange and 3 UK and compete with other mobile TV and video for 92% of all internet connections in the UK and dial-up connections accounted for offerings on those networks.
Based upon BARB surveys for the 52 weeks offers TV, xed telephony and broadband internet access to our customers as part of a ended 30 June 2008, the viewing shares in UK Multi-Channel Homes of the package which is sometimes referred to as a triple play.
Tiscali and BT also offer a traditionally analogue terrestrial channels and the combined Sky Channels were, triple play service, whilst Virgin Media offers a quad play which, in addition to TV, respectively, BBC120.1%, BBC27%, ITV1 17.8%, Channel46.9%, five 4.6%, and the xed telephony and broadband internet access, also includes mobile telephony.
Sky Channels 7% of which Sky One accounted for 14% of the Sky Channels viewing share and had an individual viewing share of 1%.
The remaining 36% of viewing in Virgin Medias predecessor ntl: Telewest launched its quad play service of TV, UK Multi-Channel Homes was of other non-Sky satellite, cable and DTT channels.
broadband, xed telephony and mobile telephony in September 2006.
The UK analogue terrestrial broadcasters also own and operate a range of digital-only In December 2006, BT launched BT Vision, a hybrid DTT broadband television service.
channels that areavailablevia DTH, cable, DTTand DSL, and, in thecase ofDTH and BT Vision provides users with access to Freeview services and Setanta on DTT through DTT, on a free-to-air basis.
These channels are cross-promoted by their analogue a set-top box in addition to access to VOD content over BTs DSL network.
BT has set a associated channels.
medium term goal of 2-3 million customers for BT Vision and had 214,000 customers at the end of March 2008.
As Sky and other broadcasters all seek a range of compelling programming to attract viewers, in both the UK and Ireland, there have been, and may in the future be, Tiscali acquired HomeChoice in August 2006 as a result of a merger with bidding competitions and or regulatory intervention which could increase our HomeChoices parent company, VNL.
Tiscali offers a triple play package containing programming acquisition costs, or which could mean that certain programming in telephony, internet access packages including both a dial-up and broadband package which Sky is interested may not be available to us.
For example, in 2006, Setanta providing up to 8Mb s broadband and a selection of TV channels via IPTV.
Sports secured the live audio visual rights to two of the six available UK packages of live FAPL football rights for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 seasons, for which Sky also bid.
In Competition from Dual Play providers addition, the US PGA Tour announced a six year deal starting on 1 January 2007 In addition to triple quad play providers, some operators provide customers with two granting Setanta Sports exclusive live rights to all US PGA Tour events excluding the services typically these are communications providers offering broadband and US Open, the USA PGA Championship and the US Masters.
In 2007, the FA announced telephony services.
a deal granting Setanta Sports and ITV exclusive live rights for a range of FA events including The FA Cup and England home matches from August 2008 to July 2012.
CPW, an independent retailer of telephony services, acquired internet service provider AOLUKinOctober 2006 making it thethird largest broadband provider, with over Competition from other sellers of advertising air time 2 million customers.
AOL UK is currently being run separately from CPWs own Our primary competitors for television advertising sales are ITV, which sells advertising TalkTalk brand.
on ITV1, ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, and CITV, Channel 4 which also sells advertising for E4, More 4 and Film Four and their multiplexes, five, Interactive Digital Sales IDS O2 UK acquired by Telefo nica of Spain in 2006 moved into the broadband sector by which sells advertising on behalf of the UKTV group of channels and the Virgin Media purchasing Be, a telecoms network provider, and subsequently launched O2 TV channels Living, Bravo, Trouble and Challenge, and Viacom Brand Solutions Broadband in October 2007.
The service reported 131,000 subscribers at the end of VBS which sells advertising on behalf of the Paramount, MTV and Nickelodeon March 2008. channels.
In January 2007, Vodafone UK launched the broadband service, Vodafone At Home, Based upon the latest BARB survey estimates, ITV1 and Channel 4 were available to for Vodafone mobile contract customers.
Vodafone at Home is delivered using a approximately 25.49 and 25.24 million television homes, respectively, in the UK both wholesale DSL service from BT rather than LLU.
The service is available to 99% of UK digital and analogue, with approximately 95% of the estimated 25.49 million households via BT Wholesales broadband network.
The number of subscribers to the television homes in the UK receiving an acceptable terrestrial analogue signal for five.
service has not been published.
In addition, according to BARB survey estimates, as at June 2008, approximately 21.7 million UK homes have access to satellite, cable, or digital terrestrial television.
Orange UK offers Broadband Unlimited, a service providing wireless broadband Both ITV1 and Channel 4 have a signicantly greater overall UK television viewing access at up to 8Mb through the Livebox wireless router which also serves as a VoIP share than any individual Sky Channel.
Partly as a result of the ability of ITV1 and telephony port.
France Telecom, parent company of Orange UK, also offers IPTV Channel 4 to reach almost all UK television homes, these channels are able to services in France, and Orange has stated in April 2008 that it plans to launch an IPTV generate greater advertising revenue than we do.
We also compete with the Sky service in the UK by the end of 2008.
Distributed Channels and all other commercial channels for television advertising sales.
Competition from other broadcasters Technology and infrastructure Sky competes, among other competitors, with other broadcasters for the acquisition of We control access to some DTH channels through the use of a conditional access programming and programming rights: for viewers, for distribution and for advertising system, VideoGuard see Encryption of digital services below.
The satellite reception and sponsorship revenue.
equipment provided to DTH customers is owned by such customers whether or not they are subscribers, except for certain aspects such as the smart card a credit card In both the UK and Ireland, the television channels and other audio-visual service size plastic card containing a chip that provides conditional access functionality, some providers with the largest audience shares are traditionally analogue terrestrial of the software in all set-top boxes and a proportion of the hard drive capacity in channels, which are broadcast free-to-air.
In the UK, these channels are BBC1, BBC2, some of the Sky PVRs and Sky HD PVRs.
ITV1, Channel 4 and five, while in Ireland these are RTE1 and Network 2, the Irish language channel TG4, and the commercial channel TV3.
In the UK, as well as being The Group completed its acquisition of Amstrad plc Amstrad in scal 2008.
The available via analogue terrestrial television, the five traditionally analogue terrestrial total consideration for the acquisition was 127 million.
Amstrad designs, develops and channels are also available via DTH, cable, DTT and DSL, and, in the case of DTH and sells standard denition and high denition set-top boxes and PVR set-top boxes and DTT, on a free-to-air basis.
has been a major supplier to the Group for a number of years.
Within UK Multi-Channel Homes, the Sky Channels for the purposes of this paragraph, The EPG in the set-top box has been and continues to be developed for us by NDS including Sky Box Ofce and Sky Box Ofce Events, but excluding SkyPoker.
com and Limited NDS uses an operating system which we license from OpenTV, Inc. Sky Vegas in aggregate attract viewing levels which are comparable to some of the OpenTV.
The OpenTV operating system provides a virtual machine interface which traditionally analogue terrestrial channels.
continued For the transmission of our DTH service, we have contracted for capacity on 31 boxes.
This simplies the development of applications for the set-top box and ensures transponders from SES Astra on SES satellites Astra 2A, 2B and 2D.
Those transponder universal availability of services to all DTH set-top boxes.
The operating system in each agreements have varying end dates between 2009 and 2020.
The term of the set-top box is licensed upon payment of a per set-top box royalty by the set-top box agreement on the Eurobird satellite expires in 2013. manufacturer to OpenTV.
In addition to using some of the transponder capacity that we have contracted to Encryption of digital services broadcast Sky Channels, some of our transponder capacity and in some cases all of VideoGuard is a conditional access technology which can be used to encrypt and the capacity on a particular transponder is sub-contracted to third parties for the decrypt digital television and audio services.
We use it to control DTH viewers access transmission of other channels or services, including certain of the Sky Distributed to encrypted satellite non-subscription channels and encrypted digital pay and pay-perChannels.
view television and audio channels broadcast on digital satellite for reception in the UK and or Ireland.
We have been designated a non pre-emptible customer under each of our transponder agreements.
This means that, in the event of satellite or transponder We use the VideoGuard technology and distribute smart cards in the UK and Ireland malfunction, our use of these transponders cannot be suspended or terminated by SES under an agreement with NDS which expires in 2010, but is renewable, at our option, Astra or Eutelsat in favour of another broadcaster with pre-emption rights in for a further three years.
NDS supplies smart cards and undertakes ongoing security preference to us.
In addition, in the event of satellite or transponder malfunction, we development and other support services in return for the payment of fees by us.
have arrangements in place with SES Astra pursuant to which back-up capacity may be available for some of our transponder capacity based on an agreed satellite back-up In conjunction with NDS, we maintain a policy of rening and updating the plan.
VideoGuard technology in order to restrict unauthorised DTH reception of our services.
We take appropriate measures to counter unauthorised reception, including the We have also put in place disaster recovery plans in the event that we experience any implementation of over-the-air countermeasures altering authorised smart cards in a significant disruption of our transponder capacity.
To date, we have not experienced manner which then renders counterfeit smart cards obsolete and seeking legal any such significant disruption.
However, the operation of both the Astra and Eutelsat remedies, both civil and criminal, reasonably available to us.
We also periodically satellites is outside our control and a disruption of transmissions could have a material replace smart cards in circulation with smart cards containing progressively more adverse effect on our business, depending on the number of transponders affected and sophisticated technology.
Such replacement has rendered useless all smart cards then the duration of the disruption.
in circulation, whether genuine or counterfeit.
The first periodic replacement of digital smart cards since our digital launch in October 1998 was successfully completed in On 1 September 2007 SES Astra brought into service an additional satellite, Astra 2C, November 2003. at the same orbital position as Astra 2A, 2B and 2D and Eutelsats Eurobird.
This will provide additional transponder capacity for back-up purposes as well as up to twelve We are actively working with cable operators in the UK to investigate the use of any additional transponders for new services, which may be further expanded in the future cable piracy devices.
We believe that we have suffered a loss of wholesale cable up to a maximum of 16. revenue as a result of the availability of cable piracy devices in relation to both analogue and digital cable television services.
We are unable to quantify this loss, Our transponder agreements with SES Astra provide that our rights are subject to including whether or not such loss is material.
We have not to date invoiced any termination by SES Astra in the event that SES Astras franchise is withdrawn by the cable operator in respect of such lost cable revenue and therefore, such lost revenue Luxembourg government.
has not been recognised within our consolidated financial statements.
Capital expenditure programme We distribute our channels to cable operators via satellite.
To enable reception of the We continue to invest consistently in capital expenditure required to support our satellite signal, a smart card is located at the site of the cable operators feed into its growth strategies.
Total capital expenditure for the Group was 333 million in 2008. cable transmission system, permitting decryption of the signal, which the operator in This included 211 million invested in information systems infrastructure: broadcast turn distributes to those of its subscribers often re-encrypted who are authorised and infrastructure: new product development: and investments relating to customer service equipped to receive the service.
In addition, 46 million was invested in new property and property improvements.
The remaining 76 million relates to the roll-out of our broadband Encryption of channels retailed by third parties network services: being the second year of the two year, 250 million investment in Any potential DTH broadcaster wishing to operate and independently retail an broadband capital expenditure announced in July 2006. encrypted television service within the UK and Ireland must either acquire an alternative encryption and conditional access technology from someone other than us, In November 2007, the Group began construction work on a building to house studios, and build its own decoder base capable of receiving transmissions encrypted using production and technical facilities as well as ofce space in Osterley, Middlesex.
This that technology, or, in respect of digital services, contract with us for conditional access will consolidate and replace a number of existing properties which are reaching the services in respect of access to the installed VideoGuard decoder base.
end of their operational lives.
Given the current conditions in the credit markets and the relative strength of our cash ow, the project will be nanced internally for the In addition to providing broadcast conditional access services, both for our own DTH time being although the Groups intention is to sell and leaseback the property and its offerings and those of third parties, we provide digital access control services for freehold when market conditions improve.
During the period to 30 June 2008, total interactive services produced by us and others, including using a telephone return path expenditure on this project was 34 million which is included within the total to carry out transactions between suppliers and viewers.
These broadcast conditional estimated construction cost of around 156 million.
The Group currently expects access and access control services are regulated by Ofcom.
See Government regulation separate expenditure of around 77 million in respect of the technical t out which Broadcasting and telecommunications regulation European Union Electronic will allow the Group to benefit from efficiencies by moving to a wholly digital Communications Directives.
The facility is due to enter service in 2011.
Satellites As is common with capital expenditure projects of this scale, there are risks that they We contract with SES Astra for the majority of capacity on the satellite transponders may not be implemented as envisaged: or that they may not be completed either that we use for digital transmissions for reception by both DTH viewers and cable within the proposed timescale or budget: or that the anticipated business benets of operators.
SES Astra is 100% owned by SES, a Luxembourg company listed on the the projects may not be fully achieved.
Luxembourg stock exchange and Euronext Paris.
The customer management centres and Sky In-Home Service Limited significant agreements Our customer management centres are based in Scotland.
The centres functions The Companies Act 2006 requires us to disclose the following significant agreements include the handling of orders from subscribers, the establishing and maintaining of that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company: customer accounts, invoicing and revenue collection, telemarketing and customer service.
These functions permit the centres to play a key role in both customer FAPL acquisition and customer retention.
We provide customer management services for the In August 2006, British Sky Broadcasting Limited entered into an agreement the FAPL Sky Channels and the Sky Distributed Channels.
We also deliver customer services for Licence with The Football Association Premier League Limited the FAPL, pursuant both our own, and certain third party, interactive television services, our telephony to which the Group was awarded four of six available packages of live audio-visual services and our video-streaming services.
Premier League football the six packages are together the Live Packages.
The customer management centres also provide the distribution of ordered customer installations into Sky In-Home Service Limited which then provides nationwide The FAPL will not award all of the Live Packages to a single licensee either on its own installation and servicing of digital satellite reception equipment directly in customer or as part of a consortium or through one or more of its related parties the Single homes.
Sky In-Home Service Limited also provides an aftercare service to the DTH Buyer Rule.
subscriber base in relation to digital satellite reception equipment which is both in, and out of, warranty.
Pursuant to the FAPL Licence, the FAPL can suspend and or terminate all of the rights which are included in, or exercisable as part of, one of the six available Live Packages During the course of the last 8 scal years, we have invested more than 280 million in the event that a change of control of the Company occurs at any time prior to the in our customer management centres and systems.
This expenditure has been focused expiry of the FAPL Licence which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live principally on completely replacing the centres existing customer management and Packages to the Group, would have resulted in a breach of the Single Buyer Rule.
billing systems with new applications and also on improving the existing physical infrastructure of the centres.
The replacement customer management and billing RCF systems are now functioning in line with expectations.
On 3 November 2004, the Company, British Sky Broadcasting Limited and Sky Subscribers Services Limited entered into a revolving credit facility agreement with Playout and uplink facilities Barclays Capital, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Deutsche Bank AG London, JP Our uplinking facilities, located at Chilworth in southern England, provide uplinking Morgan plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as mandated lead arrangers and capacity for our digital services to the Astra 2A, 2B and 2D satellites as well as certain other financial institutions as Lenders pursuant to which the Lenders agreed Eutelsats Eurobird 1 satellite.
to make available to the Company 1 billion to renance existing facilities and for general corporate purposes the RCF.
Our television channels are distributed from our Osterley and Chilworth sites with each of the sites providing backup service for the other.
The Osterley-sourced channels are Pursuant to the RCF, the Lenders can require all amounts outstanding under the RCF fed to the uplink sites using a bre link, which is backed up by a diversely routed to be repaid in the event of a change of control of the Company other than where secondary link in the case of any malfunction in the primary bre route.
This route News Corporation or any subsidiary or holding company thereof acquires such control.
passes through the other facility so that, in the case of Chilworth being unavailable, the services can be uplinked directly from the other facility.
News Corporation voting agreement On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. News UK Nominees Limited For those third parties to whom we sub-contract transponder capacity, we usually have and News Corporation entered into a voting agreement which became unconditional agreements in place to provide uplinking facilities as well.
on 4 November 2005, pursuant to which News UK Nominees Limiteds voting rights at any general meeting are capped at 37.19% the Voting Agreement.
The provisions Minority equity investments of the Voting Agreement cease to apply inter alia, on a change of control of the ITV Company.
On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV plc ITV representing 17.9% of the issued share capital of ITV, at a price of 135 pence per EMTN bond issue share.
The total consideration paid amounted to 946 million, and was funded at the On 3 April 2007, the Group established a Euro medium term note programme the time from the Groups existing cash balances and its previously undrawn revolving EMTN Programme which provides the Group with a standardised documentation credit facility.
This investment has been subject to an in-depth review by the CC see platform to allow for senior debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
The maximum Government Regulation Mergers below.
potential issuance under the EMTN Programme is 1 billion.
The Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value of ITV is On 14 May 2007, the Company issued Eurobonds consisting of 300 million determined with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
An guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest and maturing on 14 May 2027 the Notes.
impairment was first recorded following a review of the carrying value of the The Notes were issued under the Groups EMTN Programme.
investment in ITV at 31 December 2007, due to the significant and prolonged decline in the equity share price.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has the Standards, the Group has continued to review that carrying value throughout scal option to require the Company to redeem or at the Companys option purchase its 2008 and has recognised a cumulative impairment loss of 616 million in the current Notes at its principal amount plus interest for the relevant period if there is a change year.
The impairment loss for the year was determined with reference to ITVs closing of control of the Company i which, if the Notes carry an investment grade credit equity share price of 47.5 pence at 27 June 2008, the last trading day of the Groups rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of financial year.
that rating: or ii where, if the Notes carry a non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade NGC Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC rating: or iii where, if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not On 12 December 2007, the Group sold its 100% stake in BSkyB Nature Limited, the seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating.
investment holding company for the Groups 50% interest in the NGC-UK Partnership.
As consideration for the disposal, the Group received 21% interests in both NGC UK broadcasting licences Network International LLC and NGC Network Latin America LLC in effect, 21% of The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences for the broadcast of National Geographics Channels television operations outside the US.
