The Groups investment in ITV could be subject to future events outside of the Groups control which could result in a loss in value of the Groups investment.
The Group relies on a consistent and effective supply chain to meet its business plan commitments and to continue to maintain its network and protect its services.
A failure On 17 November 2006 the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV representing to meet the Groups requirements or delays in the development, manufacture or 17.9% of the issued share capital of ITV, at a price of 135 pence per share.
The delivery of products from suppliers, the discontinuance of products or services, or a Groups investment in ITV is carried at fair value.
The fair value of ITV is determined deterioration in support quality, could adversely affect the Groups ability to deliver its with reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
An impairment was products and services.
No assurance can be given that a broad economic failure or first recorded following a review of the carrying value of the investment in ITV at decline in quality of equipment suppliers in the industry in which the Group operates 31 December 2007, due to the significant and prolonged decline in the equity share will not occur.
Any such occurrence could have a material adverse effect on the price.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the Group has Groups business.
continued to review that carrying value throughout scal 2008 and has recognised a cumulative impairment loss of 616 million in the current year.
The impairment loss Sky Talk relies on telecommunications services from network operator BT and failure for the year was determined with reference to ITVs closing equity share price of on the part of BT to meet the Groups requirements for whatever reason may affect 47.5 pence at 27 June 2008, the last trading day of the Groups financial year.
the Groups ability to deliver its telephony services to Sky Talk subscribers.
Following this impairment the Group is required to recognise the effect of further decline in the value of the equity share price of ITV in the income statement.
If the The Group uses a series of products from Openreach a BT group business within its Group were to dispose of all or part of its stake in ITV at a price lower than the equity LLU operations.
These are the colocation space and associated facilities to house the market price on the date of disposal and lower than a price consistent with the central ofce equipment co-mingling, backhaul circuits to connect that equipment to impairment through the income statement on the date of disposal, the Group would the Groups network backhaul extension services or BES and nally individual be required to recognise a loss on disposal.
copper lines that go between the central ofce equipment and the end users house primarily SMPF lines.
Outside of the Groups LLU areas the Group uses BT The Group, in common with other service providers that include third party services Wholesales IP stream bitstream product to provide broadband connectivity to end which the Group retails, relies on intellectual property and proprietary rights, including users.
The Group purchases these products from Openreach under terms and in respect of programming content, which may not be adequately protected under conditions outlined in legally binding undertakings given by BT and accepted by Ofcom current laws or which may be subject to unauthorised use.
in lieu of a market investigation reference to the CC following Ofcoms Strategic Review of Telecommunications the BT Undertakings.
These stipulate that the Group buys The Groups services largely comprise content in which it owns, or has licensed, the these products on a fully equivalent basis when compared to other operators intellectual property rights, delivered through a variety of media, including broadcast including other parts of BT who supply broadband, telephony and network products programming, interactive television services, and the internet.
The Group relies on and services.
Ofcom has set up an Equality of Access Board whose role is to monitor trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect its and ensure that all Equivalence of Input requirements agreed in the BT Undertakings rights over this content.
However, the Group cannot be certain that its rights will not are being enacted.
Ofcom also monitors the implementation of the BT Undertakings.
be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that it will successfully renew its rights.
Failure by either Openreach or BT Wholesale in fact to provide its products to the Third parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from the Groups rights Group on a fully equivalent basis could have a material adverse effect on the Groups or content which it owns or licenses, without the Groups, or the rights holders, business.
These unauthorised activities may be more easily facilitated by the internet.
In addition, the lack of internet-specic legislation relating to trademark and The Group is reliant on encryption and other technologies to restrict unauthorised copyright protection creates an additional challenge for the Group in protecting its access to its services.
rights relating to its online businesses and other digital technology rights.
Direct DTH access to the Groups services is restricted through a combination of The Group generates wholesale revenue from a limited number of customers.
physical and logical access controls, including smart cards which the Group provides to its individual DTH subscribers.
Unauthorised viewing and use of content may be The Groups wholesale customers, to whom it offers certain of the Sky Channels and accomplished by counterfeiting the smart cards or otherwise overcoming their security from whom it derives its wholesale revenue, have comprised principally ntl and features.
A significant increase in the incidence of signal piracy could require the Telewest which merged in 2006 and have been rebranded as Virgin Media.
Since 28 replacement of smart cards sooner than otherwise planned.
Although the Group works February 2007, Virgin Media has not carried the Sky Basic Channels but continues to with its technology suppliers to ensure that its encryption and other protection carry versions of all of the Sky Premium Channels on its digital networks and offers technology is as resilient to hacking as possible, there can be no assurance that it will Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2 and Sky Sports 3 to its remaining analogue cable not be compromised in the future.
The Group also relies upon the encryption or subscribers.
Economic or market factors, regulatory intervention, or a change in equivalent technologies employed by the cable and other platform operators for the strategy relating to the distribution of the Groups channels, may adversely influence protection of access to the services which the Group makes available to them.
Failure the Groups wholesale revenue and other revenue which the Group receives from of encryption and other protection technology could impact the Groups revenue from Virgin Media in connection with supply of the Sky Premium Channels which may those operators and from its own customers.
negatively affect the Groups business.
The Groups network and other operational systems rely on the operation and The Group is subject to a number of medium and long-term obligations.
efficiency of its computer systems.
Although the Groups systems are protected by rewalls, there is a risk that its business could be disrupted by hackers or viruses The Group is party to a number of medium and long-term agreements and other gaining access to its systems.
Any such disruption, and any resulting liability to the arrangements including in respect of programming and transmission, for example, its Groups customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
transponder agreements which impose financial and other obligations upon the Group.
If the Group is unable to perform any of its obligations under these The Group undertakes significant capital expenditure projects.
agreements and or arrangements, it could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business.
The Group is currently involved in capital expenditure projects including infrastructure projects.
Asiscommonwithsuch projects, there isarisk that the Groups capital Government regulation expenditure projects may not be completed as envisaged, either within the proposed The sectors in which we operate are subject to both sector-specic regulation, in timescales or budgets, or that the anticipated business benets of the projects may not particular regulation relating to the electronic communications and broadcasting be fully achieved.
A Directive is an instrument of EC law which is addressed to Europes internal market: Member States of the European Union, and requires them to adopt national legislation s regulating less, but more effectively, by phasing out ex-ante regulation in a number to give effect to its objectives, whilst leaving the precise manner and form of the of markets currently regulated: national legislation to the discretion of the Member State.
s streamlining the market review procedure to make it faster, less burdensome and better focused on real bottlenecks: Electronic Communications Regulation s consolidating the single market, by ensuring that EU rules and remedies are applied EC law consistently across all EU Member States: The Electronic Communications Directives s preserving and enhancing consumer protection and user rights: and The regulation of electronic communications networks and services and associated s enhancing the security and reliability of European communications networks.
facilities is governed by a series of EC Directives, including the Framework Directive, the Access Directive, the Authorisation Directive and the Universal Services Directive UK law together, the Electronic Communications Directives.
The Electronic Communications The Electronic Communications Directives have primarily been implemented in the UK Directives, which came into force in July 2003, are designed to create a harmonised by the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act.
The Communications Act is system of regulation across the European Union EU.
enforced by the UKs NRA, Ofcom.
The Electronic Communications Directives regulate the provision of communications General Conditions of Entitlement services including telephony and broadband services: they do not regulate the editorial As noted above, the EC Electronic Communications Directives provide that anyone control or content of television broadcasting services but do cover, inter alia, the wishing to provide an electronic communications network or service should be networks and transmission services which are involved in the broadcasting of such generally authorised to do so, without requiring any licence or other prior approval.
television services as well as the provisions of various services and facilities associated This general authorisation is subject in the UK to the General Conditions of with the operation of digital television platforms, including our digital satellite platform.
The General Conditions were adopted under Section 45 of the Communications Act and apply to anyone who is providing an The Electronic Communications Directives replace an earlier set of instruments which electronic communications network or service.
provided for a regime for the licensing of persons engaged in the provision of relevant telecommunications activities.
Under the Electronic Communications Directives, Member The Group is subject to the General Conditions in relation to its broadband internet States are required to abandon such licensing regimes, and to adopt a system access and public telephony services, including: whereby any person is generally authorised to provide electronic communications networks and or services without prior approval.
s a requirement to ensure that any end-user can access the emergency services: s a requirement to support number portability for customers wishing to switch to or Such personsmay provide  services without from another network provider: being subject to detailed regulatory rules.
Member States national regulatory s a requirement that customers are offered contracts that satisfy certain minimum authorities NRAs may apply, as conditions of the general authorisation, only standards: minimal general conditions necessary to achieve certain key objectives of the Electronic s a requirement to ensure that any end-user can access directory enquiry and operator Communications Directives e. g. the availability of adequate directory inquiries services: assistance services: the ability for consumers to maintain an existing telephone number, even if they s a requirement to facilitate the migration by customers between broadband service switch from one provider to another: and fair treatment of consumers.
providers: s a requirement to publish up-to-date price and tariff information: Beyond such minimal general conditions, NRAs may impose additional obligations on s a requirement to provide accurate billing, including itemisation on request: and persons providing specic kinds of electronic communications networks, services, or s a requirement to publish codes of practice concerning, among other things, the facilities only where such obligations are specifically envisaged by the Electronic services provided, the handling of customer complaints and sales and marketing.
Communications Directives, and are justied and appropriate to allow third party access to particular network infrastructure, services, or facilities or where the NRA has As a network operator, Easynet is also subject to requirements to negotiate network determined that one or more persons active in a particular market enjoy significant interconnection, to comply with relevant compulsory standards and to take all market power SMP and that the imposition of additional obligations on such reasonable steps to maintain to the  theproper and effective persons is justied and appropriate to avoid adverse outcomes.
functioning of its public telephone network.
The Electronic Communications Directives envisage that such ex ante rules i. e. rules The Group has published a Code of Practice dealing with Sky Talk products, services imposed in anticipation of an adverse outcome, rather than by way of ex post and customer care procedures: a Code of Practice concerning the sales and marketing remedy should be limited to what is necessary, and used only where an NRA has practices for the Sky Talk telephony service: a Code of Practice for Premium Rate and determined them to be appropriate to restrain the conduct of persons enjoying SMP Number Translation Services: a Code of Practice on dealing with customer complaints: which is equivalent to the competition law concept of dominance or where the and a Code of Practice relating to the provision of Sky Broadband.
Directives otherwise specifically mandate the imposition of ex ante rules.
Access-related conditions Accordingly, the Electronic  NRAs in each of the EU Ofcom also has the power under Section 45 of the Communications Act to impose soMember States to carry out periodic reviews of competition in relevant electronic called access-related conditions, including conditions relating to conditional access communications markets and, where a communications provider is found to have services.
significant market power in a relevant market, to impose appropriate regulatory obligations.
The European Commission also plays a formal role in the market review process undertaken by NRAs.
In November 2005, the European Commission commenced a review of the functioning of the Electronic Communications Directives.
Conditional Access Services Conditions The TPS Guidelines set out general principles that Ofcom indicates it would apply in Access-related conditions have been imposed on Sky Subscribers Services Limited assessing whether the Group has complied with the relevant regulatory conditions SSSL in relation to the provision of conditional access services.
These conditions requiring it to provide technical platform services on fair, reasonable and noninclude: discriminatory terms.
These general principles can be summarised as follows: s s a requirement to provide conditional access services upon request, on fair and the costs that Sky should be entitled to recover from TPS Customers should be reasonable terms: restricted to costs which it reasonably, necessarily and efficiently incurs in the s where a broadcaster in receipt of conditional access services from SSSL also provides provision of TPS to those customers or in order to develop and operate the digital programme services to providers of other electronic communications networks e. g. satellite platform: s cable operators, a requirement to cooperate with providers of such other electronic Sky should be entitled to recover its allowable costs and make a risk adjusted return communications networks so that such providers are able to transcontrol the process on its investment: s of changing a conditional access system and re-transmit the programme services: costs should only be recovered from those customers that directly cause the costs to s an obligation to keep separate financial accounts regarding activities as provider of be incurred, or that benefit from the costs being incurred: and s conditional access services: where costs incurred are of benefit to more than one TPS Customer then they should s where conditional access products and systems are the subject of intellectual property be recovered from each TPS Customer in a way that takes due account of the rights, a requirement to make such products and systems available upon reasonable benets derived by TPS Customers from those costs being incurred.
terms and at reasonable charges: and s a requirement not to discriminate unduly against particular persons or against a The TPS Guidelines also contain guidance on how the incremental benets that a particular description of persons.
TPS Customer receives from the provision of its chosen mix of technical platform services can be measured.
Ofcom notes, however, that the Group may choose to Currently, only SSSL is subject to access-related conditions imposed by Ofcom relating adopt different methods for assessing such incremental benets and characterisation of to conditional access services.
However, Ofcom has proposed applying identical the costs of various technical platform services, which Ofcom acknowledges it may conditions to Top Up TV Limited in respect of conditional access services provided via also consider to be consistent with the relevant regulatory conditions.
the DTT platform, on which it commenced a public consultation in early 2007.
The TPS Guidelines also state that an existing or prospective TPS Customer should be Continued licence conditions relating to EPGs and access control services provided with sufficient information to allow it to determine the TPS charges that it Prior to the entry into force of the new regulatory regime instituted by the Electronic would expect to pay without having to enter into a commercial negotiation with Sky.
Communications Directives, and implemented in the UK by the Communications Act, Since December 2006, the Group has therefore published a rate card setting out the the Group operated under a number of class licences issued under the charges payable for technical platform services.
These class licences have largely been revoked.
However, certain provisions in these class licences have continued in force as Ofcom Review of Wholesale Digital Television Broadcasting Platforms Continuation Notices issued under Paragraph 18 of Schedule 9 of the In October 2006, Ofcom published a document setting out the scope and timetable for Communications Act, including in particular conditions relating to the provision of a review of wholesale digital television broadcasting platforms.
Ofcom indicated that it electronic programme guides EPGs and access control services for digital intends to undertake an analysis of relevant markets and to assess market power in transmissions.
such markets, to be used to inform regulation of conditional access, access control and EPG listing, and to review the competition conditions in the DTT multiplex licences.
In We are required under a continuation notice to provide EPG services to other its consultation document in relation to its pay TV market investigation see below, broadcasters on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and not to favour Ofcom stated that the more strategic issues which might be considered in this platform related companies.
Ofcom has consulted on replacing this continuation notice with review overlap with issues raised in the market investigation, and that the latter may authorisation conditions under the Communications Act.
The deadline for comments on be a better vehicle for consideration of such issues.
Ofcom also stated that it has the consultation document having been in March 2004.
Ofcom has yet to replace this therefore given priority to the market investigation and expects to restart the platform continuation notice following this consultation and therefore the continuation notice review once there is greater clarity as to the likely range of outcomes of the market still applies.
It is not, however, envisaged that the manner of regulation of EPGs will investigation.
At this stage, the Group is unable to determine whether Ofcoms change signicantly.
platform review will have a material effect on the Group.
Our subsidiary, SSSL, is currently designated a regulated supplier in respect of its SMP Conditions activities in providing access control services to third parties on our DTH platform and In common with all other operators of xed public electronic communications it is, among other things, subject to the obligation to provide such access control networks in the UK, Easynet has been determined to have SMP in the market for xed services on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and not to favour related geographic call termination services on its own network i. e. services allowing calls companies.
This designation, set out in a continuation notice, will remain in place for originating on another network to be terminated on Easynets xed network.
A as long as SSSL is considered to have SMP.
In November 2003, Oftel commenced a specic condition has been imposed on Easynet pursuant to Section 45 of the review under the Communications Act to determine whether any provider of access Communications Act requiring it to provide call termination to all public control services has or, in the case of SSSL, continues to have SMP.
The deadline for communications providers who reasonably request it on fair and reasonable terms, comments on the consultation document was in January 2004.
Ofcom has yet to conditions and charges.
publish its conclusions to this consultation: in the meantime, SSSL continues to be subject to the regulatory regime under this continuation notice.
The Group benets from SMP conditions imposed on British Telecommunications plc BT in other relevant markets.
These include conditions requiring BT to provide Ofcoms Guidelines and Explanatory Statement for the Provision of Technical Platform wholesale local access LLU services and wholesale broadband access services, which Services the Group uses to provide broadband services to its customers, as well as wholesale In September 2006, Ofcom published revised guidelines on how, in the event of a line rental, which the Group uses to provide line rental services to its customers.
The dispute or complaint, it would normally interpret the requirement on Sky to ensure conditions imposed on BT in these markets include a requirement to provide Network that its terms, conditions and charges for the provision of technical platform services Access on reasonable request, a requirement not to discriminate unduly and a are fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory TPS Guidelines.
The term technical requirement to publish information about its prices, terms and conditions.
platform services is used to refer collectively to conditional access, electronic programme guide listings services, and access control services.
The TPS Guidelines In May 2008, Ofcom published the final statement in its review of the wholesale took effect from 1 January 2007 and replace the previous guidelines dating from 2002. broadband access markets.
These requirements on technical standards have Government regulation been implemented in the UK by The Advanced Television Services Regulations 2003 continued and are administered by Ofcom.
Ofcom believes are now served by effective competition.
Regulation will be lifted in Recognised Spectrum Access those parts of the country in which four or more wholesale broadband providers Ofcom has introduced a system for the management of spectrum under the operate and where no single company has SMP.
Communications Act, which is intended to enhance the efficiency of spectrum use through liberalisation of use and trading in spectrum, whilst protecting the quality of Ofcom is also planning to carry out a review of xed narrowband services including spectrum.
This regime may include a voluntary system of Recognised Spectrum Access wholesale line rental in 2008 2009.
RSA, which would afford some protection from interference for satellite downlinks and would include a charging mechanism for the use of relevant spectrum.
Ofcom has The Group also benets from SMP conditions imposed on National Grid Wireless announced that it intends to consult the public on the application of RSA to satellite formerly Crown Castle and Arqiva formerly ntl:Broadcast in relation to the provision downlinks, for which no date is currently set.
of wholesale broadcasting transmission services, which the Group via the provision by NGW of a managed transmission service uses to broadcast its services on the DTT Irish law platform.
The conditions imposed include a requirement to provide Network Access to We are currently not regulated by the Irish national communications regulatory masts and sites on reasonable request, a requirement not to unduly discriminate and authority, ComReg.
In June 2003, ComReg claried that it would not, for the time a requirement to provide Network Access on cost oriented terms.
NGW was recently being, seek to regulate the provision of access to broadcasting networks or the acquired by Macquarie UK Broadcast Ventures Limited which also owns Arqiva.
delivery of content services to end users in Ireland under the Electronic Communications Directives.
On 19 June 2007, Ofcom published the conclusions of its review of the pricing of spectrum for terrestrial broadcasting.
To date, transmission service providers who use Broadcasting Regulation spectrum for the purposes of DTT have only had to pay administrative cost-based fees EC law for their use of the spectrum.
Ofcom has decided that, from 2014, a system of The Television Without Frontiers Directive and the Audiovisual Media Services Directive Administrative Incentive Pricing will be introduced, which will involve charging annual The EC Television Without Frontiers Directive 1989 TWF Directive, as revised in fees for the holding of a spectrum that reects the opportunity cost of the holding of 1997, sets out certain basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting that spectrum.
The effect of this new system may be that transmission service activity in the EU.
providers become liable to pay more than they currently do for their use of the spectrum, which could have an impact on the amount the Group pays for broadcasting The TWF Directive includes, amongst other things: transmission services.
s a country of origin principle to ensure that broadcasters are not required to comply Enforcement of General Conditions, SMP Conditions, Access-related Conditions and with different rules in different EU Member States.
Instead, each broadcaster is Continued Licence Conditions subject to the primary jurisdiction only of its home Member State, determined in Any breach of the General Conditions, SMP Conditions or Access-related conditions accordance with criteria laid down in the TWF: could result in Ofcom issuing a direction against us to rectify the breach and a failure s rules governing the proportion of transmission time that must be reserved for to comply with such direction could result in the imposition of a ne or, ultimately, European works and for European works created by producers who are independent the suspension of the Groups right to provide the relevant network, services or of broadcasters: facilities.
Decisions by Ofcom to impose new obligations on the Group, or any remedial s qualitative rules governing the substance of advertising and the standards that must direction or ne would usually be amenable to appeal to the Competition Appeal be complied with and quantitative rules regulating the insertion of advertising Tribunal or, if no appeal is available, may be capable of challenge by way of judicial between or during programmes and or specifying the maximum duration of review before the courts.
advertising: s rules to ensure that broadcasters do not broadcast on an exclusive basis events The continued licence conditions relating to EPG services and access control services which are seen as being of major importance for society, including sporting events, are enforceable by Ofcom using enforcement powers under the Telecommunications in such a way as to deprive a substantial proportion of the public of the possibility of Act 1984. following such events via live coverage or deferred coverage on free television: and s Dispute resolution rules to ensure the protection of minors and the prevention of incitement to hatred on grounds of race, sex, religion or nationality.
In addition to providing for the imposition by Ofcom of specic regulatory obligations, the Communications Act also imposes a duty on Ofcom to resolve certain disputes The UK has adopted a variety of measures to give effect to the requirements of the relating to the provision of Network Access as dened by Section 151 3 of the TWF Directive, including conditions in broadcasting licences.
Further details on the Communications Act.
In resolving such disputes, Ofcom has the power to do one or broadcasting licensing regime in the UK are set out below.
more of the following: s On 24 May 2007, political agreement was reached on a new Audiovisual Media to make a declaration setting out the rights and obligations of the parties to the Services Directive AVMS Directive, which will replace the existing TWF Directive.
The dispute: s AVMS Directive entered into force in December 2007.
The EU Member States have to give a direction xing the terms and conditions of transactions between the parties been given 24 months in which to transpose the new provisions into national law.
to the dispute: s to give a direction imposing an obligation, enforceable by the parties to the dispute, The AVMS Directive covers all audiovisual media services, irrespective of the technology to enter into a transaction between themselves on the terms and conditions xed by used to deliver the service, including both linear and on-demand services.
However, Ofcom: and s the rules relating to on demand content are limited to safeguarding essential public to give a direction, enforceable by the party to whom the sums are to be paid, interests such as protecting minors, encouraging cultural diversity, preventing requiring the payment of sums by way of adjustment of an underpayment or incitement to hatred and basic consumer protection rules.
The AVMS Directive relaxes overpayment.
rules on the amount and timing of television advertising.
It also allows individual member states to derogate from the prohibition on product placement, in certain Transmission standards genres including lms and television series, sports programmes and light The use of standards for the transmission of television signals is governed by the entertainment programmes.
This derogation does not apply to news, current affairs Electronic Communications Directives notably the Access and Universal Services and childrens programmes.
The Code on Television Access Services proposals for the regulation of on-demand services and on new jurisdiction rules.
sets out Ofcoms guidance on ensuring compliance with these requirements.
The Code requires broadcasters to provide quarterly returns on their compliance.
In 2007, Broadcasting Act licences all of Skys channels, except Sky Sports 1 exceeded their relevant target.
Sky is taking In the UK, the provisions of the TWF Directive are implemented, to a large extent, via measures to address the shortfall on Sky Sports 1 in 2008, in agreement with Ofcom.
The Broadcasting Acts also contain additional In December 2007, following a consultation reviewing the provision of signing provisions of national law, beyond the matters required to be covered by the TWF services by low-audience channels, Ofcom published new arrangements for signing Directive.
With effect from 1 January 2009, all channels with an audience share of between 0.05% and 1% other than public service channels will be The Group is required to hold licences issued under the Broadcasting Act 1990 and excluded from obligations to meet the signing targets set out in the Code on the Broadcasting Act 1996 together, the Broadcasting Acts in relation to its Television Access Services.
Excluded channels will be required instead to transmit a provision of broadcasting services.
Compliance with the conditions attaching to these minimum of 30 minutes of sign presented programming each month between 7am .
Ofcom has stated that it will keep the amount of sign presented content under review and will apply the exclusion exibly.
Ofcom has also stated that for We and our broadcasting joint ventures each currently hold a Television Licensable excluded channels it will accept, as an alternative to the requirement to transmit a Content Services TLCS licence for each of our respective channels and for a number minimum of 30 minutes of sign presented programming each month, alternative of other broadcasting services, including our EPG on digital satellite.
A TLCS licence arrangements which would be likely to provide better assistance for deaf people permits a channel to be broadcast on cable, DSL and satellite, but does not confer on using sign language: and s a TLCS licensee the right to use any specic satellite, transponder or frequency to Code on Electronic Programme Guides: this requires all providers of EPGs licensed deliver the service.
TLCS licences are granted for an indefinite duration for so long as under the Broadcasting Acts to give public service channels which currently comprise the licence remains in force and new licences are issued by Ofcom if certain all BBC television channels, ITV1, Channel 4, five, and S4C Digital and the digital minimum objective criteria are met.
public teletext service such degree of prominence as Ofcom considers appropriate.
The Code also requires that undue prominence is not given on an EPG to channels We also hold a Digital Television Programme Services DPS licence, which is connected to the EPG operator, that an objective policy for allocating listings on the required for the distribution of our channels via DTT, and a Digital Television EPG is maintained and published: and that there is no requirement for exclusivity on Additional Services DAS licence for the distribution of other services including Sky an EPG for any service.
In February 2007, the Group announced that it is developing plans for the launch of a subscription television service on DTT.
This service is to be retailed As noted above, the TWF Directive includes rules governing, amongst other things, the under the Picnic brand.
An application to amend the Groups Digital Television proportion of transmission time that must be reserved for European works and for Programme Services licence was submitted to Ofcom in April 2007.
In May 2008 European works created by producers who are independent of broadcasters.
Ofcom announced that it would publish a consultation document on the pay TV specifically, the TWF Directive requires each EU Member State to ensure where industry see below and its assessment of the Groups pay DTT proposal by the end of practicable and by appropriate means that broadcasters falling under its jurisdiction summer 2008. reserve a a majority of their transmission time for European works and b at least 10% of their transmission time or, at the discretion of the Member State, at least 10% In common with all television broadcasting licences issued by Ofcom, our licences of theirprogramming budget forEuropeanworks createdbyproducers whoare require us to comply with any relevant codes and directions issued by Ofcom from independent of broadcasters in relation to b, an adequate proportion of such works time to time.
Ofcom or its predecessors has published codes and guidance including should be produced within the five years preceding the transmission.
The term the following codes: where practicable and by appropriate means is not dened in the TWF Directive and is left for the interpretation of each Member State.
In applying these requirements, s Broadcasting Code: this includes requirements relating to, among other things, the broadcast time covering news, games, advertisements, sports events, teletext and impartiality and accuracy of news programming, the protection from harm and teleshopping services is excluded.
offence and the portrayal of sex and violence: s Rules on the amount and distribution of advertising to be replaced on 1 September A condition requiring licensees to comply with these requirements, where practicable, with the Code on the Scheduling of Television Advertising : and having regard to any guidance issued by Ofcom, is contained in all Broadcasting s Cross Promotions Code: this is designed to ensure that cross-promotions on television Act licences.
On 10 February 2005, Ofcom published guidance in relation to are distinct from advertising and are limited to informing viewers of services likely to compliance with the requirements in the TWF Directive.
Ofcoms guidance requires be of interest to them as viewers.
The Code allows broadcasters to promote television broadcasters, who consider that it would not be practicable to meet one or broadcasting-related services in promotional airtime subject to the requirement that more of the quota requirements, to explain why to Ofcom, which will advise whether the promotion is provided for no consideration.
No consideration will be presumed any remedial measures are necessary.
to have passed where the promoting channel has a shareholding of 30% or more in the promoted channel or vice versa.
The Code also contains additional rules, A number of our channels currently meet the relevant quota requirements for both applicable only to ITV1, Channel 4 and five, requiring all references to digital retail European works and European independent productions.
Some of our channels only television services or digital television broadcasting platforms to be on an equal and meet one of the relevant quotas and some do not meet either quota.
For those impartial basis: channels that do not currently reserve the relevant proportion of relevant transmission s Code on Sports and other Listed Events: the Broadcasting Act 1996 as amended by the time to European works or to European independent productions, it may not be Communications Act provides that no UK broadcaster may undertake the exclusive practicable to do so, in which case those channels would still comply with the live broadcast of certain sporting or other events of national interest designated by condition in their Broadcasting Act licences.
Ofcom has not advised that any remedial the Secretary of State from time to time Listed Events, whether on a free-to-air measures are necessary in respect of those channels, nor has it advised that it does basis or subscription basis, without the prior consent of Ofcom.
The effect of these not accept that it is not practicable for any of these channels to meet the relevant rules is that many leading sports events cannot be shown exclusively live on pay quota requirements.
The Code on Sports and other Listed Events was drafted by the Independent Television Commission ITC, Ofcoms predecessor, and sets out how Enforcement of Broadcasting Act licences the ITC and now Ofcom will apply the rules on Listed Events.
In September 2005, If a licensee is found to be in breach of a condition of its Broadcasting Act licence, the Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport indicated that a review of listed Ofcom may issue a direction requiring compliance with the relevant licence condition events is likely to take place around 2008 09: and may impose a ne.
Ofcom also has the ultimate power to revoke a broadcasters s Code on Television Access Services: the Communications Act prescribes certain annual Broadcasting Act licence where it is found to be in breach of its licence if no other targets for television access services subtitling, audio description and signing that remedies are considered appropriate.
As a member of the Ombudsman Government regulation scheme, Sky has agreed to honour Otelos decisions.
continued The Group is a member of the Internet Watch Foundation, which provides a UK hotline in breach of a condition of a Broadcasting Act licence, including a decision to impose a for users to report potentially illegal content, specifically child abuse images hosted ne or revoke the licence, could be challenged by way of judicial review before the anywhere in the world or content hosted in the UK which is either criminally obscene courts.
or could incite racial hatred.
Media ownership rules Irish law There are various rules in the Broadcasting Act 1990 as amended and the Even though our channels are broadcast in the Republic of Ireland we do not hold any Communications Act governing media ownership.
These rules currently preclude us Irish broadcasting licences, as a result of the operation of the country of origin for as long as the Group is ultimately owned as to over 20% by News Corporation or principle contained in the TWF and AVMS Directive.
another member of the same group from acquiring more than a 20% interest in any Channel 3 licence which covers the 15 regional ITV1 licences and GMTV.
A list of designated events in Ireland has been dened under the Irish Broadcasting Major Events Television Coverage Act 1999 Designation of Major Events Order 2003.
In addition to the media ownership rules governing who can hold a Broadcasting Act The effect of these rules is that many leading sports events cannot be shown licence, Ofcom is also required under the Communications Act to carry out a review exclusively live on pay television in Ireland.
whenever a change of control takes place in relation to the holder of certain Broadcasting Act licences, including the Channel 3 licences and the licence for five.
Betting and gaming Ofcom will review the likely effects of such a change of control on the licensed We carry out our betting and gaming activities through two Group companies, services, for example in relation to the time available for and scheduling of original Hestview Limited Hestview and Bonne Terre Limited Bonne Terre.
productions and news and current affairs programmes.
Ofcom has the power to vary the licence holders licence to address any concerns that it may have following such a Hestview currently carries out its betting activities under a remote betting licence review.
In November 2006, Ofcom announced that it would consider whether Skys issued by the Gambling Commission in accordance with the Gambling Act 2005. acquisition of a 17.9% stake in ITV represented a change in control of one or more of the licences in ITV.
Ofcom has yet to reach a decision on this review.
"Bonne Terre, a company registered in Alderney, carries out its gambling activities casino, bingo and poker under a licence granted by the Alderney Gambling Control In April 2006, Ofcom published guidance on the denition of control of media Commission under the terms of the Gambling Ordinance 2007 and is regulated by that companies""."
This guidance sets out the matters which Ofcom will take into body.
consideration when assessing control in this context, and the procedure it will follow when investigating whether control exists.
Competition anti-trust law Public Service Broadcasting We are subject to the EC competition law regime and to the national competition law In April 2008 Ofcom published a consultation document, commencing the first phase regimes in the countries in which we operate.
of its second public service broadcasting review.
The consultation document asserts that further intervention in the market will be required to prevent the amount of EC competition rules public service content declining in future.
By 2012 Ofcom estimates that the value of Anti-competitive agreements implicit funding for ITV, Channel 4 and five will have fallen by around 335 million Article 81 1 of the EC Treaty prohibits agreements and concerted practices between since 2003.
While acknowledging the role of the BBC, the consultation document undertakings which may affect trade between EU Member States and which have as states that further intervention is required to ensure plurality of public service their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the broadcasting.
In particular, the consultation document identies specic areas such as EU.
An agreement may infringe Article 81 1 only if it is likely to have an appreciable childrens and regional news programming that require intervention.
Ofcom has effect on competition.
Agreements which fall within the scope of Article 81 1 will not proposed four models which will be evaluated in more detail in the second phase of be prohibited where they meet the criteria set out in Article 81 3, that is, where they the review, which is planned for the latter part of 2008.
Various mechanisms are improve the production or distribution of goods or promote technical or economic proposed to fund each of these models, including direct government funding, progress, provided that consumers receive a fair share of the resulting benefit, distribution of the BBC licence fee top slicing, other regulatory benets such as competition is not substantially eliminated and the agreement does not contain subsidised spectrum or an increase in advertising minutage for commercial public unnecessary restrictions.
service broadcasters, and industry funding through levies on broadcasters, equipment sales, internet service subscriptions or UK online content providers.
Most of the forms Abuse of a dominant position of new funding under consideration will require additional legislation to be Article 82 of the EC Treaty prohibits the abuse by one or more undertakings of a implemented by 2011. dominant position in the EU or a substantial part of it, insofar as the abuse may affect trade between EU Member States.
The consultation in this first phase of Ofcoms second review into public service broadcasting closed in June 2008.
The results of the consultation have not yet been  82 published.
Articles 81 and 82 may be enforced by the European Commission, designated national competition authorities in each of the EU Member States and or by the national courts Co-regulation self-regulation in each of the EU Member States.
Ofcom has contracted out responsibility for the regulation of the content of television advertising to the Advertising Standards Authority ASA, a co-regulatory body.
The Infringement of Articles 81 or 82 may result in significant consequences including Television Advertising Standards Code, which sets out the rules governing the content fines, voidness or unenforceability of infringing agreements, prohibition of infringing of television advertising, applies to all Broadcasting Act licensees and is enforced by conduct, potential liability to third parties notably for damages and or the potential the ASA.
Ofcom retains a backstop power to enforce compliance with the standards in for involved directors to be disqualified.
Similar arrangements exist in relation to training regulatory obligations where the Broadcast Training and Skills Regulator acts as the co-regulatory body.
Investigation of Football Association Premier League agreements The European Commissions investigation into the FAPLs joint selling of exclusive The Sky Talk and Sky Broadband services are also registered with the broadcast rights to football matches concluded with the European Commissions telecommunications ombudsman service Otelo, with the consequence that Skys adoption, in March 2006, of a decision making commitments offered by the FAPL customers may complain to Otelo about the services they are receiving and Otelo will legally enforceable.
Amongst other things, the and Virgin Media Limited issued proceedings in the High Court in England and Wales commitments provide for the FAPL to sell six balanced packages of live audio visual against British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and British Sky Broadcasting Limited, rights including rights via the internet and via mobile, each of which showcase the alleging that the Group has infringed Article 82 EC and the Chapter II prohibition by League as a whole throughout each season.
No single bidder is allowed to buy all six pursuing an anti-competitive strategy designed to weaken Virgin Media group, which packages and packages are sold to the highest standalone bidder.
allegedly entailed i a constructive refusal to supply the Groups basic pay television channels to Virgin Media group for supply via Virgin Media groups cable network in The Group has been awarded four of the six packages of rights to show live the UK: ii a refusal to pay fair prices for the right to carry Virgin Media groups audiovisual coverage of FAPL football matches in the UK for the 2007 08 to 2009 10 television channels as part of the Groups retail channel offering: and iii the Groups seasons.
purchase of a significant shareholding in ITV which purchase, it is alleged, was designed principally to damage Virgin Media groups ability to compete in the supply The decision is binding on the FAPL for the duration of the commitments, but does not of pay television services, by preventing Virgin Media group from obtaining access to bind national competition authorities or national courts.
The Commissions decision attractive programming content.
does not address competition issues which may arise from contracts for rights in relation to FAPL matches from the 2007 08 season onwards: any such issues could be Virgin Media group seeks from the Court a declaration that the Group occupies a assessed separately under the competition rules at either European or national level.
dominant market position in specified pay TV retail and purchasing markets in the UK and that the Group has, by its conduct as alleged, abused its dominant position s Mergers contrary to Article 82 EC and the Chapter II prohibition on these relevant markets.
The European Commission regulates mergers, full function joint ventures i. e. ones Virgin Media group also seeks mandatory injunctions requiring the Group to transact which perform on a lasting basis all the functions of an autonomous economic entity with Virgin Media group on fair and or non-discriminatory terms for the supply of the and the acquisition of holdings which confer decisive influence over an undertaking Groups basic pay television channels to Virgin Media and for the licensing of Virgin and which meet certain turnover thresholds specified in the EC Merger Regulation.
Media groups television channels, for on-supply to the Groups subscribers.
Virgin Such transactions may not be carried out without prior approval of the European Media group also seeks damages to compensate it for its alleged losses arising from Commission.
Where the European Commission has jurisdiction to review a transaction the Groups alleged conduct.
under the EC Merger Regulation, national authorities in the EU Member States do not normally have jurisdiction to apply their own competition laws to the same transaction.
The Group intends to defend the proceedings vigorously and submitted its defence to However, Member States may continue to apply their national laws to mergers, where the High Court on 2 July 2007 denying Virgin Media groups allegations that it had such laws are directed at securing other public interest objectives for example, the infringed Article 82 EC or the Chapter II prohibition.
A start date for trial has been plurality of the media and are compatible with EC law.
It is, at this stage, too early to estimate the likely outcome of the proceedings.
Sector inquiries The European Commission also carries out sector inquiries into sectors of the economy Mergers where it considers that a market does not seem to be working as well as it should.
The framework for the assessment of mergers under UK law is set out in Part 3 of the Sector inquiries may lead the European Commission to open specic investigations Enterprise Act.
A relevant merger situation i. e. a transaction which involves a change under Article 81 or Article 82. of control between previously distinct enterprises qualies for investigation by the OFT where it satisfies either a share of supply test or a turnover test.
There is no requirement to notify mergers to the OFT nor to obtain prior regulatory clearance, UK competition rules although the OFT has the power to investigate mergers on its own initiative.
Anti-competitive agreements Section 2 1 of the Competition Act 1998 the Chapter I prohibition prohibits Where the OFT reasonably believes that a relevant merger situation has or may have agreements or concerted practices which may affect trade within the UK and which been created, or may be created in future, and has resulted or may be expected to have the object or effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition within the result in a substantial lessening of competition, it has a duty to refer the merger to the UK.
An agreement will only infringe the Chapter I prohibition if it is likely to have an CC for further investigation.
The OFT may accept remedies offered by the parties appreciable effect on competition.
Agreements which fall within the scope of the instead of making a reference to the CC.
Chapter I prohibition will not be prohibited where they meet specic statutory criteria, that is, where they improve the production or distribution of goods or promote If a reference is made, the CC will decide whether a relevant merger situation has technical or economic progress, provided that consumers receive a fair share of the arisen and, if so, whether the relevant merger situation would substantially lessen resulting benefit, competition is not substantially eliminated and the agreement does competition and, if so, will either prohibit  remedies.
In relation to media mergers i. e. mergers involving newspaper and or broadcasting Abuse of a dominant position enterprises, the Secretary of State also has the power to intervene on the basis of Section 18 1 of the Competition Act 1998 the Chapter II prohibition prohibits the specified public interest grounds including relating to media plurality.
Where the abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position in the UK or a substantial Secretary of State issues an intervention notice, the OFT will investigate the part of it, insofar as the abuse may affect trade within the UK.
competition jurisdictional issues and Ofcom will investigate the public interest issues relating to the merger.
The Secretary of State will then decide whether to refer the Enforcement of the Chapter I and II prohibitions transaction to the CC.
The Secretary of State is required to follow the OFTs findings on The Chapter I and II prohibitions may be enforced by the OFT, one of the sector competition jurisdiction.
In cases where a reference is made, the CC will investigate regulators in the case of the communications sector, Ofcom or the UK courts.
both the competition and relevant public interest aspects of the merger and will report its findings to the Secretary of State.
Ofcom may also give further advice to the The Chapter I and II prohibitions must be interpreted in a manner that is consistent Secretary of State.
The Secretary of State will then decide whether the merger with Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty.
operates, or may be expected to operate, against the public interest and, if so, will decide on appropriate remedies.
The Secretary of State must accept the CCs findings Infringement of the Chapter I or II prohibitions may result in significant consequences on competition jurisdiction, where relevant.
continued Ofcom market investigation of pay TV industry Merger investigation of the Groups acquisition of a shareholding in ITV On 18 December 2007, Ofcom published a consultation document in relation to its On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV amounting to ongoing investigation into the UK pay TV industry.
The consultation document outlined 17.9% of its issued share capital.
The Group paid 135 pence per share, totalling 946 Ofcoms preliminary understanding of the operation of the pay TV industry in the UK.
The investment in ITV has been subject to an in depth review by the CC.
Interested parties, including the Group, were invited to respond to the consultation document by providing views on Ofcoms initial assessment of the operation of the pay In December 2007 the CC completed its review and delivered the final report of its TV industry, with a view to enabling it to examine whether there are competition findings to the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform issues that merit further action which could include a market reference to the CC.
SoS, for him to decide what action to take.
The CC concluded that a relevant This consultation is now closed and on 13 May 2008 Ofcom published copies of all of merger situation had been created, granting it jurisdiction, and that the creation of that the non-condential responses it had received on the consultation document including situation may be expected to result in substantial lessening of competition arising from that of the Group.
Ofcom has announced that it will publish a further consultation the loss of rivalry in an all-TV market between ITV and the Group which may be document by the end of summer 2008. expected to operate against the public interest.
The CC recommended, by way of remedy, that the Group be required to divest part of its stake such that it holds less Irish competition rules than 7.5% of ITVs issued share capital.
The SoS announced on 29 January 2008 his Our operations in Ireland are subject to the Irish competition law regime which decision to make an adverse public interest nding taking account of the CCs decision regulates anti-competitive agreements, abuses of a dominant position and mergers.
that the transaction results in a substantial lessening of competition in the UK market for all-TV.
The SoS also decided to impose on the Group the remedies recommended Environmental regulation by the CC to address the substantial lessening of competition identied in the CCs We are subject to environmental regulations that require our compliance.
Failure to report: divestment of the Groups shares in ITV down to a level below 7.5% within a meet the requirements of such regulations may lead to fines being incurred or specified period which has not been publicly disclosed, and behavioural undertakings damage to our brand image.
from the Group requiring the Group not to dispose of the shares to an associated person, not to seek or accept representation to the Board of ITV and not to reacquire Regulations based on EU Directives, notably the Waste Electrical and Electronic shares in ITV.
Equipment Directive WEEE Directive, the Restriction on the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment Directive RoHS Directive and the The Group has sought judicial review of the decisions of the SoS and CC before the Producer Responsibility Packaging Waste Regulations The Packaging Waste Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
Virgin Media VM has also sought judicial Regulations have placed various obligations upon us.
The WEEE Directive and the review of the findings of the CC and SoS in relation to media plurality and the implementing regulations require producers and distributors of electrical and electronic remedies imposed.
The Group was granted permission to intervene in the review equipment to finance and enable the recycling and or disposal of these items in an proceedings of VM and VM was granted permission to intervene in the review environmentally sound manner.
The RoHS Directive and the implementing regulations proceedings brought by the Group.
A hearing took place in early June 2008.
The necessitate the removal of stipulated  productsplacedon Group is awaiting the judgment of the CAT.
the marketafter mid2005withinset timeframes andthe recovery and recyclingof electrical products to specified levels.
The Packaging Waste Regulations require Market investigations companies that handle packaging to finance the recovery and recycling of packaging Part 4 of the Enterprise Act makes provision for a system of market investigations by equivalent to the type and volume of packaging that they have handled each year.
The OFT or in relation to the communications sector, Ofcom may make a These three sets of Regulations apply to our purchase and supply of set-top boxes, market investigation reference to the CC where it has reasonable grounds for routers and other related equipment and require registrations to be completed by us, suspecting that any feature, or combination of features, of a market in the UK for our suppliers and retailers.
goods or services prevents, restricts, or distorts competition in connection with the supply or acquisition of any goods or services in the UK or part of the UK.
Instead of Other changes in the categorisation, segregation, storage and removal of certain making a reference to the CC, the OFT or Ofcom may accept remedial undertakings hazardous wastes require us to register sites that produce such wastes.
Without from the companies concerned.
registration, hazardous wastes are not able to be removed from site for disposal.
Incorrect disposal may lead to regulatory action.
Where the OFT or, in relation to the communications sector, Ofcom makes a market investigation reference to the CC, the CC will conduct a detailed investigation.
The CC We track draft environmental directives and regulations to establish their applicability may decide that remedial action is required if it nds that there is an adverse effect to the business and enable an appropriate response to be planned and implemented.
on competition in a market under investigation.
