Operating Review Key Performance Indicators We have identified a number of key financial and non financial performance indicators KPIs for our business.
These KPIs and our performance in the year against them is summarised below, and discussed in greater detail in the Overview and Operating reviews.
Non financial KPI Financial KPIs Staff retention and training Interest rate spreads Investments in on mezzanine loans warrants and equity In the last year we have We offer development Interest rate spreads on We continued to obtain added 32 employees to programmes which mezzanine investments warrants on a high our organisation.
We are encourage and facilitate have improved in the number of deals.
During delighted at the calibre continuous learning and second half of the year.
the year, 42 per cent of of the new joiners that promote ICGs values.
ICG has benefited as the our new loan investments ICG is able to attract.
9 days excess of liquidity in the benefited from warrants, Staff turnover has always of training per employee market, which had well above the average been low by the industry was achieved in the last adversely affected of per cent achieved standard and this year was financial year.
margins in the past three by the sector, in calendar a record low at 8 per cent.
years, disappeared with year 2007 as noted by Our remuneration policy the change in credit S&P.
We invested a ICG strives to provide a is designed to reward climate.
further 20 m in equity, positive and uplifting achievement and bringing our equity working environment.
A encourage long term portfolio to 404m at formal survey confirmed staff retention.
Investment 3 March 2008 after that a high percentage of executives receive sales exits in the year.
our employees are proud performance related These figures exclude to work for ICG, would bonuses when capital equity investments in ICG recommend ICG as a gains are realised, while managed CDOs.
good place to work, and non investment staff share are willing to go beyond in the success of the the requirements of their company via the bonus jobs to help ICG succeed.
4 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Gearing level of New lending and Default and loss rates portfolio repayments Leverage in new The contrast between There were no defaults Our recovery rate on transactions, at 8.8 times the first and second half during the year.
Our default defaults is close to 60 per EBIT, was lower than in of the year was striking.
rate at 2 per cent over our cent, which we believe is the previous year 2007: In the first half we 9 year history has been well above the industry 9.7 times EBIT, reversing invested 468m from consistently lower than the average.
Our board the trend of the past four our balance sheet and industry average due to representation and years.
Average gearing, were repaid 458m as early identification and corresponding early however, is still high by financial sponsors took active management of information flow on the historical standards and advantage of buoyant underperforming assets.
majority of our investments we continue to be market conditions for plays a significant part in selective in our exits or cheaper sources this outperformance.
In the second with a strong bias half we invested 472m towards companies with and were repaid only demonstrably resilient 5 m, due to the business models.
changes in the credit climate.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
