Overview Our Business ICG is a leading investment firm and fund Mezzanine Investment manager specialising in providing debt finance and equity to mid-market leveraged buyouts in ICG invests alongside private equity sponsors Europe, Asia Pacific and North America.
We are and management teams, providing the a long term, committed investor, consistent and necessary financial flexibility in a companys proactive in our approach, with a track record of capital structure for it to grow.
We look for delivering premium returns to our shareholders well managed companies, with strong cash and fund investors across market cycles.
Our generation and leading positions in their performance is driven by the quality of our local markets, in countries which offer robust investment executives, who live in the financial and regulatory frameworks.
Our communities in which we invest, and on local office network provides a competitive our unwavering credit discipline.
advantage in sourcing, monitoring and managing investments.
Over the past 19 years ICG has reviewed thousands of transactions, investing in 327 to date, reflecting the Companys highly selective nature.
4 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview 2.3bn 7.3bn Balance sheet Third party investments funds under management Mezzanine Funds Credit Fund Management We offer institutional investors the opportunity ICG was one of the first managers of to invest alongside ICG via a range of Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs Mezzanine funds.
Since 1998 we have raised in Europe, launching Eurocredit I in 1999. a number of funds focusing on opportunities The Credit Fund Management CFM in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Funds under team now manages 10 CDO funds, three management at 31 March 2008 totalled 3bn.
institutional mandates and one Unit Trust Fund Our investors include some of the worlds most totalling 4.3bn, attracting institutional respected insurance companies, pension investors from the US, Europe, the Middle East funds, sovereign investors and endowments.
The CFM team specialises in investments in primary and secondary senior and subordinated debt in leveraged buyouts, often investing alongside the mezzanine investment team.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5
