Operating Review Portfolio: Top 20 Top 20 assets at 31 March 2008 Name Country Industry Investment year m Marken UK Shipping and transportation 2007 76.6 Elis France Business services 2007 73.5 Bureau van Dijk Belgium Publishing and printing 2007 73.5 Medi-Partenaires France Healthcare 2007 72.8 Applus Spain Business services 2007 69.9 TBC Taiwan Telephone networks 2007 55.3 Attendo Sweden Healthcare 2007 52.5 Gala UK Leisure 2003 49.
Sebia France Healthcare 2006 48.7 Orizonia Spain Agency 2006 47.6 Materis France Building materials 2006 46.0 BAA UK Shipping and transportation 2006 45.5 Dometic Sweden Motors 2005 38.5 Minimax Germany Electronics 2006 37.0 Hune Spain Business services 2006 36.6 Visma Norway Business services 2006 36.4 Medica France Healthcare 2006 34.9 SAG Germany Electronics 2008 34.2 Springer Germany Publishing and printing 2003 33.7 Ethypharm France Phamaceutical 2007 33.4 Total 995.7 28 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Operating Review Portfolio: Europe Investments made in FY2008.
The amounts quoted are for ICG and Mezzanine Funds managed by ICG.
1st Credit UK Applus Spain Bureau van Dijk Belgium Provides debt purchase and outsourced An inspection, certification and An electronic publisher of comprehensive debt collection services.
In December In November 2007 ICG arranged 2007 ICG invested 66m in the AA SAGA UK mezzanine and equity facilities of mezzanine facilities arranged to help Provides roadside breakdown and 80m to assist in the buyout.
restructure the financing for the insurance services.
It also provides secondary buyout.
products and services to people aged Asco UK 50 and over.
Provider of logistic services for the oil Carema Sweden industry.
Provides healthcare and cars services.
Accantia UK Develops and distributes skincare, Aster Poland Care Management Group UK toiletries and soap products.
Provides cable television, broadband Operates care homes for people with internet and telephony services.
Acteon France Manufactures small equipment and Astorg IV France Cerba France consumables for dentists.
Speciality laboratory which performs clinical tests.
A-Katsastus Denmark Attendo Sweden Provides vehicle inspection services.
An existing investee company, the leading Codere Spain elderly care provider in Sweden.
Albingia France 2007 ICG arranged and provided a Provides insurance services.
mezzanine facility of 42m to assist in the Courtepaille France acquisition of MedOne.
ICG also invested Operates grill restaurants.
Allflex UK an additional 3m in the equity.
Manufactures livestock identification Craegmoor UK systems.
Aviapartner Belgium Operates care homes.
Provides airport ground handling Alma France services.
Dako Denmark Provides tax recovery and cost reduction Provides cancer diagnostic instruments services.
In December 2007 ICG invested AVR Netherlands and reagents.
In July 2007 ICG took 45m in the mezzanine facility arranged to Provides waste management services.
a participation of US$43.9m in the assist the buyout.
ICG also invested 8m in mezzanine facility provided to assist in the equity.
ICG also invested DKK25m Operates airports.
Anacap UK Invests in financial sector companies.
Bodybell Spain Dometic Sweden Retailer of cosmetics and perfumes.
Supplies appliances for recreational Apem France vehicles.
Manufactures professional switches and keyboards.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Operating Review Portfolio: Europe continued DSV Denmark Famosa Spain Geoxia France Provides transportation and logistics Manufactures toys.
Real estate developer and housebuilder.
Feu Vert France Gerflor France Duni Sweden Operates auto centres.
In May 2007 ICG Manufactures PVC flooring.
invested 57m in the mezzanine finance provided to support the buyout.
ICG also Global Solutions UK Dynea Finland invested 6m in the equity.
Provides support services for public and Adhesian and surface solutions.
In May Firth Rixson UK 2007 ICG arranged a mezzanine facility Easycash Germany Manufactures components for aero of 20m to assist in the recapitalisation.
Provides card payment network services.
In December 2007 ICG took a participation of 8m in the Groupe Moniteur France Edscha Germany mezzanine facility arranged to assist the Magazine group.
ICG also invested 3m in the equity.
HLF Insurance UK Elior France Insurance broking.
Fitness First UK Operates health clubs.
HMY France Elis France Provides shelving equipment, checkout A leading textile rental and cleaning Flaktwoods France counters and point of purchase items.
In November 2007 ICG A leading global supplier of energy invested 5 m and arranged to efficient air solutions.
In September 2007 Hune formerly Euroloc Spain help restructure the financing for the ICG invested 40m in the mezzanine An existing investee company, provides tertiary buyout.
finance provided to support the equipment and machinery for hire.
ICG also invested invested more than 20m to assist in Ethypharm France 7m in the equity.
In April 2007 ICG invested 55m in the Fraikin France Ideal Stelrad UK mezzanine finance provided to support Independent truck rental company.
ICG also invested 9m in the equity.
Gala Coral Group UK Indas Spain Operates bingo, casino and licensed Manufactures incontinence products.
In Eurodatacar France betting outlets.
July 2007 ICG provided mezzanine Provides services to complement finance of 35m to assist in the buyout.
traditional insurance policies covering Gealan Germany ICG also invested in the equity.
Inspecta Finland Eurofarad France Geoservices France A testing, inspection and certification Manufactures passive components.
Provides upstream services to the business.
In August 2007 ICG arranged oil industry.
and provided mezzanine facilities of 40m to assist in the secondary buyout.
30 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Interbest Netherlands Minimax Germany Porcelain and Fine China UK Provides roadside advertising.
In An existing investee company, is a Manufactures china and porcelain.
December 2007 ICG arranged and global supplier of fire protection systems provided a 20m mezzanine facility to and services.
In November 2007 ICG Protection One France assist in the buyout.
ICG also invested invested US$ 2m in the mezzanine Provides electronic surveillance services.
facility provided to assist in the acquisition of Consolidated Fire Q-MATIC Sweden IPT UK Protection.
In December 2007 ICG Provides queue management systems.
also invested 7m in the equity.
In July 2007 ICG arranged mezzanine finance of SEK225m to support the Lecta Italy Nocibe France buyout.
ICG also invested SEK30m in Manufacturers woodfree coated Retailer of perfumes and cosmetics.
Norcros UK Raet Netherlands Loewenplay Germany Manufactures and distributes showers Provides payroll services.
Retif France Loyalty Partners Germany NW Vending Italy A wholesaler and retailer of display units Provides the leading multi company Manufactures food and beverage for retail businesses.
ICG invested 55m in the mezzanine finance provided to support the Mach Luxembourg Orizonia Spain quaternary buyout.
Global clearing house of roaming bill Vertically integrated tour operator.
records for mobile network operators.
SAG Germany Parkeon France The leading independent service and Materis France Develops and manufactures parking technical solutions provider for utilities in Manufactures specialilty chemicals for and transit ticketing systems.
In June Germany and Europe.
In February 2008 the construction industry.
2007 ICG invested 42m in the ICG arranged a 95m mezzanine facility mezzanine finance provided to support to support the secondary buyout.
ICG Mayborn UK the secondary buyout.
ICG also invested also invested 4m in the equity.
Manufactures baby and household 5m in the equity.
made a further investment of 0m to Score France assist in the acquisition of Wayfarer.
Medica France Operates nursing and elderly Petroplus Netherlands Sebia France care homes.
Meyn Netherlands Picard France Manufactures poultry processing Frozen food distributor and retailer.
Select Service Partner UK equipment.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 Operating Review Portfolio: Europe continued Sia France Terreal France Visma Norway Designs, sources and distributes Produces clay roofing tiles and bricks.
Provides business software and household products.
Thornbury UK Sogetrel France Provider of relief nursing staff.
Vivarte France Designs, installs and maintains Footware and apparel retail specialist.
Tractel France The world leader in the manufacture WZG Group Netherlands Souriau France of lifting and access related products.
Designs, manufactures and sells In June 2007 ICG took a participation connectors to the commerical of 30m in the mezzanine financing aircraft market.
provided to support the tertiary buyout.
ICG also invested 5m in the equity.
Spring UK IT recruitment agency.
Tunstall UK Manufactures and maintains social Springer Germany alarm systems.
V Ships UK Svenson Spain Provides shipping management Specialised haircare group.
In June 2007 ICG invested US$ 0m in the equity provided to Swets Netherlands support the secondary buyout.
A leading global subscription services business.
In October 2007 ICG arranged Via Location France and provided a 20m mezzanine facility An independent truck rental company.
ICG also invested In April 2007 ICG invested 35m in the 5m in the equity.
mezzanine finance provided to support the secondary buyout.
ICG also invested TDF France 2m in the equity.
Viadom France Team System Italy Provides home hairdressing services.
Provides software packages and related maintenance.
32 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Case Study: Elis Elis is a European leader in textile rental, hygiene and wellbeing services, with operations in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic and Portugal.
The company serves a wide range of customers, including industry, hotels, restaurants and healthcare facilities.
Elis has a very strong record of sales and the sponsor to restructure the growth, operational excellence and overall financing.
ICG took a majority cash generation with little cyclicality.
stake in the resulting senior mezzanine tranche and continued its board ICGs first involvement with Elis dates representation.
back 0 years when we supported the leveraged buyout of the company by Elis is a typical ICG investment where BC Partners in January 997.
When PAI we are able to support the company acquired Elis from BC Partners in 2002, as it evolves.
Almost half of our new ICG arranged the mezzanine facilities transactions arise from opportunities and joined the companys board with existing portfolio investments, Observer position.
In 2007, Elis was sold reflecting our strong relationship with to Eurazeo in a tertiary buyout, and ICG management teams and the worked alongside the arranging bank embedded value in our portfolio.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Operating Review Portfolio: Asia Pacific Investments made in FY2008.
Franklin Singapore Link Group Australia TBC Taiwan Provides rigging, lifting and mooring Specialist in superannuation One of the four leading cable operators services to offshore and marine administration and share registry services.
In July 2007, ICG provided industries.
In July 2007 ICG arranged US$254m of mezzanine and equity to and provided a mezzanine facility New Zealand Yellow Pages help fund a dividend recapitalisation of of SGD80m to assist in the acquisition of New Zealand the company.
a majority stake in the company.
ICG The sole provider of yellow pages, also invested SGD 6m in the equity.
white pages and local directories in Tegel New Zealand New Zealand.
In July 2007 ICG took Leading poultry producer in Hoyts Australia a participation of NZ$54m in the New Zealand.
A multiplex cinema and screen mezzanine facility provided to support advertising company in Australia and the buyout.
ICG also invested NZ$ 8m in New Zealand.
In December 2007 ICG the equity.
arranged and provided an AUD70m mezzanine facility to assist in the buyout.
ICG also invested AUD 0m in the equity.
34 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Case Study: Tegel Tegel is New Zealands market leading, fully integrated poultry producer.
Tegel offers a broad range of poultry products from fresh and frozen whole birds and portions to value added main meal items.
It supplies poultry products to potential for margin improvements, supermarkets and other retail outlets in made Tegel an attractive investment.
addition to servicing the needs of food service customers.
In addition, it ICG supported the leveraged buyout of operates a feed milling business that Tegel by Pacific Equity Partners from produces feed for internal and third Heinz in April 2006, providing party use.
In all, Tegel employs around subordinated debt, mezzanine and, 700 people.
In February 2008 Pacific Equity Partners sold a minority stake in Tegel to With a market share over 50 per cent ANZ Capital, generating a strong return and a strong brand name, Tegel is well on the realised portion of ICGs positioned to benefit from the growing investment in the company.
ICGs poultry market in New Zealand, and in previous experience in the sector, and particular at the value added end of its partnership approach in making ready meals.
This, combined with the investments played a strong part in its selection by Pacific Equity Partners.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Operating Review Portfolio: North America Investments made in FY2008.
The amounts quoted are for ICGs balance sheet unless otherwise specified.
Au Bon Pain USA Helicon Cable USA Press Ganey USA A casual restaurant chain.
In February A US rural cable operator.
In August 2007, Provides outsourced performance 2008 ICG arranged mezzanine facilities ICG led an add-on financing to finance measurement and improvement of US$26m to assist in the buyout.
ICG an acquisition which included a US$ 0m solutions to healthcare providers.
In also invested US$ 0m in the equity.
investment in the subordinated debt.
ICG March 2008 ICG co led the mezzanine also invested US$9m in the holding facility and invested US$30m to assist the CoActive, formerly ITT Switches USA company debt and the equity.
ICG also invested A leading global designer, manufacturer US$5m in the equity.
and distributor of highly engineered Intelstat USA electromechanical switches, interface A fixed satellite service operator.
In control systems and dome arrays with January 2008 ICG and funds invested headquarters in the USA.
In November US$85m in the buyout.
2007 ICG purchased US$35m in the second lien facility provided to assist the buyout.
ICG also invested US$6m in the equity.
36 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Case Study: Press Ganey Headquartered in South Bend, Indiana with more than 600 employees, Press Ganey is the largest US provider of healthcare performance improvement solutions.
The company partners with over 7,000 health care organisations including over 40 per cent of all US hospitals to measure and improve the quality of their care and their bottom line.
Specifically, Press Ganey partners with and quickly commit to terms.
This, as hospitals, medical practices, home well as ICGs global relationship with care agencies, and other healthcare Vestar Capital, made ICG the partner of providers to enhance organisational choice for this transaction.
outcomes including patient organisational perceptions, patient With a proven management team, a safety, employee engagement, track record of strong earnings growth physician relations, clinical outcomes, and cash flow generation, and a and financial results.
dominant and defendable market share in a sector resistant to business When US based private equity firm cycles, Press Ganey exemplifies the type Vestar Capital acquired a majority of company in which ICG seeks to stake in Press Ganey, ICG was able to invest.
underwrite the entire junior debt facility Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Operating Review Portfolio: ICG Minority Partners Investments made in FY2008.
Condor Ferries UK Gaucho UK Medi-Partenaires France Operates ferry services to the Channel Operates Argentine themed restaurants.
In December 2007 ICG arranged and provided mezzanine and minority equity Menissez France Eismann Germany totalling 49m alongside management Manufactures bread products.
Provides home delivery of frozen foods.
In May 2007 ICG arranged and provided Motip Dupli Netherlands mezzanine and minority equity totalling Marken UK Manufactures aerosol paints.
78m alongside management in the A global leader in specialist courier secondary buyout.
services for the pharmaceutical industry.
In July 2007 ICG arranged and provided mezzanine and minority equity totalling 72m alongside management in the secondary buyout.
38 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Case Study: Marken Marken is a leading global supplier of logistics support services to the biopharmaceutical industry, specialising in the transport of time and or temperature critical express service for clinical trials.
Headquartered in the UK, Marken has The company operates in a market with operations in North and South America, high barriers to entry, is noncyclical, Europe, Africa and Asia Pacific.
and is experiencing rapid growth due to strong demand from existing and In 2007, ICG supported Markens new clients.
management led buyout when the management team acquired majority ownership in the company.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
