Operating Review Board of Directors 0 02 03 04 05 01 Tom Attwood 03 Jean-Daniel Camus 05 Christophe Evain Managing Director, age 55 Non-Executive Director, age 62 Managing Director, age 46 Prior to joining ICG in April 996, Tom Jean-Daniel was a founding partner of Prior to joining ICG in 994, Christophe was a director of James Capel & Co Orium, a proprietary investment firm and worked for Banque fide Gestion Privee where he worked for eight years.
He is previously worked for LBO France.
He is responsible for ICGs Chairman of the Executive Committee started his career in the French civil mezzanine investment business in and is responsible for ICGs Credit Fund service and served as a special adviser north and central Europe, France and Management business and the Asia to the Department of the General North America.
Secretary to the French President.
02 Tom Bartlam 04 Justin Dowley Non-Executive Director, age 60 Non-Executive Director, age 52 Tom is a Chartered Accountant.
He Justin is a Chartered Accountant.
He is co founded ICG in 989 and was a currently a partner of Tricorn Partners Managing Director until his retirement LLP, the independent advisory firm which in 2005, when he was appointed a Nonhe co founded in 2003, and a NonExecutive Director.
He is chairman of Executive director of Ascot Authority Pantheon International Participations Holdings Ltd.
He was previously head PLC and Polar Capital Holdings PLC, and of investment banking at Merrill Lynch is a Non-Executive Director of Numis Europe and a Director of Morgan Corporation PLC and of F&C UK Select Grenfell.
He is Chairman of the ICG Trust PLC.
44 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review 06 07 08 09 0 06 Philip Keller 08 John Manser, CBE DL Andrew Phillips not pictured Managing Director, age 42 Non Executive Chairman, age 68 Management Director, age 45 Philip is a Chartered Accountant.
Prior to John is a Fellow of the Institute of Prior to joining ICG in 989, he worked for joining ICG in 2006 he was finance Chartered Accountants in England and Chemical Bank.
Andrew retired from the director at ERM Holdings Ltd. one of the Wales.
He was formerly chairman of main Board of ICG in 2008 and is now worlds leading environmental Robert Fleming Holdings Limited and is chairman of Intermediate Capital consultancies.
He is Finance Director currently chairman of Shaftesbury PLC, Managers Limited.
and responsible for finance and deputy chairman of Colliers CRE plc and operations.
He has previously held a a Non-Executive Director of SAB Miller plc.
10 Paul Piper number of financial directorships in Managing Director, age 50 the GlaxoSmithKline and Johnson & 09 Franois fide Mitry Paul joined ICG in 989.
Managing Director, age 42 performed a number of roles, Prior to joining ICG in 997, Franois predominantly in the UK mezzanine 07 James Nelson worked for Societe Generale.
He is market and is responsible for Non-Executive Director, age 60 responsible for ICGs UK, Iberian and maintaining the credit quality at ICG James is the chairman of PIFC Group Italian mezzanine investment activities as well as compliance.
Paul is the Limited and a Non-Executive Director and its Minority Partners business.
Chairman of the Investment Committee, of Henderson Smaller Companies which he joined in 996.
He is a past chairman of the BVCA.
and Chairman of the ICG Remuneration Committee.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45
