Operating Review Operating Review Credit Fund Management Intermediate Capital Managers Limited Eurocredit CDO IV BV Eurocredit CDO VIII PLC ICML acts as investment manager Closed in November 2004.
It is a 355m Closed in December 2007.
It is a 636m to all of ICGs Credit Funds, which fund and is invested predominantly in fund and is invested predominantly in have an aggregate 4.3bn funds senior loans, with some exposure to senior loans, with some exposure to under management.
mezzanine and high yield bonds.
Eurocredit CDO VIII is rated Eurocredit CDO IV is rated by by S&P and Moodys.
CDOs Eurocredit Opportunities Fund 1 PLC Eurocredit CDO I BV Eurocredit CDO V PLC Closed in November 2005 with three Closed in September 999 with an This transaction is the successor vehicle subsequent tap issues bringing it to original size of 4 7m and was the first to Promus I BV.
This is a market value fund arbitrage cash flow CDO to be based on 2006, it is a 600m fund and is invested investing in leverage loans, mezzanine, European loan, bond and mezzanine predominantly in senior loans, with some distressed debt and high yield bonds.
The fund is a mix of high exposure to mezzanine and high yield yield bonds and leverage loans with bonds.
Eurocredit CDO V is rated by Eurocredit Opportunities Parallel a small mezzanine component.
Funding 1 reinvestment period for this fund expired A 450m fund investing in leverage in September 2004 and the transaction Eurocredit CDO VI PLC loans.
The fund closed in April 2008 as is now amortising.
Eurocredit CDO I is Closed in December 2006, Eurocredit part of the refinancing of Eurocredit rated by Moodys.
CDO VI is a 500m fund and is invested Opportunities Fund Plc.
predominantly in senior loans, with some Eurocredit CDO II BV exposure to mezzanine and high yield Other funds This 370m fund was ICMLs second bonds.
Eurocredit CDO VI is rated by In addition we manage three cashflow CDO with a similar mix of high S&P and Moodys.
institutional mandates and one yield bonds, senior leverage loans and Unit Trust.
mezzanine, and closed in October 2000.
Eurocredit CDO VII PLC The reinvestment period for this fund Closed in April 2007.
It is a 585m fund expired in October 2005 and the tranches and is invested predominantly in senior are now amortising.
Eurocredit CDO II is loans, with some exposure to mezzanine rated by Moodys.
Eurocredit CDO VII is rated by S&P and Moodys.
Eurocredit CDO III BV Closed in September 2003.
It is a 250m fund and is invested predominantly in senior loans, with a basket for mezzanine investments.
Eurocredit CDO III is rated by S&P and Moodys.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 43
