Overview Managing Directors Review In the last 2 months there have been a number of profound changes in the credit markets in which we operate.
After several years of asset price inflation and almost zero defaults, it did not take unrivalled genius for a private equity investor or credit manager to deliver great results.
In the future it is not going to be so easy.
We believe that ICG will prove to be successful in this period, as it has in previous cycles, given our disciplined approach to investment, the calibre of our people, our high quality and diverse portfolio, and the strength of mezzanine as an asset class.
In our view, subprime was merely a catalyst to bursting the credit bubble last year.
It was going to happen anyway, as credit discipline across almost all markets was bypassed in favour of loan book growth at almost any cost.
We believe the problem and the solution was the way people were paid.
Bankers were paid to lend money, fuelled by record levels of liquidity.
CDO ICG, which is at its best in difficult markets, has the cash and the and credit hedge fund managers were paid to manage bigger and bigger experience to thrive in the new investment climate.
portfolios, and a whole industry was built up and paid increasing sums to serve a larger and larger credit market.
People were paid to lend more and more money, so they did.
The growth in the ABS Asset Backed Securities market has fuelled the availability of cheap credit for both the consumer and the corporate borrower, in the form of mortgages, credit cards and other loans.
Although margins were slim, the debt was syndicated into the ABS market and thus very efficient for lenders balance sheets.
Now the ABS market is closed, balance sheets are 8 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview 1 24 20 Portfolio Countries companies more inefficient and with little prospect We see three opportunities in European Our Asia Pacific and newer Minority of repackaging and selling the debt, credit markets: Partners activities have grown strongly banks must charge higher premiums from a small base.
This not only impacts Primary mid-market deals where businesses, mezzanine has equity companies who are now less able to the market is still active.
Gearing is characteristics, representing a different access cheap debt, but also consumer lower and structures are stronger balance of risk and reward than in the spending.
Initiatives led by the US in these deals, and mezzanine has more mature European mezzanine Federal Bank, the Bank of England rapidly regained its place in the market.
Both businesses are doing well and the European Central Bank are capital structure: and their portfolios are performing helping provide liquidity to this market strongly.
Our new North American office but it is unclear whether these are long Buying hung deals from banks at a has also made a good start.
ICG has invested 30m in such deals in the past six months.
We have also undertaken a number of In this context, credit hedge funds are Investment opportunities are initiatives to build a scalable platform to suffering.
It is now almost impossible to increasing daily as banks recognise support future growth.
believe CDO managers will raise new their losses and begin to accept funds in any quantity at any time in the discounted prices for their hung We remain convinced of the significant near future.
The layers of leverage that assets: and benefits of the private equity model to make up a CDO are no longer available all stakeholders.
It delivers better returns in the required amounts or, even when Buying discounted senior debt in the to investors, improved productivity and they are available, the pricing is at secondary markets.
After the bursting of the asset extremely high levels compared to bubble, there are increasingly attractive previous years.
Banks who provided In the year or so before the crisis, we opportunities for private equity and substantial liquidity to this market are made clear our increasingly careful credit investors alike.
no longer so accommodating, not least approach to credit markets, particularly because of the remaining overhang in Europe.
This caution led to a However, these opportunities are not of hung deals priced and structured significant decline in our European without risk.
When we are making new before the liquidity crisis.
Their appetite balance sheet portfolio for the first investments we assume that there will be is also restricted by the syndication time ever in the first half of the financial a recession in the US, the UK and Spain market which is all but closed.
This year, as repayments exceeded new and a slowdown elsewhere.
The means that the cash flowing into the mezzanine investments by 78m.
problems in the credit markets will not European leveraged loan market has Following the change in the markets we be solved soon and we expect further essentially dried up.
were able to invest on what we believe and considerable volatility.
We will were much better terms, in quality approach the resulting opportunities This gives rise to an enormous companies.
In the second half we selectively and be patient.
opportunity for cash investors like were once more able to increase our ICG.
According to Fitch Ratings: European mezzanine portfolio, which ICG, which is at its best in difficult notwithstanding the severe grew by 28 per cent to.
This markets, has the cash and the contraction in all leveraged credit significant increase was driven by a experience to thrive in the new issuance since summer 2007, the combintion of a sharp reduction in investment climate.
mezzanine product has emerged as repayments which fell from 445m in the the one primary market unreservedly first half to 08m in the second, and an open for business, and remains poised increase in the Euro in relation to Sterling.
Mezzanine Reigns in Europe, 2 April 2008.
They are right but not at any price.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 Overview Managing Directors Review continued Strategy Given the changes in the credit climate, we have two vital short term priorities: To ensure that our balance sheet is properly and prudently financed to take advantage of the opportunities before us: and To maintain the tightest control possible over the credit process, both in making new investments and in monitoring existing ones.
Nevertheless, our long term strategy remains the same.
We aim to be amongst the worlds most innovative and successful investors, doubling in size every five years by employing and Building a strong North American experience of the dedicated Minority motivating great people.
We invest for franchise Partners executives and the appeal the long term, in our people, in our Last year we opened an office in New of our long term partnership approach regional offices and in our portfolio.
We expect our investment activities to management teams.
We have We reward our investment executives in North America to grow, driven by the launched our first Minority Partners fund for successful cash realisations and six experienced investment executives we and achieved a first close in May 2008. not for simply lending money.
Having worked with ICG on investment opportunities over many Recovery investments Geographic expansion years, the team was an immediate and The extreme and inefficient market ICG has consistently benefited by welcome fit into the ICG culture.
They conditions since the summer of 2007 expanding its office network, hiring have already completed or assisted with have created a number of attractive great local talent and ensuring they five transactions in the US and have investment opportunities in those asset have the means and support to secure developed a good pipeline into the new classes we know well.
These include: the best transactions.
hung assets which are stuck on bank books despite, in many cases, Consolidating Europe Product expansion performing well.
With our expertise Over the past five years, we have built a We have carefully expanded the throughout a number of market cycles broad network of offices across Western breadth of financing products which and our strong relationships with private Europe to complement our historically we offer our clients.
In the coming year equity sponsors, we are well positioned strong UK and French operations.
We we expect to continue to develop our to seize these opportunities.
We believe now employ 47 European investment Minority Partners business and offer a that these recovery investments will executives, and will continue to expand range of new funds to our investors.
provide excellent returns to our investors.
this number as and when appropriate.
We are opening an office in Amsterdam, Minority Partners Credit Fund Management and will continue to keep a close eye on Our Minority Partners business supports ICG is one of the premier European increasing our presence in other management led buyouts in Europe, brands in Credit Fund Management, countries where we believe there are by providing a tailored combination and one of the few able to raise a new long term opportunities.
of mezzanine and minority equity CDO after the summer of 2007.
Over the to experienced managers.
ICG has year we added more talent to this team Accelerating Asia Pacific growth invested in many such transactions of 4, including a new Head of Credit ICG is the clear mid-market leader in the since its inception and, as the markets Fund Management and two experienced Asia Pacific region.
It continues to grow mature, the opportunities for these types portfolio managers.
Whilst we think it is rapidly in the favourable market of investment are increasing.
Last year unlikely that we will be able to raise a conditions there and we have an expert we established a dedicated Minority new CDO this year in light of current 0-strong local investment team.
Our Partners team of six investment market conditions, we have launched a balance sheet investment capacity is professionals to focus on this growing new Unit Trust fund targeting institutional being supplemented by our second fund market.
We believe we are well investors seeking the opportunity to in the region which held a first close in positioned to be a leading player, invest in credit markets at the current April 2008.
This region is expected to with excellent sourcing from our local discounted levels.
We have the full represent an increasing part of ICGs investment professionals and our complement of skills and capacity to portfolio over the medium term.
existing portfolio, combined with the take advantage of mispricing in the 0 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview 134 16 Employees Languages current market and are well positioned Given where mezzanine stands in the risk Summary for the long term.
spectrum, it is inconceivable that our It has been another good year for ICG.
existing portfolio will not suffer some Our local network of experienced credit impairments in the coming year, and Outlook professionals has done a great job this we are increasing our monitoring and The shortage of liquidity has led to year and we are confident they will provisioning accordingly.
Over almost enormous volatility in all credit markets.
In this context, we 20 years and several economic and As a result, these markets are inefficient, are building an infrastructure capable debt cycles, we have an excellent creating excellent opportunities for of extending our recent growth into record of low defaults and high recovery long term, well capitalised investors such the future.
We will be working very hard to as ICG.
The current market is providing us with The opportunities are not without risk: an increasing number of opportunities Meanwhile we have resources available indeed we think the credit crisis has to invest at a more attractive balance of to invest.
With our successful Rights Issue more time to run.
What was a liquidity risk and reward.
Covenant lite and of 75m and increased bank line of crisis is likely to lead to a credit crisis.
even due diligence lite are thankfully 500m, we had bn of available Leveraged buyouts LBOs structured in a thing of the past.
There is a limited capacity on our balance sheet at the the benign credit climate prior to August supply of senior debt and no second end of March.
Our Mezzanine Funds had 2007 were often over geared with no lien available to borrowers, which is a further.
This is likely to lead to leading to increased deal flow for We will continue to manage our capital an increase in default rates over the next mezzanine investors, at much better structure to take advantage of the year or two.
prices than before the crash.
opportunities we see before us.
The next two or three years represent a time of We are particularly concerned about the As a consequence of the economic great risk and great reward for lenders of performance of the US, UK and Spanish uncertainty that surrounds us, our all sorts, including ICG.
We will therefore economies where asset price inflation priorities for this year are: to ensure the be patient and invest our resources as was arguably the highest and where any appropriate level of liquidity in our the credit cycle unwinds.
correction is likely to be hardest felt.
balance sheet: to maintain our credit There is no sign of a return of liquidity in discipline: and to persevere with our debt markets and therefore raising new long term approach to investing.
funds will become increasingly difficult for the whole industry.
Tom Attwood On behalf of the Managing Directors 2 June 2008 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
