Chief Executive Officers review www.
co. uk Directors report and business review 07 Forecast GDP 2009 forecast range Firstly we have created, and are now introducing, precisely defined and documented operating processes and procedures throughout our business 5 which support and reflect our commitment to Treating Customers Fairly TCF.
These will ensure that as we open in new territories or bring new 0 people into the business, we deliver a consistently good service to customers and agents.
-5 Secondly, we are devolving the management of our business to local, branch Poland Czech Slovakia Hungary Mexico Romania Russia Republic level.
This means we will tailor our sales, marketing and credit strategies 2.0 to -0.4 to 3.0 to -2.5 to -1.0 to 3.5 to -0.2 to -1.0 -1.2 0.0 -5.0 -2.8 -3.5 -4.0 according to the potential and performance of individual branches rather than at overall country level.
We have successfully implemented this approach Source: Datastream, Reuters, Haver Analytics and Citibank.
in Mexico and are now rolling it out into all our markets.
We expect this to improve the profit performance of all branches and also narrow the range of performance across branches.
Thirdly, we know that the retention of agents and building their levels of experience is a major driver of profit and appreciate the agent is central to delivering a quality service to our customers.
We therefore intend to improve our selection, guidance and performance management of agents in all markets during 2009.
We are developing a Outlook fast-growing international We have a resilient business model.
Our loan book is short-term on average business and are laying just under six months repayments are outstanding, which means we can down the foundations for quickly change the risk-return profile of our lending, and our close customer future growth.
Our plan relationships allow us to rapidly detect and respond to changes in customers circumstances.
is for IPF to operate more effectively on a much larger However, the extent and duration of the economic downturn and the impact of this on the markets in which we operate is unclear.
In these circumstances scale in years to come.
the guidance we can give is less certain.
Our Excellence in Execution We expect that during 2009 the economies of the emerging markets in which programme will help enable we operate will slow substantially or move into recession and this will reduce us to achieve these goals.
household incomes and so lessen customers ability to repay loans.
In this situation we can expect collection of loan repayments to be more challenging and credit quality to come under pressure.
Our central planning assumption is that impairment will increase by around 5% of revenue as a result and collections performance in the early weeks of 2009 supports this view, with Mexico less affected than our European markets.
We will mitigate this by reducing our operating costs in Central Europe by at least 10 million approximately 5% of our other operating costs.
We are confident that the actions we have taken to tighten credit criteria and minimise costs will allow us to weather the recession successfully and that we are well placed to respond rapidly and grow when conditions improve.
