co. uk Directors report and business review 43 Authority to purchase shares The board may refuse to register the transfer of: The Company had authority to purchase up to 25,721,700 a a partly-paid share: of its own shares up until the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM and 13 May 2009.
No shares were purchased b an uncertificated share in the circumstances set out pursuant to this authority.
Any ordinary shares so purchased in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001: and may be cancelled or held in treasury.
A further authority for c a certificated share if a duly executed transfer is not the Company to purchase its own shares will be sought from provided together with any necessary document of authority.
There are no known arrangements under which financial Share capital information rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
As at 31 December 2008, the Companys authorised share capital was 50,150,002 divided into 501,500,020 ordinary shares Shares to be acquired through the Companys share plans of 10 pence each.
On 31 December 2008 there were 257,217,888 rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special ordinary shares in issue.
No shares were issued during the year.
The Company operates an employee trust with an The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange independent trustee, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, to hold and can be held in certificated or non-certificated form.
shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share incentive plans.
On 31 December 2008 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary the trustee held 4,000,000 shares in the Company.
The trust shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, waives its dividend entitlement and abstains from voting the are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of shares at general meetings.
which can be viewed on the Companys website or obtained by writing to the Company Secretary or from Companies House in The Company is not party to any significant agreements that the UK.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control the Companys annual report and financial statements, to following a takeover bid, apart from its bank facility agreements attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to which provide for a negotiation period following a change of appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
control and the ability of a lender to cancel its commitment and for outstanding amounts to become due and payable.
The directors are responsible for the management of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company, The Company does not have any agreements with any director subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
or employment resulting from a takeover.
However, provisions For example, the Articles contain specific provisions and in the Companys share incentive plans may cause awards restrictions regarding the Companys powers to borrow granted to directors and employees to vest on a takeover.
money: provisions relating to the appointment of directors, Interests in voting rights subject to subsequent shareholder approval: delegation of As at 16 March 2009, the Company had been notified, pursuant to powers to a director or committees: and, subject to certain the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable exceptions, a director shall not vote on or be counted in a voting rights in its issued share capital.
These holdings relate quorum in relation to any resolution of the board in respect only to those institutions which have notified the Company of of any contract in which he she has an interest which he she an interest in the issued share capital.
% of issued Name Shares share capital Nature of holding Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by Schroder Investment the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force Management Limited 27,473,340 10.68% Direct and indirect from time to time.
BlackRock Investment Management UK There are no restrictions on voting rights except as set out in the Limited 13,670,132 5.31% Indirect Articles of Association in circumstances where the shareholder Legal & General has not complied with a statutory notice or paid up what is due on Group Plc 12,970,255 5.04% Direct and indirect the shares.
There are no restrictions on the transfer including Baillie Gifford & Co 12,784,320 4.97% Direct and indirect requirements for prior approval of any transfers or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares subject to the following:
