40 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Governance Our board and committees Christopher Rodrigues CBE Charles Gregson Non-Executive Chairman, age 59 Independent non-executive director, age 62 Christopher joined the board of International Charles was appointed as a non-executive director Personal Finance plc in 2007 at the time of the of the Company in 2007. demerger from Provident Financial plc, serving as Qualifications: Graduated in History and Law and Executive Chairman until October 2008 when the qualified as a solicitor.
Other Appointments: non-executive Chairman Qualifications: Graduated in Economics and of ICAP plc and Chief Executive of PR Newswire Economic History and has an MBA.
Association Inc. Other appointments: Chairman of VisitBritain and Past Appointments: Director of United Business non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc.
Media plc, non-executive director and Deputy, later Previous appointments: Chief Executive of Thomas Joint Deputy, Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
Cook, Chief Executive of Bradford and Bingley, board member of the Financial Services Authority, President and Chief Executive of Visa International and Joint Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
John Harnett Tony Hales CBE Chief Executive Officer, age 54 Independent non-executive director, age 60 John joined the board of International Personal Tony joined the board of International Personal Finance plc in 2007 and served as Chief Operating Finance plc as a non-executive director in 2007.
Officer until October 2008 when he was appointed Qualifications: Graduated in Chemistry.
Other Appointments: Chairman of British Waterways Qualifications: Graduated in Business Studies and and Workspace Group plc and a non-executive is a chartered accountant.
director of SIS Group Limited.
Previous appointments: Finance Director of Holliday Previous Appointments: Chief Executive of Allied Chemical Holdings plc, Finance Director of Allied Domecq plc, Chairman of NAAFI Limited, and a Colloids PLC and Finance Director of Provident non-executive director of Provident Financial plc, Financial plc, later Managing Director of its Welsh Water plc, Aston Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc International Division.
and Reliance Security Group plc.
David Broadbent Nick Page Finance Director, age 40 Independent non-executive director, age 56 David joined the board of International Personal Nick joined the board of International Personal Finance plc as Finance Director in 2007.
Finance plc as a non-executive director in 2007.
Qualifications: Graduated in Classics, has an MBA Qualifications: Graduated in Philosophy, Politics and is a chartered accountant.
and Economics and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Previous appointments: Senior Manager with , Financial Controller and Previous Appointments: Chief Operating Officer later Finance Director of the International Division of Travelex plc, Managing Director of Hambro of Provident Financial plc.
Insurance Services plc, executive director of Hambros Bank and Joint Deputy Chairman of Hambro Group Investments and non-executive director of MoneyGram International Limited.
Ray Miles Audit and Risk Committee Executive Committee Deputy Chairman and senior independent director, Nick Page Chairman John Harnett Chairman age 64 Tony Hales David Broadbent Ray Miles Ray was appointed as a non-executive director in 2007 and serves as Deputy Chairman and senior Remuneration Committee Disclosure Committee independent director.
Ray Miles Chairman John Harnett Chairman Tony Hales David Broadbent Qualifications: Graduated in Economics and has Nick Page Rosamond Marshall Smith an MBA.
Nomination Committee Other Appointments: Chairman of Southern Cross Christopher Rodrigues Chairman Healthcare Group plc, advisory director of Stena Charles Gregson AB of Sweden and Chairman of Devon Community Tony Hales Foundation.
John Harnett Previous Appointments: Chief Executive of CP Ships Ray Miles Limited and non-executive director of Provident Nick Page Financial plc.
