co. uk Directors report and business review 31 Clear growth strategy Substantial growth opportunity Growth opportunities in Mexico There are substantial growth opportunities in our developing markets of Mexico and Romania, and subject to a successful pilot, our new market Russia.
Developing markets Northern Borders In Mexico, we estimate that we have achieved around 15% coverage to date.
Monterrey Our current branch coverage reaches about 50% of target customers in the Guadalajara Puebla region and 20% in the Guadalajara region.
As yet we do not have a 20% coverage Puebla 50% coverage presence in Monterrey, the Northern Borders or Mexico City.
Each of the five Mexico City Acapulco regions has a population of about 20 million people and each, we believe, can support a customer base of about 750,000.
Our focus will be on developing our two existing regions by extending our branch network.
If the market develops to plan we will consider opening a further region in 2010.
Potential customer base We currently serve 85,000 customers in Romania but believe we should in Romania be aiming for 400,000 customers when the business is mature.
We have significantly expanded our branch network and our primary focus in 2009 0.4m will be on building customer numbers and revenue from existing branches.
Pilot market Population of Russia Russia is a large potential market, with a population in excess of 142 million people.
We are running a pilot in Russia to test our initial research and build a good understanding of the market.
In particular, we are looking to assess 142.5m customer demand, propensity to repay and the quality of agents and staff.
New markets Introducing our home credit business to new markets is vital to our long-term development strategy.
We constantly monitor and evaluate markets where we think our business will prosper and carefully calculate the right time to make our entry.
We use a rigorous process of research and due diligence to evaluate new markets.
This research phase can take 18 months to complete.
It is managed by a small internal research team supported by legal and financial specialists and research organisations in the new market.
On the basis of this research the board decides whether or not to invest in a pilot operation.
If we believe there is long-term growth potential in a new market, we will then begin to roll-out our operations throughout the country, increasing our branch network, agent workforce and recruiting more customers.
Our previous experience has shown that it takes around a further two years for a new operation to become mature and to reach profitability.
32 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Clear growth strategy Detailed market research Our initial viability tests have identified a number of countries Based on this research and using the performance data of all which we see as strong candidates for our business, and we our other markets, we will then assess the size of the target will perform detailed research on the most attractive market customer base and build a financial model.
This will be centred primarily on investigating In light of the deteriorating global economic climate, we are potential customers history of, or propensity for, borrowing not planning to open in any new markets in 2009.
We are ready together with focus groups introducing the home credit model.
to resume our plans when economic conditions improve.
Seven key viability tests Population The country must have a population of more than 8 million, bringing some 56 countries into possible consideration.
This is because the cost of establishing a head office and control infrastructure in a new market is similar regardless of size, thereby making the returns from smaller markets less attractive.
Legislation We review relevant local laws to identify whether we would need to make any changes to the operating model to ensure compliance with the law.
We also need to be happy that courts uphold the law in practice.
Safety We need to be sure that all employees and agents will be safe.
We would not enter any country where there was civil unrest and we would be cautious about countries with high perceived levels of corruption.
Funding We need to be sure that we can obtain funding in local currencies.
A key strength of our business model is that we borrow and lend in the local currencies.
Individual wealth We need to establish the basic income levels of the population to make an initial assessment of our potential customer base and the size of loans they would be able to repay.
Economic performance The local economy must be relatively stable and strong.
Political environment We look to work in stable, democratic countries, where the rule of law applies.
This also helps to ensure we can apply our business principles such as respecting human and labour rights.
