co. uk Directors report and business review 41 Our senior management team Balzs Pap Russell Johnsen Nick Illingworth Country manager Poland Country manager Romania Operations Balzs joined the international team in Hungary in Russell joined the international team in 1997 and Nick joined the international team in 2001.
He progressed played a key role in establishing our businesses in He is responsible for improving the effectiveness to operations director in 2003, and was appointed Poland and the Czech Republic.
In 2007 he joined and efficiency of field operations in all markets.
as country manager of Hungary in 2006.
In February Provident Mexico as Business Development He previously worked for Provident Financial plc 2008 he became country manager of Poland.
He was appointed country manager of in an accounting capacity before transferring to Before joining the team he held positions at GE Romania in February 2009.
He previously held Provident Insurance as operations director.
various field-based management roles within the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
David Parkinson Chris Wheeler John Mitra Country manager Czech Republic and Slovakia Country manager Russia Marketing and communications David joined the international team in 2003 as Chris joined the international team in June 2001, John joined the international team in 2004 as field development manager and was appointed working in operations in the Czech Republic, marketing and communications director having as country manager of the Czech Republic and Slovakia and Poland.
In 2005 he moved to Mexico previously worked for global companies including Slovakia in January 2008.
He previously served to lead the expansion into the Guadalajara region Rothmans, Sheaffer and Bic International.
He as head of communications, head of training and and in January 2008 was appointed country is responsible for developing the marketing and head of agent support at Provident Financial plcs manager of Russia.
He previously held various communications strategy for the business.
management positions within the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
Botond Szirmak Fred Forfar John Saville Country manager Hungary New markets Information technology Botond joined the international team in Hungary Fred joined the international team as Development John joined the international team in 2007 as in February 2002 as a development manager, Director in 2003.
He is responsible for identifying, director of information technology IT, having moving to area manager, regional operations researching and setting up new country opportunities previously worked for companies including HBOS, manager and divisional operations manager.
He and for managing the portfolio of new markets.
Telewest, Vodafone, Cable & Wireless and Lehman was appointed operations director in 2006 and He previously served as HR director, marketing Brothers.
John is responsible for all aspects of in February 2008 he became country manager and commercial director, and deputy managing IT across the Group.
director of the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
Kenny McPartland Catherine Gardner John Williams Country manager Mexico Human resources Credit and risk Kenny joined the international team in 1998 as Catherine joined the international team in 2000 John joined the international team in 2005 as field development manager in the Czech Republic.
as director of human resources having previously director of credit having previously worked for He was appointed country manager of Slovakia worked for a variety of companies, including companies including GUS plc, The Associates, in 2001 and moved to be country manager of the , ASDA and House and Marks & Spencer.
His role includes managing Czech Republic in 2003.
He took charge of both of Fraser Stores.
She is responsible for the all aspects of credit risk across all markets.
In January 2008 he development and implementation of an effective was appointed country manager of Mexico.
He HR strategy for the business.
previously held various operational roles within the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc.
