An attractive proposition for customers www.
co. uk Directors report and business review 19 An attractive proposition for customers Home credit Home credit provides a A common feature of the emerging markets in which IPF operates is the convenient way for people rapid growth in the size of the market for consumer credit.
At the same time, from all walks of life to the consumer credit market remains significantly smaller than those of the borrow relatively small developed western economies of the UK and the US.
Consumer indebtedness in our markets typically represents less than 20% of annual disposable income sums of money at short compared with levels of 80% to 90% in the UK.
notice, in a manageable The wider consumer credit market includes mortgages, credit cards, hire and transparent way.
IPF operates in a sub-sector of the consumer credit Loans are delivered to, and market, servicing customers who require a fast cash loan and who seek or are repayments are collected only able to afford to repay small amounts of credit.
Products in this sub-sector weekly from, the customers include credit cards, unsecured personal loans, overdrafts, home shopping catalogues and pawnbroker lending, as well as home-collected cash loans home by their agent.
commonly referred to as home credit.
Home credit provides a convenient way for people from all walks of life to Loans available from borrow relatively small sums of money at short notice, in a manageable and transparent way.
It is predominantly a woman-to-woman business around three-quarters of agents and over half our customers are women.
50 We mainly lend in cash, in local currency, with sums ranging from as little as 50 to over 1,000.
On average, we lent around 330 to each of our customers Average home credit loan issued during 2008.
Loans are short-term ranging from six months to two years, but most are for a period of about a year.
330 For the majority of home credit loans, we fix the total amount repayable on the loan at the outset and do not levy any penalty charges or interest as a result of missed payments.
This applies regardless of the number of missed payments or changes in interest rates.
Customers are not required to provide any form of guarantee or security in order to qualify for a loan.
The credit vetting of customers, the provision of the loan and the collection of weekly instalments are all performed in the convenience of the customers home by a home credit agent who is responsible for servicing the customers needs throughout their relationship with IPF.
