04 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Chairmans statement Welcome to the 2008 International Personal Finance plc IPF Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Our overall goal is to produce strong, sustainable and profitable growth for our shareholders by successfully meeting our strategic objectives and we believe we are well placed to achieve this.
Over the last 11 years we have developed a wealth of experience.
We understand how to enter and succeed in emerging markets and to meet the needs of Christopher Rodrigues consumers for fast, convenient credit.
We have also identified potential new Non-executive Chairman markets throughout the world that offer the prospect of strong growth in the years to come.
A key objective is to Achieving targets and funding secure sufficient debt When the business was demerged from Provident Financial plc in July 2007, funding for our business we had four medium-term targets.
and so we were delighted The first was to grow the profitability of our core Central European markets during the year to extend with the aim of producing pre-tax profits of 95 million by 2010.
I am delighted to report that we have passed that target already, recording profit before tax 422.8 million of bank in 2008 of 106.0 million on revenue of 493.2 million.
This reflects a strong facilities until October underlying performance in our Central European markets helped by a strong 2011.
This provides tail wind from favourable currency movements.
sufficient funding to Our second task was to continue making progress in moving our fledgling support the development Mexican and Romanian operations into profit.
We targeted profit for Mexico in of our existing territories.
We made good progress during the year, particularly in Mexico where start-up losses reduced year-on-year by 4.6 million.
Both countries are on course to meet our targets.
Thirdly, we wanted to continue our geographic expansion, taking our home credit model into new emerging markets.
We opened a pilot operation in Moscow during the year and over the course of the next 12 months or so we will use this to evaluate our home credit model in the Russian market.
Our final objective concerned our funding structure.
At the year end 45.1% of our net customer receivables were financed by shareholders funds.
This is unusually high and in normal market conditions we would seek to take on more borrowings to allow the release of some shareholders funds.
However, the operation of debt capital markets continues to be disrupted and credit is scarce.
In these circumstances our key objective is to secure sufficient debt funding for our business and so we were delighted during the year to extend 422.8 million of bank facilities until October 2011.
This provides sufficient funding to support the development of our existing territories.
