26 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 A resilient business model In 2008 IPF was included in the FTSE4Good Index.
Although the Group was We believe that our core not large enough by market capitalisation to be invited to participate in the home credit model is Dow Jones Sustainability Index assessment, we commissioned SAM Research robust.
It has operated to undertake an external benchmarking assessment against the same criteria.
successfully in our This gave encouraging results regarding our CR performance relative to peers our overall score was 61% against a peer group average of 38% and a top international markets score of 68%.
for 11 years, and in the You can read a full account of our progress in our 2008 CR Report at UK for over 100 years.
co. uk 2008 As we continue to expand Improving our core business our operations in both our Excellence in Execution new and existing markets, We believe that our core home credit model is robust.
It has operated we are seeking new ways successfully in our international markets for 11 years, and in the UK for to make our business over 100 years.
As we continue to expand our operations in both our new and existing markets, we are seeking new ways to make our business more more profitable.
We recognise the importance to shareholders of minimising the operational risk as we roll-out new branches in new markets Rate of agent engagement and aim to ensure that we execute the model as consistently as possible.
If we do this well, shareholders will have greater confidence that, once a pilot has been approved and moved into the development phase which is characterised 66% by an increase in start-up losses, it will move up the J-curve and generate shareholder value.
During 2008 we identified a number of potential performance improvement initiatives that we grouped under the banner of Excellence in Execution.
This includes a number of key initiatives geared towards improving the systems we use, developing our employees and agents and making business processes more effective.
Our main priorities for 2009 are: The Home Credit Blueprint We are now introducing precisely defined and documented operating processes and procedures to ensure that, as we open in new territories or employ new people, we deliver a consistently good service to customers and agents.
Review of compliance with this blueprint will be integrated within our internal audit plan from 2009.
This also supports our approach to TCF.
Tailored operational management In the last few years we have significantly improved our credit management and marketing systems.
This enables us to segment the performance and potential of all markets, which enables us to devolve more control of the business to local branches.
We will tailor our sales, marketing and credit strategies according to the potential and performance of individual branches rather than at country level.
We have successfully implemented this approach in Mexico and are now rolling it out in all our markets.
We expect this will improve the profit performance of all branches and also narrow the range of performance across branches.
co. uk Directors report and business review 27 Improving the performance of agents We recognise that we need Making small improvements in agent effectiveness can make a significant a strong pipeline of potential improvement in the overall performance of the Group.
We also know from senior managers who will detailed analysis that the retention of agents and building their levels of experience be able to develop large and is a major driver of profit.
Clearly the agent is central to us delivering a quality service to our customers.
We therefore intend to improve our selection and profitable new markets.
We performance management of agents in all markets during 2009. are developing new senior People development recruits through a fast-track Improving engagement and reducing levels of employee turnover can result development programme in significant improvements in operational performance.
We also recognise with participants from all that we need a strong pipeline of potential senior managers who will be our markets.
able to develop large and profitable new markets.
We are developing senior management through a fast-track development programme with participants from all our markets.
In 2007 we also began identifying potential leaders within Number of employees on our the business and are giving them broad experience of all aspects of the home Leadership Development Plan credit business.
Many of our senior managers in Central Europe are taking senior positions in other markets.
For example, our country manager in Poland is Hungarian, our second in command in Romania is a Polish national, while 69 one of our two regional managers in Mexico is from the Czech Republic.
New product development In Poland and Slovakia we have adapted our product structure so that customers can elect to pay for the agent service or to make repayments themselves.
Following pilots in all our markets we have decided to roll-out flexible products in 2009.
This new product will replace the existing offering.
We have also started our Russian pilot by delivering loans on pre-paid Visa cards.
This addresses the cash handling regulations in Russia but could offer attractive opportunities to remove cash from circulation in other markets to reduce fraud and crime risk, along with opportunities to top up customer loans rapidly.
