co. uk Directors report and business review 05 IPF pre-tax profit growth 2006 2008 Preparing for the economic downturn m The global economic climate deteriorated rapidly during 2008 with the US 70.3 sub-prime mortgage crisis moving from being a relatively local problem in the first half of 2008 to a full-blown international liquidity crisis during the second 50.1 half of the year.
By the late summer it was clear the worlds developed economies 39.9 were heading for a major recession.
We took the view that the emerging markets in which we operate would also be significantly impacted by this with increased levels of unemployment and a more testing credit environment in 2009.
We therefore drew up plans to manage our business through the downturn.
decided to act quickly and substantially tightened our credit controls in October 2008, slowing the intake of new customers and the volume of repeat lending to existing customers.
We also reviewed our new market entry strategy and decided to defer any new country entry until economic conditions stabilised.
We have a proposition Customer focus that our customers clearly We recognise that our long-term success depends on us putting our customers like: we have a resilient first.
We have therefore started work to align the business to the Financial business model: we have Services Authoritys Treating Customers Fairly TCF principles.
This is a a clear growth strategy for clear indication of our desire to be a truly customer focused organisation.
developing the business in Looking forward the future: and the business Our leadership team has done an exceptional job and John Harnetts role in this was deservedly recognised with his appointment as Chief Executive is well financed.
Over the Officer in October.
I would like to thank everyone in the Group for their hard medium and long term work during the year.
I am delighted that the executive team will be further these key elements will strengthened by the appointment of Craig Shannon as Development Director, drive the creation of who will be proposed for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting in May.
In the short term we expect conditions in 2009 to be challenging but we have made thorough preparations and believe we are well placed to weather the impending economic downturn and to prosper and grow when conditions improve.
This is because: we have a proposition that our customers clearly like: we have a resilient business model: we have a clear growth strategy for developing the business in the future: and the business is well financed.
Over the medium and long term these key elements will drive the creation of shareholder value.
