44 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Governance Directors report and business review: Other information continued Supplier policy statement the sustainable long-term value of the Company.
Responsibility The Company agrees terms and conditions for its business for this area rests with the Chief Executive Officer, John Harnett.
transactions with suppliers and payment is made in accordance Key ESG issues for the business that impact upon its with these, subject to the terms and conditions being met by stakeholders are: corporate reputation: social or financial the supplier.
exclusion: ensuring work with communities is relevant: and The Company acts as a holding company and had no trade attracting skilled and well motivated labour.
Failure to be seen creditors at 31 December 2008.
The average number of days to trade responsibly and failure to gain the necessary approvals credit taken by the Group during the year was 10 days 2007: 14. to trade from regulators could adversely affect the Companys reputation and share price.
Key contracts and other arrangements This information is given pursuant to section 417 5 c of the Adequate information is received by the board to make an Companies Act 2006.
The trading subsidiaries have entered assessment of key ESG issues.
Corporate affairs activity, health into contracts with the agents, who are self employed.
The and safety and people management issues were all discussed exception to this is Hungary where agents are employed for at board meetings in 2008.
The corporate responsibility CR regulatory reasons.
Agent agreements govern the relationship steering committee also reports formally to the board at least and the agents are remunerated primarily by what they collect.
Details of training for directors are set out in the Training section in the corporate governance statement.
Certain Group companies have entered into agreements with Hughes Network Systems Limited, Mastek UK Limited, Fujitsu There are a range of appropriate corporate standards, Services Limited and Grupo Xertix S. A. fide C. V. in relation to policies and governance structures covering all operations.
IT services provided to the Group.
Compliance with corporate policies is confirmed formally by means of a self-certification process once a year and is The Groups Hungarian subsidiary operates its credit granting reported to the board.
Further details can be found in the activities under licence from PSZAF the Hungarian Financial corporate governance statement.
The Groups Romanian subsidiary is monitored by the National Bank of Romania NBR in The community and environmental data is externally verified.
its capacity as monitoring and supervising authority.
It is The environmental management system is also subject to an licensed by the NBR and recorded in the General Registry annual independent internal audit against the requirements of of Non-Banking Financial Institutions.
The Group is working towards external assurance subsidiary is a bank which is regulated by the Central Bank against the International Standard on Assurance Engagements of Russia.
ISAE3000 for CR reporting and has been working with an independent company on this during 2008.
This work will Environmental, social and governance matters continue through 2009.
During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries made donations of 68,000 for charitable purposes as defined The remuneration committee is able to consider performance in paragraph 5 of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985. on ESG issues when setting the remuneration of executive The Group invested a further 572,000 in cash, employee directors and, where relevant, ESG matters are incorporated time and in-kind contributions to charitable and community into the performance management systems and remuneration investment organisations.
The Groups community data incentives of local business management.
When setting is reported in line with the London Benchmarking Group incentives the remuneration committee takes account of methodology and is independently assured by the Corporate all implications, including the need to avoid inadvertently Citizenship Company.
No political donations were made.
The board takes regular account of the significance of In 2008, executive directors were given specific objectives environmental, social and governance ESG matters relating to ESG issues for the purposes of the annual bonus to the Group.
ESG risks are dealt with via the Companys scheme: these related to employee engagement, talent risk management process.
Details of this are set out in management and development of employees.
Details the Internal control and risk management section of the of the bonus scheme are set out in the Bonuses section corporate governance statement.
of the Statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration in the directors remuneration report.
The board has identified and assessed the significance of ESG risks to the Companys short and long-term value as Full information on specific ESG matters, and how these are part of the risk management procedures.
It recognises that managed, can be found in the 2008 Corporate Responsibility a proactive programme of reputation management through report at www.
co. uk 2008. a range of progressive, responsible business initiatives adds to
