co. uk Directors report and business review 23 A resilient business model Average loan term by market Our business model weeks Over the last 11 years our home credit business model has proved itself to 59 be resilient, flexible and profitable.
52 51 45 Our regular contact with customers through agents allows us to understand 32 their needs and circumstances and to rapidly adjust our lending decisions.
Our policy of not charging additional interest or penalty charges on the majority of loans to customers who miss payments allows us to help customers through difficult times.
Part of the resilience of our business is also attributable to the Poland Czech Hungary Mexico Romania Rep. & short-term nature of its lending.
On average we have less than six months of Slovakia receivables outstanding at any time which means we can change the risk profile of the loan book very quickly.
All of this adds up to a business model that is well placed to succeed in the long term and weather economic downturns Our philosophy is one of along the way.
maximising the lifetime Our philosophy is one of maximising the lifetime value of customers rather value of customers rather than driving volumes and growth in an uncontrolled manner.
We believe we are far more likely to grow profitably over the long term if we build sustainable than driving volumes and relationships with quality customers.
To achieve this we employ a low and growth in an uncontrolled grow strategy, which typically involves offering customers a relatively small manner.
We believe we value first loan 100 to 200 on average over a term of less than a year: and are far more likely to only increasing the size and length of the loan when they have demonstrated that they are a good payer.
grow profitably over the long term if we build Credit decisions, supported by our powerful suite of credit management tools, are based primarily on the customers ability to repay, taking into account all sustainable relationships of their regular income and expenses, and not on the value of their assets with quality customers.
all of our lending is unsecured.
This business model is applied consistently in all of our markets although we have demonstrated our ability to be flexible and modify the model where necessary.
Our new flexible products are being rolled out across all markets in 2009.
Agents Agents are the linchpin of our home credit model.
The face-to-face contact our agents have with customers in their homes each week means we have a unique insight into our customers circumstances.
If customers circumstances change, for the better or worse, we are able to adapt our lending decisions rapidly, based on the latest information.
There are some 28,900 agents working across the seven countries in which we operate.
They are the public face of IPF and are key to ensuring we offer customers a trusted, reliable and professional service.
They visit each of our customers every week.
In the course of a year our team of agents will make around 100 million customer visits.
The majority of agents are self-employed, although in Hungary local regulation requires that we employ agents.
Generally, agents are able to work as many hours as they choose and often combine their part-time agency work with another job or family commitments.
This makes the job very convenient especially as they tend to operate in their own communities.
Agents remuneration is predominantly based on the amounts they collect, not on the volume of customers acquired or loans granted.
