24 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 A resilient business model A typical commission structure for an agent would see them receive a small Total number of agents amount for taking on a new customer plus 5% of the value of loan instalments they collect.
An established agent will typically receive around 80% to 90% of 28,900 their income from collections and service around 70 to 100 customers.
Agents play an important role in deciding whether to make a loan and determining Percentage of agents the appropriate levels of credit to issue to customers.
They are required to who are female document the income and expenditure of the customer before issuing a loan to determine whether the customer has sufficient disposable income to repay the loan.
They are supported in this process by our credit management systems, 79% which use statistical models to determine the credit risk of applicants.
When we enter a new market we initially select agents through advertising in the local press or through leaflet distribution.
However, in our established Agents are primarily businesses, many agents were previously customers who know us and our incentivised for the products well.
amounts they collect not New agents complete a structured induction programme, which lasts around for the money that they three months, and are supervised by one of our field managers.
A typical commission benefit from regular support and guidance, and meet their manager at least structure for an agent once every week.
A manager will typically supervise between 10 and 15 agents depending on the number of customers they have.
would see them receive a small amount for taking As part of our Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative we are developing an Agent Charter which clearly sets out what support they will receive from on a new customer plus us and our expectations of them.
It also stipulates that they must meet a 5% of the value of loan range of commitments, including health and safety, customer service and instalments they collect.
Because agents are collecting and supplying cash to customers, procedures for personal safety are in place.
Credit management systems Agents are supported in their day-to-day activities by a powerful suite of sophisticated credit management systems.
We also have well established processes to enable us to identify customer and agent fraud.
These systems mean that we can manage our credit risks carefully and respond quickly to changes in the marketplace.
Corporate responsibility CR Our values underpin every aspect of our approach to doing business and define the sort of group we want to be.
We strive to be an ethical business, known for treating our customers fairly, for bringing tangible benefits to the communities in which we work and for supporting and developing our employees.
We do everything we can to minimise our environmental impacts.
Our Code of Ethics commits us to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and in accordance with the law.
We are also committed to respecting human rights and avoiding fraud and corruption.
We have a whistle-blowing policy and operate an externally managed hotline wherever we are legally able to do so.
We pay suppliers promptly and encourage other people we work with to meet the ethical, social and environmental standards we set ourselves.
