Directors Report For the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2008 PThe Directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2008.
Principal activities The Group trades principally as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
Business Review A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on page 12 and the Chief Executives Review and the Business Review on pages 13 to 25.
The information contained in those sections fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be treated as forming part of this report.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the financial year before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 51.8m 2007: 55.6m and the profit after taxation amounted to 31.8m 2007: 42.5m.
An interim dividend for the current year of 3.8p per ordinary share was paid on 4 July 2008.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the current year of 8.8p per share.
This will be paid on 13 February 2009 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 5 December 2008, subject to shareholder approval.
Directors The following were Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 28 September 2008: Gerald Corbett, Paul Moody, Joanne Averiss, John Gibney, Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow.
Chris Bulmer stepped down from the Board on 15 April 2008.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election to the first AGM following appointment and to retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election.
In accordance with Article 82 of the Companys Articles, Ben Gordon, who was appointed to the Board on 15 April 2008, will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, will offer himself for election.
His biographical details are set out on page 31 of this report.
Directors interests The Directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of PepsiCos subsidiaries, no Director was or is materially interested in any contract other than their service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointment are set out on page 38 in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles, to indemnify: The Directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the Groups pension schemes against liability incurred in connection with those companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors needed to run the Group successfully.
The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages 42 to 49.
Annual General Meeting Details of the Companys forthcoming AGM are set out in a separate circular which has been sent to all shareholders with this report.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 33 Directors Report continued Employee involvement The Group uses a number of ways to engage employees on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
These include annual roadshows at key sites by members of the Executive Committee, regular team meetings, the publication of a bi-monthly internal newsletter, The Mag, together with the b. link intranet site containing easy access to the latest Company information as well as Company policies and vacancies.
The Company organises quarterly formal business performance updates for employees, which are cascaded by line managers.
An Employee Involvement Forum was established in 2004 through which nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
In addition, where the Group has entered into a recognition agreement with a Trade Union, it fulfils its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
The Group approaches these relationships from a partnership perspective.
A robust employee opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
All eligible employees are able to participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary, and to receive matching shares from the Company, up to a maximum of 75 per four-week pay period.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable employment policies which ensure entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria and competency.
Disabled persons Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive, whether through retraining or redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
Supplier payment policy It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its business transactions with all suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The average number of days of payments outstanding for the Group at the financial year end was 36 2007: 30.
Political contributions During the year the Group and its subsidiaries made no political contributions.
Charitable donations The Company is a member of the London Benchmarking Group LBG whose benchmarking model is used to assess the Companys total contributions to communities in the UK.
During the year, the Companys direct donations for charitable purposes cash donations to charity was 83,032 2007: 17,187.
The Group invested a further 49,532 2007: 42,111 in support of community programmes, including product donations and employee volunteering.
Major shareholders As at 25 November 2008, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
Number of ordinary shares Per cent Nature of holding Snowdon Acquisitions Limited 30,207,082 13.98% Direct AXA, S. A.
13,734,563 6.36% Direct and Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd. 13,231,558 6.12% Direct and Indirect Newton Investment Management Limited 12,923,215 5.98% Indirect PepsiCo, Inc 10,739,120 4.97% Direct Legal & General Group Plc 8,633,246 3.99% Direct Aviva plc and subsidiaries 6,484,618 3.00% Direct 34 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 Takeovers directive The following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into English law.
As at 28 September 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share capital can be found in Note 22 to the financial statements which should be treated as forming part of this report.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Resolution 10, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution at the 2009 AGM, will give the Company authority to use its available cash resources to acquire up to 21,600,000 of its own shares in the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares.
The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the overall position of the Company.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders.
IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic Employee Benefit Trust, holds 0.92% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 25 November 2008, in trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and managers of the Group.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of the Trustees holding.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
It may take all or any of the following matters into account: The long-term interests of beneficiaries.
Interests of beneficiaries other than financial interests.
Interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former employees or their dependants.
Interests of persons whether or not identified who may become beneficiaries in the future.
Considerations of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
The Trustee may not accept any offer relating to the shares without the prior written consent of the Company.
Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 25 November 2008, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited held 2.32% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
The Companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control, details of which are included on page 25.
The Companys Articles may only be amended by a Special Resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2009 AGM a Special Resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the Companys existing Articles as described in the Notice of Meeting and in Note 34 of the Financial Statements.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 35 Directors Report continued Financial risk management It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the Groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The specific policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are detailed in the Treasury Management section of the Business Review on page 23.
Post balance sheet event Details are set out in Note 34 of the Financial Statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements The Directors have chosen to prepare the Financial Statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, under English company law it is the Directors responsibility to prepare Financial Statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, IAS 1 requires that the Financial Statements present fairly for each financial period the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies consistently.
Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal controls, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by the Companies Act 1985 of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a Director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the Companys website www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 Financial statements After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, these financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of AGM and will be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
By Order of the Board John Price Company Secretary 25 November 2008 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008 37
