Business Resources Britvic is one of the two leading branded to distribute the Pepsi and 7UP brands soft drinks businesses in GB and Ireland.
in Great Britain and Ireland, access to It is one of the top two soft drinks all new carbonated drinks developed by businesses in the GB take-home channel, PepsiCo for distribution in Great Britain and is the leading soft drinks supplier to the Ireland and, to support the development GB licensed on-trade and is a significant of its carbonates offering, access to player with a growing presence in the PepsiCos consumer and customer insight, leisure and catering channel.
competitor intelligence, marketing best practice, brand and product development The main resources the Group uses to expertise and technological know-how.
achieve its results are: Britvic in 2008 also signed further PepsiCo EBAs for Gatorade and V Water.
An extensive and balanced portfolio of stills and carbonates brands, including A strong customer base.
In take-home, Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J2O and Britvics customers include the Big four Fruit Shoot.
The breadth and depth of supermarkets Tesco, J Sainsbury, Asda Britvics portfolio enables it to target and Wm Morrison together with a number consumer demand across a wide of other important grocery retailers.
The range of consumption occasions, in all Group has significant supply arrangements the major soft drinks categories and with a number of key players in the across all relevant routes to market.
The GB pub sector and leisure and catering strength of Britvics brand portfolio is channels.
Through Britvic International, underpinned by its consumer insight and the Group has built on the success of product development capability which the Robinsons and Fruit Shoot brands by has consistently enabled it to produce introducing these products into markets innovative products, packaging formats outside GB.
and promotional activity designed to meet evolving consumer tastes and Britvic also has a well-invested and flexible preferences.
Britvic Ireland owns a number production capability and a recently of leading brands in the Republic of Ireland outsourced distribution network that, and Northern Ireland, including Club, according to AC Nielsen, enabled its soft Ballygowan, Britvic, Cidona, MiWadi, and drinks to be made available to consumers Energise Sport, as well as the rights to the at over 96% of the points of sale on Pepsi and 7UP brands.
a sterling-weighted value basis in the GB take-home and over 90% of the A successful long-standing relationship points of sale of the licensed on-trade with PepsiCo that resulted in the Exclusive channels in 2008.
Bottling Agreement EBA being renewed in Great Britain in 2004 for a further 15 years, with an extension to 2023 on Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
The acquisition of Britvic Ireland has further strengthened this relationship with the EBA for Ireland lasting until 2015.
This relationship gives Britvic the exclusive right 24 Britvic plc Annual Report 2008
