Remuneration report Remuneration report Summary: total interest in Investec plc and Investec Limited ordinary shares, options and long-term incentive awards as at 31 March 2008 continued Investec Limited Name Beneficially Fintique II Options Share Balance at Balance at and nonMatching 31 March 31 March beneficially Plan 2008 2007 held Executive directors S Koseff 441 515 539 395 - - 980 910 980 910 1 B Kantor 5 001 000 - - - 5 001 000 6 557 700 GR Burger 499 885 369 715 - - 869 600 869 600 A Tapnack 185 105 168 340 - - 353 445 388 125 Total number 6 127 505 1 077 450 - - 7 204 955 8 796 335 Notes: The total number of Investec plc and Investec Limited shares in issue as at 31 March 2008 was 423.3 million and 234.3 million, respectively.
The market price of an Investec plc share as at 31 March 2008 was 3.39 2007: 6.58, ranging from a low of 2.94 to a high of 7.65 during the financial year.
The market price of an Investec Limited share as at 31 March 2008 was R57.43 2007: R93.30, ranging from a low of R50.90 to a high of R104.40 during the financial year.
1 In addition to his shareholdings reflected in the table above, B Kantor has an interest in Investec Limited shares via futures contracts, the details of which are as follows: - B Kantor purchased single stock futures over 800 000 Investec Limited shares at a strike price of R62.30 per share.
Conclusion The Remuneration Committee will continue to ensure that reward packages remain competitive, provide appropriate incentive for performance and take due regard of our culture, values and philosophies.
The committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as discussed in this report, under review during the 2009 financial year.
2008 Investec Annual Report 182 Our business responsibility Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility Taking stock Just as international sustainability issues are showing signs of becoming mainstream, the realities of the global economic cycle have surfaced to push back against an excessive business focus on non-financial matters.
Inevitably, fears about the deepening international global credit crunch, deteriorating health of the international banking system, sharply weakening economic and inflation outlook, and the rising threat of international protectionism, took precedence during the reporting period.
Whereas this inevitably reduced some of the momentum that had previously built up around broader sustainability issues within business, the financial concerns of the period did not result in an outright reversal of focus on the non-financial components of sustainability.
Rather, the period merely manifested a changed balance of emphasis, all the while within the broad realm of sustainability, and any tensions that may have arisen between the different elements during the period were clearly seen to be cyclical not structural.
From an Investec standpoint, the reporting period saw continued efforts at cementing and entrenching Our Business Responsibility within the bank.
Increasingly understood as Investec's adopted terminology for sustainability, Our Business Responsibility has now come to be seen as the logical confluence between Profits, People and Planet.
Developments during the year The detail pertaining to group-wide developments relating to the different aspects of Our Business Responsibility during the reporting period can be accessed in full elsewhere, on our website.
The period saw continued solid progress on a broad array of fronts.
The non-financial dimensions of Our Business Responsibility saw continued focus on the many different aspects of our people and environmental endeavours, inside and outside the organisation.
On the people front, continued internal focus on diversity, talent and leadership development commanded much time and attention, while our external people focus revolved around the developmental aspect of our CSI activities.
Our environmental endeavours, everywhere, continued to gain traction.
Specific sustainability initiatives on the South African front during the period included a commissioned third-party review of the CIDA City Campus.
Designed to provide assurance regarding both the financial and non-financial sustainability dimensions of the institution, the review was also intended to inform our continued involvement with CIDA in the context of so many competing demands on our resources.
On the environmental front, South Africa launched an internal countrywide paper reduction campaign, aimed at effecting a 15% reduction in per capita consumption, the eventual outcome of which was a per capita decrease in consumption in excess of 20%.
A new South African staff initiative, Team Green, modelled on the success of its Investec UK equivalent, was established to help change internal environmental behaviours.
We also featured very strongly in this year's Financial Mail Top Empowerment Company awards, ranking sixth and placing first of the banking groups in the overall ranking.
On the UK front, traditional CSI activities remained an ongoing source of focus but an extensive review throughout the period may drive some strategic change in emphasis going forward.
The UK's internal environmental activities, further established than elsewhere in the group, continued to win external plaudits and, for the second successive year, we featured very strongly in the prestigious City of London Prize, winning the Chairman's Cup.
Outside of our principal geographies, sustainability has been more a function of the financial prerequisites associated with the need to grow, build critical mass and ensure the successful integration of acquired business.
However, here too, steps are being taken to broaden the understanding of Our Business Responsibility and to cement the notion of the triple bottom line.
Looking ahead In seeking to demystify what sustainability means for our organisation, we have adopted the approach that Our Business Responsibility is not something that we are looking to do as an aside.
Rather, in the context of the culture and values that drive our organisation, Our Business Responsibility is a logical extension of who we are and how we go about things.
Indeed, increasingly within Investec, the recognition is that Our Business Responsibility is simply 'good business'.
As sustainability issues worldwide have become increasingly mainstream in recent years, so have they within Investec.
There is now a more soundly based appreciation of our responsibilities as an effective corporate citizen.
Having always had an innate sense of wanting to do the right thing, the adoption of a formal group philosophy in respect of Our Business Responsibility now not only seeks to align the interests of both shareholders and stakeholders over time, but provides the business units and regions with a framework of reference within which to determine their own approach.
This philosophy very simply states that 'in pursuit of sustainable profits, we seek to be a positive influence in all our business activities, in each of the societies in which we operate.
We do this by empowering communities through entrepreneurship and education, recognising the true value of diversity and addressing the challenges posed by climate change, and our use of natural resources'.
2008 Investec Annual Report 183 Our Business Responsibility Our Business Responsibility From an overall group perspective, there is a certain asymmetry in our non-financial sustainability endeavours.
South Africa, where our focus on sustainability has its roots, has long prioritised the social aspects of the triple bottom line, embracing only recently the environmental dimensions, whereas the emphasis has been exactly the other way around in our other principal geographies.
The social aspects which underpin our approach to Our Business Responsibility revolve around education and entrepreneurship.
We boast a long-standing and credible track record whereby we have sought to satisfy unmet needs, principally in South Africa, by means of entrepreneurial flair and innovation examples are the CIDA City Campus and The Business Place.
On the Black Economic Empowerment front, too, we have been consistently proactive, and are a recognised leader in the identification, financing, creation and replication of BEE platforms within South Africa.
Outside of South Africa, the other principal geographies are also beginning to focus more attention on the specific social dynamics within their respective operating environments and drawing where possible on the essence of the group approach.
As has been the case in South Africa, education and entrepreneurship are being singled out for pursuit, with the same regional desire for active engagement.
The environmental dimensions of sustainability remain an incremental advance for us.
As a specialist bank, we continue to ponder the ramifications, and value-add, of signing up to inviolable commitments around our carbon-emissions or financing status.
That said, we have actively explored, and continue to explore, ways in which we can address our own internal behaviours, and are looking to cement, in a more structured way, an understanding of the risks posed by environmental considerations.
All regions are now looking to begin the exercise of measuring their respective carbon footprint, and the pursuit of commercial opportunity within the environmental space is well understood, and selectively pursued.
The ongoing electricity crisis in South Africa has highlighted the need to preserve energy and this theme, which will also translate well outside of South Africa, will represent the next phase in our group-wide internal environmental awareness campaign.
Beyond that, the year ahead will see continued focus on the many multifaceted sub-components of sustainability, on the recognition that the business units will be the primary driver of our energies on this front, with the centre merely seeking to maintain responsibility for oversight, coordination and integration.
Having accomplished the goal of re-energising our sustainability efforts in the past year, and formally incorporating the missing component of the environment, we have now built an appropriate platform from which to progress further.
Our more comprehensive, widespread and mature understanding of Our Business Responsibility will provide us with the sense of purpose to guide our continued sustainability journey and, the vagaries of the economic cycle permitting, the year ahead will enable us to make additional advances.
The 2008 Our Business Responsibility report can be accessed on our website at www.
com grouplinks obr 2008 Investec Annual Report 184
