Domestic 2008 2007 Increase Revenue 840.1m 695.3m 20.8% Operating profit 42.1m 34.7m 21.3% Margin % 5.01% 4.99% The Domestic Division has had a good year PTS has delivered growth across all its targeted with strong growth in revenue, market share sectors and as such its exposure to any one and profitability.
Revenue increased by 20.8% segment of the market is minimised.
The against last year to 840.1m with like for like programme of spend on the decent homes LFL growth of 6.9% 2007: 6.1% LFL growth, initiative remains intact and is underpinned by new branches contributing 7.0% and the both public and private finance.
AHED and Jebbs acquisitions contributing a further 6.9% of revenue growth.
The primary driver for sales of boilers, radiators and accessories which represent within our existing branch network, Organic revenue growth in the year was around 50% of Domestic Division sales, is the a further 20 spares counters.
13.9% with strong second half sales replacement, on a repair and maintenance performance.
The sales increase has been basis, within the existing housing stock of As part of our branch opening programme achieved by focusing on improving customer circa 21 million homes in the UK.
The new PTS has identied a requirement for large service, improved product availability, build residential market represents around commercial sanitaryware branches.
Three of retaining competitive commercial terms and 5% of Group revenue.
Our increased these branches have been opened in the year having knowledgeable staff that assist our penetration of the R & M market through and the initial customer reaction has been customers.
Being exible and keeping close the acquisition of AHED, new branches encouraging with sales well above to our customers has been key to the and contract gains underpin growth in expectations.
F & P Wholesale has had a strong year During the year, PTS opened 34 branches In January 2008, PTS secured the largest benefiting greatly from the acquisition and which takes the number of branches to 276. contract within the Group.
British Gas had integration of AHED.
In less than a year, The results achieved have been encouraging previously worked with three merchants to AHED has been fully integrated into the F & P with sales performance ahead of expectations.
deliver its requirements on heating systems Wholesale network.
This involved moving the There remains considerable opportunity to to a total market value of around 90m.
Wakeeld site onto F & Ps computer system, extend the network further.
Following a rigorous procurement process, removing third party distribution nationally PTS was selected to deliver 50% of the and relocating a branch from Lewisham to contract for a three year period.
The AHED business, previously service remains key to our relationship with loss making, is now profitable and made British Gas and we are very pleased to work a significant contribution to F & Ps result closely with them.
Renewable technology sales continue It has been another year of solid growth for to be a core part of our future strategy.
the core F & P business with sales of gas and PTS now supplies a complete range of electric res up, and towards the end of 2008 Solar, Heat Pump and Bio Mass technology.
F & P launched a new range of bathroom Sales continue to increase across all sectors products under their own brand of Fresssh.
including new build and local authority Sales have been brisk and complement our specications.
We remain committed to increasing sales of own brand heating and supporting this growth segment of the market.
plumbing products which are marketed as Pro and are designed to support our large Steve Armstrong above The spares market in the UK is valued at over second tier merchant customer base.
Assistant Branch Manager 100m and is protected against economic F & P Bedford downturns in that spares are required to F & P Wholesale is now the clear market Sam Cook top right repair broken appliances.
PTS now has over leader to supply the second tier independent Internal Sales Coordinator 70 locations selling spares and has delivered merchant sector, and the AHED acquisition F & P, Bedford John Barber main picture sales in excess of budget and expectations.
has been beneficial to both our customers Sales & Customer Service Manager New contracts secured in the second and and shareholders.
PTS Northeet third quarter will support robust growth in 2008 and beyond, and we expect to open, The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 8 John The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9 Sarah The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10
