Specialist The Specialist Division incorporates Price 2008 Pro forma 2007 Increase Tool Sales Limited Price Tools acquired in March 2006, Buck & Hickman Limited Revenue 111.7m 118.0m 5.3 % acquired in April 2007 and Birchwood Products Limited Birchwood acquired March 2008.
The comparative results for Operating profit 2.9m 2007 reect Price Tools and pro forma results of Buck & Hickman for the full year.
Margin % 2.6% The maintenance, repair and overhaul MRO market for industrial supplies in the UK is estimated to be worth 3.1 billion.
This market includes power tools, hand tools, personal protective equipment PPE and general industrial supplies.
The BSS Group sees this market comprising end user industrial customers that are served by a branch based model, as attractive.
The customers, their needs and their requirements match the experience and understanding gained from the Industrial and Domestic Divisions.
Buck & Hickman has had an encouraging first year under Group ownership.
The business has been returned to profit, was earnings enhancing and was strongly cash positive.
The first stage of a three stage recovery plan has been completed.
The sales team has been reorganised and refocused: operating efficiencies within the business have been The third stage of the plan is to expand the 18.3m.
Birchwood is a specialist wholesale improved and costs reduced.
Headcount has branch network to realise the full potential of distributor of safety workwear, lighting, decreased by 15% against the prior year.
heating, cooling and a range of other During this period of change, customer construction related products.
It operates service standards have been maintained and There has been considerable support within from a national distribution centre in sales stabilised.
Buck & Hickman to get the business back on Nottingham, supplying a customer base to a profitable footing and we are grateful for of over 6,000 distributors.
In the year to Stage two of the plan has commenced the commitment and energy shown by staff 31 October 2007, Birchwoods turnover was and involves re-opening the 28 branches, throughout this part of the Specialist Division.
22.3m, with an operating profit of 1.8m.
re-establishing trade counters and The business is an excellent t with the implementing branch based systems.
Price Tools is focused on the wholesale Specialist Division, signicantly enhancing the The systems project remains on track for channel distributing power tools and personal product offer with owned brands that have a quarter three implementation in 2008. protective equipment and forms an integral considerable growth potential.
Birchwoods 25 trade counters have been re-opened and part of the segmented market strategy for the senior management have been retained and the branches are starting to re-engage with Specialist Division.
Power tools and PPE, are focused on developing the business.
their local customers and win back business.
supplied by Price Tools, have been sold through the branch networks of PTS and The formation of the Specialist Division BSS Industrial enhancing the revenue and opens up new growth potential for the Amanda Wright above right profits of these businesses.
BSS Group and we are pleased with the Sales Ofce Manager Buck & Hickman, Teddington businesses we have bought, the prices paid Graham Markham main picture Birchwood Products Limited was acquired on and the opportunity they give to enhance Goods Inwards Supervisor 1 March 2008 for an initial consideration of shareholder value.
Teddington, Surrey operating profit before redundancy and re-organisational costs and intangible amortisation of 1.6m includes revenue of Buck & Hickman from 10 April 2007 date of acquisition The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13 Business Review Group Chief Executive cont Our fleet of delivery vehicles Liveried vehicle for the BSS Industrial National Tube Distribution Centre at Cross Point, Coventry.
Market Outlook and Economic Risk Business Relationships The Group has a broad spread to its business The BSS Group maintains effective Group Revenue with over 60,000 customers serviced from business relationships across all aspects Split by division 370 branches, located the length and breadth of its operations.
However, the Groups of the UK and Eire.
Its exposure to any operations are not dependent on any individual customer is limited, the largest single customer or supplier.
To promote 65% Domestic Division customer represents 3% of revenue and the effective relationships the Groups top ten customers by value account for just management meets with customers 10% of Group revenue.
26% Industrial Division The relationship with our customers and our competitive position is anchored primarily on service and availability of product.
We believe 09% Specialist Division our position has strengthened over the last year as we have invested to improve our infrastructure and availability: as a result our Average working capital to sales fell below business has increased.
15% for the first time, with our suppliers support key to improving product availability As a specialist distributor the primary driver for and driving sales performance.
Collectively our products is the repair and maintenance of these measures form an integral part of existing facilities.
The element of our revenue building value for our shareholders on a driven by 'improvement' projects has a broad consistent basis over the long term.
spread to both the nature of the projects and their source of funding.
Major project work is The repair and maintenance market remains holding up well.
Work with the MOD, local resilient and the Group has positioned itself authorities, health authorities and commercial to ensure it is well placed to service the projects are underpinned by programmes growth streams within that market.
We are that run for a number of years.
The Industrial encouraged by the spread of work in terms business continues to benefit from its strong of geography, customers and source of strategic position as a national distributor.
funding, and remain confident that as specialist distributors we can maintain the We recognise that there is a slowdown growth momentum during more unsettled in economic activity but we believe that the economic times.
impact on our business will be cushioned by the essential need for what the BSS Group provides and growth initiatives.
We remain focused on being competitive, are keeping close to our customers and believe we can maintain momentum.
The first seven weeks of the new financial year are in line with expectations and the outlook remains positive.
Gavin Slark Group Chief Executive 28 May 2008 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 14
