Industrial The Industrial Division has had an excellent 2008 2007 Increase year.
Like for like revenue increased by 12.9% to 337.2m 2007: 9.2% LFL growth Revenue 337.2m 298.6m 12.9% with operating profit increasing by 26.8% to 25.1m.
The sales growth has been sustained throughout the financial year, is broadly Operating profit 25.1m 19.8m 26.8% based in terms of customer, projects and geography and reects the benets of leveraging the national distribution capability Margin % 7.44% 6.63% and technical expertise of the Division.
The Industrial Division continues to build on In August 2007, a major capital investment The Industrial Division is well placed for its growing reputation for service, reliability was completed in opening the National Tube further growth.
A combination of expertise, and technical expertise.
The Division has Distribution Centre for Big Pipe.
This has national distribution and strong customer continued to outperform the market, been instrumental in allowing us to expand relationships gives the Division a unique capitalising on investment in health, education both our product offering and service, freeing market position.
The pipeline of infrastructure and infrastructure projects, both public up capacity in the branches as well as work, both public and private, remains strong and private.
improving availability and range of product.
and the outlook remains positive.
It has enabled us to achieve significant The revenue of the Division and its market growth in both stainless steel and plastic leading position is spread across a number pipe systems.
This will allow us to adapt to of sectors.
The Government related work is the changing piping technology that is underpinned by programmes that are long being introduced in support of sustainable term in nature: Building Schools for the Future development.
This investment has been BSF, upgrading of living accommodation on well received by our customers and has MOD estates and maintaining hospitals in the signicantly enhanced the capability of health sector.
Healthcare has remained a strong focus for The focus on our specialist brands, servicing the business with broad funding support the industrial market sector, has proved highly for continued investment in health facilities.
successful with a number of major contracts In response we have set up specialist project being awarded in the food, chemical and teams to deliver and manage a number of pharmaceutical businesses.
This new business these initiatives delivering significant value has enhanced the quality of the Divisions to our contractor customers.
These brands include: AMS Pumps, Austin Stroud Valves, Havelock Controls and Infrastructure project work is also a key driver Manor Plastics.
We were awarded Pump and BSS are delighted to be an integral part Distributor of the Year which recognises the of the successful supply chain for Heathrow service that our branches provide.
Maintenance supply to Terminal 5 has commenced.
The Olympics in 2012 We continue to expand our own brand range, is also a driver for further investment in key BOSS, with the introduction of a number of infrastructure projects throughout the South significant product ranges including valves, East of England, and BSS is well positioned radiators and piping systems.
These to participate in this further opportunity.
enhancements have improved the product Bill Roe top offer and increased profitability.
Senior Sales & Customer Service BSS Luton During the year we have also invested in our Sandi Hanspal above supply chain with extensive work in improving Marketing Co-ordinator availability of product at both our NDC and BSS Industrial Leicester branches.
This has led to improved service Sarah Pattison main picture over both our trade counters and next day Warehouse Operative delivery service.
BSS Cross Point, Coventry The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11 Graham The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 12
