Lord Leach of Fairford, Deputy Non-Executive Chairman, Non-Executive Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Geoffrey Howe was appointed a nonRodney Leach was Chairman of Thompson in 2000, when the Burke executive director in January 2002, Jardine Insurance Brokers, latterly JIB Ford Group of companies, of which became Joint Deputy Chairman in Group plc, between 1988 and 1997. he was Chief Executive and November 2004 and the Senior He was appointed Deputy Chairman co-founder, became part of JLT.
Independent Director in April 2005. of the Company in February 1997.
He is Chairman of the Group He is Chairman of the Nominations Executive Committee and was He was appointed Chairman in April Committee and a member of the Chief Executive of the UK and Ireland 2006 when he relinquished the Remuneration Committee.
Other Insurance Broking and the Group's appointments as Senior Independent directorships include Jardine Employee Benefits businesses until Director, Chairman of the Matheson Holdings, Rothschild December 2005.
He was appointed a Remuneration Committee and Continuation AG and various listed director and Chief Operating Officer of member of the Audit Committee.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc on He remains a member of the 1st January 2005.
He is Chairman of the Nationwide He was appointed Group Chief Building Society and a director of Executive on 1st December 2005, Investec plc.
He was formerly standing down as Chief Operating Chairman of Railtrack Group plc, a Officer on that date.
director and group general counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
24 JLT Annual Report 2008 Directors Profiles 4.
N R MacAndrew, director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Non-Executive Brian Carpenter joined Jardine Group plc in January 2002.
She was Nick MacAndrew was appointed a Australian Insurance Brokers in 1987. appointed Chief Executive Officer of non-executive director on 1st July He was Managing Director of JLT our Latin American operations with 2005.
He is Chairman of the Audit Australia and New Zealand between effect from 1st January 2008.
Committee and a member of the 2000 and 2007.
He has been She is also Chairman of JLTs Remuneration and Nominations Chairman and Chief Executive of JLT Insurance Management Business.
He is a non-executive Asia Pacific and a member of the director of Fuller Smith & Turner plc, Group Executive Committee since 11.
J G H Paynter, Wates Group Limited and F&C Asset Non-Executive May 2005.
He joined the Board in Management plc.
A Chartered John Paynter was appointed a nonApril 2006.
Accountant, he was previously finance executive director on 1st October 5.
C A Keljik OBE, director of Schroders plc and 2008.
He is a member of the Audit, Non-Executive Chairman of Save the Children.
Nominations and Remuneration Christopher Keljik was appointed to Committees.
the Board as a non-executive director 8.
W J N Nabarro A barrister, he joined Cazenove & Co on 1st November 2005 and Chairman William Nabarro joined the Group in of the Remuneration Committee in 2003 following a career in merchant in 1979 and became a partner in the firm in 1986 and Head of Corporate April 2006.
He is also a member of the banking.
He was appointed Executive Audit and Nominations Committees.
Chairman of JLT Employee Benefits in Finance in 1995.
He became Vice Chairman of the JP Morgan Cazenove He retired as a director of Standard January 2006 and joined the Board as Chartered plc in 2005 after 29 years, Commercial Director in April 2006. investment banking joint venture on its creation in March 2005 and retired in during which time he held a number of He became Chairman of JLTs UK senior positions in London, Hong Retail Insurance business in April 2007.
July 2008 following a 29 year career in the City during which he advised on Kong, New York and Singapore.
He is He is also a non-executive director of a Chartered Accountant and is also a many landmark transactions and ICAP plc and a member of the advised some of the UK's largest Non Executive Director of Foreign & Strategic Advisory Board of SVG, the Colonial Investment Trust plc, companies, including many in the investment management business.
Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc and Millennium & Copthorne 9.
P J R Snowball, Jim Rush an Australian Chartered Hotels plc.
Non-Executive Accountant, was appointed Finance Patrick Snowball was appointed a 6.
S L Keswick, Non-Executive Director of the Group on 1st August non-executive director on 1st Simon Keswick was a non-executive 2006.
He is a member of the Group November 2008.
He is a member of director of JIB Group plc between Executive Committee.
He joined JLT the Audit, Nominations and 1988 and 1997 and was appointed a from Jardine Matheson, where he was Remuneration Committees.
director of the Company in January Group Treasurer, having held a 2001.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of number of senior management roles Towergate Financial Services Limited His other directorships include within the Jardine Matheson Group.
and was formerly a board director of Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd and Prior to joining Jardine Matheson, he Aviva plc and Executive Chairman of other Jardine Matheson Group was with Price Waterhouse for 12 Norwich Union.
He is a member of the years.
insurance industry, he had a long Audit, Remuneration and Nominations 10.
V Y A C Wade career in the British Army at senior Committees.
Vyvienne Wade joined JIB Group in staff level.
A barrister and member of the Inner Temple, she has been Group Legal Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc since 1997 and is a member of the Group Executive Committee.
She was appointed a JLT Annual Report 2008 25
