Directors report The directors recommend the which the Company has a lien, and Principal activities and payment of a final dividend of 12.0p may apply the same in or towards business review per share which, together with the satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is engagements in respect of which the interim dividend of 8.5p per share paid a holding company.
in October 2008 amounts to a total dividend of 20.5p per share 2007: Its principal subsidiary and associated Voting rights 20.5p per share.
undertakings are engaged in risk On a show of hands at a general management advice, insurance & meeting, every member present in Shareholders rights reinsurance broking and the provision person has one vote and on a poll of employee benefit services.
Dividends and distributions every member who is present in Shareholders can declare final person or by proxy has one vote for The Operating & Financial Review, dividends by passing an ordinary each share held.
In the case of joint comprising the Chairmans Statement, resolution but the amount of the holders of a share the vote of the Chief Executives Report, Review of dividend cannot exceed the amount senior who tenders a vote whether in Operations and Finance Directors recommended by the Board.
The person or by proxy will be accepted to Review on pages 4 to 21 report on Board can pay interim dividends the exclusion of the votes of the other the Group's development during the whenever the financial position of the joint holders and for this purpose year under review and on the outlook Company, in the opinion of the Board, seniority will be determined by the for the future.
These fulfil the justifies such payment.
order in which the names stand in the requirements of the Business Review Register of Members in respect of the The Board can withhold payment of all and are incorporated in this report by share.
Voting rights in relation to or any part of any dividend or other reference.
monies payable in respect of the Treasury shares are suspended and the voting rights are not normally Companys shares from any person Results and dividends with a 0.25 per cent interest as exercised in respect of the shares held The financial statements deal with the defined in the Articles if that person in the employee benefit trusts.
consolidated results of the Group for has been served with a notice after Restrictions on voting the year ended 31st December 2008, failure to provide the Company with No member, unless the directors which are shown on pages 46 to 101. information concerning interest in otherwise determine, is entitled to vote The profit attributable to shareholders those shares required to be provided either in person or by proxy at any amounted to 63,611,000 2007: under the Companies Acts.
In general meeting in respect of any 72,402,000. addition, the Directors may deduct shares held by him if any call or other from any dividend payable to any The unconsolidated financial sum then payable by him in respect of member all sums of money if any statements for the Company to 31st that share remains unpaid.
In addition, presently payable by him to the December 2008, prepared in no member is entitled to vote if he has Company on account of calls or accordance with UK GAAP, are set been served with a notice after failure otherwise in relation to shares of the out on pages 103 to 106. to provide the Company with Company.
The Directors may retain information concerning interests in any dividends payable on shares on those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Substantial shareholders Deadlines for exercising voting At 20th March 2009 being the latest practicable date prior to the posting of this rights report, the Company had been notified of the following major interests, each Votes may be exercised in person, representing 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share capital see table below.
by proxy, or in relation to corporate Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited's interest is held through its wholly owned subsidiary JMH Investments Limited.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in members, by corporate the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under Section 823 1 b of the representative.
The Articles provide a Companies Act 2006. deadline for submission of proxy forms Ordinary of not less than 48 hours before the Shareholder shares % Held time appointed for the holding of the JMH Investments Limited 64,514,916 30.37% meeting or adjourned meeting and the Silchester International Investors Limited 29,652,332 13.96% notice of Annual General Meeting will specify the deadline for exercising RBC cees Trustrees Limited 8,402,137 3.96% voting rights.
26 JLT Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Variation of rights Transfers of shares which are in The board If at any time the capital of the uncertificated form are effected by Appointment and replacement of Company is divided into different means of the CREST system.
directors classes of shares then, subject to With the exception of John Paynter The directors may refuse to register a statute, the Articles specify that rights and Patrick Snowball who were transfer of certificated shares that are attached to any class of shares may appointed directors during the year, not fully paid provided that the refusal be varied with the written consent of the directors shown on pages 24 and does not prevent dealings in that class the holders of at least 75% nominal 25 served throughout the year.
of shares from taking place on an value of the issued shares of that open and proper basis.
The directors John Paynter and Patrick Snowball class, or with the sanction of an may also refuse to register an were appointed to the Board as extraordinary resolution passed at a allotment or transfer of shares independent non-executive directors separate general meeting of the whether fully-paid or not in favour of on 1st October and 1st November holders of those shares.
At every such more than four persons jointly.
separate general meeting the quorum directors refuse to register an is two persons holding or representing Bob Scott retired from the Board as a allotment or transfer they must within by proxy at least one-third in nominal non-executive director on 31st two months after the date on which value of the issued shares of the class December 2008 and Nick MacAndrew the letter of allotment or transfer was calculated excluding any shares held assumed the role of senior lodged with the Company send to the as treasury shares.
independent director on the same allottee or transferee a notice of the date.
A member that is a corporation may refusal.
appoint an individual to act on its The rules relating to the appointment The directors may decline to recognise behalf at a general meeting or class and replacement of directors are set any instrument of transfer unless the meetings as a corporate out in the Articles of Association, instrument of transfer is in respect of representative.
The person so under which the minimum number of only one class of share and when authorised shall be entitled to exercise directors must be no less than 2 and submitted for registration is the same powers on behalf of such this number may be increased or accompanied by the relevant share corporation as the corporation could reduced by ordinary resolution.
certificates and such other evidence exercise if it were an individual as the directors may reasonably The Board can appoint any person to member of the Company.
be a director and any person so Transfer of shares appointed must stand for re-election Subject to statutes and applicable All transfers of shares may be effected at the next Annual General Meeting.
CREST rules, the directors may by transfer in writing in any usual or In addition, the Articles of Association determine that any class of shares common form or in any other form and the Combined Code require each may be held in uncertificated form and acceptable to the directors.
The director to stand for re-election at least that title to such shares may be instrument of transfer must be signed once every three years and Lord transferred by means of the CREST by or on behalf of the transferor and Leach is required to stand for resystem or that shares of any class except in the case of fully-paid election annually, having been in office should cease to be so held and shares by or on behalf of the for over nine years.
The transferor shall remain Accordingly, Lord Leach, Nick the holder of the shares concerned A shareholder does not need to obtain MacAndrew, John Paynter, Patrick until the name of the transferee is the approval of the Company, or of Snowball and Vyvienne Wade will retire entered in the Register of Members of other shareholders of shares in the at the forthcoming Annual General the Company.
The directors may, at Company, for a transfer of shares to Meeting and, being eligible, will offer any time after the allotment of any take place.
Chris Keljik share, but before any person has will retire from the Board at the been entered in the Register of Relationship with Jardine conclusion of the forthcoming Annual Members as the holder, recognise a Matheson Group General Meeting.
renunciation by the allottee in favour of During the year, the Group continued some other person and may accord to The service contracts for Lord Leach to have a number of arms-length any allottee of a share a right to effect and Messrs MacAndrew, Paynter and trading links with Jardine Matheson such renunciation upon and subject to Snowball are subject to a three month Group companies, the financial such terms and conditions as the notice provision.
implications of which are given in note directors may think fit to impose.
JLT Annual Report 2008 27 Directors report The Company is required to give 364 Boards powers of authorisation of Committees of the board days notice under the service contract conflicts are operated effectively and The Audit Committee with Mrs Wade.
that the procedures have been The Committee members are nonfollowed.
During the past twelve months, a executive directors, a majority of formal evaluation of the Board, its Powers of the directors and board whom are independent.
The procedures committees and individual directors membership of the Committee during Subject to the Articles, the Companies has been undertaken.
the year comprised: Nick MacAndrew Acts and any directions given by Chairman, Chris Keljik and Simon The Board performance evaluation special resolution, the business of the Keswick.
John Paynter and Patrick was undertaken by means of Company is managed by the Directors Snowball joined the Committee individual questionnaires that were who may exercise all the Companys effective from the January 2009 summarised and debated by the powers, including borrowing money, meeting, following their appointment board or the relevant committee.
mortgaging or charging any of its to the Board on 1st October and 1st undertaking, property and uncalled The non-executive directors, led by November 2008 respectively.
capital and issuing debentures and the senior independent director, also Mr MacAndrew is a chartered other securities, whether outright or as carried out a performance evaluation accountant and his profile is noted on collateral security for any debt, liability of the Chairman during this period.
The Board considers that or obligation of the Company or of any Full details of the directors the members of the Committee have, third party.
remuneration and interests are shown collectively, the requisite skills and There are established formal in the Remuneration Report.
experience to enable it to discharge its procedures for the structure and responsibilities in a proper manner.
Directors are not required to hold any authorities through which the Board shares of the Company by way of discharges its responsibilities for the The Committee met five times during qualification.
direction and management of the the year, with representatives from the Group.
external and internal auditors, and the At the date of this report the Board is Group Finance Director and Group comprised of five executive directors The Board meets at least six times a Legal Director normally in attendance and seven non-executive directors year, to review the performance of the at each meeting.
The Chairman and including the Chairman.
Group and to discuss the matters the Group Chief Executive may also reserved for its decisions, which Directors interests and potential attend, subject to availability.
include, inter alia, the approval of conflicts Group strategy and budget plans, During the period, no director had any In addition, the Committee meets material expenditure authorisations material interest in a contract, separately with the external and and any other matters that are referred disclosable pursuant to s317 internal auditors.
Companies Act 1985, to which the attendance of each member are set Company or any of its subsidiary out on page 30.
The Board has established a number undertakings was a party.
of standing committees including an The work of the Committee during Audit Committee, a Nominations Following the changes made to the 2008 and to the date of this Report Committee and a Remuneration Companys Articles at the 2008 included: Committee.
The terms of reference Annual General Meeting and the Reviewing the drafting of the of these Committees are available on subsequent introduction of Section Interim Report, Preliminary the Company's website.
175 of the Companies Act, 2006 on 1 Announcement and the Annual October 2008 which gave Boards the Relationship with shareholders Report and Accounts before their statutory power to authorise conflicts The Board endeavours to maintain submission to the Board: of interest, formal conflict dialogue with institutional shareholders Reviewing the Group's Business management procedures have been and carries out a programme of Continuity Plans: prepared and approved by the Board.
meetings and presentations each year The Board is responsible for reviewing following the publication of interim and Receiving regular reports from and authorising any conflict final results and at other times as management on UK IT issues declarations arising and these will be appropriate.
At the Annual General including the outsourced services subject to an annual review by the Meeting the Chairmen of the Audit, for IT Infrastructure and Board.
It is the Boards intention to Nominations and Remuneration governance thereof: report annually on the Companys Committees will be available to procedures for ensuring that the answer questions.
28 JLT Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Reviewing areas where control enable an adequate audit to be Met the head of internal audit, weaknesses had been identified by conducted: without management being internal external audit and present, to discuss their remit and Approved terms of engagement, monitoring mitigation remediation any issues arising from the internal including any engagement letter plans of management: audits carried out.
issued at the start of each audit Reviewing the regular reports of and the scope of the audit: The Terms of Reference of the Audit the external auditors including Committee cover all matters indicated Assessed their independence: internal control issues: by the Combined Code and include Approved the annual audit plan responsibility for providing advice to Receiving and reviewing reports and ensured that it was consistent the Board on the Groups interim and from business risk & compliance with the scope of the audit financial statements: on accounting and internal audit functions on a engagement: policies and on the control of its regular basis: financial and business risks as well as Reviewed the findings of the audit, Approving the external audit plan reviewing the work of the internal and including discussion of any major and fee proposal and considering external auditors.
issues arising, any accounting and auditor independence in relation to audit judgements and the internal A copy of the Terms of Reference non-audit services provided: control reports, including can be obtained from the Company Evaluating the performance of the responses from management and Secretary and is displayed on the external auditors: any proposed remedial action: and Groups website at http: www.
Reviewing the progress of the UK Reviewed the effectiveness of the In addition the Audit Committee, general insurance intermediaries external auditors.
through its Chairman, formally reports within the Group in respect of the The Audit Committee held meetings to the Board on its activities.
Risk Mitigation Programme with the external auditors without following the FSA risk assessment management present.
The Committee Remuneration Committee visits in prior year: schedules this into its timetable as a The Committee consists of nonReviewing Group Errors & matter of course and the Chairman of executive directors, a majority of Omissions provisions: the Committee may meet privately whom are independent.
The with external auditors at other times.
membership of the Committee during Reviewing Group Information the year comprised: Chris Keljik Security policies: Internal audit function Chairman : Lord Leach: Simon The Committee is required to assist Reviewing work undertaken to Keswick: Nick MacAndrew, Bob Scott, the Board to fulfil its responsibilities address data protection issues in John Paynter from 1st October 2008 relating to the adequacy of the the UK: and Patrick Snowball from 1st resourcing and plans of the Internal November 2008.
Reviewing the Group Business Audit department.
To fulfil these Risk Plan and in particular counterduties, the Committee: The Remuneration Committee met party risk in the light of in the four times during the year.
It is Reviewed and assessed the instability of the financial markets responsible, inter alia, for setting the annual internal audit plan: and the economic recession: remuneration and terms and Reviewed all reports on the Group conditions of the executive directors Considering the Group's overall from the internal auditors: and setting overall remuneration policy risk management profile and for senior management of the Group.
controls: and Reviewed the co-ordination It also approves the allocations under between internal and external Reviewing the effectiveness of the all long term incentive plans and share auditors: Committee.
Reviewed and monitored External auditors Assistance was provided to the management's responsiveness to The Committee is responsible for Committee by the Chairman, Chief the findings and recommendations overseeing the relationship with the Executive and HR Strategy Director, of the internal auditor: external auditor.
none in relation to their own Reviewed the terms of reference of During the year, the Committee: remuneration, and by Hewitt New the Internal Audit department: Bridge Street LLP, formerly Hewitt Approved their remuneration for Reviewed a report by the head of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP both audit and non-audit services, internal audit on Risk Management HNBS.
including satisfying itself that the & Control: and level of audit fee is appropriate to JLT Annual Report 2008 29 Directors report HNBS were appointed by the shareholders generally and does Corporate governance Remuneration Committee to act as not detract from their During the year the Company has advisers to the Committee and they independence and judgment on been in compliance with the have no other connection with the any relevant issue.
provisions as set out in Section 1 of Company.
The non-executive directors bring the Combined Code on Corporate to the Board a broad range of Nominations Committee Governance issued by the Financial experience and expertise.
"The membership of the Committee Reporting Council in July 2003 and during the year comprised: Lord amended on 1st November 2006 the The knowledge held by Lord Leach Chairman : Geoffrey Howe: ""Code"" except for the following: Leach and Mr Keswick built from Chris Keljik, Simon Keswick: Nick the long standing relationship Lord Leach Deputy Chairman and MacAndrew: Bob Scott: John Paynter between Jardine Matheson and Simon Keswick both served as from 1st October 2008 and Patrick JLT continues to be of particular non-executive directors and both Snowball from 1st November 2008. value."
are directors of Jardine Matheson The Committee met twice during the Holdings Limited, which has a The majority of the members of the year.
Its purpose is to make 30.37% interest in the Company.
Audit and Remuneration recommendations to the Board on committees are independent.
The relationship with Jardine the appointment of directors of the However, Lord Leach served on Matheson is maintained on an Company.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee and arms-length basis as detailed in the committee are available on the Simon Keswick served on both note 34 on page 99.
these committees during the year, neither director can be regarded as and therefore the Group did not independent in the context of the Group Executive Committee comply with the Code in relation to Code.
The Group Executive Committee is an the membership of these advisory group to the Chief Executive The Board believes that the Committees.
who has primary responsibility for the presence of Lord Leach and Mr day-to-day management of the The Board has determined that Mr Keswick on the Board and its Groups operations.
Paynter is an independent noncommittees subject to re-election executive director, notwithstanding under the Articles continues to be that he was formerly Vice Chairman of appropriate and in the interests of JP Morgan Cazenove until his Board attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations meeting Committee Committee Committee Note 7 x in period 5 x in period 4 x in period 2 x in period G M T Howe 7 - - 2 D J Burke 7 - - - B P Carpenter 7 - - - C A Keljik 7 5 4 2 S L Keswick 3 3 1 2 Lord Leach 6 - 2 2 N R MacAndrew 7 5 4 2 W J N Nabarro 6 - - - J G H Paynter 1 2 - 1 1 J W Rush 7 - - - R A Scott 7 - 4 2 P J R Snowball 2 1 - 1 - V Y A C Wade 6 - - - Note: 1.
Appointed 1st November 2008 30 JLT Annual Report 2008 Directors Report retirement in July 2008.
He was not The implementation and maintenance Share capital involved in the relationship between of the risk management and internal Movements in the share capital of the the Company and JP Morgan control systems are the responsibility company during the year ended 31st Cazenove as the Company's of the Executive Directors and senior December 2008 are set out in note 26 stockbrokers.
The systems are on page 86. between JP Morgan Cazenove and designed to manage, rather than the Company is not regarded as eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve At 31st December 2008 the material and the Board considers that authorised share capital of the business objectives and can provide this would not detract from the only reasonable assurance, but not Company was 12,500,000 of which independent judgement of Mr Paynter.
10,676,895.70 had been issued and absolute assurance, against material mis-statement or loss.
Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to At 31st December 2008 the issued Directors responsibilities The following statement should be prevent the compromise of the share capital consists of 212,394,783 auditors independence and ordinary shares of 5p each with voting read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Reports on objectivity.
Details of services provided rights and 1,143,131 shares are held by the Groups auditors are set out in as Treasury shares for which voting page 45 and 102. note 8 on page 71. rights would not be exercised.
The directors are required to present The Audit Committee also have a The Company has one class of share for each accounting period financial policy on the engagement of external capital being ordinary shares of 5p statements which give a true and fair auditors and the supply of non-audit each and all the shares rank pari view of the state of affairs of the services to the Group, including an passu.
There are no special control Company and the Group at the end of annual review of the auditors rights in respect of the Companys the financial year and of the profit or independence.
loss of the Group for that period.
These statements are prepared on the The external auditors also report The board has power to implement going concern basis unless it is regularly on the actions that they have the purchase by the Company of its inappropriate to presume that the taken to comply with professional and own shares in accordance with the Group will continue in business.
regulatory requirements and current power granted at the AGM each year, best practice in order to maintain that The financial statements must be and will be seeking renewal of that independence.
power at the forthcoming AGM within prepared in compliance with the required formats and disclosures of the limits set out in the notice of that The directors are able to consult the meeting.
the Companies Acts 1985 2006 and Companys legal, financial and other with applicable accounting standards.
professional advisers on any matter All the Companys share schemes relating to the Companys affairs.
contain provisions relating to a change It is also the responsibility of the of control.
Outstanding options and directors to ensure that arrangements Any director may make use of this awards would normally vest and are made for the maintenance of facility subject to notifying the become exercisable on a change of adequate accounting records, to Chairman or Finance Director.
control, subject to the satisfaction of safeguard the assets of the Group and If independent advice is sought, this is any performance conditions at that to prevent and detect fraud and other subject to prior consultation with the time.
Chairman or a non-executive director At 31st December 2008, the Jardine The directors confirm that suitable as appropriate.
All directors also have accounting policies, consistently Lloyd Thompson Employee Share access to the advice and services of Trusts held 8,254,901 shares in the applied and supported by reasonable the Company Secretary.
and prudent judgements and Company 3.89%.
At the date of this The Company maintains appropriate report the shares held by the Trusts estimates, have been used in the directors and officers liability preparation of the financial statements was 8,402,137 3.96%.
insurance in respect of legal actions and that applicable accounting against its directors.
Accountability and audit The Board has overall responsibility for So far as the directors are aware, the Groups systems of internal control there is no relevant audit information of and for reviewing their effectiveness.
which the Companys auditors are unaware.
JLT Annual Report 2008 31 Directors report The directors have taken all the steps satisfied that appropriate processes The Group maintains an insurance and procedures are in place in order that they ought to have taken as programme against errors & directors in order to make themselves to identify and manage the significant omissions liabilities.
aware of any relevant audit information risks faced by the Group.
Regulatory sanctions loss of trading and to establish that the Companys The overall responsibility for internal licenses auditors are aware of that information.
controls within the Company and its The Groups objectives here are to Group risk management and subsidiary undertakings rests with the ensure compliance with all legal and controls Board.
Reviewing and monitoring the regulatory requirements.
The potential The Group takes an holistic approach effectiveness of such controls forms risk in this area arises mainly from to risk management and the control part of the duties of the Audit misinterpretation of regulatory environment with responsibility and Committee.
Monitoring procedures requirements and failure to meet accountability shared across all Group include detailed reviews of operating regulatory standards.
companies with ultimate responsibility company systems which are routinely The Group's legal, business risk and resting with the Board.
quality control departments establish a The responsibility for internal controls The identification and mitigation of framework to ensure compliance with within associated undertakings rests major business risks is the all legal and regulatory requirements: essentially with the senior responsibility of operating operating procedures include detailed management of those operations, management and the Board.
standards staff must adhere to.
the role of the Group being to monitor Each operating company maintains Regular monitoring is undertaken and its investments and to exert influence, controls and procedures appropriate audits completed by the business risk normally through Board to its own business environment while and internal audit departments.
conforming to Group standards and Loss of IT environment guidelines.
The directors acknowledge that they The loss of IT environment can arise are responsible for the Groups These include procedures to identify from a number of causes including systems of internal control and for and then investigate all types of non-performance of an IT supplier, reviewing their effectiveness and this material risk.
malicious act, cyber crime and staff review has been undertaken during not following correct IT procedures.
In accordance with the Code, a the year.
The Group seeks to mitigate these process has been established for The principal operational and financial risks by putting in place appropriate identifying, evaluating and managing risks facing the Group and controls limits of authority, systems controls, risks faced by the Group.
This process are noted below.
restricted access, security policies and has been in place for the full financial procedures and monitoring of IT year and up to the date the financial Operational risk management suppliers through detailed formal statements were approved.
Errors & Omissions service level agreements.
These risks principally arise from nonOn an ongoing basis, management compliance with operating procedures In the UK, JLT has an outsourced profiles the significant risks, both that are in place across the Group, Services Agreement with Hewlettoperational and financial, faced by the or alleged negligence in provision of Packard dated 28th April 2006 in Group and reviews the effectiveness services advice.
respect of the Group's UK IT of risk management controls including Infrastructure which is applicable to loss prevention and recovery planning.
The Groups legal, business risk and the Group UK operating companies.
quality control departments establish The principal risks facing the Group operating procedures and compliance Information security, breach are discussed below.
policy and regular audits are carried of security Monitoring of risk is facilitated out by both Internal audit and These risks arise from, inter alia, internally by the Risk & Compliance business risk.
The scope of work loss of records, breach of function and assurance gained includes ensuring compliance with confidentiality or inadequate security through financial, compliance and operating procedures, training of all measures being in place.
These risks quality based auditing.
Significant staff in errors & omissions avoidance are mitigated through appropriate failures are reported to the executive and operating standards for the policies and procedures, limits of directors to ensure remedial action is conduct of business which is reported authority and access.
to the Board and Audit Committee.
The Groups business risk and Training programmes are in place to The Board reviewed the Groups compliance department, with the support operating procedures.
procedures for the management of assistance of internal audit, undertake risk during the year and the Board is monitoring.
32 JLT Annual Report 2008 Directors Report Loss of key staff The total capital of the Group at 31st December 2008 and 2007 was as follows: The Group seeks to mitigate this risk with succession planning processes, 'm 2008 2007 effective appraisal and development Cash and cash equivalents - own funds 61.7 50.3 plans and robust contracts of Available-for-sale investments - 0.3 employment for all key staff.
Total cash and available-for-sale investments 61.6 50.6 Strategic risks Borrowings 70.3 51.6 Strategic risks include, inter alia, failure Net debt 8.6 1.0 of business planning and inadequate Total equity 232.5 222.5 integration of acquisitions.
Total capital 226.9 221.5 The Group seeks to mitigate these risks with effective due diligence, It is Group policy to not engage in capital to be held by the Group is not robust integration planning and speculative activity or enter into considered significant in the context of ensuring that acquisitions are made transactions unrelated to underlying the Groups total available capital.
in line with agreed strategy.
Currency risk Financial and The Groups centralised treasury The Groups major currency capital risk management department is subject to regular transaction exposure arises from The nature of the Groups international internal and external audit reviews.
US dollar revenue earned in the UK.
operations and debt profile expose it The Groups US dollar denominated to a variety of financial risks including Capital risk management revenue in 2008 represented 37% of The Group's objectives when the effects of changes in foreign total UK revenue compared to 39% currency exchange, interest rates and managing capital are to safeguard the last year.
As a consequence, the counterparty credit risks.
group's ability to continue, as a going Groups results are highly sensitive to concern, to provide returns for There are clearly defined areas of changes in the sterling US dollar shareholders and benefits for other responsibility and limits of authority exchange rate.
Based on prevailing stakeholders and to maintain an within the Group.
Annual budgets are exchange rates, each one cent efficient capital structure to ensure an approved by the Board following movement in the achieved exchange optimal cost of capital.
rate after hedging translating into a Group results are reviewed against In order to achieve these objectives, change of approximately 0.75 million budget and reported to the Board on the Group may adjust the amount of in profit before tax.
Group policy is to a regular basis.
dividends paid to shareholders, return adopt a prudent approach to the capital to shareholders, issue new management of these exposures by Treasury policy is reviewed and shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
maintaining a rolling currency hedging approved by the Board.
In 2008, the Group Director is responsible for monitoring The Group classifies net debt and achieved an average rate after equity as capital and manages its treasury activity and performance.
hedging of US$1.81 compared with The Group has policies in place to balance sheet through monthly the average market rate of US$1.85.
cover the key treasury activities of management reviews, controls and In 2007, the Group achieved an investment of funds, counterparty risk, financial reporting.
average rate after hedging of US$1.85 cash management, foreign exchange The Group has adequate committed compared to an average market rate exposure management and interest long term credit facilities to ensure that of US$2.00.
the Group is well positioned to meet At the end of February 2009, some the variances of the seasonal capital Major items of capital expenditure 85% of anticipated dollar earnings for require Board approval.
requirements and to support the 2009 were hedged at an average rate strategic growth of the businesses.
The Board is also responsible for the of US$1.72 and for 2010 some 65% There are no restrictions on the use of overall strategy of the Group, including of dollar earnings are hedged at an acquisitions and related due diligence these facilities in the normal course of average rate of US$1.57.
some 20% of dollar earnings are hedged at an average rate of The insurance broking operations The Group has in place financial risk US$1.46.
management policies, which are within the Group operate in a number approved by the Board, and uses of jurisdictions where local regulation various financial instruments, including requires a minimum level of capital to be maintained.
The total regulatory derivatives, to manage these risks.
JLT Annual Report 2008 33 Directors report The Group manages its cash and The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the achieved average rate after investment balances in the form of hedging for US dollar revenue earned in the UK if the balance of current deposits with investment grade banks, unhedged forecast revenue was sold forward based off a range of spot rates: AAA money market funds and other secure short term money market Potential achieved average rate instruments in accordance with this 2009 2010 2011 investment and counterparty policy, USD sterling spot rate which is agreed by the Board of 1.60 1.70 1.58 1.57 Directors, and, in respect of fiduciary 1.55 1.69 1.56 1.53 1.42 current rate 1.67 1.51 1.43 funds, all relevant regulatory 1.35 1.65 1.48 1.37 guidelines.
Investment and banking 1.30 1.64 1.46 1.33 counterparties are subject to preapproval at Board level.
The Groups approval criteria requires The table above illustrates the Interest rate risk financial institutions with a minimum potential sensitivities of the achieved The Group has both interest bearing long-term rating of A.
All exposures rate taking into account hedging, if the assets and interest bearing liabilities to individual counterparties are subject balance of forecast US dollar revenue that give rise to net exposures to to a limit to control concentrations of was sold at various sterling US dollar changes in interest rates, primarily in credit exposure and default risk.
Where Counterparty limits, ratings, credit appropriate, the Group uses interest Given the sensitivity of the outcome, default spread rates and utilisation rate swaps and forward rate significant movements in the US dollar levels are reviewed regularly and agreements to hedge future interest would have a meaningful impact on reported to the Board and Audit rate exposures, increasing the the Groups results.
proportion of fixed rate interest.
the Groups hedging policy is to The Group's policy is to continue to The respective credit quality of each mitigate the impact of such volatility adopt a prudent approach to the class of financial asset is included but it cannot eliminate the long term management of net interest rate within the notes to these accounts.
effect of a permanent movement in exposures arising from the Group's exchange rates.
Commodity price risk cash and borrowings.
The Group does not have a material Transactional currency exposures, Each 0.5% movement in the average exposure to commodity price risk.
other than the above US dollar achieved rate of return impacts revenue exposure in the UK, include interest income receivable by Going concern the Euro and Australian dollar and are approximately 2 million.
selectively hedged through forward The directors consider that the Group foreign currency transactions.
Counterparty credit risk and the Company have adequate The Group does not hedge exposure The Group's gross exposure to credit resources to continue in operational to currency movements that affect the risk is 734.5 million being own cash, existence in the foreseeable future.
translation of the profits earned in fudiciary funds, investments and Consequently, the financial statements foreign currencies, except to the deposits, derivative assets and trade have been prepared on a going extent that those profits are expected receivables.
The Group maintains a concern basis.
to be distributed to the holding counterparty policy based on company.
The Group has significant published rating criteria to limit the Employment policies investments in overseas operations.
concentration of funds and the It is the policy of the Group to provide Movements in exchange rates exposure with any one party.
an environment in which individual between balance sheet dates may Monetary limits are assigned to each talents can excel.
Employee affect the sterling value of the Groups counterparty based on an agreed commitment is encouraged with wide consolidated balance sheet.
scale in relation to their credit rating.
share ownership and participation in The currency profile of the Groups The financial profiles of counterparties share option schemes.
borrowings is managed to mitigate are kept under continual review with Employees are kept informed of the exposure to translation exposures reference to published financial and performance of the Group and all where practicable and cost effective.
matters affecting them as employees by means of regular briefings and 34 JLT Annual Report 2008 Directors Report consultation and, where possible, Jardine Matheson Holdings Suppliers using the JLT intranet both in the UK Limited, together with parties The Group agrees payment terms with and overseas.
deemed to be acting in concert suppliers when it enters into contracts with it, be required to make a The Group is an equal opportunities for the purchase of goods or services general offer for the Company by employer and encourages diversity and seeks to abide by those terms reason of the change in its across its workforce.
when it is satisfied that the supplier percentage holding in the capital of has provided the goods or services in Applications for employment by the Company arising from any accordance with the agreed terms disabled persons will always be fully such purchase under iv above.
considered, having regard to their The directors will only consider particular aptitudes and abilities.
At 31st December 2008 the Company making purchases of the Should employees become disabled, did not have any direct external Companys shares if they believe every effort will be made to ensure supplier creditors.
that it would be in the best that their employment with the Group interests of shareholders and The Group does not have a standard continues and, in the event that they would result in an improvement in or code that deals specifically with the are unable to continue to work, that earnings per share: payment of suppliers.
their financial interests are vi Further amendments to the safeguarded.
It is the intention of the Donations Articles of Association to bring Group that opportunities for training, them up to date with the phased During the period the Group made career development and promotion of implementation of the Companies charitable donations totalling disabled persons should, as far as Act 2006 and to ensure they 281,402 2007: 267,210. possible, be identical with those for remain in alignment with the EU No political donations were made by other employees.
Environmental policy Auditors Annual general meeting JLT remains committed to minimising It is proposed that the auditors, any adverse impact its businesses has The notice convening the Annual  LLP, having General Meeting to be held on 30th on the environment.
signified their willingness to continue in April 2009 at 12 noon at 6 Crutched To this end, guidelines have been office, be reappointed auditors of the Friars, London EC3N 2PH is issued within the Group, to: Company.
A resolution proposing their contained in the circular reappointment will be put to the accompanying this report.
The special carefully manage waste so as to Annual General Meeting.
minimise its production where business comprises the following items: possible, or suitably dispose of it through recycling schemes: By order of the Board i to increase the authorised share David Hickman control and, where possible, capital of the Company: Company Secretary restrict polluting emissions: The renewal, within prescribed limits, 23rd March 2009 ensure appropriate regulatory of: compliance: ii the authority of the directors to design and operate facilities taking allot securities of the Company into account the efficient use of within ABI guidelines: energy and materials: and iii the disapplication of the statutory encourage the adoption of these pre-emption rights: guidelines by contractors acting on iv the authority of the Company to behalf of the Company.
purchase its own shares by way of This is discussed in more detail in the market purchases: Corporate Social Responsibility v a waiver of the requirement arising statement on pages 22 and 23. under Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, that JLT Annual Report 2008 35
