29 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Board of Directors Andrew Murison Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee A Director since 2002, Chairman since 2003 Previously Senior Bursar of Peterhouse, University of Cambridge and currently a director of Aberdeen Growth Opportunities Trust plc and Hg Capital Trust plc.
His qualifications for Board membership are long experience of financial, investment and strategic management.
Robin Faber Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since 2000 Finance director of The Ashfield Land Property Group and a director of a number of other companies.
His qualifications for Board membership are as a qualified accountant with long experience of investment.
Stephen Russell A Director since 2005 Spent eleven years at SLC Asset Management now CSAM, most notably as Fund Manager of 5bn of equities, before joining HSBC Investment Bank as Head of Europe & UK Equity Strategy.
He is currently Investment Director at Ruffer LLP.
His qualifications for Board membership are practical experience of investment in Europe and knowledge of both the institutional and private client markets.
Ferdinand Verdonck Belgian A Director since 1998 Director of a number of Continental European companies and Pheonix investment funds in the USA.
Formerly Managing Director of the Almanij Group.
His qualification for Board membership are many years experience of European finance and industry.
Alexander Zagoreos American A Director since 1987 Senior advisor and former managing director of Lazard Frres & Co. L. L. C. in New York.
Chairman of Utilico Emerging Markets and the Egypt Trust and a director of a number of investment trust companies including The New Zealand Investment Trust plc, Alpha Andromeda Fund Greece, Taiwan Opportunities Fund and The World Trust Fund.
His qualifications for Board membership are long experience of investment management and of investment trusts in particular.
All Directors are members of the Audit and Nomination Committees and are considered independent of the Manager.
