JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 8 Investment Managers Report The year under review was a difficult one for equity investment, and we did not out-perform the benchmark indices.
For the Growth portfolio the NAV fell by 1.5% and the share price by 3.3% both on a total return basis against a benchmark that rose by 2.5%.
One year, however, is a very short period over which to judge what are by definition long-term investment assets, and over three years the share-price and NAV have shown a compound annual growth rate of 19.1% and 16.2% respectively against a benchmark which has shown a compound annual growth rate of 15.9%.
Over five years the share price and NAV have shown a compound annual growth rate of 25.4% and 21.0% respectively against a benchmark which has shown a compound annual growth rate of 20.2%, and over ten years the share price and NAV have shown a compound annual growth rate of 7.3% and 7.4% respectively Stephen Macklow-Smith against a benchmark which has compounded at 5.9%.
The Income portfolio saw its share price and NAV fall by 7.6% and 7.3% respectively against a benchmark index which fell by 1.1%.
Since launch, the share price and NAV have grown at a compound annual rate of 4.4% and 4.9% respectively against a benchmark which has compounded at 8.4%.
Our performance is shown net of all costs involved in running the portfolio, including fund management charges, whereas the performance of the benchmark is not hampered by these charges.
When we launched the Income portfolio we said in the prospectus that we felt it would deliver a yield of between 3.25% and 3.5%: in the event the Income portfolio paid a dividend of 3.90p last year, meaning that the yield on the launch price was Alexander Fitzalan Howard 4%, exceeding our initial estimate handsomely.
The roots of the difficulties in equities last year were apparently in the US housing market, although in our view the problem was a wider one of excessive leverage.
To quote Etienne Varloot, the UBS European Structured Credit Strategist, describing the leverage that was put into synthetic SIV structures: Tight spreads in 06 07 and an endless source of funding increased leverage to unprecedented levels the authors have heard of structures leveraged 60x.
Furthermore, some hedge funds then leveraged these already highly-levered structures another 10x, with fund of funds adding another 4x layer.
When these levels of leverage started to unravel, it was no surprise to find some significant casualties, especially in the hedge fund industry indeed the fall in equity markets was initially triggered by the closure of two Bear Stearns hedge funds.
These hedge fund problems, though, were symptomatic of a wider malaise in the banking system within some of the off-balance sheet vehicles that had proliferated under easy credit conditions.
As these problems became more evident, so banks became less willing to lend to each other in the interbank market and the supply of short-term credit became both expensive and insufficient for the needs of the banks.
The political and monetary authorities in the US reacted fairly swiftly to the problems in the financial system and we became used to a raft of new acronyms: the TAF Term Auction Facility, TSLF Term Securities Lending Facility and PDCF Primary Dealer Credit Facility, all of which aimed to support liquidity in the banking system.
In the UK the response was less comprehensive, partly because T H E C O M P A N Y 9 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report continued of a certain level of confusion under the tripartite system of banking oversight that Growth performance had been put in place in 1997 and the upshot was the extended demise of Northern attribution for the year Rock.
In the Eurozone the European Central Bank ECB acted quickly to supply to 31st March 2008 liquidity to the market and indeed early in 2008 the Vice-President of the ECB, Lukas Papademos, felt confident enough to say that in the Eurozone there had been no credit crisis.
Contributions to Total Returns % Benchmark total return 2.5 The task of central banks was complicated by the fact that inflation is running above their targets.
It is worth also stressing that these targets tend to be based on Asset allocation 3.0 Stock selection 3.7 what the central bankers define as core inflation in other words stripping out Gearing cash 2.5 food and energy prices.
The problem with this approach is firstly that food and Currency effect 1.1 energy are staples which form an important part of household expenditure and Investment Managers Contribution 4.3 secondly that stripping them out is defensible if they continually revert to mean: Portfolio total return 1.8 food and energy prices, however, seem to be trending higher on a secular basis remember that the oil price was $9 per barrel in 1998 and $17 per barrel as Management fees other expenses 1.0 recently as 2001 and therefore headline inflation rates have been persistently above Performance fee 0.9 the core rates that most central banks target.
The cumulative effect is that the longer Share repurchases 0.4 the headline rate diverges upwards from the core rate, the greater the loss of Residual 0.0 purchasing power for consumers and this purchasing power is not regained unless Other effects 0.3 headline inflation dips below core inflation for a prolonged period.
Net asset value total return 1.5 Against this uncertain economic background the equity market, having risen from Impact of decrease in discount 1.8 the end of March to the middle of July, started to correct and volatility rose.
Banks Share price total return 3.3 and housing stocks were particularly badly hit, with sentiment towards banks Source: Xamin JPMAM Fundamental Data.
suffering a series of blows as announcements were made about hitherto All figures are on a total return basis.
unsuspected exposure to US housing.
In August, an indifferent release of data for Performance attribution analyses how the exports to Asia hit confidence about the ability of developing countries to continue Company achieved its recorded to grow even as the Western economies suffered problems.
Investors started to performance relative to the benchmark.
ignore the known fundamentals, as represented by valuation and improving The residual arises principally from timing profitability, and to cling to what they perceived as earnings certainty in an differences in the treatment of income uncertain world.
In some senses this was an emotional response to the turmoil flows.
The xamin attribution system accounts for income on a received on the around them and it was this that undermined our performance.
Specifically, at the ex-dividend date basis whereas valuation level investors operated with a stronger and stronger preference for stocks Fundamental Data calculate the Companies the more expensive they were.
This flew in the face of common sense as well as NAV Total Return using the actual dividends decades of stock market experience and it meant that our style of investing, which paid by the Company on the ex-dividend favours cheap stocks with improving confidence about profitability and good price date.
momentum, did not work for us.
The problem was exacerbated in the Income A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 78. portfolio, which invests only in stocks in the cheapest third of the market this section of the market was sharply out of favour, especially in the second half of 2007 and this explained the underperformance of the Income portfolio against the broader market.
For all the gloom about the economy, however, the news on the corporate front has remained surprisingly good considering the gloom about the economy.
European corporate balance sheets are still far from highly geared indeed companies are generating around ?200bn of free cash flow a year: if this were solely directed towards paying down debt, they would be debt-free in two and a half years.
Returns T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 10 Investment Managers Report continued on capital remain extremely high: the pessimists expect this to revert to the mean, Income performance but we believe that there are sound reasons why the improvement in European attribution for the year to profits over the last ten years has had a greater element of secular than of cyclical 31st March 2008 improvement and we also believe that this has not been recognised in higher valuations indeed equity profit streams have been steadily fide-rated for nearly ten years now, bringing the P E multiple closer to its range in the 1970s, even though Contributions to Total Returns % interest rates are several orders of magnitude lower and the power of labour is very Benchmark return 1.1 much weaker.
Not only that, but debt levels are low: on Deutsche Banks numbers, Asset allocation 0.2 interest cover in 2007 was 10.3x having been 4.4x in 2001.
Net working capital Stock selection 3.6 NWC has also fallen steadily as a result of the introduction of enterprise resource Gearing cash 0.8 software: again using Deutsche Banks numbers, they show 2007 NWC sales at Currency effect 1.1 3.5%, having been 9 10% in 1998 and 1999.
Very simply, if this figure was an Investment Managers Contribution 5.3 average for the year, and assuming that interest rates were around 6.5% in 1998 as Portfolio total return 6.4 against 4.5% now, the funding cost of NWC has fallen from 0.4% of sales to just Management fees over 0.1% of sales.
These factors tend to be a focus in our stock-picking and among other expenses 0.9 our successes in 2007 were contributions from Porsche, the manufacturer of highPerformance fee 0.0 end sports cars and now of SUVs, and MAN, the German trucks group.
Both of Share buybacks 0.3 these companies saw steady upgrades to estimates of profitability which we view as Residual 0.3 a key catalyst for stock market out-performance.
We also saw positive contributions Other effects 0.9 from our holding in Yara, a Norwegian manufacturer of fertilisers which is seeing Net asset value total return 7.3 demand growing apace as a result of the increase in soft commodities prices, and Impact of increase in discount 0.3 D S Norden, a Danish shipping stock which is directly exposed to the growth in Share price total return 7.6 Asian demand.
Fiat also contributed positively: we have spoken before about the turn-around in this companys fortunes as a result of the appointment of Sergio Source: Xamin Fundamental Data Ltd. Marchionne as CEO and this year provided further evidence of progress.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Performance attribution analyses how the We believe that steady adherence to the principle of finding companies whose Company achieved its recorded profitability is improving on a solid and sustainable basis will allow us to continue performance relative to the benchmark.
to out-perform the stock market as a whole and we will continue to apply ourselves The residual arises principally from timing diligently on behalf of our shareholders.
differences in the treatment of income flows.
The xamin attribution system accounts for income on a received on the ex-dividend date basis whereas Fundamental Data calculate the Companies Stephen Macklow-Smith NAV Total Return using the actual dividends Alexander Fitzalan Howard paid by the Company on the ex-dividend Investment Managers 9th June 2008 date.
A glossary of terms and definitions is provided on page 78.
