JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 Investment Managers Report Market Review History will remember 2008 as one of the worst years of all time for US equity markets, with the S&P 500 Index down 37.2% in dollar terms and the small cap index declining by 38.5%.
For the S&P 500, only 1931 and 1937 of the last hundred years had worse returns.
Much has been written about the crisis of confidence that unfolded during the year as massive fide-leveraging occurred, asset write-downs escalated and the creditworthiness of banks and other financial institutions was called seriously into question leading to the failure of two large investment banks, a government takeover of a multinational insurance conglomerate and numerous bank failures.
The US Government also stepped in to takeover two government sponsored entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as they were on the brink of Garrett Fish failure.
While the financial sector bore the brunt of the markets collapse, down a staggering 55% in 2008, the second half of the year saw the crisis spread to the broader market.
Energy and materials stocks, trading at record levels just weeks earlier, were aggressively sold off early in the third quarter in anticipation of a sharp decrease in demand.
Similarly, sectors that had held up relatively well, due to their exposure to stronger non-US economies, began to feel the pain.
Technology stocks, once heralded for their exposure to Europe and Asia, fell as investors began to fear a more global and severe economic slowdown.
By the autumn, the turmoil that began in the financial sector had spread to the entire market.
The National Bureau of Economic Research, the official arbiter of recession dates, declared the US economy to be in recession as of December 2007.
This deterioration in the equity markets only accelerated as we entered the fourth quarter.
The quarter was by far the worst of the year, but it was almost entirely driven by Octobers rout, with that month alone accounting for roughly half of the entire years decline.
October began with a vicious sell-off, coupled with an extreme rise in volatility as the effects of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy instilled fear in investors.
Three of the eight largest one-day moves in the market since 1929 occurred during that one month ironically, two of the three were market gains.
Once again, the financial sector led the way and fell by over 37% during the quarter.
In response, a barrage of governmental policy announcements and actions by the Federal Reserve Fed and the US Treasury set the tone for the rest of the quarter.
An array of fiscal spending plans was announced as the federal government sought to counteract further tightening in bank lending standards.
The Fed moved into quantitative easing mode printing money, cutting the Federal Funds Rate to practically zero and committing to purchase private sector assets.
Stocks continued to lose ground well into November, although December finished with a flourish, resulting in one of the years better months as the market ended the year with the S&P 500 up nearly 17% from its November 20th low.
Overall Asset Allocation The investment management team is responsible for managing the allocation between the two investment portfolios, together with the levels of cash and gearing.
In recent years your investment team has worked closely with the Board of Directors to develop modelling tools to assist in both asset allocation and gearing decisions.
In 2008, the Companys gearing ranged between 97% and 116% of shareholders funds, with the level at the year end being 113%.
The level of gearing is adjusted at regular intervals within the gearing guidelines laid down by the Board to reflect the outlook on risk and return for both equities and bonds.
We began the year with 3% net cash as we had become increasingly worried about the risks in the market.
By the end of September we had allocated more capital to the investment portfolio and gearing was 108%.
As the equity market continued to fall we 6 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report continued considered that it, backed up by our gearing asset allocation model, Performance Attribution became more attractively priced and we thus increased gearing to near for the year to 31st December 2008 the maximum level.
As I mentioned in last years report, we try to follow the investment maxim to buy on fear and sell on greed.
In the Contributions to Total Return Year to Year to 31st December 31st December second half of 2008 there was plenty of fear within the markets.
2008 2007 The weighting in the smaller companies portfolio ranged between % % 5.5% and 9.3% of the Companys total assets less current liabilities Net Asset Value Total Return and ended the year at 8.1%.
We believe that our ability to move in sterling terms 7.3 6.0 between the two enhances potential returns to shareholders.
Benchmark Total Return Attribution data for 2008 shows that it was the larger companies in sterling terms 13.1 3.4 portfolio that gave the greatest contribution towards the Excess Return 5.8 2.6 outperformance of the benchmark index.
This large cap Analysis of relative return outperformance was driven more by stock selection than by sector Large Cap Portfolio 9.0 3.2 positioning.
Allocation Effect 1.2 0.3 Selection Effect 7.8 3.5 In contrast, because of the fall in the market over the year, gearing 1 Small Cap Portfolio 0.2 0.2 proved to be a negative factor.
This was due to the Company being AllocationEffect 0.2 0.2 increasingly geared into a falling market and the interest costs on the Selection Effect 0.0 0.0 debenture.
Detailed reports on the larger and smaller companies Gearing Cash Effect 0.4 0.1 portfolios are shown below.
Currency Hedge 2.4 0.0 Management Fees Expenses 0.7 0.7 Large Companies Portfolio Buybacks Issuances 0.0 0.1 VAT Recovery 0.1 0.0 Our investment methodology continues to focus on investing in high Performance Fee Accrual 0.4 0.0 quality, reasonably valued companies.
This style leads us to invest in Residual 0.8 0.3 companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing Total 5.8 2.6 earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
It was Source: Xamin, JPMAM and Fundamental Data.
All figures are on extremely important last year to pay attention to the sustainability and a total return basis.
viability of both earnings and dividends, especially as the economic Performance attribution analyses how the Company achieved its environment deteriorated throughout the year.
recorded performance relative to its benchmark index.
The large companies portfolio provided negative absolute returns The Residual arises principally from timing differences in the during the year, but significantly outperformed the S&P 500 Index.
We are pleased with our results in a year that active managers found it The Xamin attribution system accounts for income on a received very difficult to beat the benchmark.
We remain confident that our on the xd date basis whereas Fundamental Data calculates the portfolio of robust, large companies, offers an attractive investment Companys NAV Total Return using the actual dividend s paid by proposition given the very attractive valuations that pertain at present.
the Company on the xd date.
Sector Weightings of Large Cap Portfolio versus S&P 500 as at 31st December 2008 Large Company Overweight Sector Portfolio % S&P 500 % Underweight % Financial Services 17.5 14.3 3.2 Technology 17.5 14.3 3.2 Health Care 17.2 15.2 2.0 Integrated Oils 12.1 9.2 2.9 Consumer Discretionary 10.0 10.8 0.8 Utilities 7.5 8.0 0.5 Consumer Staples 7.5 9.8 2.2 Producer Durables 6.4 4.7 1.7 Other 1.7 3.5 1.8 Other Energy 1.3 4.0 2.8 Auto & Transportation 1.1 2.6 1.5 Materials & Processing 0.2 3.6 3.4 Source: Wilshire JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 7 We began the year significantly underweight in financials and, more specifically, the investment banks as we believed that they were, as a group, over-earning.
Essentially these companies were very highly leveraged and the robust financial markets of previous years had significantly inflated earnings.
All good things must come to an end and for those that rely on financial leverage and the confidence of their trading counterparties the end came very abruptly.
During the year we increased our weighting in financials, mainly in those larger regional banks with astute management teams such as Wells Fargo and US Bancorp.
We remained overweight in the insurance area as the valuations were reasonable and business trends remained generally positive throughout the year.
Chubb was the outstanding performer as it maintained its discipline in pricing and has a more conservative investment portfolio.
In times of turmoil, the strong companies often benefit if there is a flight to quality and Chubb was a beneficiary of this trend.
Our overweight position in technology served us well throughout the year, particularly our holdings in Mastercard, IBM, Oracle and Hewlett Packard, even though the sector as a whole underperformed the market.
These companies all have very modest valuations, leadership positions in their sectors and very healthy balance sheets.
Mastercard had a particularly strong start to the year as the growth of credit and debit transactions continued to gain share on other forms of payment.
As the financial turmoil began to spread into the general economy and into the international markets however, the shares fell back.
The most important metrics for Mastercard are the number of transactions on their network and their gross dollar volume: they do not have any exposure to the credit risk of the person using the credit or debit card.
We have remained underweight in the consumer discretionary sector.
Consumer leverage, the continued fall in house prices and the deteriorating jobs market continued to weigh on spending and consumer confidence.
Yet, the top stock contributor for 2008 came from this sector.
McDonalds continues to benefit on a global basis from their refocused efforts on their menu offerings, expanded store hours and the value of their products.
Many other mid-tier restaurants are struggling, as the global consumer looks for ways to economise, and McDonalds provides a quick and easy solution.
Our overweight position in health care and underweights in energy and consumer staples detracted from performance.
Our holding in the managed care provider, WellPoint, demonstrates this as its share price fell, sparked by news that the company had cut its 2008 profit outlook due to unexpectedly high costs, disappointing enrollment and worsening economic conditions.
Longer-term, we see value in the stock as it has a strong Blue Cross Blue Shield franchise and is trading at a deep discount.
The table below shows the largest positive and negative stock contributors to portfolio performance: Positive Contributors Price Weighted Stock Action Performance % Contribution % McDonalds I, D 8.5 1.0 MasterCard I, D 33.4 0.6 AIG 97.2 0.6 Lockheed Martin I, D 18.6 0.5 Chubb I, D 4.1 0.5 8 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report continued Negative Contributors Price Weighted Stock Action Performance % Contribution% Wal-Mart Stores B, I 20.0 0.5 # JPMorgan Chase 25.1 0.5 WellPoint I, D 52.0 0.3 Corning I, D 59.8 0.3 Merck I, D 45.3 0.3 I Increased: D Decreased: S Sold: B Buy: Not held or underweighted in the portfolio at the year end.
# Not held as Company unable to to have position.
Source: Wilshire Return in US$ Smaller Companies Portfolio Last year was a challenging environment for small cap companies with the highest growth stocks suffering the greatest reduction in price earnings ratios, as investors began to focus more on the near-term economic slow-down than long-term growth potential.
At the sector level, stock selection in the technology and consumer discretionary sectors negatively impacted results while stock selection in energy and a portfolio overweight to the health care sector aided returns.
Amongst individual stocks, the selection of Pacific Sunwear of California Inc. a specialty retailer of casual apparel, and Thinkorswim Group Inc. a provider of on-line futures and options trading, were major detractors.
Thoratec Corp. a medical device manufacturer, and Gentiva Health Services Inc. a home health care company, contributed to overall performance.
Over the course of the year, our small cap holdings had a minor detrimental effect on the overall performance of the Company.
Outlook 2008 was the worst calendar year for the markets in more than 70 years and 2009 looks set up to be one of the worst for the global economy in decades.
The urgency with which the fiscal stimulus needs to be enacted cannot be overstated, but it will likely be months before planning and political barriers are cleared and the money is deployed.
In the meantime, private sector deleveraging will continue to savage economic growth and we expect GDP to contract in the first two quarters of the year, with only a mild recovery in the second half.
The good news is that financial markets tend to discount future economic problems well in advance and, after a year like 2008, we think that they have already gone a long way towards doing so.
The relative resilience of markets in the last two months of the year, in the face of such grim economic data, is encouraging and, while we expect continued volatility, we believe that a bottoming process is now underway.
As investors look forward to the impact of fiscal measures and as more areas of the secondary markets receive direct central bank support, a nervous recovery in risk assets is our base case for 2009.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 17 March 2009
