16 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Board of Directors Hamish N Buchan Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee A Director since November 2000 and appointed Chairman in April 2003.
Currently a Director of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc, Personal Assets Trust plc, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc, The Scottish Investment Trust plc, Scottish Community Foundation and Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Mr Buchan has been involved in the investment trust sector for forty years, mainly as an investment trust analyst and is currently a Director and immediate past Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Sarah Bates A Director since July 2005.
A Director of St. Jamess Place plc, Invesco English and International Trust plc, MTI Partners Ltd. New India Investment Trust plc, Witan Pacific Investment Trust plc and a Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Ms Bates is also Chairman of the Stena Line UK Pension Scheme and of Rutley Russia Property Fund, and sits on the investment committees of Newnham College and the Cancer Research UK Pension fund and the Daily Mail Pension Funds as well as being an advisor to Merseyside and East Riding Pension funds and the Royal College of Surgeons Charitable Funds.
She publishes a guide to investment jargon and was formerly CEO of Invescos UK Institutional including investment trusts business.
Kate Bolsover A Director since July 2005.
Retired as Director of Corporate Communications at Cazenove & Co in June 2005.
Ms Bolsover was previously Managing Director of Signature Financial Group.
Ms Bolsover is Deputy Chairman of Tomorrows People Trust Limited.
James G Fox Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since July 2003.
A Director of iimia Investment Trust plc.
Mr Fox has more than forty years experience of investment management and is a former Deputy Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
James P Williams A Director since July 2003.
Mr Williams has been professionally involved in the investment management industry for over 35 years.
He retired from Baring Asset Management in 2002, where he was Chief Investment Officer, and head of global investment strategy.
He is a Director of Pan-Asia Special Opportunities Fund and of Prosperity Russia Domestic Fund.
All Directors are members of the Audit and Nomination Committees and are considered independent of the Manager.
