JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15 Board of Directors Roy Reynolds, CMG Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee A Director since December 1999.
Formerly a Director of LASMO plc, the Chief Executive of the Commonwealth Development Corporation and Managing Director of Shell UK Oil.
David Gamble A Director since April 2006.
Formerly Chief Executive of British Airways Pension Investment Management and Director of F&C Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Mr Gamble is currently a Director and trustee of IBM UK Pension Trust and External Investment Adviser to the BBC Pension Trust Limited, Chairman of the management committee of Hermes Property Unit Trust, a Director of New Star Asset Management Group plc, and a Director of four other investment trusts and a number of other companies.
Anatole Kaletsky A Director since September 2003.
Editor at Large at The Times of London and also Co-Chairman of Gavekal Research, a Hong Kong based investment boutique which provides economic analysis and asset management services to financial institutions around the world.
Valentine Powell A Director since April 2006.
Formerly a senior partner of Pinchin Denny & Co. Chairman of F&C Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc, a Director of Morgan Grenfell Securities, Chief Executive of the Association of Lloyds Members and of the Lloyds Corporate Capital Association.
Mr Powell is currently a Director of The Rank Foundation and Chairman of the Foundation for Christian Communication Limited.
Alan Saunders Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since May 2002.
An Independent Investment Consultant with Allenbridge Group plc.
Mr Saunders was formerly Chief Economist at Royal Dutch Shell and also held senior investment roles in both Lazards and the Private Banking Division of UBS A. G. He is currently independent investment adviser to Dorset County Council Pension Scheme and and independent trustee of two private sector pension schemes as well as acting as a Non-Executive Director of ING Real Estate UK.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Considered by the Board to be independent
