16 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and 30th June 2008.
The assets are managed by an investment manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong Business Review emerging markets equity team.
Business of the Company It should be noted that emerging market companies and The Company carries on business as an investment trust and investments in their shares are subject to certain risks and was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment special considerations which are not typically associated with trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and more developed markets and economies.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30th June 2007.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has Investment Restrictions and Guidelines subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval various investment limits and restrictions: under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act As an investment trust, the Company cannot invest more 1988 each year.
than 15% of its assets in any one investment, at the time of Approval for the year ended 30th June 2007 is subject to acquisition.
The Company will not invest more than 10% review should there be any subsequent enquiry under of its total assets in any one individual stock excluding Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
investment trusts at the time of acquisition.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is invested in any one region.
not a close company for taxation purposes.
No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys assets A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in before deducting borrowings may be invested in i the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the securities not listed on any recognised investment Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 6. exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the Objective equity capital including any capital having an element of The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from equity of any one listed company other than an emerging markets worldwide.
investment trust which has been approved by HM Revenue Investment Policies and Risk Management & Customs or which would qualify for such approval but In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to for the fact that it is not listed.
manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
only where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in The Company does not normally enter into derivative this way.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve transactions and to do so requires prior Board approval.
and maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is to produce any particular level of dividend and it will only reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
pay dividends to the extent that it has profits available for Performance that purpose.
In the year to 30th June 2008, the Company produced a total The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager return to shareholders of 4.7% and a total return on net believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly assets of 2.5%.
This compares with the return on the reviews this policy.
Should the Manager decide to employ Companys benchmark index of 5.5%.
As at 30th June 2008, gearing, the Company will remain invested in the range of the value of the Companys investment portfolio including 90-120% under normal market conditions.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 6 includes a review of The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the developments during the year as well as information on number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17 Performance against the Companys peers Total Return, Revenue and Dividends The principal objective is to achieve capital growth Gross total return for the year amounted to 17.4m relative to the benchmark.
However, the Board also 2007: 158.8m and net total return after deducting interest, monitors the performance relative to a broad range of administration expenses and taxation amounted to 12.7m competitor funds.
Distributable income for the year amounted to 2,858,000 2007: 2,157,000.
Performance attribution The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.0p per share assess how the Company achieved its performance payable on 13th November 2008 to holders on the register at relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the the close of business on 24th October 2008.
This distribution impact on the Companys relative performance of the will amount to 2,206,000.
The revenue reserve after transfer various components such as asset allocation and stock of the final dividend will amount to 1,131,000. selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year Key Performance Indicators KPIs ended 30th June 2008 are given in the Investment The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and Managers Report on page 5. assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs Discount to net asset value NAV are: The Board has a share repurchase programme which Performance against the benchmark index seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for This is the most important KPI by which performance is the Companys shares within the market.
reduce the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at which the Companys shares trade in relation to Performance Relative to Benchmark Index its peers in the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2008, the Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 1998 140 shares traded between a discount of 4.8% and 14.2%.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Discount Source: Datastream month end data.
Ten Year Performance Total expense ratio TER Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 1998 500 The TER is an expression of the Companys management fees and all other operating expenses, excluding interest, 400 expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening 300 and closing net assets.
The TER for the year ended 30th June 2008 was 1.25% 2007: 1.24%, as restated.
200 The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys TER and its main 100 expenses with those of its peers.
0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Share Capital JPMorgan Emerging Markets Share price The Company did not issue or repurchase any shares for JPMorgan Emerging Markets Net asset value Benchmark cancellation during the year.
However, Special Resolutions to Source: Standard & Poors www.
com Fundamental Data renew the authority to issue and repurchase shares will be put www.
to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
18 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued The Company does not currently hold any shares in Treasury Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as and does not have authority to reissue shares from Treasury an investment trust, the Company must comply with at a discount to NAV.
More details are given on pages 20 and Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 21 and the full text of the resolutions is set out on pages 50 1988 Section 842.
Details of the Companys approval and 51. are given under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company to breach Section 842, it might lose Principal Risks investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up within the Companys portfolio would be subject to a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
The Section 842 qualification criteria These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: are continually monitored by JPMAM and the results Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate reported to the Board each month.
The Company must investment strategy with regard to, for example asset also comply with the provisions of The Companies Acts allocation, the level of gearing or the degree of portfolio and, since its shares are listed on the London Stock risk, could lead to underperformance against the Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the Companys benchmark index and peer companies, Companies Acts could result in the Company and or the resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider Directors being fined or the subject of criminal discount.
The Board manages these risks by proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could diversification of investments and through a set of result in the Companys shares being suspended from investment restrictions and guidelines which are listing which in turn would breach Section 842.
The monitored and reported on by the Manager.
JPMorgan Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM provides JPMAM, and its professional advisers to ensure the Directors with timely and accurate management compliance with the Companies Acts and the UKLA information, including performance data and attribution Listing Rules.
analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the of the Companys compliance with Corporate implementation and results of the investment process Governance best practice, including information on with the Investment Manager, who attends all Board relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate meetings, and reviews data which show statistical Governance report on pages 22 to 25. measures of the Companys risk profile.
The Board holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy each year.
Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs accounting, dealing or payments systems or the Political and Economic: Administrative risks, such as the custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and imposition of restrictions on the free movement of monitoring of the Companys financial position.
of how the Board monitors the services provided by Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A JPMAM and its associates and the key elements designed sudden departure of the investment manager or several to provide effective internal control are included within members of the investment management team could the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance result in a short-term deterioration in investment report on page 24. performance.
The Manager takes steps to reduce the Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company are likelihood of such an event by ensuring appropriate disclosed in note 22 on pages 42 to 46. succession planning and the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special efforts to retain key personnel.
Future Developments Clearly the future development of the Company is much Discount: A disproportionate widening of the discount dependent upon the success of the Companys investment relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of strategy in the light of economic and equity market value for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses developments in the countries in which it invests, but the discount policy and has set parameters for the Manager Investment Manager discusses the outlook in his report on and the Companys broker to follow.
Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board holds regular meetings with senior representatives of Management of the Company JPMAM in order to obtain assurance that the Manager The Manager and Secretary, JPMorgan Asset Management continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment UK Limited JPMAM is employed under a contract to its investment trusts business through the provision of which is subject to twelve months notice of termination significant resources.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 unless notice is given as a result of poor investment The maximum fee that can be paid to JPMAM in any one performance, in which case the contract can be terminated year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average on six months notice.
If the Company wishes to terminate monthly total assets less current liabilities for the year.
the contract on shorter notice, the balance of remuneration is The offsetable fee is uncapped and equal to any fees payable by way of compensation.
earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also provides these fees are capable of being absorbed by any banking, dealing and custodian services to the Company.
The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager The performance fee calculation restarts at the end of a and confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing period when outperformance of the benchmark has been appointment of the Manager is in the interests of achieved and a performance fee earned.
In arriving at this view, the Board The results for the year ended 30th June 2008 gave rise to a considered the investment strategy and process of the negative performance fee of 1,774,000.
Fees brought Investment Manager, noting consistent outperformance of forward from previous years due to the 0.75% cap the benchmark over the long term, and the support that the restriction amounting to 749,000 have been offset against Company receives from JPMAM.
The cumulative performance fee is negative 1,025,000.
This negative balance will be carried Management and Performance Fees forward and offset by future outperformance.
The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum of the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Going Concern The fee is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
The Directors consider that the Company has adequate Investments on which JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable the calculation and therefore attract no fee.
arrangements in place for its management to continue in In addition the Manager receives a performance fee operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this equivalent to 10% of any outperformance of the Companys reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in net asset value NAV per share on a total return basis over preparing the accounts.
the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Free Index in sterling terms on a total return basis Payment Policy over the Companys financial year.
The performance fee is It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all calculated at the end of the Companys financial year and business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
charged to its capital account in the annual financial In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms statements.
However, an estimate is accrued on a monthly on which business will take place and it is the Companys basis and reflected in the Companys published NAV per policy to abide by those terms.
Company had no outstanding trade creditors 2007: none.
The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the Directors Manager each year is subject to the following conditions: The Directors of the Company at the end of the year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys share Any performance fee earned in a given year is divided capital, are given below: into two categories: that which can be offset offsetable by underperformance in future years: and that which Directors 30th June 1st July cannot non-offsetable.
2008 2007 The non-offsetable fee that can be earned in any one year David Gamble 3,781 3,781 is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly Anatole Kaletsky 4,203 4,203 total assets less current liabilities for the year.
In a year Valentine Powell 11,344 11,344 Roy Reynolds 17,000 15,000 when the Company produces a negative NAV total return Alan Saunders 5,000 5,000 per share, the non-offsetable fees earned in that year are accrued but not paid.
In a year when the Company No changes in the above holdings have been recorded to the produces a positive NAV total return per share, the date of this report.
Company will pay to the Manager all non-offsetable fees earned in that year and those accrued from previous Nigel Kenny was appointed a Director with effect from years, subject to the restriction below.
20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Directors The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting will be Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and David Gamble and Roy Reynolds.
Both Directors, being powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares are eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Nigel Kenny, having contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and joined the Board on 1st September 2008, will also seek the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006. re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which in the Company: no special rights with regard to control indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain attached to securities: no agreements between holders of liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
agreements which the Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Disclosure of information to Auditors the Company and its directors concerning compensation for In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the loss of office.
Company at the time when this report was approved: Independent Auditors a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no  LLP have expressed their willingness relevant audit information as defined in the to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a Companies Act of which the Companys auditors are resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising unaware, and the Directors to determine their remuneration for the b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the Annual ought to have taken as a Director in order to make General Meeting.
himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors Annual General Meeting are aware of that information.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt accordance with the provision of Section 234 ZA of the as to the action you should take, you should seek your own Companies Act 1985. personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial advisor authorised under Section 992 Companies Act 2006 the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The following disclosures are made in accordance with Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Section 992 Companies Act 2006. will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Capital Structure Meeting: The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside i Continuation vote resolution 8 front cover of this report.
The Directors recommend that the Company continues in Voting Rights in the Companys shares existance as an investment trust for a further three year Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the period.
date of this report are given in note 11 to the Notice of AGM on page 52. ii Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory preemption rights resolutions 9 and 10 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the At the date of this report, the following had declared a Annual General Meeting to issue up to 5,515,187 new notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount Shareholders Number of of 1,378,796 such amount being equivalent to 5% of the voting rights % present issued share capital.
The full text of the resolutions is Lazard Asset Management LLC 13,333,350 12.1 set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 50.
Sarasin Chiswell 10,314,473 9.4 It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new 1 Puddle Dock Nominees Limited 8,569,069 7.8 shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing City of London Investment shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to Management Company Limited 8,181,632 7.4 other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the Royal Skandia 6,089,708 5.5 Devon County Council 5,110,000 4.6 best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only Legal & General Investment made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, Management Limited 4,533,336 4.1 they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys National Grid UK Pension Scheme 4,333,777 3.9 administrative expenses, other than the management fee 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Share Plan and ISA participants.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21 which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 41,328 shares representing approximately 0.04% of the voting rights iii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for of the Company.
cancellation resolution 11 The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2007 By order of the Board Annual General Meeting, will expire on 7th May 2009 unless Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the 26th September 2008 interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 50 and 51.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share as and when market conditions are appropriate.
iv Adoption of new Articles of Association resolution 12 The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association.
These incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Association to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act and otherwise generally update the Articles of Association for current law, regulation and market practice.
The 2006 Act came, or will come, into effect in 2007, 2008 and 2009.
As the 2006 Act will not be fully in force until October 2009, it is not yet possible to fully reflect the 2006 Act changes and it is expected that shareholders will be asked to approve further changes to the Articles of Association at the 2009 AGM.
The principal changes brought about by the new Articles of Association proposed to be adopted at the forthcoming AGM relate to electronic communication with shareholders, shareholder meetings and resolutions, directors indemnities, transfers of shares and directors conflicts of interest.
For a more detailed explanation of these and other amendments please refer to the Appendix on pages 53 to 55.
A copy of the current Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association will be available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the offices of JPMAM, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ from the date of this report up until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be available at the Salters Hall, 4 Fore Street, London EC2Y 5DE, being the place of the AGM, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
Recommendation The Board considers that resolutions 1 to 12 are likely to promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
