4 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report What has happened?
Two simple facts should inform our discussion of this last year.
The first fact is that returns from emerging market equities have been notably lower than during the preceding four years: in the year to 30th June 2008, the benchmark index against which we measure ourselves appreciated by 5.5% in sterling terms, though this unremarkable headline number tells far too ordinary a story for the year that passed.
The second fact is that, for the first time since 2003, we failed to exceed the index return with your Companys portfolio: net asset value per share rose by only 2.5%.
We concluded last years report with the expectation of less spectacular returns from emerging markets this time and so it turned out.
But we did not anticipate how eventful a period we would see.
Such busy conditions are hard to summarise.
This was a year of extremes in market behaviour: volatility rose sharply, markets reached frothy, even bubble-like excesses and in some places plumbed real depths as well: some stocks doubled in a few months: others lost two thirds of their value just as quickly: some even managed both in the course of twelve months.
It began in the USA in the summer of 2007 with what became known as the credit crunch: but this label, which neatly pins responsibility on the financial sector, obscures the fact that this is a cycle, just like any other.
The initial reaction of the US Federal Reserve was to try to stimulate the economy by cutting interest rates, allowing the dollar to depreciate and thus exporting the problem.
For governments who thought that US monetary policy was an adequate framework for managing a developing economy, this presented an immediate challenge: either change your methods or accept that you are in fact not managing anything much.
The more the US tried to stimulate its economy, the more risks of overheating arose in emerging economies.
This was most visible in inflation, which rose more or less everywhere, but reached notable levels in China, India and in particular Russia and those parts of the Middle East which operate a currency peg to the US dollar.
The other consequence was a stockmarket boom, especially in China and later India, which carried valuations to irrational levels.
It gathered speed when the Federal Reserve embarked on an easing strategy in August 2007 and lasted until the end of November before collapsing.
Chinese domestic shares rose 50% between June and September 2007, but then fell 50% in the next nine months.
The rise and fall of the Indian market was almost as marked.
Parallel to this, and related to it, was a bull market in commodities of all kinds, most visibly oil, which of course exacerbated the inflationary difficulties for governments and their citizens.
In countries which are major producers, like Russia and the Gulf states, a windfall of spectacular proportions arrived, further fuelling inflation.
In others where governments subsidise prices, public sector finances became strained.
The world seemed full of imbalances.
This was not an easy year: we made some poor decisions.
We made others which looked wrong but turned out well later and we spent a lot of time working on areas which have not yet come to fruition, but where we think big opportunities may arise.
We changed almost a third of the portfolio, somewhat more than in the preceding year and roughly twice the level we were running at three years ago.
Shareholders should not expect our rate of turnover to be constant, because opportunities do not arrive on a regular schedule: you can wait for a while without seeing one, only to find that, like the mythical London bus, several turn up at the same time.
It seems probable, as we write, that this current year will see turnover continue at higher levels than in some recent years.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 Details of the changes we made to your portfolio can be found on page 12 of this Performance attribution report.
The most significant among them were a notable reduction in investments for the year ended 30th June 2008 in Brazil and Korea and an increase in China including Hong Kong, India and the United Arab Emirates: this geographic summary should not obscure the fact that, as Contributions to Total Return % always, our decisions were driven first and foremost by views about individual Benchmark Total Return 5.5 stocks.
Our thinking was based on the belief that above average growth would Stock Selection 6.7 Asset Allocation 4.3 become an especially important factor in future returns.
The strong results from Currency 0.0 emerging markets since 2002 have seen valuations rise, many currencies strengthen Gearing Cash 0.5 and profits rise at an above trend rate, helped by various cyclical influences, Investment Manager Contribution 1.9 especially rising prices commodities and rising utilisation operating leverage.
We Portfolio Total Return 3.6 cannot expect valuations or currencies to rise forever any more than we can expect Management Fees cyclical factors to become permanent.
And so we looked for companies where we Other Expenses 1.3 thought good profit growth could still be expected.
Two particular conditions Performance Fees 0.2 would be required: robust economic growth, giving a high base growth rate for Residual 0.0 companies, and competitive advantage, implying that significant market share gains Other Effects 1.1 could be achieved by individual companies.
China and India were top of our list as Net Asset Value Return 2.5 places to look, though valuations were a deterrent for long periods.
Impact of Decrease Increase in Discount 2.2 Performance attribution data in the adjacent table show the result of our efforts Share Price Total Return 4.7 through this last year with merciless directness.
We did well by being in the right Source: Xamin Datastream Fundamental Data.
countries, adding 4.3% through these asset allocation effects.
We had relatively All figures are on a total return basis.
little exposure to Taiwan and Korea and benefited particularly from the degree of Performance attribution analyses how the investment in Brazil and Egypt.
But we more than cancelled this out with poor Company achieved its recorded performance stock selection: overall, the stocks held in the portfolio performed worse than their relative to its benchmark.
More than half of this underperformance came in Asia, The residual arises principally from timing especially in China and Hong Kong.
Brazil, Korea and South Africa were rare bright differences in the treatment of income spots, but scant consolation.
To some extent the failures of flows.
The Xamin attribution system this year were the successes of the previous one.
With such a dramatic reversal in accounts for income on a received on the markets towards the end of 2007, many of the solid, unexciting businesses whose ex-dividend date basis whereas share prices had lagged badly during the upswing began to outperform strongly as Fundamental Data calculates the Companys NAV Total Return using the markets fell.
But the reverse was also true: those creatures of the bull market that actual dividends paid by the Company on relied on external funding to grow rapidly were left badly exposed and their share the ex-dividend date.
Virtually all of the mistakes we made during the last A glossary of terms and definitions is year can be viewed in this context and come down to being swayed to some extent provided on page 56. by market cycles.
We simply did not sell enough when stocks had performed very well and we were premature in increasing our exposure to markets like China: an error that is explained in part, though in no way excused, by the fact that we had been looking in this direction for a long time.
We should have been more patient.
Sometimes reports seem to go out-of date before they have finished being written: this one may suffer that fate.
Since the end of June, commodity prices have reversed sharply and the dollar has been rising.
At the same time, a number of emerging countries are struggling to contain inflation.
This is not a promising combination of circumstances for equities in emerging markets: share prices have been falling.
Those global imbalances are being painfully worked out, despite the efforts of many central banks to resist.
The immediate outlook is for more of the same.
But we try to look further ahead and therefore hope and expect that significant opportunities to make money will arise.
We should still be able to find themes and trends that we can believe with conviction, irrespective of current conditions: private sector operators will take share from government-owned companies with inferior productivity: retail industries will continue to consolidate: financial services will in the long term outgrow GDP: electricity use will not.
Cycles cannot become trends: 6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report continued excess profitability will be arbitraged away by inflation and competition: productivity and efficiency will be rewarded.
We meet hundreds of companies every year because the most enduring advantage, and that which takes longest to revert to the mean, is human skill: in our meetings we are seeking to understand the nature and economic characteristics of businesses and the ability and ambitions of those who run and own them, so that we can form a view about their value.
As markets decline, they offer us the chance to buy businesses we like at prices that we like.
So the current gloom in markets should not obscure the longer term trends in developing economies, any more than this most dismal of English summers should cancel hopes of future sunshine.
As emerging economies develop further, their capital markets will expand and attractive investments will be found.
The approach we use has not changed and in fact the overall shape of our thinking about the future is very similar to that which we laid out in this report a year ago.
China and India, still growing and still offering great scope for productivity gains and industrial consolidation, are likely to continue to be important investment destinations for us in the years ahead, irrespective of this years fluctuations.
Nor do we intend to change our investment approach.
On that subject, I would like to conclude with an observation not about your Companys investments, but about your Company as a vehicle for investing in emerging markets.
We have always sought to take a long term approach as investors, for two very simple reasons.
First, it reduces the running costs of the portfolio: since all transactions incur costs, fewer transactions mean less cost.
Second, we believe that the greatest inefficiencies in markets can be found by those prepared to exploit them over longer periods of time: in particular, the effect of compounding profit growth at above average rates becomes more and more powerful the longer it continues.
We hope that the results achieved over the last five and ten years by your Company provide some vindication of this approach, but one should not underestimate the extent to which it is facilitated by the Companys structure as a closed-end investment trust.
We have long argued that the ability to exchange the need of immediate short-term liquidity for higher eventual returns very much in our interests as investors and therefore also in the interests of shareholders is something that we should exploit.
As we look forward into next year and beyond, we still see great long-term opportunity in emerging markets: we hope that you as shareholders will want us to continue to invest your money there in the same way, concentrating on that longer term.
It is therefore our hope that you will again approve the continuation of the Company in its current form, which has proved well-suited to investing in the developing world.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 26th September 2008
