16 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Board of Directors Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman A Director since 1996 and Chairman since September 2003.
He is a Managing Director and Chairman of the European Investment Banking Committee at Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited.
He is Chairman of Mithras Investment Trust plc and a director of Persimmon plc.
Lord Halifax A Director since December 2007.
Formerly Vice-Chairman of Christie, Manson & Woods, the European Division of Christies International Fine Arts Auctioneers, and a non-executive director of Hambros Bank.
He is Deputy Lieutenant of The East Riding of Yorkshire, High Steward of York Minster and a JP.
Richard Hambro A Director since October 2006.
He is Chairman of JO Hambro Investment Management Limited, a subsidiary of Credit Suisse Private Bank.
He is also Chairman of I Hennig & Co, Newmarket Racecourses Trust, Smiths Holdings Limited, The Money Portal plc, Wiltons St. Jamess Limited and The Joint British Cancer Charities.
Sandy Nairn A Director since December 2003.
He is Chief Executive of Edinburgh Partners Ltd and a Director of Vebnet Holdings plc and Vebnet Ltd.
Previously, he served on the board of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, Hill Samuel Asset Management International Limited, Waverley General Private Equity Limited and Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited.
Charles Peel A Director since October 2005.
A founding director of Peel Hunt and Co. Limited in 1989.
He is a non-executive director of Ingenious Music VCT plc and Artemis Alpha Trust plc and is actively involved with a number of private companies.
Previously, he held senior positions with Fielding Newson-Smith & Co. and Morgan Grenfell Securities.
Ian Russell A Director since January 2007 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 17th May 2007.
He is an advisor to 3i and the Clyde Bergemann Power Group, chairs Remploy and the advisory board of Advanced Power, and is a director of Johnston Press and Business in the Community.
Previously, he held senior positions with Scottish Power, Tomkins and HSBC.
All Directors were members of the Audit and Nomination Committees throughout the year and all are considered independent of the Manager.
With effect from 19th March 2008, Hamish Leslie Melville stood down from membership of the Audit Committee
