JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 17 Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended 31st Investment Limits and Restrictions January 2008.
- The Company invests in medium and smaller companies which are listed mainly on the London Stock Exchange.
Business Review - At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any Business of the Company individual stock is 8% of gross assets.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment - Investment growth is emphasised, with long-term dividend trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and growth at least in line with inflation.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31st January - Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to increase 2007.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has potential returns to shareholders.
Such gearing will be longsubsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue term in nature and will operate within a range of 90% to to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under 120% invested.
Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
- The Company does not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies including Approval for the year ended 31st January 2007 is subject to investment trusts.
review should there be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
- The Company will not invest more than 10% of assets in companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of The Company is an investment company within the meaning gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Performance A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in In the year to 31st January 2008, the Company produced a the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, and in the total return to shareholders of 16.7% and a total return on Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 8. net assets of 16.2%.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark index of 12.7%.
As at 31st January Investment Objective 2008, the value of the Companys investment portfolio was The Companys objective is to achieve long-term 1,145.7m.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 8 capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and includes a review of developments during the year as well smaller companies.
as information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
Investment Policies and Risk Management In order to achieve its objective, the Company invests in a Total Return, Revenue and Dividends diversified portfolio and employs a Manager with a strong Gross total loss for the year amounted to 219.4m 2007: focus on research that enables it to identify what it believes to return of 423.3m and net total loss after deducting interest, be the most attractive stocks in the market.
management expenses and taxation amounted to 233.2m The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk by 2007: return of 403.2m.
Distributable income for the year imposing various investment limits and restrictions.
The Directors have limits and restrictions may be varied at any time by the Board declared quarterly interim dividends totalling 38.0p per at its discretion.
ordinary share 2007: 25.0p for the year which totalled 40.1m 2007: 31.4m.
The year end revenue reserve after allowing for these dividends will amount to 34.9m 2007: 30.0m.
18 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued Performance against the Companys peers Key Performance Indicators KPIs The principal objective is to achieve capital growth The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and relative to the benchmark.
The Board also monitors assess the performance of the Company.
The principal the performance relative to a broad range of KPIs are:- competitor funds.
Performance against the benchmark index: Performance attribution This is the most important KPI by which performance The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to is judged.
assess how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys relative performance of the various Performance relative to Benchmark Index components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 1998 Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended 31st January 2008 are given in the Investment Managers 160 'Share' Report on page 5.
'NAV' 140 Discount to net asset value NAV The Board operates a share repurchase programme that 120 seeks to address imbalances in supply and demand of the Companys shares within the market and thereby 100 minimise the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
"com Russell Mellon Caps Discount Performance JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Net asset value total return JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Share price total return 0 'DISC Benchmark -10 Ten Year Performance -20 Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 1998 -30 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 500 ""FTSE' Source: Datastream JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Discount ""Share' 400 'NAV' 300 Total expense ratio TER 200 The TER represents management fees and all other 100 operating expenses excluding interest expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 assets."
The TER for the year ended 31st January 2008 was Source: Standard & Poors www.
com Russell Mellon Caps 0.59% 2007: 0.55% as restated.
The Board reviews each JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Net asset value total return year an analysis which shows a comparison of the JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Share price total return Companys TER and its main expenses with those of Benchmark its peers.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 19 investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains Share Capital within the Companys portfolio could be subject to During the year the Company repurchased a total of Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 842 qualification criteria 20,755,593 ordinary shares for cancellation.
This amount are continually monitored by JPMAM and the results represented 16.6% of the issued share capital at the beginning reported to the Board each month.
The Company must of the year.
As the shares were repurchased at a discount to also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act the underlying net asset value NAV they enhanced the 1985 and 2006 and, since its shares are listed on the NAV of the remaining shares.
The Company has not London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A repurchased any further shares for cancellation since the breach of the Companies Act 1985 or 2006 could result in year end.
the Company and or the Directors being fined or the A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual Listing Rules could result in the Companys shares being General Meeting.
suspended from listing which in turn would breach The Company did not issue any shares during the year.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, JPMAM, to ensure compliance with Principal Risks The Companies Act 1985 and 2006 and The UKLA With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up a Listing Rules.
risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment best practice, including information on relations with strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance gearing, may lead to underperformance against the report on pages 22 to 24.
Companys benchmark index and peer companies, Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider accounting, dealing or payments systems or the discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and of investments through its investment restrictions and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Details of guidelines which are monitored and reported by the how the Board monitors the services provided by JPMAM Manager.
JPMAM provides the Directors with timely and and its associates and the key elements designed to accurate management information, including provide effective internal control are included within the performance data and attribution analyses, revenue Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder analyses.
Board monitors the implementation and results of the Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company investment process with the Investment Managers, who include market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk attend all Board meetings, and reviews data which show and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 24 on statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Additional disclosures are provided this Investment Managers employ the Companys gearing year for the first time in accordance with FRS 29. tactically, within a strategic range set by the Board.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as Future Developments an investment trust, the Company must comply with Clearly, the future development of the Company is much Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act dependent upon the success of the Companys investment 1988 Section 842.
Details of the Companys approval strategy in the light of economic and equity market are given under Business of the Company above.
The Investment Managers discuss the outlook the Company to breach Section 842, it might lose in their report on page 8.
20 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued Management Directors The Manager and Secretary is JPMorgan Asset Management Lord Halifax was appointed a Director on 5th December 2007.
JPMAM is employed under a The Directors of the Company at the end of the year, together contract terminable on one years notice, without penalty.
with their beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on share capital, were: shorter notice, the balance of remuneration is payable by way 1st February of compensation.
2007 JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase 31st January or at date of Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also provides 2008 appointment banking, dealing and custodian services to the Company.
Hamish Leslie Melville 30,000 30,000 The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager Lord Halifax 2,000 nil and confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing Richard Hambro 30,000 30,000 appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the Sandy Nairn 5,000 5,000 interests of shareholders as a whole.
In arriving at this view, Charles Peel 20,000 20,000 the Board considered the investment strategy and process of Ian Russell 5,000 5,000 the Investment Managers, noting consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the long term and the support that the Company receives from JPMAM.
No changes in the above holdings have been recorded at the date of this report.
Management Fee In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, The management fee is charged at the rate of 0.5% of the Lord Halifax, having been appointed since the previous AGM, value of the Companys market capitalisation and is offers himself for re-election.
The Directors retiring by calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
If the Company rotation at the forthcoming AGM will be Charles Peel and invests in funds managed or advised by JPMAM, or any of its Hamish Leslie Melville.
Having served as a Director for associated companies, they are excluded from the calculation more than nine years, Hamish Leslie Melville is subject to and therefore attract no fee.
Going Concern During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by The Directors consider that the Company has adequate the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable Company against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of arrangements in place for its management to continue in their duties.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For these Disclosure of Information to Auditors reasons, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the preparing the accounts.
Company at the time when this report was approved: Payment Policy a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all relevant audit information as defined in the Companies business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
Act of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought policy to abide by these terms.
As at 31st January 2008, the to have taken as a Director in order to make himself Company had no outstanding trade creditors.
aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 21 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Adoption of new Articles of Association resolution 9 At the date of this report, the following had declared a The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association.
notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: These incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Number of Association to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act Shareholders voting rights % 2006 the 2006 Act and otherwise generally update the Articles of Association for current law, regulations and market AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 10,679,500 10.2 practice.
As the 2006 Act will not be fully in force until Barclays plc 6,380,673 6.1 October 2009, it is not yet possible to fully reflect the 2006 Act 2 JPMorgan Asset Management UK Ltd 5,443,766 5.2 changes, and it is anticipated that shareholders will be asked Legal & General Group plc 4,319,223 4.1 to approve further changes to the Articles of Association at 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Share Plan, PEP and ISA participants.
2 Includes 328,338 shares held in JPMorgan Elect plc.
The principal changes brought about by the new Articles of Association proposed to be adopted at the forthcoming AGM Independent Auditors relate to electronic communication with shareholders,  LLP have expressed their willingness shareholder meetings and resolutions, directors' indemnities, to continue in office as Auditor to the Company and transfers of shares and directors' conflicts of interest.
For a resolutions proposing their re-appointment and authorising more detailed explanation of these and other amendments the Directors to determine their remuneration for the please refer to the Appendix on pages 51 to 53. ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Board considers the resolutions 7 to 9 are likely to Annual General Meeting promote the success of the Company and are in the best Note: This section is important and requires your immediate interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of take you should seek your own personal financial advice from the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own your stock broker, bank manager, solicitor, or other financial beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 92,000 advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets shares representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued Act 2000. ordinary share capital of the Company.
The full text of the Resolutions relating to the following items of special business resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 49. will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Statement under the Disclosure & Transparency Rules Change of Company name resolution 7 4.1.
12 It is proposed to change the Company name to The The Directors each confirm to the best of their knowledge Mercantile Investment Trust plc, reflecting more closely the that: historic name of the Company.
a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view Repurchase of the Companys shares resolution 8 of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2007, of the Company: and shareholders gave authority to the Company to enable it to purchase up to 14.99% of its then issued share capital.
This b this Annual Report includes a fair review of the authority will expire on 15th November 2008 unless renewed development and performance of the business and the by shareholders.
The repurchase of shares at a discount to the position of the Company, together with a description of underlying net asset value NAV would enhance the NAV of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 27th March 2008
