JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 Investment Managers Report Market Background A bear market in UK small and mid sized companies started in mid-2007 and share Performance attribution prices continued to fall sharply towards the end of our financial year, 31st January for the year to 31st January 2008 1 Year 2008.
November and December were the worst months for small cap performance % since 1974.
This was caused by fears of a global liquidity crisis resulting from the collapse of the US mortgage-backed securities market.
Investors demand for higher Contributions to Total Returns yield from securitised leveraged packages of low quality loans resulted in a credit Benchmark total return 12.7 crunch with banks becoming unable or unwilling to lend as some of the borrowers Allocation effect 0.1 in these complex debt securities started to default on their interest payments.
In the Selection effect 4.3 Gearing cash effect 0.1 UK, this led to Northern Rock having to be rescued by the Government and the availability and cost of mortgages from other providers tightening markedly.
Several Portfolio total return 16.8 hedge funds and other investors who were heavily geared into the market Fees Expenses 0.6 experienced difficulties and the resulting liquidation of their assets depressed Share buybacks 1.9 Residual 0.7 market levels further.
This was then exaggerated by the ability of other investors to sell short stocks they did not own in anticipation of further falls.
The result was that Net asset value total return 16.2 the Companys benchmark Index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE-100 Effect of decrease increase in discount 0.5 constituents and investment trusts fell by 12.7% during the year ended 31st January 2008.
This compared with a fall of 1.6% from the FTSE-100 Index which Share price total return 16.7 was buoyed up by a strong performance from natural resources stocks, especially Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Fundamental Data Ltd. mining companies.
The table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total That said, the reported earnings, and more especially dividends, from small and return.
mid sized companies continued to be very strong as the UK economy recorded its 62nd consecutive quarter of GDP growth.
The weak performance of the shares was A glossary of terms and definitions is in anticipation of profit forecasts for the coming year having to be reduced as provided on page 54. forecasts for economic growth began to fall.
Performance The Companys net asset value total return of 16.2% for the year ended 31st January 2008 compared with a return of 12.7% from the benchmark index.
The underperformance is analysed in the table on the left.
The total return to shareholders was 16.7% as the share price discount to net asset value with debt at fair value widened from 8.9% to 10.5% during the financial year.
The bar chart on page 6 shows the relative contributions to performance for the year from the five best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The dark grey bars to the right show the positive contributions to performance relative to the benchmark index and reflect a combination of both sector weightings and stock selection.
The orange bars to the left show a negative relative contribution.
This shows that the biggest contributor to underperformance was the Companys overweight stance in the household goods sector, that is housebuilders.
Their share prices were hit hard as consumer confidence reduced in the face of the credit crunch and as the availability of mortgages reduced and their cost increased.
The mining sector was the Companys next worst sector as the momentum behind the rising prices of gold and platinum drove Randgold Resources and Aquarius Platinum shares higher.
We do not hold Aquarius and are underweight in Randgold.
In General Financials we suffered relatively from not having London Stock Exchange, which was driven higher by the Sovereign Wealth Funds building positions, and also from setbacks in Investec and Shore Capital on reduced prospects in financial markets.
That said, in the Banking sector we benefited relatively by not holding Bradford and Bingley when it was hit.
We outperformed in 6 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report continued Sector performance contribution analysis.
Year to 31st January 2008 Top 5 0% Food Producers 0.9% 0.7 % Oil & Gas Producers Banks 0.5 % Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 0.2 % Electricity 0.2 % Bottom 5 0.4% Software & Computer Services 0.5% Gas, Water & Multiutilities 0.6% General Financial 0.7% Mining 1.7% Household Goods Relative Contribution Source: Russell Mellon Analytical Services.
Oil and Gas Producers as the volatile stock market gave us the opportunity to buy producing oil assets at below the level of recent industry deals.
In particular, we benefited from the agreed bid from ENI for Burren Energy.
However, Food Producers was the best performing sector, with the Company benefiting from not holding Premier Foods, which fell sharply on concerns over servicing its debt as raw materials prices, especially wheat, rose substantially.
By the same token, we benefited from the strong increase in palm oil prices through our holdings in palm oil plantation companies MP Evans and New Britain Palm Oil.
Activity Gearing was managed actively throughout the year.
Having started the year with gearing of 2% this had been reduced to no gearing at the interim to reflect that markets had started to fall and at the year end we held 5% cash in order to preserve value in a falling market.
The largest contributor to the cash raising was the reduction in exposure to housebuilders where more than 200m of housebuilding shares were sold between June and September.
The Investment Managers have the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 90%-120% invested and a more specific tactical range is agreed regularly with the Board.
Corporate activity continued to be a feature during the year with the Company benefiting from holding more than half of the takeovers that occurred in the FTSE mid 250 index.
Burren Energy was the biggest contributor to performance but others included Domestic and General, EMI, Kelda and London Merchant Securities.
Against a background where we were generally reducing our exposure to equities we neverthelsss made a number of new purchases last year as we continued to search for growth from smaller stocks.
These included: Gem Diamonds, New Britain Palm Oil, Prezzo, GLG Partners, London and Stamford Property, China Real Estate and Hargreaves Lansdown.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 7 The portfolio retains its style of broad diversification across all sectors, holding 150 stocks, of which 96 are mid sized and 54 smaller.
By value, more than 80% of the portfolio is in mid sized stocks, which is close to the size split of the benchmark.
The table below shows that the holding of companies of greater than 1.5bn market capitalisation is now lower than the index weighting.
This reflects that throughout the year we have sold mid 250 stocks which have been promoted into the FTSE 100, but not bought many of those which were demoted, such as Punch Taverns, Mitchells and Butlers, Northern Rock and Tate and Lyle, none of which are held in the portfolio.
Smaller companies are now more lowly rated than the rest of the market and therefore relatively more attractive.
Of the ten largest holdings as at 31st January 2008 which are shown on page 12 only three, GKN, Daily Mail and Burberry were in the top ten last year.
Drax and Segro were bought having been demoted from the FTSE 100 during the year and the remaining five were all held within the portfolio a year ago.
By comparison, the top ten one year ago contained five housebuilders, none of which are in the top ten this year and also EMI which was sold on a takeover bid and Amec which was sold on promotion into the FTSE 100.
We sell stocks which are promoted into the FTSE 100 within 18 months of promotion at the latest and never let the weighting in FTSE 100 stocks exceed 5% of the portfolio.
Currently we hold no FTSE 100 stocks.
During the year we met or visited more than 250 companies and this remains a key component in our process of evaluating companies.
We believe that properly targeted company meetings can help us analyse smaller growth companies that are often overlooked by the mainstream, evaluate management and resolve issues.
Our fundamental analysis of companies is aided by JP Morgans in-house proprietary screening process which helps us to identify companies that exhibit the best value and growth characteristics.
8 JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report continued Outlook The stockmarket is currently nervous, reflecting uncertainty: economic growth will slow and analysts profit forecasts for companies will have to be cut: more financial write downs will be needed, especially from the banks.
This process has started but analysts forecasts are still not low enough and banks have still not written off enough of their bad assets.
However, the sharp fall seen in share prices means that equities are now good long term value.
We shall continue to be rigorous in screening out losers and reducing portfolio risk, to reflect the uncertainty in markets, while searching out positive momentum as the next investment theme takes hold.
The table below shows the aggregate of stock market forecasts for the individual companies held within the portfolio and for reference we compare these with the corresponding figures for both our non-FTSE 100 benchmark Index and with the FTSE 100 Index.
12 months Forward Forecast 12 months Forecast Forecast Price Earnings Earnings Forward Dividend Dividend Ratio Growth Yield Growth Cover JPMF Mercantile 10.4x 9.1% 4.2% 7.3% 2.2x FTSE All-Share ex FTSE 100 & investment trusts 11.2x 7.3% 3.5% 5.4% 2.5x FTSE-100 11.1x 5.5% 4.1% 6.6% 2.2x Excluding loss making companies.
Source: UBS Global Research 31st January 2008 JPMorgan Asset Management.
This shows that the underlying holdings in the Mercantile portfolio currently stand on a 12 month forward PER of 10.4X and a dividend yield of 4.2%.
The PER for Mercantile is lower than that for the benchmark and for the FTSE 100.
The yield is higher and both earnings and dividends are forecast to enjoy higher growth.
After the sharp fall in the stockmarket in January we have now reinvested some of the cash holding such that we currently have a neutral gearing position, that is no net cash or borrowings.
The high level of volatility in the stockmarket gives us the opportunity to execute our consistent long term strategy of buying assets, such as land, property and oil, at a discount and reasonably priced growth, currently available in such sectors as aerospace, commodities and spread betting.
We continue to believe that small and mid sized equities are the most interesting asset class over the long term: a London Business School study shows that since 1955 they have outperformed in more than two years out of three.
Despite the current economic uncertainties, small and mid sized equities are now offering higher forecast earnings growth than FTSE 100 companies, whilst trading at a similar PE ratio.
That said, we expect the stockmarket to remain volatile until credit markets stabilise and as further economic and financial downgrades emerge.
We plan to use that volatility to buy both assets and growth at attractive levels and small and mid sized companies offer good long term value at current levels.
Martin Hudson Jane Lennard Emel Akan Investment Managers 27th March 2008
