J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 13 13 Board of Directors Pamela Idelson Smith Chairman Joined the Board and appointed Chairman in October 2002.
She is currently chief executive officer of RSI Securities S. A. a Swiss financial Company.
She is also Chairman of Sirius Fund a Luxembourg SICAV, and a Director of Baring Hedge Select Fund Limited.
Patrick Gifford Chairman of the Nomination Committee Joined the Board in October 2002.
He is Chairman of Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc, Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc and Murray Income Trust plc, and a director of AlphaGen Aldebaran Fund Limited and Tapestry Investment Company PCC Limited.
He is also Chairman of Vtesse Networks Limited.
He was formerly Chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Management Limited and a Director of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited.
James Nicholson Joined the Board in October 2002.
He is Chairman of Alpha Portfolios PLC and a Director of Baring Hedge Select Fund Limited.
From 1976 to 1997 he was successively a Director of Robert Fleming & Co, Jardine Fleming Holdings and Fleming Investments Limited.
Paul Teleki Chairman of the Audit Committee Joined the Board in October 2002.
He is an independent consultant involved in energy policy and legal, regulatory and ownership reform in emerging market countries.
Lysander Tennant Joined the Board in October 2002.
He is employed by Sindicatum Carbon Capital, a specialist developer of greenhouse gas reduction projects, and is responsible for business development in the CIS.
He is a Director of New Europe Capital, a start-up private equity investment firm.
He was formerly a fund manager at BZW Investment Management, and portfolio manager at American Express Asset Management investing in Russian securities.
George Nianias Joined the Board in March 2008.
He is the founder and Group Chairman of Denholm Hall Group.
He has also been financial adviser to several eastern European cities including Krakow, St. Petersburg and Moscow.
All directors are members of the Audit and Nomination Committees and are considered independent of the Manager.
