14 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ended Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and 31st October 2008. guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
Business Review These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at Business of the Company any time at its discretion.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was approved by HM Revenue and Customs as an investment Performance trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and In the year to 31st October 2008, the Company produced a Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31st October negative total return to shareholders of 61.4% and a negative 2007.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has total return on net assets of 64.6%.
This compares with the subsequently conducted its affairs so that it continues to negative return on the Companys benchmark index of qualify as an investment trust.
As at 31st October 2008, the value of the Companys each year to seek approval under Section 842 of the Income investment portfolio was 143.3m.
The Investment Managers and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Report on pages 4 to 6 includes a review of developments during the year as well as information on investment activity Approval for the year ended 31st October 2007 is subject to within the Companys portfolio.
review should there be any subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
Total Return and Revenue The Company is an investment company within the meaning Gross loss for the year totalled 251,753.000 2007: return of of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
147,156,000 and net loss after deducting interest, management fees, administrative expenses and taxation A review of the Companys activities and prospects is given in amounted to 260,856,000 2007: return of 138,948,000. the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, and in the Net revenue after tax for the year amounted to 529,000 Investment Managers Report on pages 4 to 6.
No dividend has been proposed 2007: nil.
Objective The Companys objective is to achieve capital growth from Key Performance Indicators KPIs investing in Russian securities.
The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs Investment Policies and Risk Management are:- In order to achieve the investment objective and manage risk, the Company invests in a diversified portfolio of investments Performance against the benchmark index in quoted Russian securities and Russian pre-IPO stocks or This is the most important KPI by which performance other companies which derive the majority of their revenue or is judged.
gains from operating in Russia.
The number of investments in the portfolio will normally range between 30-60.
Performance Relative to Benchmark Index The investment portfolio is managed by two Russian fund Figures have been rebased to 100 at 20th December 2002 managers, one based in Moscow and one based in London, both of whom are fully supported by a global emerging 140 markets team.
The Board also discusses in depth the economy and political developments of Russia at Board meetings and 120 considers the possible implications for the portfolio.
Investment Limits and Restrictions 100 The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing various investment limits and restrictions.
com HSBC The Company will not normally invest in unlisted Total Return securities, apart from pre-IPO stocks.
JPMorgan Russian Securities Share price JPMorgan Russian Securities Net asset value per share The Company will not normally invest in derivatives.
The benchmark index is represented by the grey horizontal line The Company will utilise liquidity and borrowings in a range of 90-115% invested in average market conditions.
To invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment companies including investment trusts.
J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 15 15 Directors Report continued Total expense ratio TER Performance since launch The TER represents management fees and all other operating Figures have been rebased to 100 at 20th December 2002 expenses excluding interest, expressed as a percentage of the average of the opening and closing net assets.
800 The Board reviews each year an analysis which shows a 700 comparison of the Companys TER and its main expenses 600 500 with those of its peers.
400 300 Share Capital 200 100 During the financial year the Company did not repurchase 0 any Ordinary Shares for cancellation.
Since the end of the 20 12 02 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 financial year the Company has not repurchased any further Source: Standard & Poors www.
com Fundamental Data Ltd Datastream Ordinary Shares for cancellation.
JPMorgan Russian Securities Share price JPMorgan Russian Securities Net asset value per share A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase shares at Benchmark a discount to NAV is due to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company did not issue any new shares during the year.
Performance against the Companys peers The principal objective is to achieve capital growth.
Principal Risks However, the Board also monitors the performance With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up relative to a broad range of competitor funds and the a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Performance attribution Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of assess how the Company achieved its performance relative gearing, may lead to underperformance against the to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on Companys benchmark index and peer companies, the Companys relative performance of the various resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its investment Discount to net asset value NAV restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and The Board has adopted a share repurchase policy which reported on by the Manager.
JPMAM provides the seeks to address imbalances in supply of and demand for Directors with timely and accurate management the Companys shares in the market and thereby information, including performance data and attribution minimises the volatility and absolute level of the discount analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and to NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
In the year shareholder analyses.
to 31st October 2008, the shares traded between a 2% The Board monitors the implementation and results of premium and a 15% discount.
the investment process with the investment managers, who attend all Board meetings, and reviews data which show statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
Discount Performance The investment managers employ the Companys gearing 5 tactically, within a strategic range set by the Board.
0 Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the -5 future prices of the Companys investments.
It represents -10 the potential loss that the Company might suffer through holding investments in the face of negative market -15 movements.
The Board considers asset allocation, stock -20 Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct selection and levels of gearing on a regular basis and has 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Source: Datastream set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are JPMorgan Russian Securities Share price discount to NAV monitored and reported on by JPMAM.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the Manager.
16 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as The Board has evaluated the performance of the Manager an investment trust, the Company must comply with and confirms that it is satisfied that the continuing appointment Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Details of the Companys approval In arriving at this view, the Board considered the investment are given under Business of the Company above.
strategy and process of the Manager, noting performance Were the Company to breach Section 842, it might lose relative to the benchmark over the long term, and the other investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains services that the Company receives from JPMAM.
within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Management Agreement Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 842 qualification criteria JPMAM is employed under a contract which can be are continually monitored by JPMAM and the results terminated on 90 days notice, without penalty.
The Manager reported to the Board each month.
The Company must may also terminate the contract on 90 days notice if in its also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act sole opinion there has been a loss of confidence between the 1985 and 2006 and, as its shares are listed on the London Manager and the Company so as to make the relationship Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
If the Company wishes to terminate the contract Companies Act 1985 could result in the Company and or on less than 90 days notice, the balance of the 90 days the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended from The Manager is remunerated at a rate of 1.5% per annum of listing which in turn would breach Section 842. the Companys net assets, payable monthly in arrears.
The Board relies on the services of its Company Investments on which JPMAM earns a management fee are Secretary, JPMAM, and its professional advisers to excluded from the Companys net assets for the purpose of ensure compliance with the Companies Act 1985 and calculating the management fee.
No performance fee is 2006 and the UKLA Listing Rules.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of the Companys compliance with corporate governance Going Concern best practice, including information on relations with The Directors consider that the Company has adequate shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable report on pages 19 to 22. arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they continue to Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians records could prevent accurate reporting and Payment Policy monitoring of the Companys financial position.
It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all Details of how the Board monitors the services provided business and therefore there are no standard payment terms.
by JPMAM and its associates and the key elements In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on designed to provide effective internal control are included which business will take place and it is the Companys policy within the Internal Control section of the Corporate to abide by those terms.
As at 31st October 2008, the Governance report on page 21.
Company had no outstanding trade creditors 2007: none.
Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign Directors currency risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of are disclosed in note 19 on pages 38 to 43. the year, together with their beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary share capital, were: Future Developments 31st October 1st November The future development of the Company is much dependent upon the success of the Companys investment strategy 2008 2007 in the light of economic and equity market developments.
Pamela Idelson Smith 10,000 10,000 The investment managers discuss the outlook in their report Patrick Gifford 21,641 21,641 on pages 4 and 6.
George Nianias James Nicholson 4,850 10,000 Management of the Company Paul Teleki 3,889 3,889 JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co which, through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, Lysander Tennant 5,700 5,700 dealing and custodian services to the Company.
J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 17 17 Directors Report continued No changes in the above holdings have been notified since the Independent Auditors year end.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor to the Company and resolutions In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the proposing their reappointment, and authorising the Directors Director retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year, will be General Meeting will be Paul Teleki who, being eligible, offers put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
George Nianias, having been appointed during the year, will Annual General Meeting retire and stand for election.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt An insurance policy is maintained by the Company against as to the action you should take, you should seek your own certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest activities.
manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Disclosure of information to Auditors In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Resolutions relating to the following items of special business Company at the time when this report was approved: will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant i Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for audit information as defined in the Companies Act of cancellation resolution 6 which the Companys auditors are unaware, and The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought issued share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2008 to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware Annual General Meeting, will expire on 13th March 2009 of any relevant audit information and to establish that the unless renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the accordance with the provision of s234 ZA of the Companies NAV of the remaining shares.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 Annual General Meeting on pages 47 and 48.
Repurchases The following disclosures are made in accordance with will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only be section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share as and when market conditions are appropriate.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside ii Adoption of new Articles of Association resolution 7 front cover of this report.
The Company proposes to adopt new Articles of Association.
Voting Rights in the Companys shares These incorporate amendments to the current Articles of Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the Association to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act date of this report are given in note 11 to the Notice of AGM 2006 the 2006 Act and otherwise generally update the on page 48.
Articles of Association for current law, regulation and market practice.
The 2006 Act is being implemented in stages and Notifiable Interests in the Companys voting rights: will not be fully in force until October 2009.
As such it is not At the date of this report the following had declared a yet possible to fully reflect the 2006 Act changes and it is notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: expected that shareholders will be asked to approve further changes to the Articles of Association at the 2010 AGM.
Number of Shareholders voting rights % The principal changes brought about by the new Articles of Association proposed to be adopted at the forthcoming AGM City of London Investment relate to electronic communication with shareholders, Management Company Ltd 14,913,898 26.66 shareholder meetings and resolutions, directors indemnities, Lazard Asset Management LLC 6,307,461 11.28 transfer of shares and directors conflicts of interest.
For a JPMorgan Chase & Co 4,452,659 7.96 more detailed explanation of these and other amendments Progressive Asset Management 4,332,034 7.75 please refer to the Appendix on pages 49 to 51.
Legal & General Group plc 2,231,799 3.99 SVM Asset Management Ltd 1,792,114 3.20 18 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 A copy of the current Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association will be available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays expected at the offices of JPMAM, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ from the date of this report until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be available at Trinity house, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH, being the place of the AGM, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
Recommendation The Board considers that resolutions 1 to 7 are likely to promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 46,080 shares representing approximately 0.1% of the voting rights in the Company.
By order of the Board Alison Vincent, ACIS for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 5th February 2009
