4 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report Market Review When we wrote to shareholders twelve months ago we reported on another strong year for the Russian equity market and we were congratulating ourselves on the fact that Russia appeared to have avoided the effects of the global liquidity crunch.
We noted that Russia would be exposed should natural resources suffer a significant slowdown in demand or if foreign investors should start to withdraw from the market.
The carnage we have witnessed in global markets and especially in Russia has been difficult to comprehend and our muted notes of caution have been overwhelmed by the scale of the setback.
The graph below shows the performance over our financial year of the benchmark index, the MSCI Russian 10 40 Equity Indices Index in sterling.
Oleg I. Biryulyov CFA MSCI Russian 10 40 Equities Indices Index Sterling 1200 1000 800 600 400 Vitaly N. Kazakov 200 Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct 2007 2007 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 2008 Source: MSCI 10 40 Russian Equities Indices Index Sterling 1 Year to 31st October 2008 We have more than 10 years of experience of investing in the Russian market and deeply regret that shareholders have seen their returns reduced so dramatically in the space of a few months.
We believe there are five main reasons behind the sharp falls in the Russian equity market: Volatility in Oil and Commodity Prices The price per barrel of oil at the start of our financial year last November was approximately $65.
It rose steadily during the following nine months and peaked at a price of $146 per barrel in early July 2008.
In the following three months it fell by more than 55% reaching a price of $65 per barrel by the end of October 2008.
Global demand for commodities where Russia dominates, such as nonferrous metals and gas, also fell sharply and these indices witnessed a decline of over 50% during 2008.
Although the Russian market has tried over the past few years to decouple itself from the oil price, the reality is that a large proportion of Russias wealth is related to oil.
It is interesting to note that in the period from early July to the end of October the Russian equity market fell by almost the same percentage as the oil price.
JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 Lack of a Domestic Investor Base In times of crisis, it is normal to see assets transferring from weak hands, i. e. leveraged short term speculators to strong hands, i. e. investors with long term horizons and a steady commitment to the market, usually represented by pension funds, corporates and the State.
Domestic savings in Russia are still low in comparison to Western markets and this underdevelopment creates additional risks for international investors as there are few domestic buyers to counterbalance overseas investors.
In the event of massive global risk aversion and a sell off on all markets, countries with a dedicated domestic investor base have fared better than countries that lack such support.
To resolve this issue going forward requires the Russian authorities to combat inflation and target real interest rates for depositors.
Pension and banking reforms also need more real progress.
The state, as the largest shareholder on the market, has to understand and implement better corporate governance standards, in particular regarding dividend policies and minority shareholder rights.
Problems with Market Infrastructure Russia has a rudimentary trading platform and settlement system.
During a bull market, most market participants and regulators have been happy to ignore these facts and carry on with the status quo.
However, this crisis has been a major test for investors trust in the countrys current market infrastructure and consequently, with a number of trading suspensions, investors trust faded fast.
We have now seen a migration of almost all trading volumes in Russian equities from Moscow to the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
This has drained liquidity from domestic companies who do not have access to an overseas quote and trading volumes have declined substantially for these stocks.
Although it could be argued that investor trust has evaporated across all financial markets this year, it does not excuse the continuing issues for the Russian equity market and we hope that regulators in Moscow will act quickly to improve the situation in order to restore investor confidence in the domestic market.
Access to Funding The global liquidity crisis spread to Russia with a vengeance in 2008.
Companies who previously were able to raise funding from both domestic and international banking sources found access denied and bond markets also shut.
With cash flows from energy and commodities diminishing concurrently this has meant a squeeze on companies in Russia and development plans have been severely curtailed in favour of surviving the crisis.
Politics and Country Specific Risk Factors Finally, we should comment on the political situation in Russia and its neighbours.
The military operation in South Ossetia and Abkhazia in August had a negative impact on the perception of Russias country risk.
In addition, the recently approved extension of terms for the countrys President and Parliament is disappointing, as the change reduces the ability of the Russian population to influence the political system.
Furthermore this makes the process of modernisation for the Russian state even more rigid and dependent on the will and vision of single individuals.
The recent disagreement between Russia and the Ukraine over gas tariffs and shipments to Europe is another indicator of how sensitive the political situation is at the moment.
We believe that all these factors have a negative impact on the market.
6 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Investment Managers Report continued Performance Review The Companys benchmark fell by 51.9% over the Companys financial year to 31st October 2008.
The Companys net asset value fell by more than the benchmark and returned -64.6% over the same period.
Shareholders may recall that over the past few years the portfolio has been consistently underweight in the energy sector with corresponding overweight positions in privately owned companies in the materials, financials and consumer sectors.
Our reasons for this have been our belief in liberal economic theory.
The cornerstone of this theory is that the state is not an efficient owner or manager of business.
Although the state can act as a last saviour for business, and nationalisation has been used widely over the years by several governments, it does not change the fact that state employees will have different motivations compared to entrepreneurs in managing business.
This is why, when investing, we have a preference for private companies against those controlled by the state.
During the last quarter of this reporting year the market punished us severely for this preference with a clear anticipation that during the liquidity crisis the Russian government would be principally concerned about state controlled companies and would extend its help to them on an exclusive basis.
Share prices of most of Russias privately owned companies moved to distressed levels and in particular Magnitogorsk Steel, Magnit Supermarket operator and Sitronics Telecommunications and IT were the largest negative detractors from performance for us in the year.
One fundamental advantage of closed end funds, such as this Company, is the ability to borrow money to invest in the portfolio gearing.
Unfortunately, gearing utilised by the Company in the last quarter of the reporting period worked against us and in hindsight we were too exposed to the Russian market over the summer months of 2008.
Following discussions with the Board of Directors in early September we removed gearing from the portfolio.
Outlook Despite all the negative factors mentioned above, Russia continues to offer great opportunities for investors with a long term investment horizon.
Valuations seen today have not been around since the crisis of 1998, following which investments made brought rich returns over the next 10 years.
Russia still has vast supplies of physical assets that are required by countries and companies all over the world and a well educated workforce to ensure that Russian companies are positioned to take advantage of these opportunities.
Russian consumers have begun to enjoy the goods and services that are available in an open economy and they will continue to demand improvements in their living standards.
We believe that the Russian government recognises the need to ensure that private enterprise continues to flourish and will make available the funding and support to do so.
The global recession may well last for some time to come and Russia will have its share of problems arising from this.
Your Managers remain confident that the portfolio of investments we have selected will do well over the months and years to come.
Oleg I. Biryulyov Vitaly N. Kazakov Investment Managers 5th February 2009
