Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which carried out in the functional currency of the Groups operations and includes this Directors report and the audited financial statements so transaction exposures are limited and exchange rate fluctuations of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended have minimal effect on the quality of earnings: 31 December 2008.
The Directors report incorporates by reference, to the extent indicated below, certain information included in the the Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and should be competition from international companies as well as local and read in conjunction with that document.
regional companies in the countries in which it operates.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers Principal activity and business review could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the Groups The principal activity of the Group is providing value-added distribution growth potential.
The Group seeks to mitigate against this risk by and outsourcing services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
remaining competitive both in terms of price and product offering Details of the Groups activities, developments and performance for the and by maintaining high service levels and close contacts with year, the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development its customers to ensure that their needs and demands are being and performance and information which fulfils the requirements of the met satisfactorily: Companies Act 2006 relating to the production of a business review are set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, a significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been achieved the Financial review and the Corporate social responsibility report through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups growth strategy on pages 4 to 15 and 17 to 23 of the Annual Review and Summary includes additional acquisitions.
There can be no assurance that Financial Statement and in the section below entitled Principal risks the Group will be able to make acquisitions in the future or that any and uncertainties.
The Company uses a number of key performance acquisitions made will be successful.
However the Group continually indicators to measure progress towards its objectives.
These are set out reviews acquisition targets and has established processes and in the form of bar graphs on pages 7, 17 and 23 of the Annual Review procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence and Summary Financial Statement.
As a result the Group endeavours to ensure that the anticipated benefits of acquisitions can be realised Principal risks and uncertainties although such benefits cannot be assured and difficulties with There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could integration may adversely affect existing operations: have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
The Group has specific policies and procedures the purchase price and availability of products distributed by the Group which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the results The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the of operations.
The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks and uncertainties price increases from its suppliers to its customers and to source include the following: its products from a number of different suppliers so that it is not dependent on any one source of supply for any particular product.
the Groups business is partially dependent on general economic Similarly, adverse economic conditions may result in a period of conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
commodity price deflation leading to a reduction in the price and value A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse of the Groups products.
If this were to occur, the Groups revenue and, effect on the Groups business and results of operations.
However as a result, its profits, could be reduced and the value of inventory held the diversity of the Groups operations, the nature of its customer in stock may not be fully recoverable.
The Group mitigates against the base and its ability to react to market changes helps mitigate this risk of holding over valued inventory in a deflationary environment by risk.
The Groups operations are also subject to a variety of other risks ensuring that stock levels are kept to a minimum.
and uncertainties relating to trading in numerous foreign countries, including the imposition of any import or investment restrictions, the Group would be affected if there was a significant failure of its including tariffs and import quotas or any restrictions on the major distribution facilities or information systems.
The Group seeks repatriation of earnings and capital, and changes in tax regulations to reduce this risk through the use of multi-site facilities with and international tax treaties.
The Group endeavours to monitor such products stocked in more than one location and the adoption of matters and keep them under regular review, amending its business detailed back up plans which would be implemented in the event procedures as appropriate to mitigate any such exposures: of any such failure: and the Group continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows the international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to potential to ensure that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws and regulations fall due and that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In addition the Group requirements in the short, medium and long term.
In order to do so, faces potential claims from customers in relation to the supply of the Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources.
defective products or breaches of their contractual arrangements.
Additionally, compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants Whilst any litigation has an element of uncertainty, the Group does is monitored on a monthly basis based on the management not presently expect that the outcome of any such claims, either accounts.
Sensitivity analyses using various scenarios are applied individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants and net debt: on the Groups financial condition or results of operations.
the majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned The Financial review on pages 17 to 19 of the Annual Review and in US dollars and other foreign currencies.
As a result, movements Summary Financial Statement and Note 13 to the consolidated financial in exchange rates may have a material translation impact on the statements includes information relating to the Groups risk management Groups reported results.
The majority of the Groups transactions are policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
The Internal control and risk management section of the Corporate governance report on page 6 includes further information on the specific procedures designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2008 Directors report 01 Directors report continued Going concern Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set As indicated in the section above entitled Principal activity and out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
business review, details of the Groups activities, developments and performance are set out in the Annual Review and Summary Rights and obligations attaching to shares Financial Statement.
In addition, information relating to the financial Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts as defined in the performance, financial position and cash flows of the Group is set out Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and without in the Financial review on pages 17 to 19 of the Annual Review and prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company Summary Financial Statement.
Note 13 to the consolidated financial may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights statements includes the details of the Groups debt profile, capital and restrictions as set out in such resolution.
Subject to the provisions management policy, treasury policies and controls, hedging activities of the Companies Acts and of any resolution of the Company passed and financial instruments and its policies and exposures to liquidity, pursuant thereto, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks.
as defined in the Articles and the Board may allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons and on such terms and The Group continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows conditions and at such times as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share to ensure that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the requirements in the short, medium and long term and, in order rights attached to any class may be varied or abrogated either with the to do so, arranges a mixture of borrowings from different sources.
written consent of the holders of three quarters of the issued shares of At 31 December 2008 the Group had net debt of 870.7 million the class excluding treasury shares or by special resolution passed and undrawn committed facilities of 242.1 million.
Of this net debt, at a separate general meeting of such holders.
Subject to the rights 34.7 million matures within one year and the existing committed attached to any existing shares, rights attached to shares will be facilities have sufficient headroom to cover this repayment.
The next deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid up on the shares maturity of the Groups committed facilities is not due until December and by the allotment of further shares ranking in priority in respect of 2010 and thereafter the facilities will mature at various times over dividend or capital or which confer on the holders more favourable the period up to May 2018.
The Group is highly cash generative voting rights than the first-mentioned shares, but will not otherwise and its cash flows have historically been strong, converting 92% of the be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares.
operating profit before intangible amortisation into operating cash flow in 2008.
Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is Power to issue and allot shares monitored on a monthly basis and sensitivity analyses using various The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants the authority granted at the 2008 Annual General Meeting to allot and net debt.
During 2008 all covenants have been complied with unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount and based on current forecasts it is expected that such covenants of 35.5 million.
A further authority was granted to the directors will continue to be complied with for the foreseeable future.
to allot the Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of approximately 5.2 million, without regard to the The Group has sufficient financial resources, a well established, pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts.
No such shares fragmented customer base, strong supplier relationships and a diverse have been issued or allotted under these authorities, nor is there geographic presence.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the any current intention to do so, other than under the Companys Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite employee share schemes.
the current uncertain economic outlook.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek similar expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in authorities this year.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors believe it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going Restrictions on transfer of shares concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the Dividends Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject An interim dividend of 6.45p was paid in respect of the year and to the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the the directors recommend a final dividend of 14.15p per share, making Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
Dividend details are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subject to Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply confirmation by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to register 13 May 2009, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2009 to those an instrument of transfer of a certificated share unless it is: shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 May 2009. lodged, duly stamped, at the offices of the Companys registrars Share capital or such other place as the Board may specify and is accompanied The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other 1 ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect of evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, of the transferor to make the transfer: are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, following the deregistration of the Companys American in respect of only one class of shares: and Depositary Receipts from the Securities and Exchange Commission during 2007, the Company has entered into a Level 1 American in favour of not more than four transferees.
Depositary Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon under which the Companys shares are traded on the over the counter market in the form of American Depositary shares.
02 Directors report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2008 In addition, no instrument of transfer shall be registered if the transferor determined by those who have been longest in office since they were has been served with a disenfranchisement notice as defined in the last elected or, if they were elected on the same day, those to retire Articles after failure to provide the Company with information will be determined by lot.
The Board may also appoint a person concerning certain interests in the Companys shares required to be willing to act as a director during the year either to fill a vacancy or provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to as an additional director.
However such appointee shall only hold the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
Registration of a office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and shall transfer of shares may also be refused in the case of uncertificated not be taken into account in determining the directors who are to retire shares in the circumstances set out in the regulations governing the by rotation.
The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred shareholders.
The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers by the Companies Acts, the Company may also by special resolution of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
remove a director from office before the expiration of his period of office under the Articles.
Restrictions on voting rights A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class The office of a director shall also be vacated if: meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum then payable in respect of their shares remains unpaid.
Currently, all he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of the issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled Companies Acts or pursuant to the Articles or he becomes to vote if he has been served with a disenfranchisement notice after prohibited by law from being a director: failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the he becomes bankrupt or enters into any arrangement or composition Companies Acts.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
with his creditors generally: The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before he is or may be suffering from mental ill health and he is either a poll is taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was admitted to hospital or a court order is made appointing a person demanded or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded to exercise powers with respect to his property or affairs: if the poll is not taken straight away but is taken not more than 48 hours after it was demanded.
he resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all the other directors who are not less than three in number: or Bunzl Group Employee Benefit Trust Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General he is absent without permission from Board meetings for a period Employee Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in respect of of six months and the Board resolves that his office be vacated.
employee share options and awards that have not been exercised or vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in All of the current directors served throughout the year.
Mr A J Habgood, respect of these shares.
The trustee has agreed to receive a nominal Mr B M May, Mr C A Banks and Mr P W Johnson retire by rotation at dividend of 0.001p per share on dividend payments on shares held the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles and the within the EBT.
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 18 Combined Code and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
to the consolidated financial statements.
Biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 16 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Purchase of own shares At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 20 to the authority to purchase a maximum of 32,650,000 ordinary shares.
None of the directors was materially During the year ended 31 December 2008 the Company did not interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2008.
Information authority granted at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and no shares relating to the directors service agreements and their remuneration have been purchased between 31 December 2008 and 23 February for the year and details of the directors share options under the 2009.
The total number of ordinary shares currently held in treasury Companys share option schemes and awards under the Long Term is 23,325,000.
The Company is therefore currently authorised to Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out buy back 32,650,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing in the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 59. shareholders authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to Powers of the directors seek a similar authority this year.
Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Company by Directors special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or Board who may exercise all powers of the Company.
The Board may, appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the minimum number by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or persons to of directors shall be two and there shall be no maximum number.
be the agent or agents of the Company for such purposes and on such At every Annual General Meeting of the Company a minimum of one conditions as the Board determines.
third of the directors shall retire and, assuming they wish to stand, offer themselves for re-election.
The directors to retire will be those who held office at the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at either of them.
If the number of directors so retiring is less than the minimum number required to retire, additional directors up to that number will also retire.
The additional directors to retire will be Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2008 Directors report 03 Directors report continued Directors indemnities Contractual arrangements As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company in support of its business activities, none of which are considered Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of individually to be essential to its business and, accordingly, it has not subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the been considered necessary for an understanding of the development, Articles in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the performance or position of the Groups business to disclose information execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or about any of those third parties.
officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Creditor payment policy Amendment of Articles Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these of the Companys shareholders.
The directors propose to make some terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with amendments to the Articles at the 2009 Annual General Meeting, them provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and details of which are set out in a separate letter from the Chairman conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers to shareholders.
outstanding at the end of the year was 31 2007: 30.
Employment policies Donations The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet During 2008, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which Group contributed 200,000 to UK charities 2007: 200,000. they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
No contributions were made for political purposes.
The Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects its employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees Annual General Meeting in the performance of the business in which they are employed and The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment.
In addition to a Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 13 May 2009 quarterly magazine and the Companys intranet, which provide a variety at 11.00 am.
The notice convening the Meeting is set out in a separate of information on activities and developments within the Group and letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains the items of incorporate interim and annual financial reports, announcements are special business.
periodically circulated to give details of corporate and staff matters together with a number of subsidiary or business area publications External auditors dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as rehabilitation and training.
a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Substantial shareholdings that information.
As at 23 February 2009 the directors had been notified by the following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance of the issued share capital of the Company.
The notifications listed with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. below are those which have been most recently received for the named shareholders.
A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Date of Number % of issued Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
Shareholder notification of shares share capital P N Hussey INVESCO plc 02.12.08 35,988,548 11.0 Secretary Baillie Gifford & Co 22.01.07 23,363,699 6.9 23 February 2009 Legal & General Group Plc 05.11.07 13,110,980 4.0 Newton Investment Pages 1 to 4 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been Management Ltd 25.07.08 13,113,028 4.0 drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon Aviva plc 27.11.08 12,734,494 3.9 applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and Significant agreements restrictions provided by such law.
The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different counterparties, The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and the all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the Directors Report and Accounts contain certain statements about same form and are prepayable at the option of the lender in the event the future outlook for the Group.
Although the Company believes of a change of control of the Company.
Similar change of control that the expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, any provisions in relation to the Company are included in the syndicated statements about future outlook may be influenced by factors that bank loan and the 2008 US dollar bond which have been entered could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different.
into by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and are also guaranteed by the Company.
04 Directors report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2008
