Summary directors report Principal activity and business review Dividends Annual General Meeting The principal activity of the Group is providing An interim dividend of 6.45p was paid in The Annual General Meeting will be held at value-added distribution and outsourcing respect of the year and the directors recommend The Park Suite, The Dorchester, Park Lane, services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
a final dividend of 14.15p, making a total for the London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 13 May 2009 Details of the Groups activities, developments year of 20.6p.
This compares with 18.7p for the at 11.00 am.
The notice convening the Meeting and performance for the year, the main trends year ended 31 December 2007. is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman and factors likely to affect its future development to shareholders which explains the items of and performance and information which fulfils Corporate governance special business.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 The Company is committed to high standards relating to the production of a business review of corporate governance.
The Company External auditors are set out in the Chairmans statement, the confirms that it has complied throughout 2008 A resolution is to be proposed at the Chief Executives review, the Financial review with the provisions of the Combined Code on forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the and the Corporate social responsibility report on Corporate Governance.
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors pages 4 to 15 and 17 to 23 and in the section of the Company at a rate of remuneration to entitled Principal risks and uncertainties set out Directors indemnities be determined by the directors.
in the full Directors report included within the As at the date of this report, indemnities Directors Report and Accounts.
are in force under which the Company has P N Hussey agreed to indemnify the directors and the Secretary Going concern Company Secretary, in addition to other senior 23 February 2009 The directors, having made appropriate executives who are directors of subsidiaries enquiries, have a reasonable expectation of the Company, to the extent permitted by that the Group has adequate resources to law and the Articles in respect of all losses continue in operational existence for the arising out of or in connection with the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the execution of their powers, duties and directors believe it is appropriate to continue responsibilities as a director or officer of to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Internal control Purchase of own shares The directors acknowledge that they have During the year ended 31 December 2008 overall responsibility for the Groups system the Company did not purchase any of its own of internal control and for reviewing its shares pursuant to the shareholder authorities effectiveness.
However, such a system is granted at the 2007 and 2008 Annual General designed to manage rather than eliminate the Meetings.
As at 23 February 2009 the Company risk of failure to achieve business objectives held a total of 23,325,000 shares in treasury.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Directors misstatement or loss.
In accordance with All of the current directors served throughout the Turnbull guidance the Company has the year.
Mr A J Habgood, Mr B M May, established the procedures necessary to Mr C A Banks and Mr P W Johnson retire ensure that there is an ongoing process for by rotation at the Annual General Meeting identifying, evaluating and managing significant in accordance with the Companys Articles risks to the Group.
The directors confirm that of Association and the Combined Code on such procedures have been in place for the Corporate Governance and, being eligible, offer year ended 31 December 2008 and up to the themselves for re-election.
Biographical details date of approval of these financial statements of the current directors are set out on page 16. and have been reviewed during the year.
Directors interests in ordinary shares are The directors also confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of shown in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in the Directors Report and internal control in operation during 2008.
None of the directors was materially interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2008.
24 Summary directors report Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008
