DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their Annual Report together with the The separate circular to shareholders incorporating the audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2008.
Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out why the Board believes these directors should be re-elected.
Principal activities Details of the directors service agreements are given in the The Group designs, sources, manufactures and distributes Report on Directors Remuneration and related matters on luxury mens, womens and childrenswear and non-apparel pages 84 to 93. accessories globally through its own retail stores, concessions and wholesale customers.
Burberry also Directors share interests licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute Interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 2008 products using the Burberry trademarks.
in the shares of the Company are shown within the Report Business review on Directors Remuneration and related matters on page 92.
There were no changes to these interests between Burberry Group plc is required to set out in this report a the period 31 March 2008 and 27 May 2008. fair view of the business of the Group during the year to 31 March 2008 and a description of the principal risks and Capital structure uncertainties facing the Group.
The Group Overview and Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together Strategy sections on pages 10 to 47 and the Business with details of movements in the issued share capital of and Financial Review on pages 50 to 65 report on the Burberry Group plc during the year are shown in note 22 activities and results for the year and give an indication which is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of the Companys future developments.
The Corporate of this report.
Responsibility report on pages 69 to 73 and a description The Company has one class of ordinary share which of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 66 to 68 which, when taken together carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the with the sections of the Annual Report referred to above, right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The fulfil the requirements of the Business Review and are ordinary shares are listed on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
incorporated by reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
It is proposed that the Companys authorised but unissued Revenue and profit preference shares will be cancelled, subject to the approval of shareholders at this years Annual General Revenue during the period amounted to 995.4m Meeting, as they are no longer required.
The attributable profit for the year is 135.2m 2007: 110.2m and has been transferred During the financial year, the Company repurchased and to reserves.
subsequently cancelled 6,198,167 ordinary shares at an aggregate cost of 39.6m.
This represented 1.4% of the Dividends shares in issue at the beginning of the year.
These share The directors recommend a final dividend of 8.65p per buy backs form part of the Groups ongoing policy of ordinary share 2007: 7.625p in respect of the year to returning cash to shareholders where funds are not 31 March 2008 be paid on 31 July 2008 to those persons required for investment in the business.
on the Register of Members as at 4 July 2008.
In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company An interim dividend of 3.35p per ordinary share was paid proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary to shareholders on 31 January 2008.
This will make a shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2007, to total dividend of 12.0p per ordinary share.
The dividends repurchase up to just under 10% of its issued share capital paid and recommended in respect of the year to as at 27 May 2008.
Further details are provided in the 31 March 2008 total 37.4m.
separate circular to shareholders incorporating the Notice Directors of this years Annual General Meeting.
The names and biographical details of the directors holding There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding office at the date of this report are set out on page 75 and nor on the transfer of shares which are both governed by are incorporated by reference into this report.
the general provisions of the Articles of Association and Rose Marie Bravo ceased to serve as a director of the prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any Company with effect from 1 July 2007. agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, Philip Bowman and or voting rights.
Stacey Cartwright will retire by rotation in accordance with Article 81 of the Articles of Association and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
76 110 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Details of employee share schemes are set out in note The Company made no political donations during the 27.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all year in line with its policy.
In keeping with the Companys dividends payable by the Company in respect of the approach in prior years, shareholder approval is being ordinary shares held by it.
In addition the Burberry Group sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as plc SIP Trust has waived all dividends payable by the a precautionary measure, for the Company and its Company in respect of the unappropriated ordinary subsidiaries, to make donations and or incur expenditure shares held by it.
which may be construed as political by the wide definition of that term included in the relevant legislation.
Further The total dividends waived in the year to 31 March 2008 details are provided in the separate circular to shareholders were in aggregate 282,052 2007: 385,196. incorporating the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
No person has any special rights of control over the Valuation of properties Companys share capital and all issued shares are Based on a valuation report prepared by Colliers Conrad fully paid.
Ritblat Erdman, dated 16 May 2006, the existing use value With regard to the appointment and replacement of of Burberrys nine most significant freehold properties is directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of 136.9m based on closing exchange rates at 31 March Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts 2008.
This valuation is higher than the net book value of and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may these assets.
be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Employment policies Substantial shareholdings Equal opportunities As at 27 May 2008, the Company had been notified of The Group is committed to ensuring the consistent the following interests in the Companys ordinary shares in profitable growth of its business and a policy of equal accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: opportunity in employment is integral to this commitment.
The aims of the Groups policy are to ensure that the Number of % of Total Ordinary Shares Voting Rights most capable job applicants are recruited and the most competent employees in the Group progress.
All Schroders Plc 36,760,709 8.33% employees will receive fair and equal treatment irrespective Capital Research and of sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, marital status, age, Management Company 22,839,300 5.28% religion, disability and sexual orientation.
In the situation Blackrock Inc 22,221,172 5.09% where an employee becomes disabled, the Group will JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99% endeavour to assist the employee by adapting the job Franklin Resources Inc or by offering a transfer to another position if appropriate.
and affiliates 21,980,778 4.98% Health and safety Legal and General Group plc 21,357,820 4.93% The Group has a health and safety policy approved by FMR Corp 18,315,823 4.16% the Board and a Worldwide Health and Safety Committee Viking Global Investors 16,930,400 3.90% which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
In the year to 31 March 2008, there were 14 accidents Interests in own shares in the UK reportable under the UK RIDDOR legislation Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Broadly, this covers Charitable and political donations those accidents resulting in more than three days absence During the year to 31 March 2008, the Group committed from work: the RIDDOR accident rate for our UK business 1.0. m for the benefit of charitable causes, of which was 0.39 per 100,000 hours worked.
0.4m 2007: 0.2m was donated during the year.
Further information regarding the Groups employment Further information regarding the charitable donations policies are provided in the Corporate Responsibility made during the year are contained in the Corporate Report on pages 69 to 73.
Responsibility Report on pages 69 to 73.
The Group will be focusing more closely on its charitable activity through Employee involvement the Burberry Foundation, a charitable trust which was Employee communication established during the year.
The Group believes that employee communication is important in building strong relationships with, and in motivating, employees.
The Group makes use of various 77 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED methods, all of which are implemented globally, including Angela Ahrendts.
In circumstances of change of control, quarterly business updates, face-to-face briefings, open Angela Ahrendts may terminate her employment.
Her discussion forums with senior management, regular letters entitlement in respect of remuneration is set out on from the Chief Executive Officer to employees, email and page 86 of the Report on Directors Remuneration and a corporate intranet to ensure that matters of interest related matters where Burberry terminates her service and importance are conveyed to employees quickly and agreement in circumstances where the Remuneration effectively.
In addition, an Annual Review highlighting the Committee determines that Angela Ahrendts performance Groups performance and its ongoing strategic initiatives does not meet the financial expectations of the Board is sent to all operational managers worldwide.
Employee share ownership Copies of the executive directors service contracts are The Group recognises the importance of good available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
relationships with employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes and share ownership schemes for the benefit of Auditors employees.
Further details of these schemes are set out in In accordance with section 234ZA of the Companies Act the Report on Directors Remuneration and related matters 1985, each of the Companys directors in office as at the on pages 84 to 93.
Employees in the UK, Germany, Hong date of this report confirms that: Kong, Italy, Korea, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan and the US have access to all-employee share plan arrangements.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors Further details on the Groups approach to employee are unaware involvement and communications are provided in the he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 69 to 73. to have taken as a director in order to make himself or Financial Instruments herself aware of any relevant audit information and to The Groups financial risk management objectives establish that the Companys auditors are aware of and policies are set out within note 26 to the financial that information statements on pages 127 to 129.
Note 26 also details The Groups auditors are  LLP.
the Groups exposure to foreign exchange, price, A resolution to re-appoint  LLP interest, credit and liquidity risks.
as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Creditor payment policy forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
For all trade creditors, it is policy to: Note 5 in the financial statements states the auditors fees agree and confirm the terms of payment at the both for audit and non-audit work.
commencement of business with that supplier Annual General Meeting pay in accordance with contractual and other legal The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held obligations at the British Academy of Film & Television Arts, 195 continually review the payment procedures and liaise Piccadilly, London W1J 9LN commencing at 9.30 am on with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties Thursday, 17 July 2008.
The Notice of this years Annual and maintaining a good working relationship General Meeting is included in the separate circular to shareholders.
The Notice is available to view under the The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2008 Shareholder Information section of the Companys website 2007: nil.
Change of control Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the By order of the Board directors disclose that in the event of a change of control in the Company, the Groups 200m Revolving Credit Michael Mahony Facility dated 30 March 2005 could become repayable.
General Counsel and Secretary 27 May 2008 The remuneration and contractual arrangements for the executive directors and senior management do not contain Registered Office: any matters that are required to be disclosed under the EU 18-22 Haymarket Takeovers Directive other than the service agreement of London SW1Y 4DQ 78 110 BURBERRY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
