LEVERAGING THE FRANCHISE FRONT-END OPPORTUNITIES Through more coordinated use of brand assets Rebalancing the product portfolio.
Burberrys and greater integration of its organisation around renowned Prorsum runway collection continued the globe, Burberry has the opportunity to enhance to lead the reshaping of the product pyramid.
consumer responsiveness and operate more Prorsum sales nearly doubled during the year.
The potential remains As the highest expression of the brand, Prorsum at both the front end of the business, as well as also led the way to design innovation throughout in back-of-house operations.
The front end comprises everything the consumer Reinforcing outerwear heritage and leadership.
sees products, marketing imagery, and stores.
Rooted in the iconic trench coat, outerwear Key initiatives include: is the brand defining category.
To maintain its leadership, Burberry concentrates on design Capitalising on unique positioning.
Burberry is innovation, category segmentation and supply uniquely positioned.
No other brand within the chain specialisation.
In 2007 08 the launch of luxury sector enjoys a comparable platform: Burberry Sport added another dimension to approach to the consumer, product breadth the outerwear offering.
Day after day, year after year, management seeks to capitalise on the opportunities inherent in this positioning.
Aspirational marketing supports all strategies.
In 2007 08 Burberrys consumer communication was restructured for greater clarity and reach.
Burberry now consistently delivers the full seasonal expression of the brand to targeted consumers throughout all mediums: runway fashion, modern classic style, casual lifestyle across outerwear, apparel and non-apparel categories.
Total underlying revenue growth 2007 08 18% 18 LEVERAGING THE FRANCHISE BACK-OF-HOUSE OPPORTUNITIES Back-of-house operations comprise the infrastructure Global licences and administrative elements that the consumer never Global licences remain a key component in leveraging sees, but are required to produce Burberrys creative the Burberry franchise.
These relationships extend front end.
the brand into important consumer categories which require the specialised expertise of licensing partners.
Historically, Burberrys organisation has been highly In eyewear, a new sun and optical business was decentralised.
In 2007 08 the Group continued rolled out across the globe.
The second half of the to integrate, streamline and simplify the structure year saw the successful global launch of Burberry and processes, creating a more effective and The Beat, a new womens fragrance.
Burberry continued to elevate and strengthen central functions in supply chain including sourcing, quality assurance and control, distribution, customer service, planning and procurement.
External expertise was added where required, while internal talent was realigned to support and leverage.
In Europe, the Group combined the retail and wholesale businesses, creating a single integrated unit better able to capitalise on the opportunities presented by the region.
In Asia, Burberry largely completed the integration of a regional unit from a legacy of individual country operations.
At the same time, key functional expertise was added across the regions to support continued excellence in execution of core strategies.
20 INTENSIFYING NON-APPAREL DEVELOPMENT Intensify, focus on and invest in non-apparel categories.
Shoe sales more than doubled in the year.
Investment in design and technical product expertise While non-apparel was Burberrys fastest growing along with supply chain functions, in combination product segment in 2007 08, this business continues with consistent focus on development across the to offer substantial room for growth.
In product product pyramid, continued to drive the growth of categories, such as shoes, small leather goods and this category.
belts Burberrys presence is small relative to the total market.
Non-apparel provides the opportunity to Increased marketing focus.
Non-apparel categories further leverage Burberrys unique positioning, continued to receive marketing and PR focus design and merchandising expertise and iconic via prominence on the runway, editorial priority branding.
The Group is intensifying its focus on and heightened presence in global advertising these categories through investment in product campaigns.
In spring 2008, iconic merchandise development, marketing and supply chain.
benefited from renewed marketing emphasis.
In 2007 08, Burberry continued to horse logo build the luxury assortment in handbags with this pyramid tier accounting for over 40% of handbag sales in its own stores.
The offering continues to attract new luxury fashion consumers to the brand.
At the same time, modern inspirations continued to re-energise and elevate core handbag programmes.
In 2007, Burberry appeared among the top ten handbag brands on the Luxury Institutes list of brands named by luxury customers.
Underlying non-apparel revenue growth 2007 08 39% 26 ACCELERATING RETAIL-LED GROWTH Retail-led growth refers not only to the operation of Looking to the retail stores, we remain focused on: Burberrys own stores, but also to a fundamental shift Enhancing store productivity.
Through balanced in the Groups operating culture.
Burberry continues assortments, compelling visual presentations, to move from a relatively static, traditional, wholesale improved sales and service and engaging structure to a more dynamic, retail culture and marketing we look to drive traffic, increase mindset.
This more consumer-centric, responsive conversion and build average transaction size.
organisation is having a positive impact on directly Comparable store sales increased 8% in 2007 08. operated stores, franchise partners, wholesale Accelerating new store openings.
This includes customers and licensing partners worldwide.
department store concessions, flagships in new, Centrally, we continue to work on: high-demographic markets, and additional stores Efficient collections.
Re-orientating design and in new and proven markets.
The Group opened merchandising toward more style efficient and net 76 stores during the year.
Developing and testing retail concepts.
Increasing the frequency of new Burberry began testing a new smaller format store goods flowing to stores.
concept featuring a largely non-apparel assortment of core accessories, shoes and outerwear.
Developing a more extensive E-commerce, still a relatively new business for replenishment programme.
Burberry, now extends to 26 European countries.
Improving the accuracy of Upgrade store image.
The Group continues to scheduled product deliveries.
renovate high profile locations worldwide with a brighter, modern, aesthetic and more efficient and productive design concept.
Underlying retail revenue growth 2007 08 20% 32 INVESTING IN UNDER-PENETRATED MARKETS For Burberry, under-penetrated markets consist of In emerging consumer economies, Burberry both developed markets like the U. S. and emerging works with local partners who possess the specific economies, including China, India, the Middle East knowledge and resources required to develop the and Russia.
The Group utilises all three of its brand in their respective regions.
In the Middle East, distribution channels retail, wholesale and licensing for example, Burberry has franchised retail and to optimise its approach to these opportunities.
wholesale distribution for the UAE, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia since 2004.
This has resulted in a North America continues to present rich growth highly successful operation with eight stores and prospects.
Ongoing efforts with key department and 27% revenue growth in 2007 08. specialty stores customers combined with rapidly expanding retail operations net eight stores added drove over 20% underlying sales growth in the North American market in 2007 08.
The addition of regional product merchandising, sales and store expertise has underpinned this growth and provided a platform for the future.
Number of stores in emerging markets as at March 2008 79 38 PURSUING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Burberry continues to pursue its goal to be Design.
Continued style reduction to improve recognised as much for operational expertise sourcing efficiency, order fulfilment and as for product and marketing excellence.
Project Atlas a programme to redesign Burberrys Merchandising.
Ongoing effort to build a more business processes and information systems dynamic and extensive replenishment programme remains the key enabler as the Group seeks to across retail and wholesale.
operate more efficiently and effectively.
Implementation of an integrated global successfully completed SAP deployment in core sourcing strategy and requisite organisation.
central functions in 2007 08, the project moves Logistics and distribution.
Development of a to regional implementation in 2008 09.
This global logistics strategy, including transition investment benefits every aspect of the business to a global carrier programme and regional from product design to retail operations to distribution hub configuration.
During the year, Burberry has also finalised While Atlas operates on a global scale, Burberry specification and design of its new Horseferry House continues to enhance excellence within headquarters which will allow consolidation of individual functions: corporate and central functions currently partitioned among five separate locations in London.
Relocation is planned for late autumn 2008.
Retail and wholesale gross margin 2007 08 58.5% UP 160 BASIS POINTS 44
