16 Management review independent fiduciary services Results Pensions Independent fiduciary services income fell by 1.0% The need, and consequent demand, for our pension and net underlying income by 6.1%.
Profit before tax trusteeship services remains strong.
Our income for fell by 16.6% from 10.1 million to 8.4 million.
The 2008 was slightly below 2007 levels, when the fall in profit is a result of the non-recurrence of extreme level of corporate activity affecting the special fees earned in 2007 and the reduction in the sponsors of pension schemes led to unprecedented number of corporate transactions in the second half demands on pension scheme trustees.
Revenue return per share fell by 5.0% from We won a number of new appointments, however, 5.63p to 5.35p, as 2007 was adversely affected by reflecting the growing appreciation by schemes of a prior year tax adjustment.
the value that a professional independent trustee can bring.
New appointments included the Lloyds Corporate trusts TSB Group and Mitchells & Butlers Pension Although the international capital markets had a Schemes.
difficult year, certain high profile investment grade borrowers were still able to access the bond We appointed three new members to our team with market.
We were appointed by Anglo American, strong commercial and financial experience.
This Aviva, British American Tobacco, BP, Centrica, reflects our confidence for the potential demand for Cadbury Schweppes, GlaxoSmithKline and National our services, and our determination to maintain and Grid, and towards the end of the year as trustee on enhance our strong capability and reputation.
new bond issues for Lloyds TSB, Nationwide and the Royal Bank of Scotland, all of which were Corporate services guaranteed by the UK Government.
Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited has two income streams.
The first is our long established Law Debentures recognised independence and and highly regarded service of process business.
ability to handle more complex deals is widely This saw a significant down turn in new recognised in the market.
Hence we were involved in appointments in the second half of the year as the the recommended bid by EDF Energy for British global economic situation reduced the number of Energy.
The offer to the British Energy shareholders corporate transactions.
We continue to accept involved an innovative structure as shareholders appointments through our offices in London, New were offered either cash or a mixture of cash and York, Delaware, the Channel Islands and Hong Kong, contingent value rights instruments, which will pay virtually 24 hours a day.
out sums over the next ten years linked to energy prices.
Law Debenture was selected to act as Our second income stream derives from the trustee of the contingent value rights instruments.
provision of corporate services corporate directors, company secretary, accounting and incorporations It was an active year for established trusts.
Actions service for Special Purpose Vehicles SPVs.
continued in relation to the Polish company, Although structured finance markets experienced a Elektrim, with a further substantial distribution being traumatic year, with very few new issues, we made to bondholders in 2008.
Additional work provided services for covered bond issues by continues to arise as a result of the credit crunch.
Standard Life and Newcastle Building Society.
Treasury management Appointments were secured from sectors other Treasury management provides trust cash than securitisation structured finance.
For example, management, custody and administration services appointments to manage SPVs for real property in relation to various corporate trust, employee holding structures and PFI projects, and for capital benefit schemes and retention plans, project raising initiatives by companies in central and financing and escrow and administration eastern Europe.
The corporate services department arrangements.
2008 was a difficult year for operates independently of the trust business and treasury management departments generally, but provides services whether or not Law Debenture we managed the consequences of the banking has a trustee role.
sector difficulties without mishap and were able to grow the escrow business.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 17 Structured finance administration Law Debenture Corporate Services Inc. had a strong We managed to secure a number of new first half of the year, but saw reduced transaction appointments, despite the collapse of the structured volumes in the second half of 2008. finance market.
The general mistrust of opaque structures with strong ratings has resulted in a Hong Kong greater focus on third party administration and Hong Kong experienced a notable slowdown in M&A verification roles with a transparent approach to activity in late 2008.
However, corporate activity on reporting.
These are our core strengths and as a a smaller scale has continued, thereby mitigating the result, In 2008 we were appointed as fund impact of the slowing economy on our escrow administrator for Whistlejacket in receivership business.
Falling share prices led more companies Limited, a structured investment vehicle in the to adopt employee share trusts in 2008, in some process of being restructured, and as collateral cases as replacements for share option schemes administrator for Gresham V, a CLO issue.
that had gone out of the money and this created opportunities for us, including an appointment by Safecall Tradelink Electronic Commerce Limited.
The service Safecall increased its client base during the year as of process business made a significant contribution more and more organisations appreciated the added to the business during the year.
value an external whistleblowing service provides.
Mainland China continues to be an attractive The increased level of fraud, driven by the economic destination for external operators and we expect an downturn, has helped raise the demand for increasing role for our niche services in China over independent confidential reporting and we are well the coming year.
placed to capitalise on this.
New appointments included Provident Financial, Taylor Wimpey, Channel Islands Metronet, Max Petroleum, Dominos Pizzas, Man The global credit crunch has resulted in a significant Group and Severn Trent.
fall in new business enquiries.
However we were involved as trustee in considering a number of Overseas matters arising on some of our existing transactions United States which have resulted in additional work for us.
Law Debenture Trust Company of New York continued to expand its presence as a premier Cayman Islands provider of corporate trust service in the United Law Debenture Cayman is a registered trust States.
While performance was down against 2007, company which provides a useful location for when there were exceptional levels of bankruptcy offshore transactions.
settlement fees, towards the end of 2008 we were appointed as trustee, administration and paying Caroline Banszky agent for the Common Fund for Short Term Investments.
The Common Fund is a Non-Profit Organization, which provides investment and financial services to over 990 colleges and universities.
At the time of the appointment the portfolio held over $4 billion of assets.
Other noteworthy appointments included successor trustee, registrar and paying agent for GlaxoSmithKline Capital Inc. Univision Communications Inc. and British Telecommunications plc.
Trustee appointments included Clear Channel Communications, Stillwater Mining Company, Pacific Life Global Funding, and Nielsen Finance LLC.
We were also named as trustee for Fosse 2008 - 1 Alliance Leicester and serve on the creditors committee of Washington Mutual Inc. www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
