The board 5 Douglas McDougall OBE John Kay Chairman Non-executive director Chairman of The Independent Investment Trust plc, Appointed to the board in September 2004.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC and Scottish Business economist, writer and broadcaster.
Visiting Investment Trust plc and a director of The Monks Professor at the London School of Economics.
Investment Trust plc, Pacific Horizon Investment Founded London Economics, Britains largest Trust plc and Herald Investment Trust plc.
Director of joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co, Scottish Mortgage Trust plc and Value and Income investment managers, and former chairman of Trust plc.
IMRO, of the Association of Investment Trust He writes a weekly column for the Financial Times, Companies and of the Fund Managers Association.
and is a member of the Scottish Governments Joined the board in 1998, becoming chairman in Council of Economic Advisers.
Chairman of the remuneration and nomination committee and member of the remuneration and committees and a member of the audit committee.
Caroline Banszky Robert Williams Managing director Non-executive director Appointed to the board in January 2002.
Former A former partner of Linklaters, specialising in chief operating officer of SVB Holdings PLC, a international finance.
Lloyds listed integrated vehicle, and former finance Member of the LDC Trust Management Limited director of N. M. Rothschild & Sons Limited.
Part time executive director until 31 December 2004, thereafter non-executive.
Armel Cates Non-executive director A former partner of Clifford Chance and appointed to the board in February 2001.
Wide experience of capital markets transactions including medium term note programmes, securitisations and repackagings.
Director of Fatburen Investment BV and of  Trustee Company.
A member of the remuneration, nomination and audit committees and chairman of the LDC Trust Management Limited board.
Investment manager James Henderson Joined Henderson Global Investors in 1983 and has been an investment trust portfolio manager since 1990, managing Lowland Investment Company plc since then and Henderson Opportunities Trust plc since January 2006.
He first became involved in the management of Law Debentures portfolio in 1994 and took over sole management of the portfolio in June 2003. www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
