20 Directors report continued Investment policy movements on both capital and income account, The Corporations investment policy is as follows: subject again to prior authorisation of the board.
Stock lending, trading in suspended shares and The Corporation carries on its business as a global short positions are not permitted.
Its objective is set out in the business review.
The aim is to achieve a higher The Corporations investment activities are subject rate of total return than the FTSE Actuaries All-Share to the following limitations and restrictions: Index through investing in a portfolio diversified both No investment may be made which raises the geographically and by industry.
aggregate value of the largest 20 holdings, To achieve this, investments are selected on the excluding investments in OEICs, to more than 40% basis of what appears most attractive in the of the Corporations portfolio, including cash.
The conditions of the time.
This approach means that value of a new acquisition in any one company there is no obligation to hold shares in any particular may not exceed 5% of total portfolio value type of company, industry or geographical location.
including cash at the time the investment is The independent fiduciary services businesses do made, further additions shall not cause a single not form part of the investment portfolio and are holding to exceed 5%, and board approval must outwith this policy.
be sought to retain a holding, should its value increase above the 5% limit.
The Corporations portfolio will typically contain between 70 and 150 listed investments.
TheThe Corporation applies a ceiling on effective portfolio is widely diversified both by industrial gearing of 150%.
While effective gearing will be sector and geographic location of investments in employed in a typical range of 90% to 120%, the order to spread investment risk.
board retains the ability to reduce equity exposure to below 90% if deemed appropriate.
Whilst performance is measured against local and UK indices, the composition of these indices doesThe Corporation may not make investments in not influence the construction of the portfolio.
As a respect of which there is unlimited liability.
consequence, it is expected that the Corporations The Corporation has a policy not to invest more investment portfolio and performance will deviate than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed from the comparator indices.
Because the Corporations assets are invested internationally and without regard to the composition Investment policy implementation of indices, there are no restrictions on maximum or During the year, the assets of the Corporation were minimum stakes in particular regions or industry invested in accordance with the investment policy.
However, such stakes are monitored in A full list of holdings is disclosed on pages 14 and detail by the board at each board meeting in order 15 and detailed analyses of the spread of to ensure that sufficient diversification is maintained.
investments by geographic region and industry Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with sector are shown on pages 11 to 13.
NAV relative the aim of improving returns to shareholders.
The performance against the FTSE All-Share Index is policy on gearing is to assume only that level of shown on page 3. gearing which balances risk with the objective of The top 20 holdings excluding the Henderson increasing the return to shareholders.
In pursuit of OEICs comprise 37.1% of the total portfolio its investment objective, investments may be held in, 2007: 35.3%.
inter alia, equity shares, fixed interest securities, interests in limited liability partnerships, cash and The extent to which the Corporations objective has liquid assets.
Derivatives may be used but only with been achieved, and how the investment policy was the prior authorisation of the board.
Investment in implemented, are described in the chairmans such instruments for trading purposes is proscribed.
statement on pages 6 and 7 and the investment It is permissible to hedge against currency managers review on pages 8 and 9.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 21 Investments are selected on the basis of what board supports, is set out in the notice of annual appears most attractive in the conditions of the general meeting, along with a statement in each time.
The Corporation will not pay unrealistically high case of why the candidate is supported.
Mr. Williams prices but hopes to be able to buy growth shares on will not be seeking re-election and stands down after reasonable terms.
There is no obligation to hold 15 years of service.
shares in any particular type of company or industry The board is appointing a new non-executive director or market, the aim is to find the best value in a with effect from 1 March 2009.
Christopher Smith diversified portfolio, and to achieve a better return was until 31 December 2008, a Managing Director - than the FTSE All-Share Index by good stock picking.
Corporate Finance at JPMorgan Cazenove.
He has In the long term, return on equities should exceed over 30 years experience in corporate finance and the cost of our long term borrowing.
equity capital markets and will be a valuable addition to the board.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks of the Corporation relate to its No director has a service contract with any member investment activities and include market price risk, of the group in excess of one year or was materially foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, interested in any other contract with any member of and credit risk.
These are explained in note 19 to the group.
During the year, liability insurance was the accounts.
maintained for the benefit of directors and other officers.
The principal risks of the independent fiduciary services business arise during the course of Directors shareholdings defaults, potential defaults and restructurings where Beneficial interests as at 31 December 2008 2007 we have been appointed to provide services.
To C. J. Banszky 75,342 47,139 mitigate these risks we work closely with our legal A. C. Cates 35,580 35,458 advisers and, where appropriate, financial advisers, J.
A. Kay 10,000 5,000 both in the set up phase to ensure that we have as D. C. P. McDougall 410,000 410,000 many protections as practicable, and at all other R. J. Williams 110,392 95,308 stages whether or not there is a danger of default.
The beneficial interest of James Henderson at Revenue, dividends and reserves 31 December 2008 was 50,000.
The revenue return attributable to shareholders No director has a beneficial interest in the shares of for the year ended 31 December 2008 was any subsidiary company.
The directors recommend a final in directors interests since 31 December 2008. dividend of 8.0p per share, which together with the interim dividend of 4.2p paid in September 2008, Directors conflicts of interests will produce a total of 12.2p 2007: 12.0p.
The The Corporations Articles of Association were final dividend will be paid on 22 April 2009 to amended last year to comply with the Companies holders on the register on the record date of Act 2006 requirement that impose a statutory duty 13 March 2009.
After deduction of the interim and on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
The board proposed final dividends of 14,306,000 2007: has in place appropriate procedures to deal with 14,051,000, consolidated revenue reserves conflicts and potential conflicts, including an annual increased by 3,942,000 2007: increase of review, and those procedures are operating 2,605,000. effectively.
Each director has declared all matters that might give rise to a potential conflict of interest Directors and these have been considered and approved by All the directors on page 5 held office throughout the board.
The board has decided that, effective from the 2009 Regulatory compliance AGM, all directors will be required to stand for reThe Corporation is subject to continuing obligations election every year.
The list of candidates, which the applicable to listed companies, overseen by the UK www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 22 Directors report continued Listing Authority UKLA, which is a division of the The Corporation will not hold shares in companies Financial Services Authority.
One company in the whose ethical and environmental practices are in its group, The Law Debenture Trust Corporation p. l. c. view likely to damage the performance of the is regulated in the conduct of a limited range of business to the detriment of its shareholders.
The directors receive periodic reports from the compliance officer about Repurchase of shares its conduct.
During the year, the Corporation did not repurchase any of its shares for cancellation.
It The Money Laundering Regulations 2007 have intends to seek shareholder approval to renew its required some of the Corporations independent powers to repurchase shares for cancellation up to fiduciary services businesses to be registered for 14.99% of the Corporations issued share capital, compliance by HMRC and the Managing Director is if circumstances are appropriate.
responsible for supervising compliance, which is managed on a day to day basis by the Money Shares may be issued in accordance with the Laundering Reporting Officer.
articles of association see AGM resolution 11.
Law Debentures responsibilities as an Substantial shareholdings and share information institutional shareholder As at 27 February 2009, there were no The Corporations policy is as follows: shareholders that had notified the Corporation of an interest in 3% or more of the issued share capital.
Law Debenture will normally support incumbent Share information as required by section 992 of the management and, where practicable, vote in favour Companies Act 2006 appears at page 67.
Unless of resolutions proposed by the boards of companies expressly stated the Corporation has no disclosure in which it has a shareholding, but reserves the right to make under that section.
to vote against management where appropriate.
The board determines the Corporations investment Shareholder relations strategy but does not issue express instructions to The Corporation encourages communication the investment manager on transactions in between the management and shareholders on particular shares.
Where Law Debenture believes matters of mutual interest.
All shareholders receive that incumbent management is failing in its duties, a copy of the annual report and the interim Law Debenture or on its behalf, the Corporations statement, and the Corporation also provides this investment manager may attempt to enter into service to shareholders in nominee companies dialogue with the company concerned in an where the nominee has made appropriate attempt to alter the managements position.
The shareholders wishing to receive reports and other communications electronically Where this is not possible, or where incumbent may do so by writing to the Corporation.
management declines to alter its behaviour, Law Debenture will consider voting against resolutions Employee participation proposed by the management.
Employees are informed of the financial aspects of Henderson, on Law Debentures behalf, monitors the groups performance through periodic companies in which Law Debenture is invested, and management meetings.
Copies of the annual from time to time may discuss matters of corporate report and the interim statement are made governance with such companies.
The Henderson available to all employees.
Details of the general corporate governance unit will notify Law bonus scheme are contained in the remuneration Debentures investment manager, who in turn will report on page 31.
The Corporation has since notify Law Debenture, should matters arise that 1992 operated SAYE schemes in which all UK fullmight lead the Corporation to consider intervening, time employees are eligible to participate after abstaining or voting against a particular proposal.
com 23 Options outstanding under the SAYE schemes at The Corporation holds no shares in members of the 31 December 2008 were: HHG Group, the parent company of Henderson: it has been notified that funds managed by members Number of Shares Exercise Date of grant option holders under option price of the HHG Group held 342,969 shares in the Corporation at 31 December 2008.
22 May 2008 37 115,271 314.24p Payment of suppliers From 1993 to 2004, the Corporation operated The group is committed to seeking the best terms Executive Share Option Schemes, which enabled possible for all types of business and hence there is executives to be granted options to acquire shares in no single policy as to the terms used.
Options granted under the scheme suppliers, the average credit period is 30 days.
are normally exercisable between the third and tenth Special arrangements exist for suppliers of certain anniversaries of the option grant date.
For options legal services, where the group charges these costs granted from 1998 onwards, such exercise was to its clients.
contingent upon targets for the independent fiduciary services business being achieved.
Following a board decision in 2005 to discontinue the scheme and Auditors replace it with a Deferred Share Bonus Plan, no During the year, the directors decided that in further options have been granted and total options accordance with corporate governance best outstanding at 31 December 2008 were as follows: practice, it being six years since the appointment of PKF UK LLP as auditors, it would be Number of Shares Exercise Date of grant option holders under option price appropriate to put the audit to tender.
PKF decided not to participate in the process and 2 August 2002 1 17,025 211.5p accordingly resigned as auditors.
Following the 28 March 2003 15 196,066 174.4p tender process, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP were 2 March 2004 11 84,467 228.2p appointed as the Corporations auditors.
Investment management Statement of directors responsibilities in Henderson is responsible for the management of relation to the financial statements the investment portfolio.
Henderson is fully aware The directors are responsible for keeping proper of the Corporations investment policy and provides accounting records which disclose with reasonable a cost competitive service.
Consequently the accuracy at any time the financial position of the directors believe that the continuing appointment company, for safeguarding the assets of the of Henderson is in the best interests of company, for taking reasonable steps for the shareholders.
The agreement does not cover prevention and detection of fraud and other custody or the preparation of data associated with irregularities and for the preparation of a directors investment performance, which are outsourced, or report and directors remuneration report which record keeping, which is maintained by the comply with the requirements of the Companies Corporation.
Fees paid to Henderson in the year Acts.
amounted to 945,000 2007: 931,000 and are The directors are responsible for preparing the based on 0.25% per annum of the average annual report and the financial statements in portfolio value, excluding cash.
The underlying accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The management fee of 1% on the Corporations directors are also required to prepare financial holdings in the Henderson Japanese and Pacific statements for the group in accordance with OEICs has been rebated.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 24 Directors report continued International Financial Reporting Standards as Statement of information given to auditors adopted by the European Union IFRSs and Article 4 The directors have confirmed that so far as they are of the IAS Regulation.
The directors have chosen to aware, there is no relevant audit information of prepare financial statements for the Corporation in which the Corporations auditors are unaware, and accordance with IFRSs.
that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make International Accounting Standard 1 requires that themselves aware of any relevant audit information financial statements present fairly for each financial and to establish that the Corporations auditors are year the Corporations financial position, financial aware of that information.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, Directors responsibility statement pursuant other events and conditions in accordance with the to DTR4 definitions and recognition criteria for assets, The directors confirm to the best of their liabilities, income and expenses set out in the knowledge: International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of The group financial statements have been prepared financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a in accordance with International Financial Reporting fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs all applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and give a true the directors to: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group.
consistently select and apply appropriate accounting policies: The annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and present information, including accounting policies, the position of the group and parent company, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, together with a description of the principal risks comparable and understandable information: and and uncertainties that they face.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is Auditors insufficient to enable users to understand the A resolution to appoint BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as impact of particular transactions, other events auditors to the Corporation will be proposed at the and conditions on the entitys financial position annual general meeting.
Financial statements are published on the groups By order of the board website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited dissemination of financial statements, which may Secretary vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The 27 February 2009 maintenance and integrity of the groups website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
