Directors report 2008 19 The directors present their report and the audited and performance of the group are: net asset value financial statements for the year ended 31 December total return per share: the discount or premium in 2008.
The Corporation retains its status as an share price to net asset value: and the cost of running investment trust and has been treated by HM Revenue the portfolio as a percentage of its value.
The net & Customs HMRC and approved as such for the asset value total return combines the total return on year ended 31 December 2007, the latest year for the portfolio and the earnings of the independent which financial statements have been submitted.
approval for the year ended 2007 is subject to there The net asset value performance is included in the being no subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax chairmans statement and the premium or discount Self Assessment.
In the opinion of the directors, the to net asset value and cost of running the portfolio Corporation has subsequently conducted its affairs so are given within the 10 year record.
as to enable it to obtain section 842 approval under the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1985.
The The outlook for the investment portfolio is described Corporation, which as far as the directors are in the investment managers report.
The independent aware is not a close company, is registered as an fiduciary services businesses may be adversely investment company as defined in section 833 of affected by the difficult market conditions that will the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
The recession has curbed The directors consider that the group operates as a activity in some of the markets where the going concern.
businesses operate and it will be difficult to maintain revenues at the levels reached in recent years.
The In August 2002, all of the Corporations ordinary Managing Director and her team will continue to shares of 25p were split into five ordinary shares seek new opportunities wherever possible.
Wherever share price data is shown which relates to a period before August 2002, the price Law Debenture considers that none of its trading has been restated to reflect the share split.
activities has a negative environmental impact beyond the consumption of energy to service its offices.
Business review The groups employees are provided with a modern, This part of the report has been expanded this year comfortable working environment which complies to comply with the requirements of the Companies with all relevant safety regulations.
Employees Act 2006. receive a range of benefits designed to promote The group divides into two distinct complementary good health including health insurance, medicals, areas of business.
The Corporation is a global etc.
Independent confidential helpline facilities are investment trust, its portfolio of investments being provided to enable employees to deal with issues managed by Henderson Global Investors Limited of concern to them, whether work related or Henderson.
As a result of these measures, and activities are corporate trusts, treasury senior managements open style, staff turnover is management, pension trusts, corporate services extremely low less than 10% per annum.
including agent for service of process, structured The group does not support social and community finance administration and whistle blowing services.
initiatives, its offices being based in non-residential The services are provided by wholly owned financial districts.
subsidiaries of the Corporation with offices in London, Sunderland, New York, Delaware, Hong The board is required to give information about Kong, the Channel Islands and the Cayman Islands.
persons with whom Law Debenture has contractual or other arrangements that are essential to the The Corporations objective for the investment trust is business of the group.
In the view of the board, the to achieve long term capital growth in real terms and only contract that is essential is that in place with steadily increasing income.
The directors consider a Henderson, details of which are given elsewhere in number of performance measures to assess the the directors report.
groups success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators used to measure the progress www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
