8 Investment managers review Background Investment approach The global banking crisis spread out of the financial Credit is often likened to the fuel in an engine.
When sector into all areas of the economy during 2008. the supply of it is interrupted continual problems The authorities in the US believed something needed occur.
As the portfolio manager I thought during the to be done but their plans altered and the scale of first part of the year that the credit problems were the problem was continually underestimated.
The spreads between corporate bonds and were criticised about the potential moral hazard of government stock were narrowing, which I took as saving investment banks, yet when they allowed an indication that the fuel was beginning to flow Lehman Brothers to go into administration the scale again.
The portfolio was positioned to benefit from of the problem massively escalated.
The UK banks, the resumption of lending and a reasonable level of with their global spread, were major sufferers and gearing was built up and holdings that would benefit failed in their attempts to raise enough new capital were added to.
Like the MPC my concern was more as the size of the losses expanded.
The Monetary about commodity prices and inflation rather than Policy Committee, while setting interest rate policy, realising how unsustainable the leverage had was for the first half of the year fighting the wrong become in major financial institutions.
The events of battle with inflation moving up as a result of the autumn with commodity prices and interest rates increased commodity prices.
The oil price doubled falling, yet economic activity contracting, clearly over a twelve month period.
The problems in the illustrated the mistake of this thinking.
The banking credit markets needed interest rates to fall but the exposure was reduced during the autumn and the authorities were watching with alarm as inflation focus changed to companies with sustainable rose.
The concerns over inflation were misplaced as franchises that will allow them to come through the the deflationary effects of the credit crunch were to current economic turbulence.
Western economies are now facing a significant recession and interest rates have been markedly reduced.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 9 The investment portfolio Outlook A protection in an uncertain investment climate is to The authorities are applying a great deal of have genuine diversity of activities within the monetary and fiscal stimulus to the economy.
On pages 14 and 15 all of the problem is that credit is not available in sufficient portfolio holdings are shown.
It illustrates the quantity to allow activity to stabilise.
However, within this are some underlying wanting to reduce their balance sheet exposures themes in the portfolio.
There is considerable and companies are responding by reducing stock exposure to industrial companies that are global levels, costs and capital expenditure plans so as to leaders.
The current downturn is showing the generate cash.
This trend will end when companies fundamental problems in the financial sector.
The see demand stabilise and the banks have confidence fallout from this is damaging the wider economy but in their capital adequacy.
The authorities action to in the medium term the drivers of global industrial increase public spending and cut interest rates will growth are in place, with the most important of result in the stabilisation of demand, while the banks these being the emergence of the dynamic capital raising will eventually lead to the return of economies of China, India and Brazil.
The industrial confidence that the equity cushion is sufficient.
companies servicing this future growth will benefit.
Demand will be further helped in the UK by the Examples in the portfolio that will benefit are depreciation of sterling.
UK goods and services are Caterpillar and Cummins in the US and GKN and looking increasingly cheap to overseas buyers.
The Weir in the UK, which will see demand for their lower prices of commodities and energy are products increase.
These companies have over the reducing costs for many UK companies, which will last year seen their share prices fall but should be help to offset the margin pressure of declining sales.
strong performers when economies stabilise.
Another area where the portfolio is well represented The portfolio has a modest level of gearing and is non life insurance.
These companies, unlike the consists of lowly valued companies, which will industrials, are benefiting from the tightness of benefit when confidence starts to improve.
credit and insurance underwriting profits are improving.
The companies in this area, Hiscox and Amlin, are coming through with strong James Henderson performance.
They bring diversification to the Henderson Global Investors Limited portfolio as they are on a different cycle to the economically sensitive holdings.
The smaller companies have experienced some of the worst share price falls.
For some this has been justified as their business models have not proved robust enough for the current economic climate.
However, a large element of the share price weakness has been the result of investors desire for liquidity leading to a significant fall in valuations.
When the results come through and investors see how these businesses have coped with the difficult economic conditions, there is considerable scope for substantial share price appreciation from this area of the portfolio.
The top 20 holdings by value at 31 December 2007 accounted for 44% of the investment portfolio.
