Our performance Risk Businesses Risk performed well in a tough environment.
We continue to diversify and innovate to improve product and service for our customers.
John Pollock Group Executive Director Risk Our Products Our Strengths Individual Protection Risk pricing and underwriting expertise.
Covers individuals or families against financial losses arising from defined events such as death, disability or Extensive database enables accurate statistical critical illness.
Group Risk Particular expertise in medical underwriting and Products which are designed for use by employers to offer mortality morbidity.
as a benefit to their employees.
They assume the risks and associated costs of an employee falling ill or dying while Technological investment facilitates interactive in employment.
underwriting and rapid data loading.
Annuities Economies of scale and administrative excellence.
Bought by people converting a lump sum often money saved in a pension scheme into a lifelong income.
Leading rapid intervention based Group Risk product enables corporate clients to secure faster returns to Bulk Purchase Annuities BPAs or Pension Buyouts work for sick employees.
BPAs are offered to companies wishing to transfer all or part of the responsibility and risk from company pension Synergies with LGIM facilitate pricing and execution schemes to an insurance company for a negotiated price.
of pension buyout and bulk annuity business.
General Insurance GI Wide ranging distribution through Independent Focusing on the household sector, we insure the fabric Financial Advisers IFAs, sole-tie business partners and of properties and their contents.
bank and building society partnerships.
Mortgage Club Mortgage Club drives Protection and GI by providing Our network of mortgage advisers provides a link with access to customers at point of sale.
mortgage lenders, sourcing mortgages for clients and facilitating sales of Protection and GI products.
24 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance 488m Risk: new business APE 2007: 428m Strategy in Action Our Performance 2008 2007 Our five strategic imperatives are applied across all business units.
The following illustrates them in action APE Contribution Margin APE Contribution Margin m m % m m % in the Risk division.
Protection 207 62 6.2 223 108 9.3 Imperative Activity Annuities individual 87 71 8.2 93 64 6.9 Financial Balance sheet strength gives pension bulk 194 138 7.1 112 123 10.9 Management trustees confidence to use us for buyouts.
Sub total 281 209 7.4 205 187 9.1 Total 488 271 7.1 428 295 9.2 Diversified Diversification to reduce reliance on From new business.
Business mortgage event for life sales.
High Quality Statistical database enables annuity Product, Broad pricing to better reflect actual Distribution longevity patterns.
A Positive Customer Rapid intervention secures early returns Experience to work for Group Risk claimants.
High Expectation Stringent underwriting quality reviews Culture drive improved reinsurance terms.
603 m Risk: IFRS operating loss profit 2007: 104m As outlined on page 10. www.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Our performance Risk Businesses Our Risk business assumes customers financial risks arising from defined events such as death, injury or household damage.
This includes annuities, which mitigate the risk of the individual exhausting their savings in old age.
Pricing and underwriting is based on rigorous statistical analysis of the probability of the defined event happening to the individual in question.
Risk products are distributed through four channels: The annuities business grew very strongly in 2008, Independent Financial Advisers, Bank and Building Society underpinned by a variety of factors including our Partnerships, direct distribution and Legal & Generals expertise in the new and fast growing pension buyout Mortgage Club, LGPSL.
Success in pension buyouts requires a combination of investment capability, which in our case is provided by Strategy in Action LGIM, and longevity expertise.
Our extensive longevity During 2008 we made significant progress in diversifying data is supplemented by an increasing focus on the science our product offering to rely less on traditional purchasing of mortality, where we work in conjunction with University events, notably mortgage sales, as the catalyst for sales College London.
Success in this market also requires the of Risk products.
administrative capability to service a large customer base.
Legal & Generals business model has enabled us to deliver 1 While mortgage approvals in the UK fell by 39%, sales of innovative products to fide-risk companies defined benefit Individual protection, historically often sold with mortgages, pension schemes.
This suggests our strategic pursuit of diversification has helped mitigate the effects of housing For the individual annuity customer, we rolled out postcode market weakness.
Our sales channels have stepped up the annuities in 2008 following our earlier successful trial.
marketing of Individual protection on a stand-alone basis, This enables us to tailor our pricing more closely to the with greater emphasis on alternative products, including circumstances of the customer.
We intend to extend key man cover, and family life products such as Family Life this concept of increasingly granular and tailored pricing Insurance Plan FLIP.
Legal & General is the UKs leading of Individual annuities further.
provider of Individual protection plans and we have built on this strong base by increasingly supplying products, During 2008 we delivered an increasingly positive customer including life assurance and critical illness cover, targeted experience.
Initiatives included more flexible treatment at High Net Worth customers.
of claims where there is an undisclosed condition.
We have worked with the Association of British Insurers ABI Further diversification was provided by a strong performance to develop industry guidance on assessing future Life and in Group risk, which had a very successful year, achieving Critical Illness Cover claims.
This has resulted in an good new business sales and strengthening its progressive improved understanding of customers reasons for failing to product range by introducing the innovative Premier fully disclose their medical history and a movement towards ONEderwriting service.
This allows clients to be underwritten targeted medical reports.
As a consequence, more claims are once only and replaces visits to the doctor with company settled on either a full or partial basis.
We have also worked medicals, tele-interviews, or examinations at home or work.
closely with industry bodies to address speed of payments.
Commitment to broader distribution and greater market penetration was evidenced by the adoption of a new key During 2008 we invested in the further development of account approach and increasing use of specialist and our employees.
Group risk is pioneering an industry-wide regional sales forces.
Service levels in Group risk improved training programme to ensure underwriters are fully aware further in 2008, with the business winning the Best Service of relevant medical advances.
In Individual protection Provider award from the industrys Cover magazine.
we conduct increasingly in-depth analysis of underwriting quality which in turn improves our underwriters knowledge 1 Bank of England data for the 11 month period to the end of November 2008, compared to the same period of 2007.
26 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance and skill.
Our focus on employees is balanced by continuing 2008 was a record year for BPAs, driven by explosive investment in processes to make the product more growth in the new market for pension buyouts in the first cost-effective and improve processing and response times.
The main growth was in the first half of 2008, as business volumes for large transactions, which are always We continued to make progress in our GI business during in any case sporadic, slowed during the latter part of the 2008.
This business, which is now focused on household year, reflecting greater uncertainty over asset prices.
insurance products, is in transformation, and in 2008 we made significant management changes to continue to drive Margins for annuity business Individual and BPA for the forward the change process.
This margin decline reflected the shorter duration of new business in 2008 versus previous Performance in 2008 years, an increased cost of capital and the requirement to Gross premiums for the Risk business were 3,978m increase provisions for future credit defaults.
We regard the annuities business as a spread business, Protection premiums Individual and Group protection where we earn an additional margin above that generated accounted for 1,090m of this total.
Present Value of New by the underlying assets backing the annuity book.
In 2008, Business Premiums PVNBP for protection Individual and earned interest margin for the annuity book was 101 basis Group was 1,005m 2007: 1,161m.
New business APE points bps, compared with 75bps in 2007.
This equates to for the protection business was 207m 2007: 223m.
an Internal Rate of Return of 15% 2007: 15%.
We have increased our reserves for credit defaults by 650m.
Individual protection total premiums were 783m 2007: 725m, an increase of 8%.
New business APE for Individual The General Insurance business reported sales of 296m, protection was 140m 2007: 160m.
The GI operating loss for 2008 was 2m 2007 operating loss: 67m.
The improvement reflects a Group protection total premiums were 307m 2007: 279m, year of fewer flood and other weather-related events, as well and new business APE was 67m 2007: 63m, an increase as increased efficiencies in the operation of the business.
The improvement in sales, achieved in a highly competitive market, reflects an ongoing Outlook focus on quality service.
The size of the opportunities in the annuity markets is unquestioned.
Our sales here are most likely to be limited Given the long term nature of the business, Legal & General by our risk appetite, rather than demand.
Our appetite is regards Embedded Value EV methodology as a useful dependent upon pricing, risk diversification and the supplementary means of measuring and managing protection availability of appropriate liquid asset markets.
In the latter business performance.
On the EV basis, the protection part of 2008 asset markets were very thin and volatile, business generated a new business margin of 6.2% and limiting our appetite for larger schemes.
There are some a cash payback after five years 2007: four years.
The signs of liquidity returning, however we remain committed continued downward pressure on margins was the result to pricing for all of these risks, even if it is at a cost to short of competitive market repricings, a reduction in the sum term volume.
Individual protection sales are expected to assured due to a decrease in mortgage levels and a higher stabilise in 2009, and while housing market activity remains cost of capital.
Legal & General, however, succeeded depressed, our broader product offering is supporting in achieving efficiency improvements and reductions in resilient application volumes.
Group protection has a great administration expenses.
opportunity to reinforce recent successes in 2009, as cost-effective employee benefits packages assume greater Annuity new business sales for 2008 were 281m on an importance in uncertain times.
We have leading products, APE basis 2007: 205m.
Individual annuity sales were excellent service standards, and a great reputation.
We 87m APE, a decrease of 6%, while Bulk Purchase Annuities intend to exploit these fully.
BPAs, including pension buyouts, were 194m APE, an increase of 73%.
The new business generated in annuities in 2008 equated to 2.8bn in new Assets Under Management AUM, bringing total AUM for the Annuities book to 17bn 2007: 16bn.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
