Our Group Our Key Performance Indicators Five measures of financial performance of the Group as a whole, helping us to evaluate progress towards our strategic imperatives.
23.6 08 28 08 07 13.3 07 34 23.6 % 28 % Return on Equity RoE Total Shareholder Return TSR 189 08 08 870 07 658 07 848 189 m 870m IFRS Operating Profit EEV Operating Profit We use other indicators to record progress elsewhere, including those pertaining to customers, employees and Corporate and Social Responsibility.
08 1.8 The assessment of our non-financial performance 07 4.1 1.8bn against these strategic imperatives is provided in the relevant business review.
Insurance Groups Directive IGD Surplus Return on Equity Total Shareholder Return TSR Definition: RoE measures the return earned by shareholders on shareholder capital Definition: TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of different retained within the business.
RoE is calculated as shareholders IFRS profit after tax companies stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share price appreciation divided by average IFRS shareholders funds.
and dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder.
The TSR shown is the change in share price over a three year performance period, plus the value Purpose: RoE provides a link between performance and balance sheet management of reinvested dividends, relative to the performance of all the other companies and ensures that an appropriate balance is maintained.
IFRS Operating Profit Purpose: TSR measures total return to shareholders over the medium term.
Definition: The Groups primary financial statements see Financial Statements are prepared on an International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis which all EU EEV Operating Profit listed companies are required to follow.
IFRS operating profit measures the pre-tax Definition: Legal & General provides supplementary financial statements prepared result using a smoothed longer term investment return.
Any variance between actual on the European Embedded Value EEV basis for long term insurance contracts and smoothed investment return is reported below operating profit along with see Supplementary Financial Statements.
The EEV basis provides an assessment the release of the 1996 Sub-fund.
For UK Risk and Savings, the operating profit will of the value which has been generated by the business during a period.
Operating comprise the profits and losses emerging from this business on an IFRS basis, adjusted profit on the EEV basis reports the change in embedded value in a period, but to include a longer term investment return on the Society shareholder assets held excludes fluctuations from assumed longer term investment return.
within the Society Shareholder Capital SSC.
Purpose: In the Boards opinion, EEV operating profit provides shareholders with a Purpose: IFRS operating profit gives an insight into the Groups ability to generate good understanding of the value which is being created on the Groups long term cash flows to support dividends during a period.
Insurance Groups Directive IGD Surplus Definition: The IGD surplus is an FSA regulatory measure which calculates surplus capital within the Group.
IGD surplus is defined as Group regulatory capital employed less the Group regulatory capital requirement.
Surplus capital held within our Society Long Term Fund cannot be included in the IGD definition of capital employed.
Purpose: IGD surplus is the Group level regulatory surplus capital measure.
IGD surplus is after payment of proposed dividend.
Figures extracted from draft unaudited regulatory returns.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11
