Our performance Investment management As one of the largest managers of assets in the UK, LGIM serves the interests of approximately 3,000 institutional clients, providing a wide range of products and a high quality of service.
Peter Chambers Chief Executive Officer, LGIM Our Products Our Strengths Index Funds LGIMs leading market position enables us to deliver LGIM currently has some 176bn of index funds under the benefits of economies of scale and excellent management 2007: 214bn.
Rather than making execution for both retail and institutional clients.
individual stock picks or particular weightings to certain sectors, index funds aim to replicate the return of an A wide range of index funds enables investors to equity-tracking or fixed income index.
gain exposure to equity, government and corporate fixed income markets across the globe.
Active Funds LGIM provides actively managed equity and fixed Rigorous market analysis and selection enables income funds which aim to produce a higher return active fund managers to invest in the securities and than the market over the medium to longer term.
sectors they believe offer superior investment opportunities.
Risk Management Solutions LGIM provides a range of derivative-based investment Technical skill and experience in the institutional approaches, such as Liability Driven Investment LDI pension fund market mean LGIM is well placed and equity risk management, aimed at helping pension to execute complex strategies for clients.
funds meet payments to members when they fall due.
Property LGIM is a significant investor in UK commercial property and is active as a landlord and in site developments on behalf of property fund investors.
32 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance 33.1bn New institutional funds 2007: 54.4bn Including one-off transfers of 20.3bn from clients of Hermes.
Strategy in Action Our Performance 2008 2007 Our five strategic imperatives are applied across all Total Funds business units.
The following illustrates them in action Under Management 264bn 297bn in the Investment management division.
Gross new funds 33.1bn 54.4bn Imperative Activity Fee-to-fund ratio 10.6bps 10.9bps Operating profit 165m 143m Financial LGIMs scalable business model displays LGIM and institutional investments in unit trusts.
Management high profitability, strong cash flow and high return on capital.
Diversified Expanding on UKs largest index tracking Business business to pursue opportunities in active fixed income and equities, risk management solutions and expansion of US operations.
High Quality Wide range of investment products Product, Broad spanning the full risk spectrum.
More than Distribution 75% of LGIMs FUM derived from outside of Legal & General Group, from more than 3,000 institutional clients.
A Positive Customer Scale and quality of execution are Experience key to client value for money and adviser recommendations.
Consistently rated highly by customer satisfaction surveys.
264bn High Expectation LGIM has a low cost fund management Culture model with a strong team based culture positive legacies of a historic emphasis Funds Under Management FUM on index fund management.
2007: 297bn Excludes institutional investments in unit trust funds.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Our performance Investment management Legal & General Investment Management LGIM has 264bn in funds under management 2007: 297bn.
LGIM is also one of the biggest investors in the UK stock market and is responsible for almost 5% of all London-listed equities on behalf of its customers.
LGIM is highly rated by its many institutional clients and A high proportion 2008: 81.1% of LGIMs business is their investment advisers for providing quality investment a result of existing customers choosing to invest further.
In the UK, LGIM is the market leader in the Providing a positive customer experience is important to provision of index funds to institutions, and has diversified the business model, and the fee structures adopted by significantly in recent years to also provide actively managed LGIM reflect this.
Competitive fee structures are one aspect products and risk management solutions.
of LGIMs success in attracting and retaining business however they are rarely the decisive factor in winning Strategy in Action mandates.
Good execution for example, the ability to During 2008, LGIM built further on the successful growth shadow any of a range of indices accurately while keeping which it has enjoyed over the last two decades.
Today, it is trading costs to a minimum and efficiency in processing one of the UKs largest index tracking investors, attracting settlements and a commitment to customer service new and repeat business as a result of its efficient operating are important factors in providing the positive customer model and an ability to deliver a straightforward, well-priced, experience which ensures good customer retention scalable product which has minimal capacity to disappoint.
While enjoying the largest share of the UK index tracking LGIM brings important synergy benefits to the Group.
The market, LGIM has recognised for several years that there is basis of much of Legal & Generals Savings product suite a benefit to diversifying its offering.
Since the 1980s LGIM is founded on the wide range of unitised investments made has pursued opportunities in the active fixed income and available by LGIM.
This means individual investors have equity sectors.
However, with the decision to widen the access to the same fund management expertise as the UKs strategy in scalable products in 2006 it has grown its actively largest institutions.
Pension buyout transactions involve a managed funds significantly.
Active funds now account for particular combination of expertise in mortality risk pricing 25% of total Funds Under Management FUM.
and investment management, and as such, this is an area where there is close collaboration between LGIM and the Diversification has also extended internationally.
LGIM established a North American office in Chicago.
As a major investor in fixed income securities, this improved the LGIM has a strong performance culture, which benefits companys access to the US bond markets.
The US presence from a successful combination of high technical expertise was expanded in 2008, as selective new hires added to and strong team collaboration.
Together with LGIMs LGIMs expertise in North American markets.
size and scale, this gives the companys investment managers a competitive advantage in regards to market A clear distinction is made between active and index access and trading technology platforms, in turn allowing investment approaches.
The index business provides them to offer clients innovative investment and risk investors with a market return at low cost, while LGIMs management solutions.
active funds offer a robust, research driven investment approach for a competitive price.
34 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance 264bn Funds Under Management 2007: 297bn Performance in 2008 In 2008, LGIM attracted 30.9bn in new fund inflows 2007: 52.6bn.
This is in line with our run-rate for new funds over GOVERNANCE IN ACTION the last 10 years, with over 1bn inflows per month.
Numbers in 2007 were higher due to exceptional transfers of 20.3bn from clients of Hermes in 2007.
Legal & General Investment Management takes its responsibilities as a shareholder very seriously.
Client retention remained strong in 2008.
Fund outflows These include taking an active role in ensuring were 20.8bn, including 1.9bn, or 12% withdrawn for the that investee companies adhere to good practice planned payment of pensions an additional 1.7bn, or 11% in corporate governance and deal with social, of outflows related to annuity buyouts.
Aggregate funds ethical and environmental issues appropriately.
under management of 264bn were lower at the end of the This is based on the belief that good governance year, reflecting market movements.
contributes to the sustainability of investee companies, enabling them to deliver better LGIMs fee to fund ratio was down year-on-year, and the returns to investors, with lower risk, over time.
LGIMs profit on the IFRS basis was 172m 2007: 147m.
LGIMs governance approach is solely focused on protecting shareholders interests.
Since many LGIM is strongly cash-generative.
Its dividend, paid to of our investments are held as part of an indexLegal & General Group Plc in 2008, was 128m, an increase tracking mandate, individual stocks cannot be of 80% 2007: 71m.
sold or assigned a reduced weighting.
Instead, if we see a potential problem emerging in an Outlook investee company, our approach is to work with We anticipate continued demand from institutional investors that company to ensure the best interests of its for LGIM products in these uncertain times.
Our institutional shareholders are maintained.
To achieve this, fund management business has an extremely strong we engage in dialogue with the company and if balance sheet and does not rely on Group resources for our differences are not reconciled, we will follow its capitalisation or performance.
up with a vote which reinforces our position at the companys Annual General Meeting.
During the course of 2008, LGIM held 133 meetings with company chairmen and non-executive directors on a variety of governance issues.
Our approach is steered by our adherence to the Combined Code of Corporate Governance and by the ABIs Principles for Social, Ethical and Environmental investment.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35
