Our performance International Our current International businesses are located in the United States, France, the Netherlands and Egypt.
We are in the process of establishing new joint ventures in India and the Gulf States.
Gareth Hoskin Group International Director Our Performance Strategy in Action 2008 Our five strategic imperatives are applied across all APE New IFRS business units.
The following illustrates them in action Business Operating in the International division.
Margin Profit m m m US 51 6.3 39 Imperative Activity Netherlands 29 3.1 6 Financial Selective growth strategy carefully France 39 0.5 14 Management targets new capital investment, utilising the full weight of Legal & Generals Total 119 3.6 59 financial strength.
Diversified Broadening our international portfolio 2007 Business into high-growth emerging markets provides diversification from our mature APE New IFRS Business Operating Savings and Risk businesses.
Margin Profit m m m High Quality Our international businesses are based Product, Broad on market leading product transparency US 45 7.3 59 Distribution and value for money.
Netherlands 27 2.5 11 France 44 2.4 16 A Positive Customer Selling suitable, quality products that are fit Experience for purpose to meet our customers needs.
Total 116 4.1 86 High Expectation From High Net Worth markets in America, Culture France and the Netherlands to our Indian and Gulf partnerships, all require the highest quality delivery and service.
119m International APE 2007: 116m As outlined on page 10.
36 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance What We Do In 2008, good progress was made in executing our Our established subsidiaries in the United States, France and International strategy.
Two new joint ventures were initiated the Netherlands operate in Legal & Generals core Risk and in important markets: India and the Gulf.
These successful businesses aim to lead in chosen sectors that are for the most part targeting high net During 2008, agreements were signed with a leading worth individuals.
regional banking group in the Gulf, Ahli United Bank AUB, to partner us in forming a Gulf joint venture In the US our strong Individual protection business is insurance company.
This is now formed and licences for built on expertise in mortality risk pricing, underwriting both Takaful and Conventional Insurance have been gained.
and the ability to serve specialist distribution Based in Bahrain, the business will initially provide modern Legal & General France has built a successful Group Savings and Protection products to AUBs customers in risk business and a retail savings business, that Bahrain, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait, before eventually pioneered transparent single-charge, savings products expanding to the wider Gulf region.
In the Netherlands, we have built a business which is successful in both individual savings and risk Also during 2008, we reached agreement to form an Indian markets, and enjoys a strong reputation amongst insurance joint venture company with our Indian partners, broker distributors.
Bank of Baroda and Andhra Bank, who between them have over 40 million customers and 4,000 branches nationally.
Strategy in Action Initial licence applications have been submitted and work Our strategy is to balance mature existing domestic and has commenced to build the operation.
international businesses with selective participation in the fast growing middle class wealth of the emerging Performance in 2008 savings markets.
Total International new business sales of 119m APE were marginally up from the prior year 2007: 116m.
Sales grew To date our approach has focused on: in the US in both sterling and US dollar terms.
APE sales Selection of preferred emerging regions, based on in the Netherlands were slightly lower in local currency terms criteria including economic growth potential, political at 36m 2007: 38m, but currency factors translated this to and regulatory stability, and developing long term a slight increase to 29m 2007: 27m on a sterling basis.
In savings markets with low existing penetration of France, APE sales fell from 63m in 2007 to 50m, equivalent insurance products to a reduction from 42m in 2007 to 33m for 2008.
Availability of suitable bancassurance partners with strong local distribution and brand, and the potential Margins in America 6.3% compared with 7.3% in 2007 to provide scale reflected short term expense and mortality experience that Low cost of entry based upon a green field joint was worse than expected offsetting improved contributions venture approach.
In France margins were 0.5% compared with 2.4% in 2007, where new business margins fell as a By building new business partnerships in key regions result of the reduction in savings volumes.
Margins, however, commensurate with our core skills and capabilities, we will rose in the Netherlands 2.5% in 2007 to 3.1% in 2008. extract the value of synergies with our core UK business and build medium term value.
This will mean combining Total International operating profit in sterling terms was 59m our skills and experience of low cost, value for money 2007: 86m on the IFRS basis, and 100m 2007: 136m bancassurance models with the exclusive distribution on the EEV basis.
of strong local bank partners.
Our aim is to establish a sustainable alternative to the higher cost agency distribution Outlook model which is still prevalent in emerging markets.
The outlook for our mature international businesses remains difficult.
However, we are optimistic about progress in Our Egyptian joint venture proves this model in a market building our two new joint venture operations in partnership of 55 million people by delivering both profit and returns with AUB and Bank of Baroda and Andhra Bank respectively.
to plan in what is now the biggest Egyptian insurer.
With a We will continue to seek similar new opportunities.
high quality platform this business is ready to achieve scale.
Includes Retail Investment as per tables.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37
