Our performance Board of Directors 3 1 2 11 6 5 4 9 7 8 10 48 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
Sir Rob Margetts CBe, Chairman, Aged 62.
Mark Gregory, Group Executive Director Savings, Rob was appointed as a non-executive director in June 1996 and Aged 45.
Mark was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
He is also Chairman of Ensus Limited, joined Legal & General in 1998.
Since then he has held a variety of Ordnance Survey and Energy Technologies Institute and a divisional finance director roles and has served as Group Financial non-executive director of Anglo American plc, Falck Renewables Controller, Communications and Resources Director, Resources Plc and Neochimiki SA and Trustee of the Council for Industry and and International Director and UK Service Operations Director.
Higher Education and the Brain Research Trust.
Former roles Since 2006, he has been Managing Director, With-profits.
Prior to include: Chairman of BOC Group Plc, Chairman of the Natural joining Legal & General, he had worked in senior financial and Environment Research Council and Vice Chairman of ICI Plc.
business development roles at companies including Kingfisher Plc nC, RC and ASDA.
Tim Breedon, Group Chief Executive, Aged 51.
John pollock, Group Executive Director Protection Tim was promoted to Group Chief Executive in January 2006 & Annuities, Aged 50.
John was appointed to the Board in from Deputy Group Chief Executive.
He joined the Board as December 2003, having joined Legal & General in 1980.
Former Group Director Investments in January 2002, having joined roles include: Director, UK Operations, Managing Director, Legal Legal & General in 1987.
Tim is also a director of the Association & General Asia and various posts in Customer Services and IT.
Former roles include: Managing Director GRCC, GCC, GiRC Index Funds and Director Index Funds.
Henry Staunton, Independent non-executive director, Aged 60.
Henry was appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Andrew palmer, Group Director Finance, Aged 55. is also a non-executive director of Ladbrokes Plc, Merchants Trust Andrew was appointed to the Board in January 1996, having Plc and Standard Bank PLC.
Former roles include: Finance Director joined Legal & General in 1988.
Andrew is a non-executive of ITV Plc and Granada Group PLC: Chairman of Ashtead Group director and Chairman of the Audit Committee for SEGRO Plc, Plc and non-executive director of EMAP Plc, Independent Chairman of the Association of British Insurers ABI Financial Television News Limited and Vector Hospitality Plc.
AC, nC Regulation and Taxation Committee and of the ABIs Financial Reporting Committee.
Former roles include: Group Director 10.
James Strachan, Independent non-executive director, Corporate Business and Group Director Services.
James was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
GCC, CCC, GiRC, iMRC, ORAC James is also a Member of the Court of Directors of the Bank of England, a non-executive director of Care UK Plc, Welsh Water 4.
Frances Heaton, Independent non-executive director, Limited, Sarasin and Partners LLP and Social Finance Limited as Aged 64.
Frances was appointed to the Board in July 2001. well as being a visiting fellow at the London School of Economics.
Frances is also a non-executive director of Jupiter Primadona Former roles include: Chairman of the Audit Commission, Growth Trust Plc and BMT Limited.
She is Chairman of the Managing Director of Merrill Lynch and Chairman of RNID.
Former roles include: non-executive AC, nC, RC director AWG PLC, member of the Court of Directors of the Bank of England: Deputy Chairman of WS Atkins plc and executive 11.
Sir David Walker, Vice Chairman and senior director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
AC, nC independent non-executive director, Aged 69.
David was appointed to the Board in March 2002.
Rudy Markham, Independent non-executive director, include: Chairman and Chief Executive of Morgan Stanley Aged 63.
Rudy was appointed to the Board in October 2006.
& Co International Limited: executive director of the Bank of Rudy is a non-executive director of Standard Chartered PLC and is England: Chairman of the London Investment Banking Chair of its Audit and Risk Committee.
He is also a non-executive Association: Chairman of the Securities and Investments director of AstraZeneca PLC, the Financial Reporting Council, Board and Deputy Chairman of Lloyds Bank Plc.
nC, RC Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust and United Parcel Key to Committee Memberships Service Inc. Former roles include: Chief Financial Officer, Director GRCC Group Risk and Compliance Committee of Strategy and Technology and Treasurer of Unilever Plc: Chair and AC Audit Committee CEO of Unilever Japan, Chair of Unilever Australia.
AC, nC, RC CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Committee nC Nominations Committee RC Remuneration Committee 6.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz, Independent non-executive GCC Group Capital Committee director, Aged 70.
Ronaldo was appointed to the Board in CCC Group Counterparty Credit Committee October 2000.
Ronaldo is also a non-executive director of GiRC Group Insurance Risk Committee iMRC Group Investment and Market Risk Committee GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Rohm & Haas Company, Cabot Corporation ORAC Group Operational Risk Assessment Committee and Sick AG.
Former roles include executive director of Deutsche Bank AG.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 49
