Our Group Market Overview We supported government intervention in the banking sector and the provision of increased liquidity, but as After a decade of rapid a major bank shareholder we have raised concerns about compensation in cases of nationalisation, pre-emption rights growth in financial markets, and dividend policy.
While we also support the Financial 2008 proved a year of reckoning.
Services Compensation Scheme FSCS, we have made clear our reservations about allocating insurers capital to Problems in wholesale banking compensate depositors in failed banks through the markets led to dramatic credit proposed general retail pool.
tightening, liquidity shortage Despite industry submissions, the 2008 Budget did not and severe asset price volatility.
mitigate the negative effects on investment bonds of the governments changes to the Capital Gains Tax regime.
Concerns over bank capital and Accordingly, we made further representations, including a solvency in turn undermined Legal & General Pre Budget Report submission, stressing the need for greater stability in the taxation of long term savings.
confidence in the global and UK financial systems.
We continued to work closely with the Department of Work and Pensions DWP during the passage of the Pensions Bill, and were encouraged by successful moves to ensure equal Industry and Markets Financial Life Cycle of Our Clients In the wake of this crisis of credit and confidence, we are in economic recession in the UK, with lower business profitability, falling house prices, rising unemployment Personal wealth Retirement and deteriorating public finances.
Our product range is designed to reflect the risk, savings and investment needs of our Legal & General and the broader insurance sector suffered customers at various key stages Index substantial share price falls during 2008 as confidence tracking of their lives.
We make a wide Income funds Unit drawdown in financial services, and particularly in banks, declined, range of products available trusts and there is now a renewed focus on the solvency and to protect families against the and bonds financial effects of bereavement, capital strength for all financial institutions.
In this context Annuities Life illness and other unfortunate Converts your pension fund it is worth emphasising the significant differences between and into a regular income a policy events and to protect the fabric critical that provides the security of an banks and UK life insurance companies: income for life.
We illness cover Insurers are providers, not consumers, of liquidity provide a range of products Generally, insurers are not highly leveraged, and are which enable people to save Household Pensions for the medium and long term, insurance not generally proprietary traders Provides financial either individually or through Insurance regulations require a strong capital base protection employer schemes, and to build against building with sufficient reserves to meet redemptions.
Policies and contents funds which provide a secure damage.
are generally of relatively long duration, with penalties income in retirement.
These ISAs for early redemption.
include both With-profit and non profit products.
This combination of a conservative business model and Retirement Pension schemes are one strong prudential supervision reflects Legal & Generals Mortgage form of saving for retirement.
protection There are several different own preferred approach to the stewardship of our types of scheme.
Regulatory and Political Environment Wealth accumulation phase Retirement income phase Legal & General engaged with the Financial Services Authority FSA and government policy-makers on a variety of issues during 2008.
08 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our Group treatment for Personal Accounts and existing workplace producers and consumers, reduces consumers costs pension schemes under European law.
and encourages long term saving and investment.
Legal & General has well developed policy positions on During the year, we responded to the FSAs Retail Distribution this and related topics, which we share regularly with Review RDR.
This will in time have an impact on how politicians of all parties, government officials, think tanks our products are sold to consumers.
Our RDR response was and other participants in the policy process.
one of 37 formal responses issued by Legal & General to Consultation Papers during the year.
Outlook The current financial crisis has created a need for closer At a European level, we remain concerned about aspects and more effective co-operation between the financial of the proposed Solvency II Directive and in particular services industry, government and the FSA.
We believe this the risk that a prescriptive capital regime for insurers will will be required in order to resolve detailed issues including reduce income for future annuitants.
We have shared these those arising from public sector stakes in banks.
Closer concerns directly with government and the FSA, as well engagement will also be required to tackle the broader as making our case through industry bodies including the challenges effectively: these include ensuring that any new Association of British Insurers ABI and the European regulatory initiatives are proportionate and effective and that Insurance CFO Forum.
the UK financial services industry has appropriate input to policies which affect the sector.
Legal & General will We believe that much work is still required to create a continue to engage with regulatory and government policyregulatory framework for retail financial services which making processes, both directly and through appropriate appropriately balances the rights and obligations of trade bodies.
Personal wealth Retirement Index tracking Income funds Unit drawdown trusts and bonds Annuities Life Converts your pension fund and into a regular income a policy critical that provides the security of an income for life.
illness cover Household Pensions insurance Provides financial protection against building and contents damage.
ISAs Retirement Pension schemes are one Mortgage form of saving for retirement.
protection There are several different types of scheme.
Wealth accumulation phase Retirement income phase www.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09
