Our Group Strategy of the Group Five strategic imperatives to deliver sustainable benefits for our customers, shareholders and employees.
1 Superior financial management 2 Diversified business Capital is a key ingredient for our business and effective We manage our portfolio of businesses to deliver Group capital management is an important objective.
We targets against our key metrics.
We scan the market have built a reputation as a low-cost manufacturer.
to identify new opportunities and investments to build As well as immediate margin enhancement, cost profitable returns.
leadership provides the agility to react to changing circumstances quickly.
3 High quality products and broad distribution 4 Positive customer experience Central to our business model is the maintenance of We recognise our customers are at the heart of diversified distribution capability.
The benefits of this our business and consequently work hard to develop strategy are that we are able to build scale in diversified relationships with our key customer segments and markets and maintain growth as distribution patterns distributors on mutually acceptable terms.
Together with this, we will produce products which deliver a positive financial experience for our existing offer demonstrable value to customers, distributors and customer base: treating our customers fairly and Legal & General, maintaining quality and ensuring meeting, or beating, the performance assumptions a stable stream of new business.
made in terms of persistency, cost, claims and mortality.
5 High expectation culture Our people are key to our continued long term success.
We aim to maintain a strong management team and continually to grow the breadth and depth of our management capability.
Our organisational culture already yields benefits in terms of engagement, behaviour, low turnover and cost, but we recognise the need to evolve in the current marketplace, injecting greater energy into the business to improve on our successes.
10 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
