Our performance Other Statutory and Regulatory Information Directors Articles of Association, including borrowing powers, Details of the current directors of Legal & General Group Plc delegation, appointment and removal of directors.
the Company, together with biographical notes, are shown in the Board of Directors section on pages 48 and 49.
Directors interests The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 58 to 69 Mark Gregory was appointed a director of the Company on provides details of the current incentive schemes, the 28 January 2009.
Kate Avery resigned as a director of the interests of directors in the share capital of the Company Company on 28 January 2009. and details of their share options and other long term incentives, including changes in directors share interests The director retiring by rotation at the 2009 Annual General between 1 January 2009 and 24 March 2009 being the Meeting AGM is Andrew Palmer who, being eligible, offers last practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of himself for re-election.
Mark Gregory has been appointed since the last AGM and, Share Capital being eligible, offers himself for election.
As at 31 December 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as The terms and conditions of appointment for the nonordinary shares each with a nominal value of 2.5p.
Details executive directors are available for inspection at the of the ordinary share capital can be found in Note 27 to Companys registered office and at the forthcoming AGM.
As executive directors, Andrew Palmer and Mark Gregory On 26 July 2007, the Company announced a 1bn share have a service contract which is terminable by each of them buyback programme.
As at 31 December 2008, a total of or the Company on receipt of no less than six months and 449,891,914 ordinary shares 2007: 241,207,267, each with twelve months written notice, respectively.
On termination a nominal value of 2.5p, were repurchased for cancellation.
Andrew Palmer and Mark Gregory would become entitled This represented 7.68% of the issued share capital as at 31 to six months and up to twelve months salary respectively, December 2008 2007: 3.83%.
The aggregate consideration in addition to payment of pension contributions and paid was 520m 523m including expenses 2007: 318m car allowance.
320m including expenses at an average price of 1.16 per share 2007: 1.32 per share.
Since the year end, and up If the directors are not re-elected at the AGM, their appointments to 24 March 2009, being the last practical date prior to the will terminate automatically with immediate effect.
publication of the Notice of the AGM no further ordinary shares were re-purchased for cancellation.
The Combined Code and the Companys Articles of Association require that any non-executive director who At the 2008 AGM, the Company was granted authority by has held office for more than nine years submits to annual shareholders to purchase up to 611,414,917 ordinary shares, re-election.
Sir Rob Margetts was first elected a director representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital in June 1996 and appointed Chairman in February 2000: as at 17 March 2008.
This authority will expire at the accordingly, he submits to annual re-election.
The Notice of forthcoming AGM: accordingly, Resolution 11 seeking the AGM explains the reason for the Board recommending shareholders approval to renew this authority is set out in his re-election.
Resolution 11 seeks to allow the Company to make a market purchase of up to 586,167,936 powers of Directors of its own ordinary shares representing 10% of the The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Companys issued share capital at 24 March 2009 being directors which may exercise all the powers of the Company the last practicable date prior to the publication of the subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Notice of the AGM.
Resolution 9 will, if approved, authorise Association, the provision of applicable statute and any the directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount directions given by the Company in a general meeting by of 48,358,855, being 33% of the total issued capital as at special resolution.
Specific provisions are contained in the 24 March 2009 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of the AGM.
44 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance Resolution 10, set out in the Notice of the AGM, will, if Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares approved by the shareholders, authorise the directors to issue The rights and obligations relating to the Companys further shares up to the equivalent of 5% of the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association: issued share capital as at 24 March 2009 being the last a copy can be obtained on request to the Company practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of the Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Changes to AGM for cash without offering the shares first to existing the Companys Articles of Association must be approved shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
A more detailed by special resolution of the Company in a general meeting.
explanatory note is set out in the Notice of the AGM.
It is not intended, without prior consultation with the Investment Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and Committee of the Association of British Insurers, to issue vote at general meetings.
On a show of hands at a general in this way more than 7.5% of the issued share capital in any meeting of the Company every member present in person rolling three year period.
The resolution will, if approved, or every proxy present who has been duly appointed by also authorise the directors to allot shares in connection with a member shall have one vote and on a poll every member a rights issue otherwise than strictly pro rata where practical present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every considerations, such as fractions and foreign securities laws, ordinary share held.
These rights are subject to any special make this desirable.
terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued or may at the relevant time be held and to any other provisions Details of the number, the consideration and the reason for of the Companys Articles of Association.
Under the Articles the issue of shares by the Company during 2008 are set out of Association, directors have the power to suspend voting in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
rights and in certain circumstances the right to receive dividends in respect of shares where the holder of those Other than the above, the directors have no current intention shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of issuing further share capital and no issue will be made of the Companies Act 2006. which would effectively alter control of the Company without prior approval of the members in general meeting.
The Notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in Substantial Share interests relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting.
As at 24 March 2009, the Company had received notifications All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against from the following parties that they have a notifiable interest or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced in the issued share capital of the Company: at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Company in a general meeting may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends in Number of Number of accordance with the respective rights of the members, but ordinary ordinary Total no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by shares of shares of interest the Board.
2.5p each 2.5p each in issued with direct with indirect share voting rights voting rights capital The Board can decline to register any transfer of any share Axa S. A. and its group which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration of of companies 3.87% 2.74% 6.61% a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the Aviva and its subsidiaries 4.06% 4.06% circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules Schroders Plc 5.04% 5.04% and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
The Swiss Reinsurance Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated Company Ltd 3.73% 3.73% share unless: a the instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is left at the Companys registered office or such other In addition, the Company had received notification from place as the Board may from time to time determine Barclays that it had a notifiable interest amounting to 4.01% accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it of the issued share capital of the Company.
relates and such evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the Related party Transactions transfer: b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 42 one class of share: and c the number of joint holders to the Financial Statements.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Our performance Other Statutory and Regulatory Information Subject to the provisions in the Companies Act, all or any Change of Control of the rights attaching to an existing class of shares may be There are no agreements between the Company and its varied from time to time either with the consent in writing directors or employees for compensation providing for loss of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal of office or employment whether through resignation, value of the issued shares of that class excluding any purported redundancy or otherwise in the event of a treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution takeover bid, except for those relating to normal notice passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of periods.
Executive directors become entitled to six months those shares.
salary, pension and car allowance on termination of a service contract: in the case of Mark Gregory, he is entitled Shares acquired through the employee share schemes rank to up to twelve months salary and cost of contractual equally with all other ordinary shares in issue.
In addition, the rules of the Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards Barclays Private Bank & Trust Isle of Man Limited, as to participants, including executive directors, may vest on a trustee of the Legal & General Employees Share Ownership takeover or change of control of the Company or transfer Trust, holds 0.5% of the issued share capital of the Company of undertakings.
as at 24 March 2009 in trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and managers of the Group.
The Company has a committed circa 1bn bank syndicated The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by credit facility which is terminable if revised terms cannot be the trustee.
The trustee may vote or abstain from voting the agreed with the syndicate of banks in a 30 day period after shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any change of control.
As at 24 March 2009, the Company has way it sees fit, without incurring any liability and without no borrowings under this facility.
being required to give reasons for its decision.
There are no change of control conditions in the terms of Legal & General Share Scheme Trustees Limited, as trustee any of the Companys outstanding debt securities.
The terms of the Legal & General Employee Share Trust, holds 0.02% of the Companys agreements with its banking counterparties, of the issued share capital of the Company as at 24 March under which derivative transactions are undertaken, include 2009 in the trust.
The trust is in the process of being wound the provision for termination of transactions upon takeover up and the shares are held on behalf of the beneficiaries merger if the resulting merged entity has a credit rating of the trust.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are materially weaker than the Company.
There are no other exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or abstain committed banking arrangements either drawn or undrawn from voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating that incorporate any change of control conditions.
to shares, at its own discretion.
use of Financial instruments Under the rules of the Legal & General Group Employee Information on the Groups risk management process and Share Plan Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire control of certain risks are set out on pages 50 to 57.
Details shares in the Company.
Plan shares are held in trust for of the financial instruments used for these purposes are set participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited which out in Note 50 of the Financial Statements.
holds 0.48% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 24 March 2009.
Voting rights are exercised by the trustees on indemnities receipt of the participants instructions.
The Company has agreed in writing to indemnify, to If a participant does not submit an instruction to the trustees the extent permitted by law, each of the directors against no vote is registered.
In addition, the trustees do not vote any liability incurred by the director in respect of acts or any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
omissions arising in the course of their office.
The indemnity, which remains in force, was in force throughout 2008.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between Copies of the documents are available for inspection at the shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer registered office and will also be available at the AGM.
of securities and or voting rights.
46 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance Qualifying pension scheme indemnities as defined under Going Concern s. 235 of the Companies Act 2006 were granted, to the The groups business activities, together with the factors extent permitted by law, to certain trustees of the Companys likely to affect its future development, performance and pension schemes.
position are set out in the Directors Report on pages 1 to 72.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, insurance liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors in the Group Results on pages 16 to 23.
In addition, Notes and Officers liability insurance which is reviewed annually.
48 to 50 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its Auditors financial risk management objectives: details of its financial The Companys auditors have expressed their willingness instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint credit risk and liquidity risk.
 LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their The global economic outlook for 2009 remains uncertain.
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
However, the directors consider that the group has the plans and resources to manage its business risks successfully, Disclosure of information to Auditors as it has a diverse range of businesses and remains Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report financially strong.
confirms that: 1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant The directors have a reasonable expectation that information of which the Companys auditors are the Company and the Group have adequate resources to unaware: and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
2. the director has taken all the steps that he she ought Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis to have taken as a director to make himself herself in preparing the annual report and accounts.
aware of any relevant information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting This confirmation is given and should be interpreted The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.30am on in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA Wednesday, 27 May 2009 at The Institution of Engineering of the Companies Act 1985. and Technology, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
Details of the AGM, together with the explanatory notes, are Directors Responsibility Statement set out in the Notice.
All the documents in connection Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, each with the AGM are available on the Companys website: of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on www.
com page 49, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: 1. the Groups financial statements which have been By order of the Board prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and 2. the directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks G J Timms and uncertainties that it faces.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
