Our performance Savings Our Savings business offers customers choice from an increasingly comprehensive product mix, covering a wide variety of asset allocation strategies across medium and long term investment horizons.
Mark Gregory Group Executive Director Savings Our Products Our Strengths Unit Trusts Wide product range to suit different maturity and A relatively simple form of collective investment, which asset allocation preferences.
enable customers to invest in a wide variety of different securities and indices.
Broad distribution, with direct and intermediated sales through IFAs and bank and building Individual Savings Accounts society partners.
Enable customers to invest in cash or securities, up to a defined annual limit on a tax efficient basis.
Legal & General Investment Management LGIM synergy gives access to expert fund management.
Investment Bonds Combine life assurance features and the facility for Adaptable approach to technology evidenced the customer to invest in a variety of investment funds.
by partnership with Cofunds platform.
Pensions Financial strength and asset allocation skills within Pensions products enable individuals to save for retirement With-profits enables us to balance expectations and in a tax efficient way, either through a personal pension, risk management for customers and shareholders.
or as part of an employers scheme.
With-profits With-profits pool customers investments.
Policies share the characteristic that investors receive bonuses as a result of direct participation in surplus profits.
28 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance 45.8bn Assets under administration excludes institutional business and Nationwide Life 2007: 47.6bn Strategy in Action Our Performance 2008 2007 Our five strategic imperatives are applied across all business units.
The following illustrates them in action APE Contribution Margin APE Contribution Margin m m % m m % in the Savings division.
Unit linked bonds 131 13 1.0 251 21 0.8 Imperative Activity Non profit Financial Capital-light products which reduce pensions 328 8 0.4 253 14 0.8 Management upfront strain from writing new business.
With-profits savings 191 15 1.2 228 19 1.3 Diversified Broader mix in the product range, Sub total 650 6 0.1 732 26 0.5 Business increased focus on corporate market.
Retail investments 229 161 Total 879 893 High Quality Added SIPP capability, new fund launches, Product, Broad Cofunds platform.
Distribution A Positive Customer Less reliance on upfront commission and Experience increased focus on customer retention.
High Expectation Technology usage reducing in-force Culture unit costs.
Increased training investment to upskill employees.
689m With-profits bonuses paid 2007: 665m As outlined on page 10. www.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Our performance Savings Our Savings Division includes Wealth Management and With-profits.
The Savings division has 45.8bn of customer assets under administration, including 19.4bn of assets managed on behalf of With-profits policyholders.
Savings products are distributed primarily through bank and building society partners, IFAs and direct sales.
Strategy in Action With-profits bond sales grew significantly despite the During 2008 we grew and diversified our savings product economic environment.
New products with guarantees were portfolio.
We acquired Suffolk Life, a leading provider well received by more cautious investors and retention of of Self Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs.
This gives us existing policies improved.
More endowment policies were a significant presence in this growing, profitable market.
sold to Traded Endowment Policy TEP providers instead Our SIPP products have a relatively low capital requirement, of being surrendered, and the number of endowment so can be rapidly cash-generative for Legal & General.
policyholders retaining policies to maturity also increased.
We continued to expand our pension product range by introducing a mid-market SIPP-Light product.
We significantly broadened distribution during 2008.
The Nationwide Building Society partnership boosted sales Our core retail investments business grew substantially, of savings products, and we continued to extend our online partly due to the acquisition of Nationwide Unit Trust presence, strengthening our relationship with Cofunds.
We broadened our product range for Cofunds is now established as part of our distribution engine, savers and added a multi-manager proposition in March enabling us to compete successfully and cost-effectively in 2008 which further extended our fund range.
The multithe platform-based, open-architecture market.
manager format permits wide choice between asset classes, investment styles and asset managers.
Many of our 2008 initiatives moved us towards a less capital intensive product mix.
This means better value for During 2008 we made good progress in providing group customers and a faster payback for Legal & General.
We pension and group SIPP products to corporate clients.
The are moving towards distribution which relies less on upfront Share SIPP element of our Group SIPP benefited from a commission payments, and more on trail commission or growing trend for larger employers to offer these products remuneration set directly by distributors with their customers.
This provides customers with greater clarity and reduces our risk exposure to distributors.
In 2007 we said that Capital Gains Tax changes would damage the Investment Bond market.
New business sales for During 2008, we made significant progress in reducing bonds fell by 48% with negative effects on unit costs and net unit costs and improving efficiency for our in-force business margins.
Product diversity can mitigate regulatory or fiscal by using technology more effectively.
This helped reduce change, and we continue to extend our bond product range.
headcount while increasing the average investment in Our Dublin based international bond product enjoyed a training and professional development per employee.
Performance in 2008 Legal & Generals Savings business is essentially an asset-gathering and management business.
Assets are held through product wrappers, such as pensions, investment bonds, unit trusts and ISAs which have different charging structures and tax treatments.
30 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our performance Assets under Administration AUA is a key measure of size Profit margins vary according to product.
Margins in non and scale for our Savings business.
As at the year-end, total profit pensions were -0.4% 2007: -0.8%, an improvement AUA was 45.8bn 2007: 47.6bn, a decrease of 4%.
The change in pension margins during the year the year, the business added 400m in net new funds reflects the positive impact of the Suffolk Life acquisition inflows minus outflows, but falls in investment markets and consequent increase in SIPP business written as reduced AUA year-on-year.
well as enhanced efficiency across the business, offset in part by the negative effect of higher risk discount rates.
New business sales were strong for most savings product lines.
APE sales for Savings as a whole were 879m By contrast, margins for investment bonds were -1.0% 2007: 893m.
This sharp deterioration in margin reflects higher unit costs following the Budget driven decline in Non profit pensions sales were strong, with APE of 328m sales of this product as well as a strengthening of our 2007: 253m, an increase of 30% and we continued to see forward looking persistency assumptions.
transfers of larger sums of pension savings as a result of the A-day pension reforms.
Savings products can impose significant capital strain in their early years, and we increasingly aim to include a higher Sales of unit linked bonds, at 131m APE 2007: 251m proportion of capital-light products in the Savings business declined by 48% against the prior year.
During 2008, the average cash payback period for non Capital Gains Tax regime announced in 2007 and profit bonds was 10 years 2007: 9 years and was 12 years implemented in the 2008 Budget made bonds less tax 2007: 13 years for non profit pensions.
efficient than unit trust investments in some regards and did lasting damage to this product.
The growing proportion of SIPPs in our individual pensions business mix and the fact that 84% of corporate pensions Core retail sales of unit trusts and ISAs generated new new business is now fee-based, as opposed to commissionbusiness APE of 229m in 2008 2007: 161m, a 42% based, reduces capital strain.
increase against the prior year.
Outlook Sales of With-profits savings products were 16% lower Individual savings markets will come under further pressure at 191m 2007: 228m.
However, With-profit bond sales in 2009.
Those disposable funds which are available for increased from 10m to 28m during the year.
Over five investment are on the whole more likely to be held in short years to the end of 2008 the fund has delivered a 27% total term defensive products.
For those who are looking to return before tax.
In 2008, assets backing the With-profits invest, flexibility in investment strategy either by duration participating policies generated on average -18% return before or asset allocation is increasingly critical.
Our portfolio tax and investment charges, compared with 4.5% in 2007. bond and unit trust products, along with our rapidly However, total With-profits policyholder bonus payments expanding SIPP business, are ideally positioned to meet during the year increased by 4% to 689m 2007: 665m.
these demands whether for cash, corporate bond or As well as our usual year-end bonus announcement, an high-alpha equity investments.
interim bonus announcement was made in response to the market turbulence in October 2008.
This helped ensure We see good opportunities in workplace pension and continued fair distribution of funds to policyholders both savings products as employers continue to focus on goodleaving and remaining in the fund.
value components of remuneration and benefit packages.
In 2008, With-profits savings APE of 191m accounted for 14% of UK new business APE 2007: 17%, with value added of 15m.
The embedded value of the total With-profits business is 500m 864m net of tax before the shareholder transfer in the year of 77m.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31
