8 lloyds Banking Group Annual report and Accounts 2008 MArKeTplACe TreNDS thE EcOnOMy in 2008 At the start of 2008, the consensus view was that the uK economy would THE ECONOMY AND grow by around 1.8 per cent on 2007.
But as consumers spending power was squeezed by higher inflation and interest rates, and as consumer and business confidence collapsed, the consensus forecast gradually drifted OUR MARKETS downwards.
The first full year figures for 2008 Gross Domestic product GDp growth, released in late January 2009 showed a final outcome of 0.7 per Coming into 2008, the uK economy had enjoyed 60 consecutive cent, with the second half showing negative growth.
The last quarter of quarters of sustained expansion.
inflation remained very low during 2008 was particularly weak, due in large part to sharply lower manufacturing that time, helped by globalisation and the emergence of low cost output, both in the uK and globally, as consumers cut spending on economies as suppliers to the developed world.
non-essentials, businesses cancelled investments and retailers reduced Muted global inflation enabled central banks everywhere, including stocks.
So far the slowdown owes more to lower business investment and in the uK, to meet inflation objectives whilst maintaining interest rates weaker manufacturing and construction than it does to the consumer.
Whilst at very low levels by historical standards.
in this environment, uK real spending had been strong in the preceding period, and savings rates had household incomes had grown strongly, as had corporate profits, and fallen to very low levels, there was not such an obvious consumer boom as asset markets had boomed, notably housing.
As in the uS economy, had been the case prior to the 1990s recession.
low interest rates, low inflation, a booming housing market and high real income growth encouraged sustained high levels of consumer UK GDP GROWTH spending.
Savings rates had fallen to very low levels and household 5 debt had grown faster than income.
VOLUME, % CHANGE ON PREVIOUS YEAR We had anticipated that this benign environment was unlikely to last, 4 and had as a result positioned our business to avoid riskier parts of the lending market and to focus on the likely longer-term rebound 3 of savings.
However, it was unclear what the trigger might be for the change in the economic environment and the readjustment by 2 consumers towards lower borrowing and higher savings.
1 The initial cause of the readjustment was a gradual rise in interest rates globally as the extremely rapid growth of the newly industrialising 0 economies greatly increased demand for raw materials and sharply higher commodity prices caused inflation to surge.
The current -1 financial crisis started in August 2007, with growing evidence that Source: ONS weakness in uS sub-prime lending due to higher interest rates was affecting the value of securitised assets held on the balance sheets of financial institutions globally.
But by the start of 2008 this had not By the end of last year, house prices were down 16 per cent on a year affected the global economy materially.
However, the outlook for the earlier, using the Halifax measure.
That decline had improved global, and uK, economy deteriorated significantly during last year.
affordability, with the ratio of house prices to average earnings having fallen from a peak of 5.8 in July 2007 to an estimated 4.4 by December 2008, but still above its long term average of 4.0.
UK CONSUMER PRICE INFLATION 6 5 End 2008 projection 4 3 Target: 2% 2 1 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 -1 Source: ONS and Lloyds Banking Group Compared to the last recession, average household finances do not yet seem to be under the same pressure, perhaps because the preceding consumer boom had not been so strong but also because interest rates have fallen faster and further.
The percentage of mortgagors reporting payment problems is around half the levels seen in the early 1990s.
1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 OvERviEw BusinEss REviEw gOvERnAncE finAnciAl stAtEMEnts shAREhOldER infORMAtiOn Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 five year financial summary 65 report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 parent company financial statements 183 9 lloyds Banking Group Notes to the parent company financial statements 186 Annual report and Accounts 2008 other indicators of households financial distress, such as mortgage house prices have depressed consumer confidence and curbed demand arrears and repossessions, are at low levels compared with the early for both secured and unsecured borrowing.
However, in late 2008 unemployment levels were rising at a capital and funding positions have caused the withdrawal of some lenders faster rate than at a similar point during the early 1990s, with companies from the market.
Combined with increased perception of risk and falling seemingly responding more quickly to worsening economic conditions asset values, this has restricted the aggregate supply of credit.
the relative strength of lloyds TSBs capital and funding position, and our relationship-based approach, has enabled us to continue to grow our The deterioration of economic prospects globally, combined with the lending, thereby increasing our share of new lending.
initial impact of the financial crisis, has triggered a period of balance sheet adjustment by banks and other financial services companies, by non-bank in commercial and corporate banking markets, lending growth has companies and by individuals.
Spreads in wholesale financial markets, also slowed.
Again this is due to both supply and demand factors.
on which many banks rely to fund their lending, widened sharply, with The withdrawal of some banks from active participation in the market negative consequences for the availability and cost of credit for the broader has reduced the aggregate supply of credit, and the increased cost economy.
Balance sheet adjustment and high funding costs could, if left of wholesale funding has raised the cost of finance.
At the same unchecked, make the global downturn even steeper and more damaging.
time, cutbacks in investment in reaction to a worsening economic Governments worldwide have responded by expansionary budget policy outlook have enabled many companies to cut their financing needs, changes, by injecting capital into banks and by providing guarantees and although the reduced availability of trade credit plus tighter margins other forms of support for wholesale funding markets.
has weakened the cash flow of some.
Weaker cash flow also helps to explain why corporate deposit growth turned negative in 2008.
Shrinking Central banks have also responded by sharply lowering the interest rates corporate deposits, plus slowing household deposit growth has required they control and by expanding their balance sheets to support financial those banks still growing their balance sheets to rely more heavily on markets.
As a result, by early 2009, spreads in many financial markets had wholesale funding.
started to shrink, though remaining well above pre-crisis levels.
thE OutlOOk UK CONSUMER SPENDING GROWTH The slowdown during the second half of 2008 means that the economy 8 VOLUME, % CHANGE ON PREVIOUS YEAR is now technically in recession defined as a period of at least two consecutive quarters of negative growth.
2009 is likely to see that 6 recession deepen.
Views on 2009 economic prospects have also changed radically during the last year.
At the start of 2008, the consensus forecast was that the uK economy would grow by 2 per cent in 2009.
4 By early 2009, the consensus was for a fall of more than 2 per cent.
Against such an economic environment, we expect growth in our 2 main markets to slow further during 2009, again driven by a mixture of demand and supply factors.
Net mortgage lending may well turn 0 negative in 2009 as house prices continue to fall.
unsecured lending will slow further as consumer spending on non-essentials is reduced.
Savings growth will also be slow as pressures on household finances offset a -2 Source: ONS desire to save more in an uncertain environment.
Growth in commercial and corporate lending is expected to weaken as companies reduce investment spending further, and corporate deposit growth will remain iMpAct On OuR MARkEts weak.
Given weak deposit growth by both households and firms, banks in aggregate will continue to rely on wholesale markets to fund net new During the long upturn that preceded the recession, consumer and lending.
The likely continued high cost of wholesale funding, relative to corporate borrowing had grown at a strong pace, boosted by booming base rates, will constrain banks ability to support the economy through asset prices and seemingly low levels of risk.
Savings growth had been credit growth.
The recession will see a significant change in that pattern, as households and businesses adjust to the new world.
unemployment will continue to rise, although the extent of that rise The first signs of that change are evident already.
is uncertain, depending for instance on how much companies have reacted more quickly on layoffs in this recession than they did last time Against the backdrop of a weakening economy, most major uK banking round.
By the end of this year the housing market is expected to bottom product markets slowed in 2008.
With house prices falling throughout last out as affordability improves further.
it is likely that further house price year, and with some banks withdrawing, mortgage lending growth slowed.
falls in 2009, combined with growth in average earnings, will reduce By late 2008, growth in mortgage balances outstanding was down to below the ratio of house prices to average earnings to below the long term 4 per cent, and approvals for new mortgages were around 75 per cent average.
And very low interest rates, combined with lower house prices, below the level of a year earlier.
However, those banks, like lloyds TSB, should make borrowing to buy a house more affordable than at almost who were still active in the market, were continuing to experience stronger any time during the last 30 years.
growth due to the withdrawal of other lenders.
unsecured personal lending growth also moderated, although balances outstanding on credit cards By 2010, our scenarios all project the gradual restoration of growth, as grew more strongly, suggesting that financial pressures on households were growing confidence that the worst is over feeds through into a weak reducing the number paying off credit card outstandings in full each month.
recovery in consumer spending and business investment, lower spreads in financial markets and a levelling off for asset prices.
This will be The slowdown in both mortgages and unsecured lending is due to both reflected in some strengthening of growth in our main markets.
