the worlds capital market MarKets anD trenDs MarKet conDitions haVe hiGhliGhteD the iMportance oF trusteD, Well reGulateD eXchanGes that proViDe QualitY price ForMation anD certaintY oF eXecution technology, efficiency and the international equities under management structural change in trading than any other financial centre.
London The nature of order flow in equity markets manages international equities worth is undergoing rapid change and driving $1.9 trillion, compared with $1.45 trillion growth in trading.
The significant increase in New York.
This represents 45.9 per cent in automated trading continues to become of all Londons equity assets, compared more widespread, in particular among with 25.1 per cent in New York.
Quality price formation and High velocity trading strategies demand certainty of execution speed, capacity and certainty of execution.
The current global credit crisis has created The introduction of TradElect in June 2007 uncertainty and volatility in the broader set new benchmarks in terms of system financial markets.
Despite these challenges, capacity and performance.
The London trading for the Group has proved resilient Stock Exchange has had 98 of its busiest with volumes increasing at a time of limited 100 trading days since its launch.
liquidity in many OTC markets.
continuing globalisation The Groups strong trading performance Globalisation continues apace and underlines the importance of trusted, well emerging economies are powering ahead.
regulated exchanges that provide quality price formation and certainty of execution.
The Russian and Chinese economies, both important markets for the Group, an industry restructuring grew eight per cent and 11 per cent in 2007.
There has been a wave of restructuring London continues to benefit from this and consolidation in the exchange sector.
In FY 2008, Mergers can deliver major benefits Londons markets attracted 84 international including: increased liquidity and reduced IPOs by companies from 25 countries.
cost of capital for issuers, synergies and Between them they raised 12.8 billion.
diversification into new geographies and This was more than the number of new asset classes.
Our merger with Borsa international IPOs on NYSE Euronext, Italiana creates Europes leading diversified Deutsche Brse and Nasdaq combined.
exchange group accounting for almost half of the FTSEurofirst 100 index of Europes The London Stock Exchange attracts largest companies.
The merger also gives international companies because of the the Group additional expertise in bonds depth of its capital pool and its unique through its interest in MTS, Exchange strategic position as the natural centre Traded Funds, derivatives and access to of the worlds equity flows.
A recent Europes most efficient post trade services IPREO study found that London has more providers in CC&G and Monte Titoli.
London Stock Exchange 18 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market new opportunities A number of international trends and developments promise new opportunities for equity markets.
MassiMo capuano, DeputY chieF eXecutiVe, is leaDinG the inteGration oF Borsa italiana anD lonDon stocK eXchanGe The rise of Sovereign Wealth Funds promises to bring additional liquidity to world markets.
According to latest estimates the merger has created europes leading diversified exchange their assets under management could group.
it was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders and reach $10 trillion by 2015. completed as planned on 1 october 2007 There has been renewed focus on the the combined group creates new growth opportunities for importance of governance for listed our customers, diversifies revenues and strengthens our companies.
Recent research from the position as the worlds capital market Association of British Insurers shows that companies with the best corporate We are on track to deliver at least 20 million of cost governance records have produced returns synergies in FY 2010 and 20 million of revenue synergies 18 per cent higher than those with poor in FY 2011 as expected, and continue to investigate governance.
According to the latest GMI opportunities to deliver additional synergies.
one-off survey, UK companies continue to rank implementation costs are expected to be no more than ahead of those in Europe and the US for 40 million their standards of governance.
The UK approach to governance and market trading in italian equities will migrate to tradelect before regulation is a major attraction to the end of 2008, stimulating growth by attracting new international companies and for the technology-driven participants third time running London leads the way in the Global Financial Centres Index.
customers will benefit from a single point of access to market data in the first half of 2009. the new platform will be based on infolect our world-leading information service Building on the global success of aiM, we intend to launch aiM italia in the second half of 2008 providing another route to capital for italys dynamic smaller company sector and completing the next phase in our strategy for aiM europe London Stock Exchange 19 annual report 2008
