FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report 3 The directors submit their report, together with the audited financial into shares of 3 7 US cents each being equivalent in all material respects statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Directors responsibilities to the ordinary shares in issue immediately before the consolidation, are set out on page 42. including as to dividend rights.
The consolidation was effected with the intention of making the market price of each consolidated share Principal activities, business review and results approximately equal to the market price of each ordinary share Man Group plc the Company is the holding company for the immediately before the consolidation.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on page 128.
On 3 December 2007 the 868,609,694 B shares, the subject of the Immediate Capital Alternative, were redeemed at 67.7999 pence per The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the share, leaving 47,689,017 B shares in issue pursuant to the Deferred business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 March 2008 Capital Alternative arrangement.
On the same date, following the and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a payment of the Dividend Alternative to holders of the C shares, all the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group C shares in issue were automatically reclassified as Deferred Shares.
referred to as the Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the following During the year, the Company purchased in the market for cancellation sections of the Annual Report, which are incorporated by reference: 45,860,019 of its ordinary shares of 3 US cents each at a total cost Chief Executive Officers Report on pages 6 to 9: of $520 million giving an average repurchase cost of 5.61 per share.
Business Review on pages 12 to 59: All repurchasing was undertaken at share prices that were earnings Core Investment Managers on pages 60 to 73: and enhancing.
These transactions represented some 2.4% of the issued Financial Performance on pages 74 to 78. ordinary share capital at 31 March 2008 after adjusting for the effects of the share consolidation.
As at 16 May 2008, the Company has The audited financial statements of the Group appear on pages 85 an unexpired authority from last years Annual General Meeting to to 127.
The Group profit for the year amounted to $3,470 million repurchase further shares up to a remaining maximum of 118,622,448 2007: $1,284 million.
Financial instruments are used by the Group in the ordinary course of As at 31 March 2008, the Group had entered into a contractual business.
A discussion of financial risk management objectives and policies arrangement with an investment bank to purchase up to $100 million is included in the Risk Management section of the Annual Report, on pages of shares in the close period.
Further quantification of the Groups exposures to financial risks are included in Note 8 to the financial statements, on pages 101-105.
Resolutions relating to the Companys share capital being proposed at the Annual General Meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Further On 30 March 2007 the Group Board announced that it intended to details are given in the letter from the Chairman accompanying the Notice separate its Brokerage business, to be effected by an initial public of Meeting.
offering IPO on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE of a majority interest in that business to be renamed MF Global.
As a result, Shareholdings Brokerage was reclassified as a discontinued operation in the financial As at 21 May 2008 the following voting interests in the ordinary share statements in the 2007 Annual Report.
capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority had been notified The IPO was successfully completed on 24 July 2007, when 81.4% of to the Company being that of BlackRock Inc 6.70%, Legal & General the Groups holding was sold.
The majority of the proceeds from the sale Group Plc 5.52%, AXA S. A. and Baillie Gifford & Co 4.98%.
was distributed to shareholders on 10 December 2007 by way of a B and C share scheme approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Details of the directors interests in the share capital of the Company Meeting held on 23 November 2007.
The balance falls due for payment and details of the directors share options are set out in the Remuneration in July 2008 in accordance with the terms of the B and C share scheme Report.
There have been no changes in the directors share interests to those B shareholders who elected the Deferred Capital Alternative.
between 31 March 2008 and the date of this report.
Dividends Annual General Meeting The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.8 cents per ordinary The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11am on share giving a total of 44.0 cents per ordinary share for the year.
Subject Thursday 10 July 2008, at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
will be paid on 12 August 2008 in sterling to shareholders on the register Directors at the close of business on 18 July 2008.
The sterling rate payable on the Kevin Davis resigned as a director on 19 July 2007 simultaneously final dividend will be announced on 10 July 2008, following the AGM.
with the IPO of MF Global becoming effective.
Harvey McGrath The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 16 July 2008.
The Dividend stepped down as Chairman of the directors in favour of Jon Aisbitt on Reinvestment Plan will be available in respect of this dividend.
1 September 2007 before retiring as a director from 8 November 2007.
Share capital On 1 September 2007 Phillip Colebatch and Patrick OSullivan were Total shareholders funds were $4,710 million.
Details of movements in both appointed non-executive directors.
An executive search firm the share capital of the Company are given in Note 19 to the financial specialising in the selection of non-executive directors assisted in the statements.
selection process of the two new non-executive directors through a process of benchmarking and the interview of a number of candidates.
Following the disposal of 81.4% of the Groups shareholding in MF Global The Nomination Committee oversaw the selection process before in the IPO on the NYSE completed on 24 July 2007, at an Extraordinary making its recommendations to the Board.
General Meeting held on 23 November 2007, shareholders approved a proposal to return the net proceeds of the disposal to shareholders Biographical details of all the current directors are set out on pages 4-5 by way of a B and C share scheme Return of Cash which resulted and further background on the appointment and roles and responsibilities in the issue of 916,298,711 B shares and 1,043,449,209 C shares on of the directors can be found in the Governance and Risk Management 26 November 2007.
Concurrently with the Return of Cash, the issued section of the Annual Report starting on page 34. ordinary shares of 3 US cents each were consolidated on a 7 for 8 basis 80 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Financial Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DIRECTORS REPORT In accordance with the Articles of Association, Phillip Colebatch and undertakings other than service contracts between each Executive Patrick OSullivan are required to retire at the Annual General Meeting Director and the Company and letters of engagement between each and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
Dugald Eadie non-executive director and the Company.
and Stanley Fink will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year and being eligible, Dugald Eadie offers himself for re-appointment.
directors and officers liability insurance.
The directors also have Stanley Fink wishes to retire from the Board and so will not be seeking the benefit of the indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity has served as a non-executive director for more than nine years, he provisions as defined by s. 309A of the Companies Act 1985, were in retires annually and, being eligible, also offers himself for re-appointment force throughout the year and are currently in force.
at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in The Board recommends to shareholders the re-appointment of all the shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report.
four directors retiring at the meeting and offering themselves for reappointment, on the basis that they are all effective directors of the Auditors Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of commitment in their  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue respective roles.
In the case of Glen Moreno, the Board, including all of in office and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting the other members deemed independent, is completely satisfied that he to re-appoint them as auditors of the Company and to authorise the continues to be independent in character and judgement and it maintains directors to determine their remuneration for the current year.
a close watch to ensure this view of Glen Morenos position may be The remuneration received by the Groups auditors, maintained.
 LLP and its worldwide associates, was Directors interests and indemnity arrangements as follows: At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary 2008 2007 $000 $000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys financial statements 894 1,168 Other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 2,681 2,018 Other services pursuant to legislation 570 387 Other services relating to taxation 337 70 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 742 All other services 710 855 Total auditors remuneration for continuing operations 5,934 4,498 Auditors remuneration for discontinued operations 7,887 15,917 Total auditors remuneration 13,821 20,415 The remuneration received by  LLP and its worldwide associates for their work in relation to discontinued operations were as follows: 2008 2007 $000 $000 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Companys financial statements 1,159 Other services: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1,809 Other services pursuant to legislation 6,182 11,929 Other services relating to taxation 35 886 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 89 All other services 1,670 45 Total auditors remuneration for discontinued operations 7,887 15,917 Fees payable for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to A statement on the objectivity and independence of the auditors may legislation comprise the fees for the statutory audit of the subsidiaries.
be found in the Corporate Governance and Risk Management section Other services pursuant to legislation largely relate to services in relation of the Annual Report, on page 40. to statutory and regulatory filings.
These include the review of the interim financial information under the Listing Rules of the FSA.
Taxation services include compliance services such as tax return preparation and advisory services such as tax advice relating to transactions.
Within continuing operations, services relating to corporate finance transactions relate to due diligence on the Ore Hill transaction.
Other services include work in connection with the adoption of the Capital Requirements Directive CRD.
Within discontinued operations, other services pursuant to legislation largely relate to the MF Global F-1 registration document, and other services include advice in relation to the return of cash to shareholders.
81 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report continued Disclosure under the Takeovers Directive Credit payment policy The following information, not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report is It continues to be the Groups policy to honour all of its contractual required to be disclosed by the Company pursuant to the Takeovers Directive.
commitments and this includes paying suppliers according to agreed payment terms, which are agreed when negotiating transactions.
The Company acts as one of the guarantors of a number of Group The Company, being a holding company, had no external trade companies which are the borrowers under a credit facility entered into in creditors at 31 March 2008 or 31 March 2007.
June 2007 with various financial institutions, pursuant to which the lending Employees, environment and charitable donations banks agree to make available to the borrowers a multicurrency revolving The Group discusses employees, the environment and charitable facility and a dollar swingline advance facility for the repayment of an earlier donations on pages 16-19, 37 and 136 respectively.
Other Corporate facility and general corporate purposes.
In the event of a change of control Responsibility elements are described under each of the core value of the Company, any lending bank may propose such revised terms, if any, driver sections.
Charitable donations in the year amounted to $26 million that it requires to continue participating in the facility.
To the extent that the 2007: $12 million.
Company cannot agree such revised terms with the relevant bank, such bank may cancel the whole of its commitments under the facility and By Order of the Board require the repayment of its outstanding advances under the facility.
Kevin Hayes The Companys share incentive schemes contain provisions whereby, Company Secretary upon a change of control of the Company, outstanding options and 29 May 2008 awards would vest and become exercisable, subject in the case of certain schemes only to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and or any time pro-rating of options and awards.
There are no agreements between the Company and the directors or any employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
3 A holder of Ordinary Shares of 3 7 US cents each in the capital of the Company is entitled to one vote per Ordinary Share held when a vote is taken on a poll and one vote only when a note is taken on a show of hands.
The remaining B Shares in issue are expected to be redeemed in July 2008, in accordance with the terms of the B and C share scheme.
The B shares have no voting rights, except where a resolution is proposed to wind-up the Company.
The Deferred Dollar Shares and the Deferred Sterling Shares have no voting rights.
Subject to certain standard restrictions on transfer contained in the Companys Articles of Association, such as that the directors may decline to register a transfer of a share that is not fully paid up, there are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary Shares.
The B shares and the Deferred Sterling Shares are freely transferable.
The Deferred Dollar Shares may only be transferred to the Company and such buy-back is expected to take place in December 2009 in accordance with the terms of the B and C share scheme.
There are no securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give a power to the Board to appoint directors, but also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for re-election no later than the third Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Shareholders may also appoint directors.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum of Association and the Articles.
The Articles, for instance, contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are renewed by shareholders each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles is available on request from the registered office of the Company.
Copies of executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection to shareholders at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
82 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
