BUSINESS REVIEW INDUSTRY BACKGROUND Industry Trends Man Group views the following as the five most influential trends in the alternative investments industry.
Demand for hedge funds is strong and Concentration of capital looks set Regulatory and fiscal evolution will open will continue to grow, worldwide to continue up new opportunities As the hedge fund industry matures, Investors are allocating an increasing Regulatory and fiscal regimes are at different institutions such as pension funds and proportion of their capital to managers stages of evolution in different regions.
insurance companies will continue to with strong track records, solid brands and For an onshore alternative investment market increase allocations, encouraged by higher proven expertise in risk management and to flourish both regimes must be operating risk-adjusted returns and low correlation to client service.
By concentrating capital with with clarity.
This is a global established market participants, investors Regulators in a number of countries have trend, with the largest increases in benefit from the advantages of scale.
been gradually introducing legislation to allocations expected in North America.
Large scale players are able to: establish frameworks for onshore hedge provide a broad alternative product range: Asset inflows from private clients are also fund markets.
In the UK for example, the devote significant resources to risk set to remain healthy, albeit as a smaller Financial Services Authority FSA is paving management, due diligence and research: percentage of an expanding market.
the way for the introduction of Funds of adapt to changes in regulatory regimes: Burgeoning emerging markets wealth and a Alternative Investment Funds FAIFs, to be provide high levels of customer service, growing mass affluent market in the West are marketed to retail investors.
Progress is also from tailored portfolio construction and key drivers of this trend.
A growing number being made in other European jurisdictions structuring capabilities to reporting and of private banks are set to increase their France, Italy, Spain, Germany and Ireland, transparency: recommended allocations to hedge funds.
for example both with their own country provide support for investment staff, to legislation and under the EUs passport enable them to focus on their key skills: Hedge funds are pursuing an scheme for financial products.
The general excel at trade execution by using bulk increasingly broad range of trend towards a principles-based regime purchasing power to secure premium opportunities with an industry-driven overlay of self access, service and capacity from the The strategy explosion created by the regulation is likely to increase investor market: and hedge fund industry since 1990 has confidence for both retail and institutional withstand market turbulence and significantly broadened investor choice.
The quest for new sources of While commentators focus on the issue of Established funds at their best marry outperformance is as vibrant as ever.
Within regulation, the bigger hurdle to selling hedge boutique alpha creation with institutional existing strategies, new models are being funds onshore is often fiscal treatment.
Over time, this is likely to incubated: new markets and instruments are Progress on UK initiatives, for example, reinforce the trend towards concentration being mined to increase capacity: and depends as much on the approach adopted and consolidation across the industry, investment tools and trading technology are by the Inland Revenue as on that of the FSA.
to present opportunities for fund principals being upgraded.
Beyond the current range Nevertheless, demand for greater exposure to monetise their holdings, and to increase of strategies, new opportunities are to hedge funds is clear, and there is every barriers to entry.
emerging in areas such as the mitigation of indication that both the regulator and the tax climate change and the revaluation of natural authorities intend to adopt a pragmatic Established, large scale players will be resources.
approach to managing this trend.
best placed to exploit new opportunities With opportunities opening up on a truly To secure first mover advantage and scarce Mans world-class track record as an global scale, hedge funds with the ability to capacity in new, uncrowded investment alternative investment manager, broad implement diverse strategies and operate areas, hedge funds need to devote largeproduct range, global scale and outlook across multiple regions are best placed scale research resources to develop and and commitment to self regulation to benefit.
Well-funded, stable position us ideally to benefit from businesses are more likely to provide the these trends.
patient capital needed to fund research into new sources of outperformance.
They are also able to build the profile necessary in the research community to attract and retain high calibre talent.
In short, scale is a friend of alpha.
14 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
