CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS GLENWOOD Glenwood Investment philosophy Sourcing exceptional Risk management hedge fund managers Glenwoods Risk Management and Glenwood designs and manages funds Glenwoods Investment Sourcing Team, Quantitative Research Teams support the of hedge funds that seek to deliver which is dedicated to making the initial investment process by identifying issues of superior risk-adjusted performance contact with managers, will have some form concern and generating empirical evidence by investing in portfolios of exceptional, of interaction with over 1,500 managers in to measure investment outcomes against individual managers.
Based in Chicago, any given year.
The Team will conduct over expectations.
Glenwood has developed a Glenwood has been serving the 400 face-to-face meetings, and with the wide range of tools to aid in risk management, investment needs of institutional and guidance of the Investment Committee, from commonly used statistics to proprietary private investors since 1987.
This long Glenwood typically decides to conduct measures of manager contribution to experience, across a wide range of further due diligence on approximately portfolio risk and performance.
market conditions, gives Glenwood 100 new managers per year.
the insight and market knowledge Performance to identify the best managers in the Approving exceptional hedge fund In 2008, Glenwoods flagship funds were industry, the global network to secure managers positioned for rising volatility across asset investment capacity with them, and Glenwood conducts a detailed approval classes and rising dispersion in returns within the perspective to identify broader risks process which evaluates the managers: and among asset classes.
In particular, and opportunities for portfolios.
investment philosophy and strategy: increased allocations to global macro and The most senior members of Glenwoodschanges in approach and sources of highly-hedged equity managers delivered team evaluate managers directly based on past returns: strong performance for Glenwoods funds.
a shared vision of an exceptional hedge team including employment history fund manager.
This clarity, applied with and references : and the judgement of seasoned hedge fundservice providers and back office investors, enables Glenwood to make procedures.
informed and thoughtful decisions about both the managers and the portfolios of Ongoing due diligence which they are a part.
Markets change: strategies evolve: managers lose their edge.
Glenwoods An exceptional hedge fund manager is one ongoing manager evaluation process who demonstrates original, independent continuously re-tests the thesis behind thinking leading to investment ideas that each investment.
Strategy specialists provide are unlike most of what Glenwood typically the Investment Committee with expert views hears.
In this way, uncorrelated opportunities on the evolving opportunity in each strategy, are introduced into the portfolio.
and in-depth relative manager analysis Portfolios are built by allocating to underlying within a strategy.
managers subject to portfolio strategic The combined result of these elements of parameters that define minimum and ongoing manager due diligence is that maximum values for exposures to specific investment decisions are made with detailed, hedge fund strategies, market factors and high quality and current information.
individual managers consistent with intended risk and return.
Portfolio construction Glenwood does not attempt to time markets Glenwoods portfolio construction process or factors based on short-term events or essentially combines exceptional managers swings in prices.
However, through subject to strategic portfolio parameters Glenwoods own research and intelligence which are appropriate to the particular client gathered from managers, the strategy portfolio and market environment.
Portfolios parameters are updated periodically to are stress-tested against potential market ensure portfolios are focused on those areas shocks, and refined over several iterations where medium-term opportunity is judged to until the Investment Committee is satisfied be most favourable relative to expected risk.
the portfolio is robust and reflects Glenwoods Glenwoods assessment uses a fundamental, best ideas for the given investment objective bottom-up analysis of the opportunity that allocations reflect conviction in the set and issues affecting various strategies quality of each manager, are focused on as well as a quantitative evaluation of the areas with high opportunity for skill-based respective markets.
The resulting strategic returns, are diversified across the multiple portfolio parameters reflect expected dimensions and are consistent with the allocations to particular hedge fund portfolio objectives.
styles strategies over a full business cycle.
66 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Core Investment Managers CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS GLENWOOD www.
com John Rowsell CEO of Glenwood John Rowsell, CEO of Glenwood, joined in 2001.
He is responsible for firm-wide management and is involved in all aspects of the investment process.
Before joining Glenwood, John managed an internal hedge fund at McKinsey & Company from mid-1998.
Prior to that, he was a managing director in alternative asset management at Carr Global Advisors, a subsidiary of Credit Agricole Indosuez.
From left to right Lance Donenberg John Rowsell William Steele Anthony Lawler David Kuenzi Lars Hagenbuch not in photo Mike Jawer Anthony Lissuzzo Patrick Kenary Matt Kammerzell 1 Performance of Glenwood Portfolio 1 January 1987 to 31 March 2008 Index value log scale 8,000 Glenwood World World 1 7,000 Portfolio stocks bonds 6,000 Total return 602.7 % 285.6 % 343.3 % 5,000 Annualised return 9.6 % 6.6 % 7.3 % 4,000 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide to future results.
3,000 1 Represented by the performance of Glenwood Partners L. P. net of all fees and commissions from 1 January 1987 to 31 December 1995 and Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited from 1 January 1996.
2,000 World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to USD.
World bonds: Citigroup World Government Bond Index Hedged to USD Total Return.
MSCI World Index from 1 January 1987 to 31 December 1987 followed by MSCI World Index hedged to USD from 1 January 1988.
1,000 1 Glenwood Portfolio World bonds World stocks 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 67 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS MAN GLOBAL STRATEGIES www.
com Alexander Lowe CEO of Man Global Strategies Alexander Lowe is Chief Executive Officer of Man Global Strategies.
Prior to becoming CEO, Alex was head of the Product Development team with responsibility for new and existing products on the MGS platform.
Before joining Man in 2003, Alex spent three years working for BNP Paribas Arbitrage in Paris where he ran relative value trading books in Asian and European equities.
From left to right Tiraneh Tehranchian Giles McClelland Amendeep Pannu David Ajbim Alex Lowe David Benson Chris Woods Dafydd Daniel Mike Lozowski Performance of Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Ltd 15 July 2000 to 31 March 2008 Index value log scale Man Multi-Strategy World World 2,000 Guaranteed Limited stocks bonds 1,800 Total return 84.3 % -9.3 % 52.8 % 1,500 Annualised return 8.2 % -1.2 % 5.6 % 1,400 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide 1,200 to future results.
World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to USD.
World bonds: 1,000 Citigroup World Government Bonds Index Hedged to USD Total Return.
800 600 Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Ltd World bonds World stocks 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 68 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
