Growth through Performance Our strategy is to achieve: Our people operate globally to source, structure and deliver a broad range of Excellence in investment management, by investment products and services to our institutional investors and distributors.
Our providing a wide range of alternative investment capabilities, through global relationships and capital strength allow us to grow our existing core investment offering robust and durable products, to managers and develop new sources of investment to sustain our leadership position.
Long term investment performance drives asset growth.
Our strategy differentiates our business and is the foundation for sustained and profitable growth.
People Product Distribution Investor Governance and Breadth Network Services Risk Management We have an extensive and flexible range Our worldwide distribution network Investor services are an essential part Our corporate reputation is Our people are our of investment products to meet the brings us significant competitive of our growth strategy.
Attracting, motivating and retaining talented people We use our ownership or preferred access to a wide Our institutional investor sales team continues to Strong product sales and low redemption rates reflect Our governance procedures are an essential is a key focus of senior management across range of portfolio managers to offer long-term grow, and is focused on delivering products to the the quality of our investor services.
component of the investment management and the Group.
largest and most sophisticated professional investors.
Group approach to maintaining a high quality, We focus equally on expanding our investor base sustainable business.
Our people have a direct impact on the success Product breadth is an important driver of shareholder Our expanding network of regional sales offices and serving existing investors.
of our business, investors and shareholders.
value: it helps maintain margins and extends the is responsible for servicing new markets and Maintaining corporate integrity is the responsibility Quality investor services are a key component of maturity profile of our funds under management.
maintaining and expanding our distributor of everyone in the Group.
Our share programmes ensure that our people think long-term, sustainable shareholder value.
and act as long-term shareholders in the Company.
Our strong capital position can be used to acquire, Risk management is an essential competency seed and develop managers to grow our investment Our distribution network offers us scale, flexibility at the portfolio manager, business and Group level.
Priorities for the year ahead Priorities for the year ahead Priorities for the year ahead Priorities for the year ahead Priorities for the year ahead Networking and collaboration Environmental capital opportunities Regional office network Capital optimisation Scalability through automation Training and development Credit products Americas, Middle East and Far East Regulatory changes Redemption rates Recruitment and mobility Open-ended products MI Trade Corporate Responsibility Web-based investor services Performance Key performance indicators Growth in funds under management FUM Growth in gross revenue plus income Growth in diluted earnings per share Post-tax return on equity continuing operations FUM increased 21% in the year to $74.6 billion.
from affiliates continuing operations The return on equity for the continuing business The following key performance Over the last three years the compound average Gross revenue plus income from associates has Diluted earnings per share on continuing operations was 41.6%, and over the last three years has indicators are a measure of Mans growth rate CAGR has been 20% per annum.
Over the last three years has increased 63% in the year, and over the last averaged 36.6%.
the compound average growth rate CAGR has three years the compound average growth rate progress in the year, and over the been 20% per annum.
longer term, towards achieving: Growth through Performance.
