CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS PEMBA CREDIT ADVISERS Pemba Credit Advisers Pemba Credit Advisers comprises a Our investment management approach is Risk management team of experienced people managing characterised by: Pemba places risk management at the European credit portfolios.
It uses aThe construction of broadly diversified core of its investment strategy as it seeks robust, process-driven investment portfolios of quality investments: to minimise defaults and portfolio losses.
approach to investing in senior securedA commitment to specialised industry This risk management process begins with loans, mezzanine and second lien loans analysis and ongoing credit monitoring the comprehensive due diligence process and high yield bonds.
based on a defined process that is and is carried forward through portfolio transparent and repeatable: diversification and ongoing credit monitoring.
Pembas success is based on three key A focus on disciplined cash management principles: and proactive portfolio management Portfolio diversification Performance: The delivery of robust based on the latest research: and Pembas approach to risk management returns from a range of collateralised A high level of communication both starts with the construction of a diversified debt obligations CDOs, an open-ended internally and externally with investors, portfolio of quality credits.
The average loan loan fund and SICAV mutual funds.
The borrowers, sponsors and banks.
ranges between 1%-2% of a Pemba disciplined, transparent and repeatable portfolio and no loan accounts for more investment process is based on Investment selection than 3%-3.5%.
fundamental bottom-up credit research Pemba applies a disciplined, process-driven and is designed to optimise returns and Portfolio diversification is an essential part investment approach based on fundamental avoid losses: of Pembas risk management process, as it: bottom-up credit research.
As Pemba is a Protection: Pemba takes a conservativeReduces the impact of potential defaults: cash flow lender, an important aspect of this approach to risk and implements thisFacilitates effective cash management in process is to ensure that each company can through intelligent credit selection, CDO structures by minimising the effect repay its debts from operational cash flow portfolio diversification and active portfolio of any large prepayments: and on an ongoing basis.
A large team of specialisedEnables proactive management in the analysts and quantitative experts with During due diligence, potential investments secondary market.
access to sophisticated in-house systems are assessed using both quantitative and provide added structural support: and qualitative analysis.
This analysis is then Collateralised debt obligations CDOs People: The strong reputation of Man has supplemented by face to face meetings The Pemba team has completed a series allowed Pemba to attract and retain some with the borrower and with site visits.
of European senior secured loan CDOs, of the most experienced professionals in ranging in size from 300 million to While Pemba aims to avoid loss altogether, the European loan industry, who have in 558 million, in partnership with firms it also aims to minimise any potential losses turn developed long-standing industry such as Goldman Sachs, Citigroup and in the event of default or bankruptcy.
As a relationships to gain excellent access to BNP Paribas.
result, it determines a break-up and the credit markets.
A strong emphasis is liquidation value for the business it is lending The portfolios typically include a minimum placed on investor service.
to in order to maximise the recovered value.
of 75%-90% senior secured loans with the remainder made up of subordinated loans, Investment philosophy Our Investment Committee evaluates each i. e. mezzanine and second lien loans and Our strategy is to deliver sustainable longnew credit and needs to reach a unanimous high yield bonds.
Debt tranches are typically term performance to our investors.
This is decision before an investment is made.
rated from AAA to BBand the transactions best achieved through active credit sourcing, This disciplined process ensures that every have a 12 to 16-year legal maturity.
The disciplined credit selection, portfolio investment is thoroughly evaluated.
Pemba team has structured six collateralised diversification, ongoing credit monitoring debt obligations CDOs since 2002. and proactive portfolio management.
com Mark Mink CIO of Pemba Credit Advisers Mark Mink, CIO of Pemba Credit Advisers.
He joined Pemba from RMF Investment Management where he established and headed the European leveraged finance business.
Prior to joining RMF in 1998, Mark spent a number of years as a fixed income proprietary securities trader with Credit Suisse and Julius Br.
Mark started his career in 1990 as a European Corporate Credit analyst with Credit Suisse.
From left to right Teresa Thomas Krhenmann Markus Orschulik Siconolfi-Manser Regis Copinot Leoni Troxler Michael Lutz Martina Good Francoise Devenoges Rosmarie Krzi Marco Djuric Denise Wehrle Susanne Kundert Niels van den Nemanja Pantic Stefan Hsler Ouweland Michael Notari Mark Mink Marcel Beutler Andrew Patel Patrick Hberli Tradable products open-ended Ore Hill is a multi-strategy credit manager The combination is the realisation of a Pemba European Senior Loan Fund is based in New York that invests across the shared vision to create a truly multian Irish based open-ended fund, capital structures of highly leveraged strategy credit business.
providing investors with approximately companies using an approach designed toCombination of Ore Hill and Pemba two times leveraged exposure to optimise returns across the full credit cycle.
creates a world class credit business European senior secured floating rate Established in 2002, Ore Hill combines a in the US and Europe and the potential loans.
These loans are high yielding predominantly bottom-up credit research to expand into new markets commercial loans arranged and philosophy across the full credit spectrumGlobal distribution with Ore Hill through syndicated by financial institutions to with an opportunistic trading approach.
our institutional sales teams, banking corporations that are rated below relationships and global network of Ore Hills competitive advantage is driven by: investment grade.
This fund offers distributors Experience: deep credit market monthly liquidity for subscriptions andIncrease our product breadth and our experience of its investment quarterly liquidity for redemptions.
US presence professionals: Pemba also manage RMF High YieldStrategy: flexible, adaptable, integrated Flagship Product: The Ore Hill Flagship Opportunities, an open-ended SICAV multi-strategy approach: and Fund, established in April 2002 had mutual fund, providing investors withTrading: opportunistic trading and risk generated annualised returns of 15.35% exposure to European high yield bonds, based hedging approach.
which are fixed income securities issued In May 2008, we concluded a strategic Ore Hill has funds under management by corporations that are rated below partnership which brings together the of around $3 billion.
investment grade by Moodys with expertise of both Ore Hill and our credit daily liquidity.
Our joint strategy is to leverage the combined strengths to create a global leader in credit based investment strategies.
71 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS MAN ECO www.
com Nick Wood CEO of Man Environmental Capital Opportunities Man ECO Nick was previously Head of Central Investment Management and was responsible for overseeing the investment performance, the quantitative construction of structured products and the acquisition of new investment businesses.
From 2003 to 2005, Nick was Chief Operating Officer of RMF Investment Management.
From 2000 to 2002, Nick was a founder and Managing Partner of Metropolitan Venture Partners, a venture capital firm investing in growth companies in the UK and USA which was backed by Man Group plc.
Prior to joining Man, Nick was an investment banker at Schroders.
From left to right Eric Gisiger Kunal Mehta Melanie Herbert Marwa Gouda Coen Weddepohl Cathy Chan Nick Wood 72 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
