Core Investment Managers CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS MAN ECO Man ECO: Environmental Capital Opportunities Man ECO is focused on distinctive, Man ECO leverages existing relationships China Methane Recovery Fund high return private equity investment through partnerships, especially with Man ECO launched the China Methane opportunities arising from the mitigation governments, and collaborates with Recovery Fund in December 2007, raising of and adaptation to climate change, technical experts to identify early stage 400 million mainly from institutional changing energy markets and the opportunities.
investors across North America, Europe and revaluation of natural resources in the Middle East.
MTM Capital Partners Ltd, emerging environmental sectors.
The case for environmental capital a subsidiary of Man which operates on the opportunities Man ECO platform, manages this fund.
Man ECO offers a number of competitive Environmental finance is an area of growing The China Methane Recovery Fund invests advantages to investors: economic activity, largely driven by climate directly in methane recovery and utilisation Access and specialised knowledge to change regulations, raising energy prices projects in China, developed under the identify new opportunities in environmental and demand for a cleaner environment.
Clean Development Mechanism of the Kyoto financing through Mans extensive global The political response to climate change is Protocol.
The Fund generates profits from network of relationships and focused driven by governments, local councils and trading the Certified Emission Reductions investment teams with industry experience: municipalities as well as supranationals credits and through the sale of electric Specialised investment professionals such as the UN.
At the same time large power generated using methane.
teams at the forefront of their investment institutions and private organisations are area with industry experience and on-theheavily invested or involved to help ground relationships: and stimulate change.
Depth of business infrastructure and financial resource of Man to support the Green issues top government agendas investment teams and investor services around the world and regulatory incentives of Man ECO.
are being put in place to force capital markets to bear the brunt of the risk capital Investment approach required.
These financial incentives provide Man ECO is focused on the origination a structural base for commercial and nonand incubation of investment teams and commercial initiatives.
funds specifically targeting environmental Advances in technology have provided opportunities.
Man ECO maintains an clearer evidence of the effects of greenhouse adaptable approach by continuous gases and can now more accurately top-down monitoring of the environmental measure our environmental footprint.
finance landscape to identify areas of high potential, in addition to an opportunistic Capital markets are the key solution to bottom-up assessment of potential reducing our environmental footprint investment opportunities and teams.
because of their sheer size, truly global nature and discipline.
In the investment evaluation process there is an emphasis on investments with We believe that there is a clear commercial persistent economic viability, a defensible opportunity supported by both demand position in the value chain, the scope to and supply side factors.
manage currency and commodity price risk and the use of proven technologies.
73 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
