Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Delivering our Strategy through Integrated Excellence Our strategy is executed through the five core value drivers of our business model.
The focus on our strategic vision and the alignment of these key value drivers leads to Performance, both for our investors and our shareholders.
People Distribution Governance and Network Risk Management Our people are our key asset.
Attracting Our product distribution network covers Governance and risk management are the best talent, motivating them to excel, a wide range of the largest global and essential components of both the investment retaining them and ensuring that they strongest regional financial institutions.
management process for our investors and progress in their careers is a key focus of This worldwide distributor network offers our approach to maintaining a high quality senior management across the Group.
Our us scale, flexibility and efficiency in the sustainable business for shareholders.
Our people have a direct impact on the success distribution of our products.
corporate reputation is fundamental to our of our business, investors and shareholders.
business and maintaining our corporate The institutional sales teams deliver The Groups share programmes ensure that integrity is the responsibility of everyone in products to the largest and most sophisticated our people think and act as long-term the Group.
We continue to shareholders in the Company.
grow this sales force and broaden the Risk management is an essential product coverage.
competency at the portfolio manager, business and Group levels.
Active risk An expanding network of regional sales Product Breadth management throughout the Group offices around the world is responsible for mitigates the risk arising from business, servicing new and existing markets and market, credit, liquidity and reputation risk.
maintaining and expanding our distributor Our strong capital position ensures that relationships.
Product breadth ensures that we have an we have financial security in different extensive and flexible range of investment Our product distribution network creates cycles and market conditions, and have products to meet the risk, return, liquidity continued growth in funds under management access to the resources necessary for and other requirements of our investors and breadth of product offering, which long-term growth.
We have developed a successful provides revenue growth and creates business model that utilises our ownership shareholder value.
of, or preferred access to, a range of Performance portfolio managers specialising in alternative investment strategies to create products Investor which offer long-term differentiated Services investment performance.
Product breadth is Performance is the measure of the an important feature in our ability to maintain successful execution of our strategy.
margins and extend the maturity profile of Investor services are an essential part of Our record of long-term performance our funds under management, thus creating our growth strategy.
The quality of our for investors across our products has and sustaining shareholder value.
investor services is reflected in the quality of fuelled our strong growth in funds The Groups strong capital position can be our funds under management as measured under management and provides the used to acquire, seed and develop by both strong product sales and low momentum for further growth.
managers and products to grow our redemption rates.
A twin focus on growth The Groups financial results continue to investment capacity.
This ensures that we from new investors, and stability of existing show the successful implementation of our have the widest array of investment styles, investors, creates increased funds under strategy and the continued sustainability of with proven performance records, available management and long-term, sustainable our leadership position.
for our institutional investors and distributors.
15 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
