Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW DISTRIBUTION NETWORK Distribution Network Our distribution network is supported by the long-term relationships our sales force have with our distributors and our institutional investors.
Our distributor network covers a wide range of the largest global and strongest regional financial institutions, who sell our product to their clients Our distribution for a fee.
The continued trend towards open architecture, network creates where financial institutions market products from a variety continued growth of sources, has provided us with enhanced investor access.
Our focus on alternative investment management means that in funds under we do not generally compete with our distributors, allowing management and us to develop long-standing and closer relationships.
This breadth of product worldwide distributor network offers us scale, flexibility and offering, which efficiency in the distribution of our products.
provides revenue We continue to grow the number of distributors and to focus growth and creates on those distributors with strong franchises, high standards and an international presence.
We also ensure that we take shareholder value.
advantage of regional opportunities with local partners to broaden our network.
An expanding network of regional sales offices around the world is responsible for servicing new markets and maintaining and expanding our distributor $15.9bn relationships.
Sales in the year The institutional investor sales team concentrates on delivering products to the largest and most sophisticated professional investors.
We continue to grow this sales force Equalling the prior and broaden the product coverage.
years record level 25 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW DISTRIBUTION NETWORK Distribution Network www.
com cr Christoph Mller Distribution network Head of Private Investor Sales In our selection of suitable distributors we conduct extensive and rigorous due diligence which takes into account their reputation and expertise, The close association with our corporate governance structure, distributor network allows us to management quality, risk management expertise and practices, anti-moneyunderstand changes in investor laundering protocols, the way they appetite for our products.
conduct business and how they report to investors.
We expect our distributors, with whom our reputation is intrinsically linked, to operate to the same high behavioural Our strategy is to continue to build trend as capacity is less constrained, the standards appropriate to the regulatory our global sales network of distributors range of products can be broader and the environment in which they operate.
and regional offices to support the support infrastructure is scalable.
continued demand for our investment Our global distribution network is funds and services.
Our distribution geographically dispersed and produced network is a key driver to the growth of strong sales in all regions, with 54% of sales institutions.
We work closely with our our funds under management and the in the European region, 38% in Asia and distributors, so that they have strong long term sustainability of our franchise.
Australia and 8% in the Americas.
sales practices and their sales people are educated and fully understand our products.
Sales Our distribution network covers a wide range This close association with our distributors Our distribution network delivered sales in of the largest global and strongest regional allows us to understand the major trends and the year equalling the record amount raised financial institutions as well as smaller scale changes in appetite in their investor base for last year, generating $15.9 billion of funds intermediaries, who sell our fund products to our products.
This information is fed back under management growth.
Institutional their clients for a fee.
This worldwide distributor into the product structuring groups and core sales were $8.1 billion and private investor network offers us scale, flexibility and efficiency investment managers.
This process allows us sales were $7.8 billion.
in the distribution of our products.
to have relevant investment fund products for At 31 March 2008 we had over 2,000 the distributors investor base, and maintains Private investors distributors.
We continue to review our speed to market for our products to take Sales to private investors were $7.8 billion.
distributor base so that we have the advantage of changing appetite.
This was a strong sales year for private strongest global, and the leading regional, investors against a background of changeable markets and differing investor www.
54% of these sales were made in the first half and 46% in the second half.
Private investor sales 2008 Sales from the four global launches in 2008 $7.8bn accounted for 30% of sales.
In addition to global launches we had strong sales of $2.0 billion, across numerous customised funds designed specifically to meet regional investor demand.
In addition, other new and existing products raised $3.5 billion.
$7.8bn We continue to see strong demand $7.8bn for open-ended products for investors.
These products are sold without a principal guarantee and give the investor access to either single manager or fund of hedge funds on a fully diversified basis.
MI Trade, the 19% Japan 4% Germany 12% Man MGS Access Q1 global launch secondary market platform launched during 13% UK 3% Australia NZ 10% Man AP Spectrum Q2 global launch the year, allows investors to see daily net 4% Man AP Spectrum Series 2 Q3 global launch 8% Middle East 1% North America asset value NAV quotations on a variety of 4% Man IP 220 Series 5 Q4 global launch 7% Switzerland 30% Rest of Europe open ended products.
Through distributors, investors can buy and sell open-ended 7% Hong Kong 70% Other sales 1% Others fund products in the same way traditional 7% Latin America investments are transacted.
We view the growth of open-ended products as a positive 26 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW DISTRIBUTION NETWORK www.
com cr Uwe Eberle Marketing and promotional Head of Institutional Sales material Treating our investors fairly and ensuring that they have clear, fair and not misleading information on which to The record sales were possible make their investment decisions is an through the ongoing investment essential part of maintaining our reputation as a leader in our industry.
in the institutional team in Europe Our policy is that all communications and in the US.
aimed at promoting our products or services, whether initiated by Man or our distributors are required to include a fair and accurate description of the investment or service being promoted, Institutional single manager sales around the world, in the commitment required from the Sales to institutional investors were particular in AHL and via the distribution of customer, and the risks involved.
$8.1 billion for the year, an increase of the China Methane Recovery Fund.
Man Group has detailed policy and 11% over last year and a record year for procedures specifying that: institutional sales.
The turbulent markets Redemptions All promotional and sales literature affected institutional appetite for all investment Low redemption rates are a key measure must be reviewed by the appropriate products.
However, we saw a flight to of our success in delivering investment Legal and Compliance function and, quality in alternative allocations towards the performance, quality investor services and where relevant, by appropriate managers with size, scale, long cross-cycle sales coverage.
Our redemption rates external bodies: track records and differentiated products.
continued to be significantly lower than the Statements of opinion used in industry average.
The record sales were possible through the marketing and promotional material ongoing investment in the institutional team For the private investor funds the average must be based on fact, and clearly in Europe and the US.
We strengthened our for the year was 13%, compared to 10% identified as opinions: presence in Scandinavia further, established last year.
The annualised redemption rateWhere actual past trading profits are ourselves in France and increased our activities was 11% in the first half, peaked at 16% in referred to, they must be in the US.
Our asset raising in Switzerland and the third quarter and fell back to under 15% accompanied by a statement stating the UK remained strong.
We hired two senior in the fourth quarter of the year.
that past results are not necessarily relationship managers in Toronto to strengthen indicative of future results: and Our low redemption rates reflect the stability our presence in Canada.
A significant part ofAny rankings used must be of our guaranteed funds as investors have the assets are still raised for fund of funds, compiled by an independent, the confidence to stay invested through however, the institutional team increased recognised rating entity.
The redemption rate for institutional investors for the year was 19% We do not allow any use of material, compared to 15% last year.
The annualised written or verbal, that employs Institutional investors by type 2008 redemption rate was 17% in the first half, hard sell techniques.
Institutional sales in 2008 were $8.1bn peaked at 24% in the third quarter and fell back to under 8% in the fourth quarter of the year.
Our focus on quality in client services ensures that we are responsive to our institutional investors and that performance $8.1bn reporting is timely, accurate and transparent.
46% Insurance 23% Bank 16% Pension 7% Asset manager 6% Fund of hedge fund 2% Other 27 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW DISTRIBUTION NETWORK Global Distribution The global reach of our institutional sales force and distribution network Commodity ensures that we continue to have based wealth significant penetration in the markets in which we have a long-term presence, and at the same time gives us access to new markets as favourable fiscal and secular tends create opportunities.
With regional High net worth retirees, 6 offices predominantly staffed by local pensions, endowments, people, investors and distributors can 5 family offices 4 interact with specialists who speak their language and understand the culture and the particular nuances of doing business in that region.
7 We have 312 people dedicated to our private investor effort.
These people directly cover distributors, lead product management and education, provide marketing support and provide the ongoing review of our distributors performance.
During the year we increased our headcount to increase the depth of coverage throughout our regional offices.
We will continue to grow our coverage in 2008 based on where we see the best Brazil, Mexico, long term opportunities to grow.
Key LatAm wealth regions are Middle East, North America, Europe, Japan, Hong Kong and Singapore.
8 The institutional investor sales team concentrates on delivering products to the largest and most sophisticated professional investors.
We have 32 people dedicated to our institutional investor coverage and our strategy is to continue to grow this sales force and broaden the product coverage.
Current and forward positioning Continue to deepen global banking relationships and client service 1 LONDON 6 TORONTO 11 HONG KONG Deepen global relationship coverage Strengthen institutional team to Expand presence and wider regional 2 SWITZERLAND supplement private investor teams coverage Taiwan, Korea, other Expand Germany and Northern Europe 7 MIAMI emerging Asia institutional coverage Establish office 12 TOKYO 3 ROTTERDAM 8 MONTEVIDEO Build out sales and investor service Develop Benelux hub Develop onshore opportunities teams 4 NEW YORK 9 DUBAI 13 SYDNEY Build out New York institutional sales Broaden regional coverage Develop institutional sales initiative office: credit products through Ore Hill 10 SINGAPORE 5 CHICAGO Expanding institutional sales efforts Build out US institutional sales in the region and manager sourcing 28 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW DISTRIBUTION NETWORK www.
com Brazil, Russia, India and China good long term prospects Asian central banks and Sovereign Wealth Pan-Europe mass affluent 1 Funds burgeoning high net worth individuals and European institutional 3 2 12 9 11 Petrodollars: mass affluence: Sovereign Wealth Funds 10 Growth in pension investments Commodity based wealth 13 www.
com mitrade The concept behind MI Trade is to create Since it began trading in July 2007, a trading environment where alternative MI Trade has met a steadily growing investment funds are as accessible as demand from investors who have already traditional investments.
Alternative taken advantage of this platform by placing investment funds generally require a formal substantial purchase and sales orders MI Trade is an innovative online execution subscription period to enter the fund and a through their distributors.
We are looking platform launched last year to provide fast, redemption period to exit.
Net asset values to expand this channel through financial easy, and daily trading in a select number are generally available on a monthly basis.
This investment process can be measured Since MI Trade started, the range of Mans in months.
Traditional investment funds have funds available on the platform has steadily easier access, and investors can see daily increased with 65 funds now available.
prices and buy and sell daily.
MI Trade allows The range will be further expanded investors, for a selection of our funds, to see according to demand.
daily prices and to buy and sell, through their distributors, in one day.
29 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
