Core Investment Managers CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS RMF RMF RMF, founded in 1992, has developed Open Investment Platform Performance in the year a disciplined and scalable investment RMF has one of the industrys largest In a challenging year for markets, RMF process to make it a leader in product ranges in order to meet specific was well positioned.
When the sub-prime institutional alternative investment investment objectives of institutional crisis broke, an allocation to event driven mandates.
Over the past several years managers with short exposure to the sector RMF has developed a modular hedge fund provided protection.
As markets fell in RMFs core strengths can be product platform that gives institutional the second half, managed futures gave summarised as: investors access to a variety of product downside protection by capitalising on Disciplined investment process: RMF has types differentiated by their particular style, pronounced trends in currencies, equities succeeded in developing a structured strategy, manager, or sector focus.
investment model that can be systematically allows for the construction of bespoke scaled to manage increasing investment portfolios designed to provide differing volumes.
This robust model is ISO Standard levels of diversification.
The platform has the 9001:2000 certified for Quality Management flexibility to offer structured solutions tailored Systems.
Diverse product range: RMF has a history of The open investment approach utilises both product innovation and development which core and satellite investments.
A diversified stretches back to the launch of its first fund core portfolio that has exposure to all major of funds in 1993 and continues to match hedge fund investment styles is combined investor needs.
with several satellites that are selected and added to the core portfolios on an Investment solutions: RMF has extensive opportunistic basis.
experience in providing investors with solution orientated products making use The core portfolio consists of RMFs leading of the expertise of Man.
diversified or highly diversified products or a tailor made asset allocation using RMF Global footprint: Having investment style funds.
professionals and hedge fund analysts in four key financial centres provides RMF The satellites cover three broad areas: with unique insights into local markets.
Strategy funds investing with managers exploiting specific trading strategies that Strong research and development: RMF has offer innovative sources of return the financial strength to invest in research Manager selection skills focusing on and development disciplines in order to added value through more bottom-up maintain its position at the forefront of the selection and portfolio management industry.
Niche funds managers employing a Risk Management: RMF applies strong risk common approach to investing but active management across all modules of the in different styles or strategies investment value chain.
RMF has one of These satellite investments, relating to the industrys largest managed account specific trading strategies, have the potential platforms, covering over 55 managers to deliver enhanced returns as they provide covering approximately 35% of its assets.
access to more concentrated portfolios.
Managed accounts provide investors with With guidance, the investor determines superior risk control, transparency and the selection of the satellite as well as liquidity.
the allocation split between the core and Client Services: RMF believes that excellence the satellite.
This provides a portfolio of in performance and risk management must investments to meet specific investor be complemented by client service quality to requirements.
Portfolios can be structured to satisfy specific performance objectives, investment horizon, country-specific tax and legal restrictions and marketing preferences.
65 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
