BUSINESS REVIEW INVESTOR SERVICES Investor Services Investor services are an essential part of our growth strategy.
The success is reflected in the quality of our funds under management as measured by both strong product sales and low redemption rates.
The twin focus on growth from new investors, and stability in existing investors, creates increased funds under management and long-term, Technology enabled sustainable shareholder value.
solutions have The institutional investor experience relies on high standards enhanced the of performance reporting and risk analysis.
Our size and efficiency of our scale gives us the ability to produce efficiently the level of reporting expected by institutional investors.
Regular dialogue with distributors and institutional investors over provides us with valuable feedback on products and strategies, as well as an overall assessment of how we are performing as an investment counterparty.
70,000 Our research product looks at themes in our industry and Communications introduces investors to new trends and strategies.
to investors Through a number of technology-enabled solutions we have each month enhanced the efficiency of distributor processes and the quality of investor reporting.
Our investor service platform gives us a competitive advantage.
30 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW INVESTOR SERVICES 31 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW INVESTOR SERVICES Investor Services Investors think about Our investor services team our performance in a number of ways: the investment return on their fund, the quality of investor reporting and the responsiveness of our service.
Our client service people are an essential part of the team delivering performance to our investors.
From left to right Jamie Buchanan Suzanne Pattison Alex Silver Tony Gurney Jason Musca Adrian Worth Head of marketing and Roger Jones client services Strategy The quality of the investor services is a key The regular dialogue with distributors and Our people operate globally to source, due diligence point that investors look to institutional investors gives us valuable feed structure and deliver a broad range of before they invest in one of our products.
back on products and strategies, as well investment products and services to our Our products have net asset values, that as an overall assessment of how we are Institutional investors and distributors.
are published either weekly or monthly, and performing as an investment counterparty.
Therefore the As investor risk appetite changes the risk Investor services are an essential part of timeliness and the accuracy of performance and return profile of the products we sell also our growth strategy.
The success is reflected information is essential to maintain investor has to change.
Likewise, in more turbulent by both strong product sales and low confidence in their investment decision.
markets the desire for leveraged investments redemption rates.
This is particularly important in turbulent is reduced.
Investor feedback comes directly markets when regular and timely from our distributors to the sales force and performance reporting is essential for our our portfolio managers.
This information institutional investors and distributors to is essential to give us speed to market of ensure that investors have the most up to the appropriate product to meet investor date information on their portfolios to allow demand.
The continued success of our them to make informed decisions and valid global launches is, in some part, due to choices between alternative strategies.
this active feedback of investor sentiment.
The institutional investor experience relies As part of our investor service we produce on high standards of performance reporting a monthly Trading Advisory Report TAR and risk analysis.
Many of the analytical tools for each fund, which is sent to investors to we use in portfolio construction are made inform them of their funds performance over available to our institutional investors.
Each TAR complies with Our size and scale gives us the ability to the Companys policy in respect of full, clear efficiently provide the level of reporting and non-misleading information to investors.
expected by the institutional investors.
The TAR outlines the performance of the various investment styles employed, giving 32 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW INVESTOR SERVICES www.
com cr investors the information necessary to assess which particular style or strategy is contributing Provision of full, clear, and unbiased Relevant information and any qualifying to gains or losses.
In addition, summarised information information is included such that it is not comparative statistics show the total return on We maintain strict policies and procedures misleading.
the fund from inception, and in the previous regarding due care in the treatment of The Group will seek to inform investors of month, quarter, and year to date.
investors including the FSA rules the risks inherent in its products, drawing regarding Treating Customers Fairly and We provide calculation agency services to their attention to relevant risk disclosures the management of the relationship with compile the net asset value of our private and terms and conditions.
In the fair and ethical investor fund products.
Valuation information treatment of investors, written or oral As part of our compliance regime we is the key measure of performance for our communications are designed such that: monitor feedback from investors closely investors.
The timeliness and accuracy of and have an equitable and prompt this information is critical to supporting our Communications written or oral are complaints handling process.
investors decision making and allows the based on the principles of fair dealing and sales force to have an active dialogue with good faith.
Information must be fair and Finally, confidentiality and security of investors to gauge their feedback on our balanced and provide a sound basis for information and transactions is preserved products.
During the year, through working evaluating the security, industry, or service.
closely with valuation agents and fund The language used is clear and Trust is the basis of our reputation, and managers, we have made significant straightforward with due regard to legal our reputation is a key differentiator which improvements in the timeliness with which requirements, and be appropriate to the builds and sustains investor loyalty.
this information is published and made intended audience.
We are now able to provide performance estimates within six business days of month end.
These figures are posted on our website, and we are now working at bringing forward www.
com the announcement of the final price as close as possible to the beginning of the month.
Private investor sales and redemption as a percentage of FUM Key to the speedy dissemination of this The positive gap between sales and redemptions has led to growth in funds information is the use of electronic under management communication wherever possible.
Through a number of technology-enabled 50 solutions we have enhanced the efficiency of distributor processes and the quality of 40 investor reporting.
This year, we changed from a centralised model of investor services 30 to a more regionally-based model.
In this way, key processes and the interface with 20 our investors and distributors are maintained more closely to where they are located, 10 in their time zone and in their language.
This has significantly improved the service experience and our efficiency.
Through 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 the implementation of web-based tools Man private investor sales Man private investor redemptions distributors can complete subscription and redemption requests online, track progress of the documentation through the process and keep the investor informed on status.
Our investor service platform provides us Our research product looks at themes in with a competitive advantage and will be a our industry and introduces investors to focus for continued investment.
During the year we produced research on managed futures, water and environmental finance amongst others.
Our published research is broadly distributed and is another way in which we gauge interest from investors on new ideas in alternative investing.
33 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
