BUSINESS REVIEW PRODUCT BREADTH Product Breadth Our product breadth ensures that we have an extensive and flexible range of investment products to meet the risk, return, liquidity and other requirements of our investors worldwide.
We have developed a successful business model that utilises our ownership of, or preferred access to, a range of portfolio managers specialising in alternative investment strategies to During the year create products which offer long-term differentiated investment performance.
we continued to increase the We use our long established reputation in the market to attract experienced investment managers, and the Groups breadth of our strong capital position to acquire, seed and develop product range, managers and products to grow our investment capacity.
launching 32 new This ensures that we have the widest array of investment private investor styles, with proven performance track records, available for our institutional investors and distributors.
Our portfolio construction capabilities and specialist structuring expertise is used to tailor products which meet investor demands, local regulatory requirements or fiscal treatment.
This set of skills continues to be an important driver in our ability to maintain margins and extend the 515 maturity profile of our funds under management, creating significant shareholder value.
Investor facing Product innovation is a constant process.
Through our products relationships with distributors and direct dialogue with institutional investors, we understand prevailing investor preferences for risk and return, and can develop new products which meet these expectations.
20 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW PRODUCT BREADTH 21 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW PRODUCT BREADTH Product Breadth Our strategy: patterns of the manager and use analytical strategies and model product returns with Our people operate globally to source, modelling to back-test performance to high levels of confidence over the long term.
structure and deliver a broad range of ensure that the performance is consistent.
Our guaranteed products generally require investment products and services to During this period the Groups capital is put leverage and have a sophisticated process our institutional investors and at risk until the managers performance is of leveraging and fide-leveraging to maximise distributors.
confirmed, at which point investor funds are the investors investment exposure and Our global relationships and capital allocated.
This process ensures that investor minimise the risk to their capital.
During the strength allow us to grow the existing funds are only allocated, and at risk, once year no guaranteed products were forced to core investment managers and the performance due diligence has been permanently fide-gear due to poor performance.
develop new sources of investment successfully concluded.
If the manager is not A number of fund products did fide-gear to to sustain the momentum of our found to be suitable the seed investment is preserve investors capital.
The effectiveness of our seeding platform was recognised by Euro Hedge Product innovation Our product breadth ensures that we have who awarded both RMF and MGS Hedge Product innovation is a constant process.
an extensive and flexible range of investment Fund Seeding Platform of the Year awards.
Through our relationships with distributors products to meet the risk, return, liquidity and direct dialogue with institutional investors, A similar process is applied in the exploration and other requirements of our investors we understand prevailing investor preferences and development of additional capacity for worldwide.
for risk and return, and can develop new our single manager AHL.
We dedicate products which meet these expectations.
significant resources and technical capability Investment management capacity to continually monitor and refine our trading In April 2008 we formally launched Man The long-term performance of our and execution algorithms.
One of the key ECO, our new Core Investment Manager investment products has fuelled strong measures that we monitor is the slippage concentrating in environmental opportunities.
demand and high levels of sales.
To between the actual execution and the Man ECO will focus on private equity type accommodate these strong asset inflows, theoretical execution assumed in our projects in the environmental finance space we have focused on building out the range modelling.
This slippage analysis gives us and in 2007 successfully seeded, launched and capacity of specialist managers to important information about the depth of and distributed its first investment fund: the whom investor assets can be allocated.
the markets in which we transact and the China Methane Recovery Fund, raising Our strategy is to use our long established volumes that we can efficiently transact.
reputation in the market to attract We increase investment capacity through experienced investment managers, and the identifying new markets and execution Groups strong capital position to acquire, The Oxford-Man Institute routes which minimise slippage: these seed and develop managers and products of Quantative Finance new strategies are often tested with seed to grow our investment capacity.
This In June 2007, we announced, with investments before being used in the ensures that we have the widest array of Oxford University, the establishment investment processes.
investment styles, with proven performance of the Oxford-Man Institute of track records, available for our institutional The Group has $1.3 billion of seeding Quantitative Finance, and endowed investors and distributors.
investments in managers and products a Chair in quantitative finance at the to grow our investment capacity.
Our risk University of Oxford.
The institute Fund of hedge funds and multi-strategy management procedures ensure that this houses a team of full time researchers Core Investment Managers, RMF, Glenwood capital is used efficiently and is recycled on and senior faculty members from and Man Global Strategies maintain their a regular basis into new opportunities.
Oxford University and Sid Business own teams dedicated to sourcing, seeding School.
The research will have and evaluating potential investment Product development particular emphasis on alternative managers.
Collectively they maintain Our portfolio construction capabilities and investment management and intends information on over 6,000 investment specialist structuring expertise are used to attract the best researchers from managers globally and have due diligence to tailor products which meet investor around the world.
teams based in all the major financial centres demands, local regulatory requirements or to monitor our relationships and to identify fiscal treatments.
This set of skills continues early stage managers.
to be an important driver in our ability to maintain margins and extend the maturity With early stage managers, who generally profile of our funds under management.
do not have established performance The guaranteed products are issued with records, we test their investment strategy final maturities ranging from 10 to 13 years.
through a seed investment allocation which The weighted average life to maturity of the is designed to prove the robustness of the guaranteed products is around nine years.
managers strategy and to establish a track record.
The seed investment is generally in Our long track record of investment a managed account where the due diligence performance and our focus on quantitative and risk teams can observe the trading analysis allow us to select investment 22 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW PRODUCT BREADTH www.
com Global product launches During the year we successfully launched four global products with Barclays, Citigroup and Credit Suisse Investments in fund products at 31 March 2008 $1.6bn $1.6bn 79% Seed investments 15% Secondary market support 6% Sales support RMF continued to develop differentiated products from their extensive manager base Product breadth our reputation In the selection of investment capacity and launched an environmental opportunities Our strategy is focused on the long-term our people perform due diligence fund and a real estate fund as well as growth and sustainability of our business.
and interact with investment managers providing satellite investment products to We develop our products within target across the globe.
risk and return profiles and our reputation confidentiality, integrity and an independent is directly linked to the performance of mindset are competences that we instill In recent years AHL has increased capacity, our products in accordance with those in our people and reinforce with in part by expanding its institutional product targeted parameters.
In the design and leadership and training.
This includes AHL Core, a fund which development of our products our people trades a selection of highly liquid futures Our reputation is based on investors act with professional integrity and due and forwards across a range of sectors.
selecting suitable and appropriate care knowing that our reputation with A second fund AHL Core Advanced products.
The breadth of our product our investors is at stake.
Where actual is a product of AHLs continued research, range allows our distributors to more performance differs, our people and additionally invests in more innovative readily match their own clients risk and communicate with honesty, fairness, markets.
Apart from providing further return appetite to a suitable fund product.
transparency and the provision of clear diversification, it offers investors early stage and unbiased information.
access to AHLs latest strategies, which currently include credit and volatility trading.
23 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW DISTRIBUTION NETWORK 24 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
