CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS AHL AHL AHLs competitive advantage: Broker selection and trade execution are AHL Diversified Consistent and stable investment constantly monitored to ensure optimal principles and framework efficiency and best market access.
AHL Outstanding long-term track record maintains relationships with over 90 different of absolute returns with controlled brokers worldwide and business is awarded risk, dating back to 1987 on the basis of execution performance.
Strong and sophisticated research A sustained or significant increase in overall ethos underpins continual slippage across all markets is a warning sign enhancements and refinements that the weight of capital being placed $24.7bnRobust risk-adverse trading and behind trades cannot be sustained without AHL FUM implementation infrastructure degrading returns.
Strict change control processes Continuity within the AHL team Consequently, AHL monitors slippage closely of investment specialists in order to assess execution quality and to 24.3% Currencies gauge capacity.
Despite a steady increase in AHL implements a number of trading assets over the years AHL has successfully 19.8% Bonds programmes, of which the main one is contained overall slippage within a relatively the AHL Diversified Programme.
AHL has been able to extend programmes are quantitative and primarily 15.1% Stocks trading capacity by taking advantage of the directional in nature, using a combination of steady proliferation in futures and derivatives 8.5% Interest rates market prices and fundamental data to take markets, and also by developing and advantage of market inefficiencies such as 8.2% Metals diversifying its systems.
4.9% Agriculturals The success of AHL over the years is AHL uses a robust and finely tuned trading attributable mainly to continuity of the and execution platform, with every aspect investment philosophy and methodology of the investment and execution process systems remain within prescribed limits.
combined with ongoing research and a analysed in detail to identify and extract AHL has a process for dynamically risk strong trading infrastructure.
Refinements to the investment weighting or adjusting its market risk the investment team has been an important process are implemented in a disciplined exposure in real time to reflect changes factor in helping to sustain research and manner, with a strong focus on diversification, in the volatility of an individual market.
Initiatives such as the Man efficiency and rigorous risk control.
An increase in the volatility of a particular Research Laboratory, opened last year and The AHL Diversified Programme trades a market means positions are exposed to co-located with the Oxford-Man Institute, diversified portfolio of over 150 core markets greater risk.
Therefore the risk weighting for will provide a catalyst for developing further on more than 40 exchanges.
a market decreases commensurately as the innovation in our business.
This causes the AHL As well as sector and market diversification, systems to reduce capital exposure to more Performance the AHL programmes have been constructed volatile markets by scaling back positions.
AHL started strongly in the year ended to achieve diversification by combining 31 March 2008 as equity markets rallied while various systems and strategies.
These Investment infrastructure bonds and low yielding currencies like the yen systems are driven by powerful computerised AHL is distinguished by the strength of its sold off.
Concerns about the US housing processes or trading algorithms, most of investment infrastructure.
Investment in the market led to a temporary pullback in August which work by sampling prices in real time latest cutting edge computer technology is 2007, but profitable trading opportunities and measuring price momentum and substantial, and the integrity of the AHL quickly resurfaced in the form of strong breakouts.
Another important aspect of approach is ensured by adherence to a commodity markets and US dollar weakness.
diversification is the fact that the various rigorous change control process.
AHL also systems generate signals across different maintains two disaster recovery sites where time frames, ranging from a few days to back up trading systems run permanently several months.
and in parallel with the main trading platform.
Portfolio management and risk control The trade execution team works alongside All the systems applied by AHL are designed the investment management team in to target defined volatility levels rather than London.
The traders execute on a nonreturns.
The investment process is discretionary basis except in instances underpinned by computer supported where volume and liquidity constraints are a analytical instruments and disciplined real consideration and orders need to be placed time risk control and management information carefully to avoid slippage.
As risk control is integrated into to the difference, in price terms, between the each part of the AHL investment process, system generated instruction price and the risk management consists primarily of actual execution price.
monitoring risk measures and ensuring the 62 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Core Investment Managers CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS AHL www.
com Tim Wong CEO of AHL Tim Wong, CEO of AHL, joined Man in 1991 as a research analyst and later assumed overall responsibility for the day to day running of research and investment management operations of AHL.
Tim graduated from Oxford University in 1991 with a first class honours degree in engineering science.
He subsequently gained an MSc in statistics and operational research from London University.
From left to right Andre Rzym Seffan Berridge Riju Sathyar Tim Wong Andrew Sinclair Performance of AHL Diversified Programme 20 December 1990 to 31 March 2008 Index value log scale 20,000 AHL Diversified World World 1 Programme stocks bonds 16,000 12,000 Total return 1557.8 % 190.2 % 240.7 % Annualised return 17.6 % 6.3 % 7.3 % 8,000 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide to future results.
1 AHL Diversified Programme: represented by the performance of Athena Guaranteed Futures Limited prior to 1 October 1997, actual trading results have been adjusted to reflect the current guaranteed public fee structure.
4,000 World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to USD.
World bonds: Citigroup World Government Bond Index Hedged to USD Total Return.
1,000 Man AHL Diversified Programme World stocks World bonds 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 63 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS RMF www.
ch Herbert Item CEO of RMF Prior to joining RMF in 1997, Herbert spent seven years with Salomon Brothers, as a senior equity and derivatives trader.
He began his career with SBC in 1987.
Herbert, a CFA, received his MBA from St. Gallen.
From left to right Stefan Scholz Serge Cadelli Sven Lidn Jaime Castan Reto Grau Herbert Item Performance of RMF Absolute Return Strategies 1 July 1998 to 31 March 2008 Index value log scale 2,200 RMF Absolute World World 1 Return Strategies stocks bonds 2,000 Total return 106.8 % 18.3 % 70.9 % 1,800 Annualised return 7.7 % 1.7 % 5.6 % 1,600 1,400 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
1,200 1 RMF Absolute Return Strategies performance is shown with dividends reinvested.
World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to USD.
World bonds: Citigroup 1,000 World Government Bonds Index Hedged to USD Total Return 800 600 1 RMF Absolute Return Strategies World bonds World stocks 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 64 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
