Our Business OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS REPORT Key Management Changes Man Group Chairman Jon Aisbitt left At the end of May 2008, Stanley Fink He created tremendous value for and Chief Executive Peter Clarke right announced his intention not to seek reshareholders and the Board wishes describe the senior management election to the Board at the next Annual to express its sincere gratitude for his changes this year.
Stanley assumed the unique contribution to the success of role of Deputy Chairman in April 2007 on the Group.
The Board has seen other important standing down as Chief Executive.
He changes in this period.
Harvey McGrath The past year has also seen a significant was Chief Executive of Man Group for stood down as Chairman at the beginning restructuring of the management of seven years and prior to that had been of September 2007 and retired from the the Groups investment management Chief Executive of Man Investments and Board in November of that year.
Harvey business following the MF Global disposal.
Group Finance Director in the course of had been with the Man Group for 27 As part of this process, John Morrison 21 years with the Group.
Stanleys vision, years and played a key role in the growth announced his intention to retire as Chief business development skills and and development of both the investment Executive of Man Investments in June pioneering passion for the opportunities and the brokerage businesses.
2008 and Peter Clarke has assumed full in the alternative asset segment of the responsibility for this business.
John was In September 2007, Phillip Colebatch investment management industry have Chief Executive of Man Investments from and Patrick OSullivan joined the Board been at the heart of Mans growth and 2005-2008 and did an outstanding job of as independent non-executive directors, success.
He was also a key supporter of strengthening Mans franchise through his bringing with them a wealth of experience the growth of the brokerage business.
commitment to delivering performance to in the international financial services Under his leadership, the Group was built investors, improving client service and industry and further strengthening through a dynamic combination of teambuilding.
organic growth and selective acquisition.
3 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
