CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS Core Investment Managers Our strategy is directly linked to the growth and performance Long-term performance differentiates our investment products of our Core Investment Managers.
and ensures that we continue to grow and sustain investor and shareholder value.
Our people operate globally to source, structure and deliver a broad range of investment products and services to our institutional investors and distributors.
Our global relationships and capital strength allow us to grow the existing core investment managers and develop new sources of investment to sustain the momentum of our leadership position.
Single Manager Fund of Hedge Funds Glenwood designs and manages AHL is a world leading quantitative RMF, founded in 1992, has managed futures manager that funds of hedge funds that seek developed a disciplined and to deliver superior risk-adjusted operates programmes that are scalable investment process to primarily directional in nature, performance by investing in make it a global leader in institutional portfolios of exceptional individual meaning they seek to identify and fund of hedge funds alternative take advantage of upward and managers.
Glenwood, founded in investment mandates.
RMF has 1987, has a long track record downward price trends.
AHL has an one of the industrys largest product outstanding long-term track record of across a wide range of market ranges in order to meet the specific conditions which give it the insight absolute returns with controlled risk investment objectives of institutional dating back to 1987.
In addition to a and market knowledge to identify investors, and has developed a exceptional hedge fund managers well grounded investment philosophy modular hedge fund product and a dedicated team of investment and to secure investment capacity.
platform with access to a variety of Portfolios are built by allocating to specialists, AHL owes much of its product types differentiated by their success to robust and finely tuned managers within strategy particular style, strategy, manager parameters which define minimum trading and execution infrastructure.
Excellence in A strong and sophisticated research and maximum values for exposures performance and risk management to specific hedge fund strategies, ethos underpins continual is complemented by quality client enhancements and refinements in market factors and individual service to create a well-rounded managers.
Key facts Key facts Key facts Executes 24 hours a day seven days Allocated to over 250 managers Allocates to over 100 managers a week across over 100 exchanges Systematic manager selection Team approach to the selection worldwide process of exceptional managers Sophisticated quantitative trading Extensive product range of 273 Flagship product: Man-Glenwood strategies products for institutional clients Multi-Strategy Fund Highly analytical team of investment Flagship product: RMF Absolute professionals Return Strategies Flagship product: Man AHL Diversified plc Performance annualised Performance annualised Performance annualised 1 year 41.3% 1 year 6.7% 1 year 1.8% 3 years 20.7% 3 years 8.6% 3 years 6.3% 5 years 15.5% 5 years 8.2% 5 years 5.0% AHL FUM RMF FUM Glenwood FUM bn bn bn $24.7 $28.7 $6.3 60 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Core Investment Managers CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS Multi-Strategy Managers MGS is a leading provider of multiPemba Credit Advisers is an Man ECO is focused on distinctive, strategy and style hedge fund experienced manager of European high return structural investments portfolios.
These portfolios are credit portfolios.
Pemba uses a arising from: the mitigation of and weighted towards MGS highest robust, process-driven investment adaptation to climate change: grade manager capacity in the approach to investing in European changing energy markets: and the pursuit of strong target returns.
senior secured loans, mezzanine revaluation of natural resources in The portfolios are further diversified and second lien loans and high yield emerging environmental sectors.
through carefully sized allocations bonds based on three key pillars: Man ECO leverages Mans extensive to talented emerging managers.
Performance: A transparent and global network of relationships to MGS invests seed capital to trial repeatable investment process identify new opportunities in emerging managers as part of the designed to optimise returns environmental financing through initial due-diligence process.
ThisProtection: Diversification, focused investment teams with ability to allocate meaningful capital disciplined risk management industry experience.
Man ECO at an early stage makes MGS an and ongoing credit monitoring maintains an adaptable approach by attractive investment partner.
The processes to avoid losses continuous top-down monitoring of use of managed accounts withPeople: Experienced team with the environmental finance landscape managers provides daily a rich network of industry to identify areas of high potential in transparency of underlying relationships and a strong addition to an opportunistic portfolios, in-depth risk monitoring, emphasis on investor service.
bottom-up assessment of potential and enhanced liquidity.
Key facts Key facts Key facts Allocates to 80 managers across 5 Trading since 1998, as the European Formed in 2007 styles Leveraged Finance team of RMF Closed first MTM fund, China methane Seeding platform to attract early stage Disciplined, repeatable investment Recovery Fund in September 2007 managers process developed in RMF ISO certified raising 400 million Flagship product: MGS Multi Style framework Closed-ended CDO and open-ended investment vehicles Acquisition by Ore Hill Performance annualised Performance annualised of CDO 1 Performance 1 year 0.5% 1 year 11.7% 1 year N A 3 years 6.2% 3 years 16.0% 3 years N A 5 years N A 5 years N A 5 years N A MGS FUM Pemba FUM Man ECO FUM bn bn bn $10.6 $3.7 $0.6 61 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
