Core Investment Managers CORE INVESTMENT MANAGERS MAN GLOBAL STRATEGIES Man Global Strategies MGS Man Global Strategies MGS is a Risk management Performance leading provider of multi-strategy Risk management is a crucial and integral Primary drivers of performance during 2008: and style hedge fund portfolios.
MGS part of the investment management process.
The MGS portfolio was performing strongly specialises in the construction and The objective is to provide independent risk at the start of the financial year, as clear management of concentrated portfolios oversight and performance attribution for market trends proved beneficial to many which are weighted towards its highest the underlying investments and products.
strategies, equity markets generated grade managers in the pursuit of strong This is achieved through a combination strong returns, and M&A activity provided target returns.
These portfolios are of quantitative and qualitative methods.
However, further diversified through carefully Position level transparency on the managed the sharp deterioration of markets from sized allocations to talented emerging accounts enables the risk team to perform the summer of 2007 proved challenging managers.
in-depth analysis of manager strategies and to most styles, as heightened volatility and risk profiles over time, as well as detailed extreme risk aversion created very difficult Through close manager associations, performance attribution which ultimately feed trading conditions, with August 2007 MGS secures benefits for investors such into the allocation process.
proving particularly disappointing for those as reserved capacity, greater transparency managers running quantitative strategies.
Both early stage Triangulation of oversight Market conditions remained volatile and and developing managers benefit from The MGS investment process is built highly risk averse for the remainder of the MGSs experience and support, which upon close cooperation between the financial year and the opportunity set of can contribute to their long-term success.
Due Diligence, Hedge Fund Development many managers was restricted as a result.
Once a new manager is selected, MGS and Risk Management teams.
They work However, this period did prove to be highly will trial the investment through an together to ensure a thorough understanding profitable for the managed futures style allocation of proprietary capital as part of every manager on the MGS platform.
as this portfolio has the lowest correlation of an ongoing due diligence process.
This depth of knowledge is very powerful to equities and performs strongly when This ability to allocate meaningful capital from both an MGS and a manager strong price trends emerge.
Positions in at an early stage makes MGS an attractive perspective, as it facilitates a regular flow currencies, agriculturals and energies investment partner.
of information whereby managers have therefore proved especially beneficial to Exclusive managed accounts provide access to MGS professionals in three the portfolio.
MGS products with a daily transparency of underlying portfolios, key areas of the business, while the MGS significant allocation to the managed enhanced liquidity, efficient cash usage, Investment Committee have access to a futures style were best placed to generate the ability to adjust manager volatility wealth of privileged manager information returns, while many products with more and custodial security.
significant allocations to arbitrage, accounts comprise around 90% of assets directional and equity hedge strategies under management.
Portfolio construction finished the year close to flat, demonstrating In-depth risk management is made Once a manager is approved for an varying degrees of downside protection possible by the strength of the relationship allocation of client funds, they will be relative to the losses incurred by equity with the managers and the daily included in the diversified MGS style markets over the same period.
transparency provided through the portfolios, each of which is a carefully managed accounts.
Man-AP Stratum is one of the longest selected pool of managers with running MGS products.
Its track record complementary risk profiles and trading Investment philosophy illustrates MGS success in managing strategies.
These style portfolios are The MGS investment process is designed guaranteed, multi-manager products which then blended to develop multi-strategy to provide investors with concentrated target strong returns and provide valuable portfolios capable of delivering risk exposure to premium hedge fund managers downside protection.
with a clear edge in their field, and it is imperative that this is achieved within a The transparency of the managed account transparent, risk-controlled framework.
platform, and the resulting risk management benefits that it brings, enables MGS to MGS has an integrated structure to source deliver focused portfolios with enhanced new managers, monitor its existing managers investment exposure, at efficient levels of and determine the optimal allocations of borrowing.
MGS is therefore able to target capital to those managers.
Once a new a higher risk-return profile than is typical manager has been approved, the due in the industry and this is a key advantage diligence process continues with an in the guaranteed products arena.
investment of Mans proprietary capital into a managed account.
Trading during this trial period provides MGS with a greater depth of understanding and focus on which to base asset allocation decisions than is typical for a fund of hedge funds investment.
69 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
