Overview Overview 02 02 29 29 Our values Business review Business review 32 32 77 77 Gover Governance finance 78 78 101 101 Responsibility Financial statements Financial statements 102 102 138 138 Other infor Other information mation 139 139 149 149 Our approach We understand our Given the macroeconomic backdrop, it seems responsibilities as a listed likely that over the next 12 months and across the industrial spectrum, debates about the gaming business.
We work return on investment in Corporate Social from the premise that Responsibility CSR will rise to the surface even faster than perhaps they have in the past.
ethical behaviour is about However, PartyGamings views and focus what we do when no one remain firmly fixed on the long-term returns is looking.
for our business from continuing to invest in furthering our commitment to responsible business practice.
This includes ensuring our players are able to game responsibly: making M financial donations to charities: promoting our pro bono community scheme for staff: ensuring New in 2008 that suppliers adhere to high ethical standards: Inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index Series maintaining the fairness and integrity of Socially Responsible Operator of the Year our games: and also setting high standards regarding, health and safety or other Dedicated responsible gaming training employment matters.
for all staff We operate from the standpoint that we Additional external reviews of processes cannot prosper through focusing just on the and procedures bottom line of a profit and loss account.
We are reliant on relationships with an ever-lengthening chain of stakeholders and responsibility equates to considerably more than risk management alone.
We dont just operate based on our own set of high standards but also adhere to codes and principles established by a number of industry bodies such as the European Betting and Gaming Association and the Remote Gambling Association.
We remain strong advocates of responsible gaming generally and have signed-up to the voluntary code to promote www.
co. uk on all of our UK advertising materials.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 63 Our values Responsibility Our approach extends to looking beyond The Ethics Committee meets regularly to gambling-related responsibilities and to more consider ethical and social matters relating to general corporate standards.
We continue to all of the Group's activities.
It is charged with work closely with GoodCorporation which reviewing the adequacy of our CSR-related carries out independent assessments for policies, proposals and procedures, which companies of how well they implement their include, responsible gaming, compliance with principles of responsible business management.
our gaming licenses, anti-money laundering, Testing whether our principles and policies are fairness and integrity of gaming systems as well effective ensures that we are operating to high as our impact on the environment and the standards across all key areas of our business.
communities where we have operations.
The Ethics Committee is responsible for preparing In line with our previous practice, in 2008 9 and maintaining the ethical and social policies GoodCorporation conducted a follow-up of the Group.
review to the full assessment that was conducted in the previous year.
The conclusion The following pages in this section of the Annual was that we have made good progress on a Report provide further detail about our number of key areas.
However, there is still room relationships regarding employees, customers for improvement and this will be an area of and responsible gaming, suppliers, community, focus in 2009. the environment and our shareholders and other providers of capital.
The content is not We work from the premise that ethical exhaustive but provides an insight into how we behaviour is about the things we do when no conduct ourselves and why taking a responsible one is looking and that is why the management approach is a key element of our strategy.
of our stakeholder relationships is a process that involves employees at every level.
Annual More information about our CSR policies and appraisals for every employee include grading practices can be sourced from: behavioural attributes that reflect the culture www.
com responsibility and environment of PartyGaming and acting Recognition responsibly is a core element of our culture.
Tangible evidence that a company is doing Managing responsibility the right things can often be difficult to find.
Executive responsibility for CSR-related matters However, in addition to winning the eGaming resides with Martin Weigold, Group Finance award for Socially Responsible Operator of the Director, overseen by the Ethics Committee of Year in 2008, PartyGamings CSR credentials the Board, which is chaired by Tim Bristow who were also endorsed when our shares became became an Independent Non-Executive a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index Director in 2007.
The main objectives of the FTSE4Good Index Series are to provide a tool for responsible Whilst not a formal requirement, the Group investors to identify and invest in companies formed the Ethics Committee to provide that meet globally recognised corporate additional and independent oversight on responsibility standards: to provide asset responsible gaming and wider CSR initiatives.
managers with a socially responsible investment benchmark and a tool for socially responsible investment products: and to contribute to the development of responsible business practice around the world.
