Overview Overview 02 02 29 29 Our products and brands Business review Business review 32 32 77 77 Gover Governance finance 78 78 101 101 Financial statements Financial statements 102 102 138 138 Other infor Other information mation 139 139 149 149 Poker and in particular the PartyPoker brand Through our integrated remains the Groups main source of revenue platform, our objective is to and profit although casino is increasingly significant.
Sports betting and bingo are both offer customers the game relatively small but growing quickly.
they want in the language PartyGamings integrated systems platform they want and in the and shared wallet differentiate us from our currency they want, all with competitors, many of whom are literally years behind in terms of being able to offer the a single account and log-in.
same quality of product and overall customer experience.
In the following pages we have set out a M brief description of each of our main business segments.
For a more detailed analysis of New in 2008 each of our brands, games, customers and Hollywood slots: Top Gun, Mission: Impossible, operations please visit our corporate website: Saturday Night Fever and The Godfather http: www.
com Launched the next generation of PartyPoker in September 2008 Signed deals with WagerWorks and CryptoLogic to add new casino games Secured an exclusive license to use the name and music of Frank Sinatra Star bucks Thousands of players took a shot at making big bucks in our many poker tournaments that ran throughout 2008 with an aggregate prize pool of $845.7 million 2007: $791.3 million.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 57 Our products and brands Poker and emerging games PartyMarkets is our contracts for difference and PartyPoker is our largest individual brand, spread betting platform.
Operated by City having been launched in August 2001.
Poker is Index that is licensed by the UK Financial a peer-to-peer game, where the Group acts as Services Authority, we plan to expand into other a facilitator and our customers play against international markets, particularly across the EU.
each other in return for a fee or rake.
There Casino are two principal poker formats: in tournaments The Groups casino segment offers a full players buy-in for a seat and then compete range of traditional as well as new casino with other tournament players starting with a games including blackjack, roulette, slots and pre-determined number of chips in a knockout jackpot slots.
Our principal casino brand is contest.
The vast majority of the buy-in goes PartyCasino although this is supported by a raft into the prize pool with the balance to the of other brands including CasinoKing and operator.
Cash or ring games are played on CasinoLasVegas.
Casino games differ from individual tables with real money.
The operator poker games in the way they make money.
earns rake based on the size of the pot Casino games are played against the house wagered on each hand.
As a peer-to-peer in pounds, euros or US dollars.
The house earns game and in an effort to retain player liquidity, a statistical gross margin with the outcomes poker necessitates that it is played in a single determined by our independently audited common currency.
The poker segment also includes rake-based Sports betting revenues generated by backgammon, Sports betting was added to the Groups another peer-to-peer game, offered through games portfolio in August 2006.
Gamebookers are the Groups two sports Backgammon has a relatively small but betting brands with Gamebookers being dedicated following of players.
particularly popular in Central and Eastern Europe.
Customers place bets directly against the house with the Groups revenue or gross win calculated as the amount of stakes placed less the winnings paid out.
Bingo PartyBingo, the Groups primary bingo brand, Full house is complemented by those of our white label ITVs Bingo Night Live achieved an official Guinness partners.
With the exception of bingo World Record for the Worlds Largest Online tournaments, all players place bets against Bingo Game with 59,135 players participating the house in one of three currencies and the on 10 October 2008. outcome is determined by the Groups random number generator.
The Group earns revenue from bingo based on a statistical gross win margin on each game.
58 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Safe hands Act responsibly Security is our number one priority.
The Group employs state-of-the-art systems to ensure fair play and that our customers data and deposits are safe and secure.
