Richard Lapthorne Tony Rice John Pluthero George Battersby Simon Ball Clive Butler Kate Nealon Kasper Rorsted Agns Touraine 44 Your Board A N Denotes membership of Audit Committee Richard Lapthorne N Denotes membership of Nominations Committee Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003.
From 1999 to May 2003 Richard was Chairman of Amersham plc now GE Healthcare having joined its Board as a Nonexecutive Director in 1988.
He was Finance Director of British Aerospace plc from July 1992 and Vice Chairman from April 1998 until his retirement in 1999.
Richard is a Non-executive Director of Calibre Audio Library, Tommys The Baby Charity and is HM The Queens Trustee at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
He was also Non-executive Chairman of Morse plc and New Look Group until 14 February 2008 and 22 November 2007 respectively.
Tony Rice John Pluthero Joint Group Managing Director, Central: Joint Group Managing Director: Executive Chairman Group Finance Director Europe, Asia & US: Executive Chairman, International Tony Rice was appointed Joint Group Managing Director, John Pluthero was appointed Joint Group Managing Director Central and Group Finance Director in March 2006, having and Executive Chairman of Europe, Asia & US in April 2006 previously been a Non-executive Director.
Tony was Chief having previously been Executive Director of that business.
Executive of Tunstall Holdings Ltd from March 2002 until its He was appointed Executive Chairman of International in sale in September 2005 and he continued as a Non-executive November 2007.
From September 2002 until its acquisition Director of that company until 5 April 2008.
Prior to Tunstall, by Cable & Wireless in November 2005, John was Chief Tony was Group Treasurer and then Group MD, Commercial Executive of Energis.
Previously, he was founder and CEO Aircraft division of British Aerospace plc.
Tony is a Trustee of of Freeserve now part of Orange UK, leading it to its flotation.
Help the Aged and was appointed as a Non-executive Director Prior to this, John held various strategy and operations positions of Punch Taverns plc on 6 December 2007. within the Dixons Group.
John is a Director of Merville Ltd. AR George Battersby Simon Ball Executive Director, Human Resources Non-executive Director George Battersby was appointed Executive Director of Human Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director in Resources in July 2004.
Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, May 2006 and is a member of the Audit and Remuneration George was an Executive Director of Amersham plc now Committees.
Simon is Group Finance Director for 3i Group GE Healthcare responsible for human resources, pensions, plc and has served on its main Board since April 2005.
In this health and safety and environment.
Previously he held senior capacity, he is a member of both the Management Committee HR positions in a number of FTSE 100 companies, including and the Investment Committee and is responsible for financial Group HR Director appointments at Laporte plc and Fisons management and coordinating strategic direction at Group level.
George is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Prior to this, Simon held a series of senior finance and operational Remuneration Committee at Hogg Robinson Group plc and roles over 13 years at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
He has also was previously Senior Independent Director and Remuneration served as Group Finance Director for the Robert Fleming Group Committee Chairman at SHL plc.
and, for two years, as Director General, Finance for the UK Governments then Department for Constitutional Affairs.
ANR ANR Clive Butler Kate Nealon Senior Independent Director: Non-executive Director: Chairman of the Nominations Committee Chair of the Remuneration Committee Clive Butler was appointed a Non-executive Director in Kate Nealon was appointed a Non-executive Director in January May 2005 and is the nominated Senior Independent Director.
2005 and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
She is also Clive is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Kate was and was appointed as Chairman of the Nominations Committee Group Head of Legal and Compliance at Standard Chartered plc on 26 July 2007.
Clive was Corporate Development Director until 2004 having previously practised international banking and at Unilever plc, serving on its main Board from 1992 until his regulatory law in New York.
Kate is a Non-executive Director of retirement in 2005.
He also undertook the roles of Personnel HBOS plc and Shire plc, a senior associate of the Judge Business Director and Category Director for the Home and Personal School at Cambridge University and a member of the Advisory Care division having worked in a variety of marketing and Council of the Institute of Business Ethics.
general management roles since joining Unilever in 1970.
ANR AR Kasper Rorsted Agns Touraine Non-executive Director: Non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Agns Touraine was appointed a Non-executive Director Kasper Rorsted was appointed a Non-executive Director in January 2005 and is a member of the Audit and Remuneration in May 2003 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Based in France, Agns is Managing Partner He is also a member of the Nominations and Remuneration of Act III Consultants.
She was previously Chairman and CEO Committees.
Kasper is CEO of Henkel KGaA, Germany.
Prior to of Vivendi Universal Publishing and has held various senior joining Henkel in April 2005, Kasper was Senior Vice President executive positions with the Lagardre Group and McKinsey.
and General Manager, EMEA for Hewlett Packard and held Agns was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Neopost various senior management positions with Compaq.
Kasper SA on 10 July 2007 and of ITV plc on 8 August 2007.
She is is a Non-executive Director of Ecolab, Inc. USA.
a Board member of Fondation fide France and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of SAIP Libration.
