Statement from the independent Non-executive Directors The last year has proved to be a very challenging but also a 2.
How open are the Joint Group Managing Directors very rewarding one for Cable & Wireless, and one in which we with the Board?
have seen significant progress in both of our business units.
The Joint Group Managing Directors are very open with the Board.
The Board receives excellent insight into what We have continued to operate a governance system is happening in the business units from John Pluthero.
where the activities of the Group are divided into three This is supplemented by insights from the Investor Directors International, Europe, Asia & US and Central each who attend all business unit Boards and from the minutes headed by a Joint Group Managing Director reporting of those meetings.
The Non-executive Directors have a high to the Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc.
level of transparency as a result of the feedback from several perspectives which reduces any filtering effect that could The Central function continues to act as portfolio arise in circumstances where there is a single Chief Executive.
manager of the two operating businesses.
Three members The Board can also observe where issues may exist between of the Central function, including Tony Rice, Joint Group the Executive Directors and follow up accordingly.
Managing Director, Central and Group Finance Director, sit as Investor Directors on the Operating Boards of each 3.
What is the visibility of checks and balances business which focus on the issues for that business unit between the Executive Directors?
The Group Board sits above Checks and balances between Executive Directors the Operating Boards to ensure that the strategy of both are substantially hard-wired into the governance system business units delivers shareholder value for the Group through the Investor Directors and the Executive Directors as a whole by holding the Joint Group Managing Directors sitting on both the Operating Boards and the Group Board.
of International and Europe, Asia & US and the Investor The Investor Directors keep a check on the Executive Directors to account and generally by ensuring a high Directors on the Operating Boards, and the Executive standard of corporate governance.
Directors keep a check on the Investor Directors in their Throughout the year the Chairman has continued to play functional roles on the Group Board.
The Chairman is a a pivotal role, not only in his leadership of the Group Board, check and balance on the Joint Group Managing Director, but also as architect of the model, ensuring that the Joint Central and Group Finance Director.
Group Managing Directors reporting to him perform their function in a manner which is consistent with the governance 4.
Have all questions asked by the Independent system.
We have now had two years of the Cash Long Term Directors in Board and Committee Meetings been Incentive Plan LTIP which was designed to be the glue appropriately addressed?
that binds the model together and it has proved to be a Questions asked by the Independent Directors are well powerful tool to drive management behaviours towards addressed as a matter of course.
The Independent Directors delivering shareholder value for the Group as a whole, are comfortable that they are dealt with professionally and whilst at the same time ensuring real focus at individual for the benefit of the Company within the comprehensive business unit level.
framework established for running Cable & Wireless.
After two years of operating the Cable & Wireless governance The Independent Directors are satisfied that the Companys system, we are satisfied that it not only complies with the corporate governance controls have been effective during provisions and, more importantly, the spirit of the Combined the year ended 31 March 2008.
Code, but also that it is, and remains, the most effective system for Cable & Wireless in its current form.
Clive Butler Senior Independent Director Turning now to the four questions posed annually as 21 May 2008 part of Cable & Wirelesss approach to measuring effective corporate governance: 1.
What is the quality of the relationship between the Chairman and the Joint Group Managing Directors?
In a year in which we have seen some management change with Harris Jones leaving the business, the model has adapted to the change in circumstances with John Pluthero appointed as Executive Director of both International and Europe, Asia & US but acting in a very different capacity in each case.
Each of the Joint Group Managing Directors reports to the Chairman.
So far as we can see, the relationship between them is stronger than ever perhaps driven by belief in the governance model, which over the last two years has provided a framework for the delivery of real progress in both business units.
