International Business overview... provider of choice in all our markets Cable & Wireless International is the leading telecommunications provider Leading telecoms in the majority of its markets around the world.
We offer mobile, broadband and domestic and international fixed line services through four major provider in the operations the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
majority of our Nature of our business We are the only full service telecoms provider in the majority of our markets markets, providing services to homes, small and medium-sized enterprises, corporate customers and governments.
We aim to be the telecoms provider of choice in all our markets providing easy to use, good value services Caribbean overlaid with a service experience that our competitors cant match.
We are the market leader in 19 of our 26 mobile markets and in 28 of our 34 Panama broadband markets.
Macau We operate through four major operations across 39 markets through 31 subsidiaries and eight joint ventures.
Our ownership of these businesses Monaco & Islands varies some are wholly owned and others are partly owned with either the public, the government or corporate partners.
Caribbean In the Caribbean we are the broadband market leader in all 14 islands we serve and we lead the mobile market in nine of these.
We have a unique selling point across the Caribbean only we can offer a full package of mobile, broadband and fixed line services.
The opportunity to offer customers a single bill and, where we are able, bundled propositions is a competitive advantage across the islands.
With low market penetration, there remains enormous scope in the fast-growing broadband market and there is much we can do to drive average mobile revenue per customer via value added services like ringtones, BlackBerry and mobile internet.
Weve taken action to tackle the problems that arose this year in our Jamaican business.
Initially weve concentrated on the basics putting new propositions and pricing in place and improving our customers experience.
Were refreshing our channels to market and we have a continuing infrastructure improvement plan, to ensure that were everywhere we need to be.
All of this will create a solid business and platform from which we can transform our Jamaican business.
10 Panama Cable & Wireless Panama is a market leader in every sense, offering The next generation mobile, broadband and fixed line services.
Cable & Wireless Panama is of telecoms the major player in a significant and growing market with more than 1.6 million mobile customers representing 51% market share.
Its retail in Macau presence is second to none with market-leading products and propositions.
Cable & Wireless Panama has 72% of the current broadband market, but with low penetration rates we see good opportunity for growth.
In June 2007, our business in Macau, CTM, was the first telecoms supplier Macau to complete a 3G mobile network CTM, our business in Macau, is the exclusive provider of broadband and roll out there.
In one of the most competitive mobile markets in the world, weve won a 37% market share, with over 300,000 customers.
In just six months, from design to Macaus economy continues to grow rapidly, fuelled by burgeoning tourism.
implementation, and four months This has helped drive EBITDA up 19% compared with 2006 07, with further ahead of any competitive offer, CTM growth opportunities, especially in the enterprise segment.
was providing video calling, mobile broadband and mobile email.
Monaco & Islands Our Monaco & Islands portfolio includes Monaco and other operations, Take-up has been rapid with 14% principally Bermuda, the Channel Islands, Isle of Man, the Maldives of CTMs mobile customer base and Seychelles.
already using 3G services and data traffic volumes have more than tripled.
In Monaco we are the exclusive provider of broadband and fixed line services and have over 30% of the mobile market.
Whilst mobile penetration is high, value added services offer growth potential in this sophisticated market.
In the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, our Sure mobile and broadband services are growing market share and seeing significant enterprise customer opportunities, particularly with financial and gaming companies.
Elsewhere in our Islands portfolio, were the market leaders in all our services.
Our growth drivers Many of our markets are experiencing strong economic growth.
In Panama, expansion of the canal and Panamas increasing role as a hub for Latin America is driving impressive gross domestic product growth.
Macau is enjoying similar growth and its well documented that Macau has now surpassed Las Vegas as the gaming capital of the world.
In addition, experience suggests that the rate of demand for telecoms in developing markets outstrips the rate of economic growth, so we would expect to see significant demand within developing markets particularly as tourism, financial services and other sectors replace traditional island industries, such as agriculture.
Our aim is for every business within our portfolio to operate as a competitive enterprise a 21st century telecoms business.
We estimate that around 40% of our current portfolio is already there including Panama and Macau, leaving 60% that requires some reshaping to move from solid performer to market-leading competitive enterprise.
Transforming these businesses offers significant growth potential.
11 Business review International Business overview continued Over the past 12 months, the revenue weve earned from enterprise Market leader in customers has grown 13% from US$507 million to US$573 million.
Tourism, financial services and gaming are already fuelling growth and new areas such as the provision of IP based security services will see our enterprise opportunities increasing further.
19of26 The low levels of broadband penetration in some markets across our mobile markets portfolio means that there is material growth potential.
Whilst competition for new customers is growing, we are the leader in the majority of these markets and as the only full service provider we are well positioned to acquire new customers.
At the same time, our existing customers are trading up to higher value packages so our broadband revenue growth 28of34 has outstripped customer growth in 2007 08. broadband markets There is significant opportunity for growth from value added services.
These services include video messaging, email, ringtones and internet browsing on mobile devices.
In virtually all of our markets these services are in their infancy.
In addition, there are further opportunities to up sell services 26of34 to existing customers and bundle propositions where we are able, offering greater price and package flexibility to our customers.
fixed line markets Our competitive position In the majority of our markets, the competition is local or regional in nature from Jersey Telecom in the Channel Islands to Digicel in the Caribbean and does not benefit from the expertise and scale that Cable & Wireless has at its disposal.
However, in some markets we deal with global competitors like Telefnica in Panama and are able to bring our global experience to bear.
In some geographies were gearing up for the arrival of new market entrants.
In Panama in particular two new mobile licences were issued on 7 May 2008.
But were well prepared for new entrants and have already taken steps to ensure that, from propositions to distribution channels, were in the right shape to retain our position as market leader.
Panama a mobile first Our team in Panama developed The mobiles sim card knows the first hybrid pre and postpaid when to switch between the service for corporate virtual private postpaid and prepaid service network VPN customers.
This depending on the number dialled.
allows customers to load prepaid vouchers on to their corporate We launched the offer in mobile handsets so they can November 2007 and within make calls outside their closed two months 83% of corporate corporate user group without VPN customers were using having to change phones.
12 But even with new competition, we have a number of advantages that we can leverage to continue winning in our markets: we are in most cases the only full service provider in our markets delivering mobile, broadband and fixed line services: we enjoy a proud history that has bound our business and the communities within which we operate tightly together: and we are often the main provider of critical national telecoms infrastructure.
Our strategy and objectives Our aim is for every business within our portfolio to operate as a competitive enterprise a 21st century telecoms business.
While we operate businesses at different stages of maturity in various markets around the globe, there are some common themes that shape the environment in which we operate and provide the framework within which we set our strategy.
Most of our businesses started life as a monopoly Our aim is for now, almost everywhere, we operate in a liberalised telecoms environment.
Weve generally coped well with the initial shock that liberalisation always every one of causes and have reacted well to competition.
Now, however, we are moving to the next phase of evolution, creating a portfolio of competitive 21st century our businesses telecoms providers.
Were already there in some places Panama, Macau and the Channel Islands are all firmly competitive enterprises but, in the to operate as main, we now have to make the leap from just coping with liberalisation to building competitive, market-leading businesses.
a competitive enterprise In order to move to this next phase in our evolution, our aim is to become the telecoms provider of choice in all of our markets.
We will achieve this by leveraging our assets and capabilities, driving a more efficient business and offering great products, services and an enhanced service experience that our competitors cant rival.
Providing this customer experience means engineering everything our businesses do around customers, ensuring that the experience they have is fantastic, from the moment they first become aware of our offer, through purchase and the life cycle of the service we provide.
The logic behind this approach is compelling.
Getting things right first time means fewer complaints and lower costs for handling complaints.
It means less rework, and fewer customers choosing competitors services reducing levels of churn and the high cost of replacing customers who have moved.
Consequently, we incur lower costs and drive higher revenues allowing investment in improved service.
The end result will be better growth prospects and higher quality earnings.
