Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report to Share capital and treasury shares shareholders, together with the audited financial The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, statements, for the year ended 31 March 2008. together with details of shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal activities, business review and results No additional treasury shares were acquired during the year.
The Groups principal activities are detailed on pages 4 to 5.
On the conversion of 119,829,000 nominal value of its Through this Annual Report, including the Chairmans 4% convertible bonds, the Company issued 53,356,547 statement and the business review section pages 6 to 42 new shares and re-issued 29,284,122 treasury shares.
that precede this report, the Board seeks to present a At 31 March 2008, a total of 45.7 million ordinary shares balanced and clear assessment of the Groups activities, were held in treasury, representing 1.8% of called-up position and prospects.
Each of these sections is share capital.
incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
The Groups results for the financial year are shown in Companys shareholders As at 21 May 2008, we have been notified under Rule 5 the consolidated income statement on page 67. of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting rights Directors The names and biographical details of the present in the issued share capital of the Company: Directors are set out on page 45.
All of these Directors were Holding in office throughout the year.
Harris Jones, previously Chief Newton Investment Management Limited 12.03% Executive, International, resigned from his post as a Director on 12 November 2007.
The Trustees of BT Pension Scheme 5.07% As advised last year, Richard Lapthorne has opted to Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4.07% seek annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited & AGM and he will therefore retire at the 2008 AGM Credit Suisse International 4.05% and offer himself for re-appointment.
George Battersby, Kate Nealon, Tony Rice and Agns Touraine will retire Orbis Investment Management Limited 3.03% by rotation at the 2008 AGM in accordance with Article 90 of the Companys Articles of Association and will offer Charitable and political donations themselves for re-election.
During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Group gave 1.5 million 2006 07 1.4 million to charitable The interests of the Directors and their connected persons organisations.
More information about our support of the in the shares of Cable and Wireless plc, along with details communities in which the Group operates is set out on of Directors share options, are contained in the Directors pages 20 to 21 and 34 to 35. remuneration report set out on pages 54 to 63.
The Group does not make political donations and has No Director had a material interest in any significant contract no intention of making donations to what are generally with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
regarded as political parties within the European Union.
The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its As a precautionary measure and in the light of the wide Directors against personal financial exposure that they definitions of European Union political organisations for may incur in the course of their professional duties.
This is the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purpose a resolution to permit the Company to make political of the Companies Act 2006. donations and incur political expenditure was passed at the 2007 AGM.
The purpose of the resolution was to ensure Dividends that the Company did not unintentionally breach the 2006 The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.00 pence Act.
A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed per ordinary share payable on 8 August 2008 to ordinary at the 2008 AGM.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 13 June 2008.
An interim dividend of 2.50 pence per Supplier payment policy ordinary share was paid on 25 January 2008, resulting We agree payment terms with suppliers when we enter into in a total dividend of 7.
50 pence per ordinary share for purchase contracts and we seek to abide fairly by these the financial year.
There is no specific code of practice used.
The average number of days between the invoice date and the date of payment by the Company calculated by reference to the amount owed to suppliers at the year end as a proportion of the amount invoiced by suppliers during the year was 18 days 2006 07 20 days.
46 Employee diversity The Group operates a risk management process, under which Cable & Wireless employment policies comply with local each business unit identifies the key risks to their plans, their requirements and meet relevant standards on employment likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to manage of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to those risks.
Consolidated risk registers for International disabled applicants for employment and training, and career and Europe, Asia & US are reviewed by their respective development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and Operating Boards and these risk registers, together with a abilities.
It is the policy of the Group to retain employees Central risk register, are presented to the Audit Committee who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide on a rolling 12 month basis.
The principal risks identified by specialist training where appropriate.
the business are set out on pages 41 to 42.
The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of Employee involvement management, significant changes in the Groups business We are committed to ensuring that employees share in and the external environment in which it operates.
In the success of the Group.
Employees are encouraged addition, they provide the Board with monthly financial to participate in share purchase schemes and have a information, which includes key risk and performance substantial sum invested in the Groups shares.
The Groups key internal control and monitoring Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them procedures include the following: in a variety of ways, including intranets and briefings.
These Financial reporting: Each year, an annual budget is agreed communications help achieve a common awareness among and approved by the Board.
At each Board meeting, actual employees of the financial and economic factors affecting results are reviewed and reported against budget and, the performance of the Group.
Investment appraisal: We have clearly defined policies Change of control for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets The Group has a number of contracts that are subject and detailed appraisal processes for such expenditure.
to change of control clauses.
These primarily relate to Monitoring systems: Internal controls are monitored financing facilities, major customer contracts and licence through a programme of internal audits.
The Internal Audit and concession agreements.
In the event of a change of function reports to the Audit Committee on its examination control, these clauses may require consideration to and evaluation of the effectiveness and adequacy of our determine their impact on the Group.
At present, risks arising systems of internal control.
from a change of control are not considered to be significant.
Financial controls: We have dedicated resource to embed We will take appropriate action to mitigate any risks arising processes and controls across our businesses.
We operate from these events should they occur.
For change of control a number of additional self-assessment exercises, which provisions in relation to the LTIP and Directors, refer to include monthly certification of compliance with key the Directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 63. financial controls and an annual controls self-assessment.
The latter exercise requires management to assess the Annual General Meeting effectiveness of its fundamental operating controls over all The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 18 July 2008 at aspects of its operations, in addition to the other financial The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, controls covered by our Financial Controls Toolkit.
Details of the resolutions to results of this exercise are utilised by Internal Audit in be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
planning its work for the forthcoming year.
Auditor Effectiveness of internal control Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine their control systems in operation during the financial year in remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance, through the processes set out above which have been in place for Internal control and risk management the year under review and up to the date of approval of Our Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal this Annual Report.
Where appropriate, necessary action control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual has been or is being taken to remedy any failings and basis.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to weaknesses determined to be significant from the review manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve of the system of internal control.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement The responsibility for internal control procedures within our or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises joint ventures rests with the senior management of these that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the operations.
We monitor our investments and exert our expected benefits.
47 Governance Directors report continued Going concern The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans, the money which has not yet been paid to the Company for their Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group shares.
If a call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay and Company have adequate resources to continue in interest and all expenses incurred by the Company as a result operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this of non-payment if the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in after the date of a notice.
In addition, failure to comply with preparing the financial statements.
any such notice may result in forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, including any unpaid dividends.
Rights and obligations attaching to the The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any ordinary shares shares that are not fully paid, provided that such refusal This section summarises certain provisions in the does not prevent dealings from taking place on an open Companys Articles of Association relating to the ordinary and proper basis.
Sanctions Voting Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder shall In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company each share other than those held in treasury entitles the or at any separate general meeting of the holders of any holder to one vote at general meetings of the Company class of shares in the Company or exercise any other right on votes taken on poll.
conferred by membership in relation to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all amounts relating to Dividends those shares which are due at the time of the meeting, the The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by shareholder is given a notice or the shareholder has failed passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot to comply with a notice under section 793 of the Companies exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of The Directors may also pay interim dividends without the issued shares of a class excluding treasury shares is in shareholder approval if they consider that the financial default of a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state position of the Company justifies it.
Subject to shareholder in the notice that: i the payment of any dividend shall be approval, the Directors may pay dividends by distributing withheld: ii the shareholder shall not be entitled to elect assets, may allow shareholders to receive new ordinary to receive shares in place of dividends withheld: and shares in lieu of cash dividends and can operate share iii the transfer of the shares held by such shareholder dividend or distribution reinvestment plans.
No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company unless the specific rights of such shares specify.
If dividends Certificated shares remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited and revert Unclaimed dividends to the Company.
The Company can sell any certificated shares at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: i in Distribution of assets a period of 12 years at least three dividends have become If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the payable and no dividends have been claimed: ii the Company authority of a resolution passed by a 75% majority vote of the has published a notice after the 12 year period stating that it shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or any intends to sell the shares: and iii during the 12 year period part of the assets of the Company.
However, no shareholder and for three months after the last notice, the Company has can be compelled to accept any shares or other property not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to sell which carries a liability.
Partly paid shares Transfers The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares and The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares dividends, which has priority over claims of others to such if: i a share transfer form is used to transfer more than one shares covering any money owed to the Company for the class of shares: ii transfers are in favour of more than four shares.
The Directors may sell all or any of such shares joint holders: or iii the share transfer form is not delivered where: i the money owed by the shareholder is payable to the office, or such other place decided on by the Directors, immediately: ii the Directors have given notice demanding accompanied by the share certificate relating to the shares payment, stating the amount due and that the shares will be being transferred unless the transfer is by a person to sold on non-payment: and iii the money has not been paid whom the Company was not required to, and did not, send within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
a certificate and any other evidence reasonably asked for by the Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
48 Uncertificated shares The Articles also provide that at every AGM, Directors The Directors may decline registration of uncertificated who have been in office at the time of the two previous shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four transferees annual general meetings retire by rotation, and detail the or otherwise in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities circumstances in which and how they may be re-elected.
The Companys members may remove a Director by passing an ordinary resolution for which special notice has been Interests in shares given.
A Director will automatically cease to be a Director if: Except where express rights are given by the Companys i they resign: Articles of Association or by law, the Company will only be ii they offer to resign and the other Directors accept affected by, or recognise, a current and absolute right to that offer: whole shares even if the Company is aware of the ownership iii all the other Directors being at least three require it: of the shares.
iv they are suffering from mental ill health and the Directors require them to cease to be a Director: US Holders v they have missed Directors meetings for a continuous The Directors may require a shareholder or other person period of six months without permission and the other appearing to be interested or having been interested in Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director: shares, to disclose information relating to the ownership of vi a bankruptcy order is made against them, or they such shares or to show that such shares are not held by a US make an arrangement or composition with their creditors: Holder as defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or The Directors may require a US Holder to sell their shares to viii they cease to be a Director under the legislation or someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the Company are removed from office under the Articles.
may effect a sale of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
Powers of Directors Disputes The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation Any disputes between a shareholder in that shareholders and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, capacity as such and the Company and or the Directors available on the Companys website www.
As arising out of or in connection with the Companys Articles provided in those Articles, the Directors may exercise all the of Association shall be exclusively and finally resolved under Companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable the Rules of Arbitration of the International Chamber of legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be Commerce, as amended from time to time, in accordance exercised by the members.
The Directors have been with the Companys Articles of Association.
authorised to issue and allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Articles 9-10 and have authority to make market purchases Amendment of the Articles of shares pursuant to Article 6.
The powers under Article 10 The Articles of Association may be amended by a special are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors of the Company.
The Company intends to alter its articles at power to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
the 2008 AGM, and further details of the proposal are set Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as out in the AGM Notice.
A copy of the current Articles can treasury shares.
be accessed on the Companys website www.
By order of the Board Appointment and replacement of Directors Nick Cooper The rules about the appointment and replacement of Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of 21 May 2008 Association, including the rules for who is eligible to be elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate such persons.
The Companys Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this way retires at the first AGM following his appointment.
