Europe, Asia & US Business overview BUILDING ON GREAT SERVICE WERE A GLOBAL ENTERPRISE PURE PLAY BUSINESS SO WE CAN FOCUS ON DELIVERING AN UNRIVALLED SERVICE EXPERIENCE TO THESE CUSTOMERS.
Cable & Wireless Europe, Asia & US provides high quality managed IP services to the largest users of telecoms.
Were focused on delivering great service, because thats what our customers want above all else.
Nature of our business Were one of the worlds leading international telecommunications organisations.
We provide high quality managed IP services such as data, hosting and voice to the largest users of telecoms services around the world.
Unlike our competitors, we focus solely on this market, which allows us to devote all our investments, processes and business culture to delivering market-leading services with the best customer experience tailored to their needs.
Our scale is truly global, providing connectivity to 153 countries.
The products and services we provide have a positive impact on the lives of millions of people around the world each day.
From providing Aviva, one of the worlds largest insurers, with a fully managed communications solution to providing Tesco, the retail giant, with all their telecoms needs.
24 We operate across the globe, but our presence is particularly strong CASE STUDY in the UK and Asia, especially India.
Whilst we concentrate primarily AVIVA on large enterprise businesses, were also proud to count many global carriers and the UK Government amongst our customers.
We provide Aviva, one of the worlds largest insurance companies, with The markets our customers operate in are changing faster than ever.
a fully managed communications They face the challenges of growing revenue, whilst reducing costs service.
We manage their entire and minimising carbon emissions.
Our customers are the Chief Information telecoms estate across the UK Officers and Chief Technology Officers of the worlds largest companies.
and India, including all internal and Their job is getting harder every year as the complexity of technology external phone calls, on and off-shore increases and globalisation trends intensify.
They want a partner they call centre services, forwarding and can trust to deliver their communications requirements, so they can filtering of email, BlackBerry service, concentrate on improving their business.
internet access and data network connectivity across the UK.
We carry The products and services we offer help them do just that and we can three million emails for Aviva each deliver them through our Multi Service Platform MSP, our next generation month.
In addition, we delete about network, completed in October 2006.
Our MSP improves quality and 20,000 viruses and block 250,000 performance, reduces costs for both customers and us and provides a spam emails every year.
And unlike most of our competitors, our next generation network is operational and supporting our customers now.
The MSP lays the building blocks for transforming our service, providing customers with online ordering, a self-service portal, and faster, more predictable delivery times.
Working in this way offers new opportunities for cost reduction and elimination of errors, providing enhanced standards of care and service.
It also enables greater product capability, such as fixed mobile convergence and managed applications.
Were the first to market with our fixed mobile convergence product that lets customers use their mobile phone on their sites as normal, but with the calls going through their internal data network, rather than through a mobile network the result is lower costs and better signal quality.
Hosting is another important aspect of our business.
Weve had a hosting business for some time, and we host many and varied applications for our big customers.
For example, we host the email system for the UKs National Health Service, which carries between two and three billion emails every year.
Our hosting proposition is evolving, and increasingly were being asked by our customers to manage their data centres for them.
We also offer managed services to our customers, bundling together a number of individual service offerings, as we do for Aviva.
This allows us to become a one-stop-shop for customers telecommunication requirements.
Our market-leading products and applications and our service culture give us a strong competitive advantage and the means to grow our market share from the 16% share we currently have of the 7 billion UK enterprise market.
25 Business review Europe, Asia & US Business overview continued Our growth drivers We see a number of growth drivers for our business as we redefine what its like for customers to work with a telecoms company.
153 Our focus on great customer service In an industry thats been synonymous with poor customer service for COUNTRIES CONNECTED BY decades, we offer a refreshing and unique alternative.
Customers want, OUR GLOBAL NETWORK and we can deliver, faster lead times and consistent delivery.
Over the last two years, our lead times have improved 50% and our delivery on time has increased from 50% to 90%.
And in just the last year weve improved call response times from an average of 90 seconds to under 20 seconds for 90% of all customer calls.
But we arent resting on our laurels.
Our MSP enables even faster and more predictable delivery times, higher service reliability and faster fix times.
Were also creating a culture where every colleague thinks customer.
From our CEO to our engineers at customers sites we put great service to our customers at the heart of everything we do.
Our customers are seeing the difference this makes and theyre telling us they like the new Cable & Wireless.
Innovative new products and solutions The immediate availability of our full suite of next generation IP products, enabled by our MSP, gives us a distinct competitive advantage.
These new products and our service focus are increasingly important in winning and retaining customers and helping those customers to develop and grow their businesses.
Future revenue growth will be driven by customers adoption of fixed mobile convergence, new applications and managed services, as we build on our customer wins to date.
Were the first and only company to market with a fixed mobile convergence solution in the corporate mobile market, estimated to be worth 500 million.
Our new applications include digital marketing and next generation video conferencing, applications that are already being used by our major customers.
Many of these applications rely heavily on our hosting capability which grew by 27% in 2007 08.
Aviva and Royal & SunAlliance are just two of our customers that use our managed service capability where we provide and manage a whole range of products and services including IP contact centres, IP voice and data networking connectivity.
Growth from our international capability Weve significant global reach, connecting to 153 countries, and the capability to route traffic both ways around the world.
Were particularly strong in Asia, where weve a number of long standing regional customers such as Standard Chartered Bank.
Were using this capability in Asia to win new business here against the biggest telecom companies in the world.
Theres one part of Asia that deserves a special mention India.
Weve been here for more than 100 years and while were helping many multinational companies who are off-shoring here, were increasingly winning business with India-based enterprises such as Tata, Wipro and the State Bank of India.
26 Our competitive position CASE STUDY We operate in a number of competitive markets around the world.
TESCO In our international markets, we compete with both major global players and dominant incumbent players.
These global competitors include AT&T, We provide retail giant Tesco with BT Global Services, Orange and Verizon as well as the domestic carriers global voice and data communication in the individual countries in which we operate.
In the UK, although there services over our next generation are a number of participants in the market, for large enterprise customers multi service platform MSP, giving their final choice will often be between us and BT.
them 40 times their previous network capacity and freeing Tesco from their Our strengths in these highly competitive markets derive from a number communication constraints.
Were the only enterprise pure play business, so we can offer these provide a global network connecting customers a specialised service thats customised to their type of business, 14 countries and exclusively provide leading to strong, long-term relationships.
Furthermore, our strategy places and manage their entire UK telecoms service at the heart of everything we do, which is allowing us to build a infrastructure.
The new platform reputation based on the quality of our service.
We have a strong, recognisable will enable Tesco to enhance their brand in many of our markets, coupled with a long and proud history of customers experience whilst providing communications to the world.
Finally, weve a truly worldwide improving business processes and network, with connectivity in the countries our customers need.
reducing costs supporting Tescos ambition of better, simpler, cheaper.
Our strategy and objectives Our vision for our business is simple to be the first customer-defined communications services business in the world.
Our strategy to do this is as follows: Specialise in enterprise pure play We know who our customers are and what they want.
By focusing on the enterprise market, we can deliver an unparalleled customer experience for these customers.
This market provides us with the richest product set, has high operational barriers to entry for our competitors and is one weve many years experience in serving.
Our aim is to have about 3,000 customers, all of whom are amongst the worlds largest users of telecoms services.
With a market-leading product suite Weve a clear set of products that are driven by the needs of our customers, rather than technology for technologys sake.
Our new capability is already creating new possibilities and opportunities for customers in a wide variety of sectors.
Giving the best service Were breaking the mould in an industry thats been synonymous with poor service.
Customer service is our number one priority and were creating a service-focused culture throughout our business.
Whilst offering the best value Were creating a proposition thats valued by our customers and economic for us.
Our strategy is transforming every aspect of our business to give our customers the service, products and value they want, so large enterprise customers see us as the number one choice and the only choice.
