The Merchants Trust PLC Directors The current Directors details are set out below.
All Directors are Mr Michael McKeon and Mr Henry Staunton will be appointed non-executive and independent of the Manager.
to the Board with effect from 1 May 2008.
Both will be standing for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Their Mr H. A. Stevenson Chairman biographical details are set out below: Born September 1942 joined the Board in September 1999.
Formerly Chairman of Mercury Asset Management Group plc, he Mr M. J. E. McKeon is Chairman of Equitas Limited, Chairman of Standard Life Born October 1956 He is Group Finance Director of Severn Investments, the Senior Independent Director of Standard Life plc, Trent plc and prior to that, from 2000 until 2005, he was Group a Non-Executive Director of the Financial Services Authority and a Finance Director of Novar plc.
He held various senior roles at member of the Investment Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
He has extensive experience in a number of overseas positions, having worked at Mr R. A. Bareld CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem and .
He Born April 1947 joined the Board in May 1999.
Formerly Chief is a Chartered Accountant.
Investment Manager of Standard Life Assurance Company, he is a Director of The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC, JPMorgan Mr H. E. Staunton Fleming Overseas Investment Trust PLC, The Edinburgh Born May 1948 He is a non-executive director of Ladbrokes Investment Trust PLC, Standard Life Investments Property plc, Legal & General plc and Standard Bank Plc.
He was Income Trust Limited and other companies.
He is a member of previously Finance Director at ITV plc and Granada Group plc.
He was also a non-executive director of Emap plc, BSkyB, Independent Television News Limited, Vector Hospitality plc and Sir Bob Reid Ashtead Group plc, of which he was also Chairman between Born May 1934 joined the Board in January 1995.
formerly Deputy Governor of the Bank of Scotland, Chairman of Shell UK, British Rail, London Electricity plc and Sears PLC.
He is Chairman of ICE Futures Europe and Senior Non-Executive Director of CHC Helicopter Corporation.
Sir Bob will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Sir James Sassoon Chairman of the Audit Committee Born September 1955 joined the Board in July 2006.
He is The Chancellors Representative for Promotion of the City at HM Treasury, President of the Financial Action Task Force and a Director of Nuclear Liabilities Fund Limited.
From 2002 to 2006 he was Managing Director of HM Treasurys Finance and Industry Directorate and a Member of the Treasury Board.
Prior to that he had worked at UBS Warburg since 1987 where he held a number of positions, latterly Vice Chairman, Investment Banking.
Mr P. J. Scott Plummer Senior Independent Director Born August 1943 joined the Board in May 1997.
He is a Director of Buccleuch Estates Limited.
He was until November 2005 Chairman of Martin Currie Limited, and was formerly a Director of Martin Currie Portfolio Investment Trust PLC and Candover Investments PLC.
