DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their xed interest holdings, unquoted securities Review Annual Report together with the results of the and derivatives.
The Company may use A review of the year and outlook is contained Company for the year to 30 April 2008. derivatives for the purpose of ef cient in the Chairmans Statement and the portfolio management including reducing, Managers Portfolio Review on pages 4 to 8. Business Review transferring or eliminating investment risk Principal Risks and Uncertainties in its investments and protection against Business and Status The principal risks facing the Company currency risk and to achieve capital growth.
The Company is an investment company relate to the Companys investment activities.
within the meaning of section 266 of the While there is a comparative index for the An explanation of these risks and how they Companies Act 1985. purpose of measuring performance, no are managed is contained in note 23 to the attention is paid to the composition of this accounts on pages 38 to 42.
The Company carries on business as index when constructing the portfolio and the an investment trust.
In the opinion of the In addition, breach of section 842 of the composition of the portfolio is likely to vary Directors, the Company conducts its affairs Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 substantially from that of the index.
A long term so as to enable it to obtain approval by could lead to the Company being subject view is taken and there may be periods when HM Revenue & Customs as an investment to capital gains tax.
The Managers monitor the net asset value per share declines both in trust under section 842 of the Income and investment movements and the level of absolute terms and relative to the comparative Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Company forecast income and expenditure to ensure the index.
Payment of dividends is secondary to was approved as an investment trust for provisions of section 842 are not breached.
The shares are not the year ended 30 April 2007, subject to considered to be a suitable investment for matters that may arise from any subsequent Dividends those seeking a regular or rising income.
enquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into the The Board recommends a final dividend of Companys tax return.
The Company will Borrowings are invested in equity and 3.20p per ordinary share which, together continue to seek approval under section other markets when this is considered to be with the interim already paid, makes a total 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes appropriate on investment grounds.
levels, and the extent of equity gearing, If approved, the recommended final are discussed by the Board and Managers Objective dividend on the ordinary shares will be paid at every Board meeting and adjusted The Companys objective is to invest on 8 August 2008 to shareholders on the accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New internationally to achieve capital growth, register at the close of business on 11 July borrowings will not be taken out if this takes which takes priority over income and 2008.
The ex-dividend date is 9 July 2008. the level of effective equity gearing to over dividends.
Equity exposure Investment Policy Corporate Governance will, on occasions, be below 100% of Monks seeks to meet its objective of shareholders funds.
The Board is committed to achieving and achieving capital growth through investment demonstrating high standards of Corporate Performance principally in a portfolio of international Governance.
This statement outlines how At each Board meeting, the Directors quoted equities.
Equities are selected for their the principles of the Combined Code on consider a number of performance measures inclusion within the portfolio solely on the Corporate Governance published in June to assess the Companys success in basis of the strength of the investment case.
2006 the Combined Code were applied achieving its objectives.
When investing, the Company is prepared The key performance indicators used to Compliance to move freely between different markets as measure the progress and performance of The Company has complied throughout the opportunities arise.
There are no limits to the Company over time are established year under review with the provisions of the geographical or sectoral exposures, but these industry measures and are as follows: Combined Code except that a Nomination are reported to, and monitored by, the Board the movement in net asset value per Committee has not been established.
in order to ensure that adequate diversi cation ordinary share on a total return basis: is achieved.
The equity portfolio is relatively As the Board comprises only non-executive concentrated for a global fund and, as at the the movement in the share price on a total directors, a Nomination Committee is financial year end, it contained 85 equity return basis: considered unnecessary.
The appointment of holdings including 12 investments in funds.
new Directors is considered by the Board as the discount: and The number of holdings in equities and funds a whole and the Board conducts an annual will typically be between 70 and 200.
A review of its composition having regard to the total expense ratio.
portfolio review by the Managers is given on the present and future needs of the Company.
The five year record for the net asset value and pages 6 to 8 and the investments held at the The Board is of the opinion that the share price performance compared to the FTSE year end are listed on pages 12 to 16.
Company has complied with the principles World Index can be found on page 3 along of the AIC Code.
Investment may also be made in funds open with the five year record for the discount.
and closed-ended including those managed Details of the total expense ratio can be found The Board by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum in the ten year record on page 17 along with The Board has overall responsibility for the permitted investment in UK listed investment other financial highlights.
In addition to the Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters companies in aggregate is 15% of gross above, the Board also considers peer group reserved for its approval including strategy, assets.
Asset classes other than equities will comparative performance.
be purchased from time to time including THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT investment policy, currency hedging, Directors Attendance at Meetings gearing, treasury matters, dividend and Audit corporate governance policy.
A separate Board Committee strategy session is held annually.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, Number of meetings 6 2 investment transactions, revenue budgets and JGD Ferguson 6 2 performance.
Full and timely information is CC Ferguson 6 2 provided to the Board to enable the Board EM Harley 6 2 to function effectively and to allow Directors DCP McDougall 6 2 to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are non-executive.
The executive responsibility for investment management has both Mr McDougall and Mr Ferguson are Under the provisions of the Companys been delegated to the Companys Managers independent in character and judgement.
Articles of Association, a Director appointed and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, and, Their skills and experience add signi cantly during the year is required to retire and seek in the context of a Board comprising only to the strength of the Board.
election by shareholders at the next Annual non-executive Directors, there is no chief General Meeting.
Directors are required to Meetings executive of cer.
The Senior Independent submit themselves for re-election at least once There is an annual cycle of Board meetings Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
Directors who are also which is designed to address, in a systematic directors of another investment trust managed way, overall strategy, review of investment The Directors believe that the Board has a by Baillie Gifford offer themselves for repolicy, investment performance, marketing, balance of skills and experience that enables election annually.
Directors will also submit revenue budgets, dividend policy and it to provide effective strategic leadership themselves for re-election annually when they communication with shareholders.
The Board and proper governance of the Company.
have served for more than nine years.
considers that it meets suf ciently regularly Information about the Directors, including their to discharge its duties effectively.
The table relevant experience, can be found on page 18.
Induction and Training above shows the attendance record for the New Directors are provided with an There is an agreed procedure for Directors Board and the Audit Committee meetings induction programme which is tailored to the to seek independent professional advice, if held during the year.
All of the Directors particular circumstances of the appointee.
necessary, at the Companys expense.
attended the Annual General Meeting.
Regular brie ngs are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that could affect the Independence of Directors Performance Evaluation Company and Directors.
Directors receive All the Directors are considered by the Board An appraisal of the Chairman, each other relevant training as necessary.
to be independent of the Managers and free Director and a performance evaluation and of any business or other relationship which review of the Board as a whole and the Remuneration could interfere with the exercise of their Audit Committee was carried out during As all the Directors are non-executive, the independent judgement.
The performance of each Director provisions of the Combined Code in respect was appraised by the Chairman and the The Directors recognise the importance of of Directors remuneration are not relevant to Chairmans appraisal was led by Mr DCP succession planning for company boards the Company except to the extent that they McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
and the Board composition is reviewed relate speci cally to non-executive directors.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, annually.
The Board is of the view that Consequently there is no requirement for amongst other criteria, the balance of skills length of service will not necessarily a separate Remuneration Committee.
of the Board, the contribution of individual compromise the independence or Directors fees are considered by the Board Directors and the overall effectiveness contribution of Directors of an investment as a whole within the limits approved by of the Board and the Audit Committee.
trust company, where continuity and shareholders.
The Companys policy on Following this process it was concluded experience can be a bene t to the Board.
remuneration is set out in the Directors that the performance of each Director, All Directors are, however, required to retire Remuneration Report on page 24. the Chairman, the Board and the Audit and, if appropriate, seek re-election, at Internal Controls and Risk Management Committee continues to be effective and least every three years.
Directors will submit The Directors acknowledge their that each Director and the Chairman remain themselves for re-election annually when they responsibility for the Companys system committed to the Company.
A review have served for more than nine years of internal controls and for reviewing its of the Chairmans and other Directors Mr McDougall was a senior partner of effectiveness.
The system of internal controls commitments was carried out and the Board Baillie Gifford & Co until he retired on is designed to manage rather than eliminate is satis ed that they are capable of devoting 30 April 1999.
He is a director of Paci c the risk of failure to achieve business suf cient time to the Company.
There were Horizon Investment Trust PLC which is also objectives and can only provide reasonable no signi cant changes to the Chairmans managed by Baillie Gifford & Co and but not absolute assurance against material other commitments during the year.
he therefore offers himself for re-election misstatement or loss.
Mr McDougall and Mr Ferguson Terms of Appointment The Board con rms that there is an ongoing are both directors of The Independent Letters which specify the terms of process for identifying, evaluating and Investment Trust PLC.
Following a formal appointment are issued to new Directors.
managing the signi cant risks faced by the performance evaluation the Board has The letters of appointment are available for Company in accordance with the guidance concluded that, not withstanding the above, inspection on request.
20 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors Interests Directors on the Combined Code.
Nature Ordinary 5p shares held at The Directors con rm that they have Name of interest 30 April 2008 30 April 2007 reviewed the effectiveness of the system and they have procedures in place to review its JGD Ferguson Bene cial 220,000 220,000 effectiveness on a regular basis.
CC Ferguson Bene cial 29,265 29,265 EM Harley Bene cial 200,000 200,000 The practical measures to ensure compliance DCP McDougall Bene cial 1,382,500 1,375,000 with regulation and company law, and to provide effective and ef cient operations The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their interests in the Company, were as and investment management, have been shown above.
During the period from 1 May 2008 to 5 June 2008 CC Ferguson purchased delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, 20,735 shares as a bene cial interest.
There have been no other changes intimated in the Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of Directors interests up to 5 June 2008. the Management Agreement.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by the Managers Internal Audit reviewing and monitoring the and Secretaries of their obligations.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual independence, objectivity and Baillie Gifford & Co have been delegated review of the need for an internal audit effectiveness of the external auditors: responsibility for the design, implementation function.
The Audit Committee continues to reviewing the arrangements in place and maintenance of control policies and believe that the Managers compliance and within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby its procedures to safeguard the assets of internal control systems and internal audit staff may, in con dence, raise concerns the Company and to manage its affairs function provide suf cient assurance that about possible improprieties in matters of properly.
This responsibility also extends a sound system of internal control, which financial reporting or other matters insofar to maintaining effective operational and safeguards shareholders investment and the as they may affect the Company: compliance controls and risk management.
An internal audit function, speci c to the Company, is reviewing annually the terms of the The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business therefore considered unnecessary.
Investment Management Agreement: and Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports considering annually whether there is a Accountability and Audit on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring need for the Company to have its own The responsibilities of the Directors and the programmes.
The reporting procedures internal audit function.
Auditors in connection with the Financial for these departments are fide ned and Statements are set out on pages 23 and 25 The Audit Committee considers the formalised within a service level agreement.
experience and tenure of the audit partner Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual and staff and the nature and level of The accounts have been prepared on the review of their system of internal controls services provided.
The Committee receives going concern basis as it is the Directors which is documented within an internal con rmation from the auditors that they opinion that the Company will continue in controls report.
This report is independently have complied with the relevant UK operational existence for the foreseeable reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors professional and regulatory requirements on future.
and a copy is submitted to the Board.
Non audit fees were 7,000 Audit Committee The Companys investments are segregated for the year to 30 April 2008 and were in An Audit Committee has been established respect of reviewing the Summary Annual from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and Report, accounting and taxation advice other clients through the appointment of The duties are clearly fide ned within its written terms and reporting to the debenture trustees.
The Bank of New York Mellon as independent of reference which are available on request Committee does not believe that this has custodian of the Companys investments.
and on the Companys page of the Managers impaired the auditors independence.
A detailed risk map is prepared which website: www.
Relations with Shareholders identi es the signi cant risks faced by the Mr JGD Ferguson is chairman of the Audit The Board places great importance on Company and the key controls employed to Committee.
The Committees responsibilities communication with shareholders.
which were discharged during the year Companys Managers meet regularly with include: These procedures ensure that consideration shareholders and report shareholders views to is given regularly to the nature and extent monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet of the risks facing the Company and that the interim and annual financial statements with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders they are being actively monitored.
Where and the internal financial controls: wishing to communicate with any members of changes in risk have been identi ed during the Board may do so by writing to them at the making recommendations to the Board in the year they also provide a mechanism Secretaries address on the back cover.
relation to the appointment of the external to assess whether further action is required auditors and approving the remuneration to manage the risks identi ed.
The Board The Companys Annual General Meeting and terms of their engagement: con rms that these procedures have been in provides a forum for communication with place throughout the Companys financial all shareholders.
The Proxy results are published developing and implementing policy on year and continue to be in place up to the the engagement of the external auditors to date of approval of this Report.
supply non-audit services: THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT on the Companys page of the Managers Major Interests in Shares website www.
of ordinary subsequent to the meeting.
Name 5p shares held % of issue Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.9 Company from the Managers website.
Legal and General Group Plc 9,975,424 3.8 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 9,900,292 3.8 Voting Policy and Socially Responsible Investment The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 5 June 2008.
The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the investment managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote During the year, the Company entered into on the London Stock Exchange for against resolutions they consider may deeds of indemnity in favour of each of its cancellation.
The total consideration for damage shareholders rights or economic Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities these shares was 54,703,000.
The Company believes that it is that may arise to a third party, other than 1 May 2008 and 5 June 2008 the in the shareholders interests to consider the Company, for negligence, default or Company bought back a further 535,000 environmental, social and governance breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are ordinary shares nominal value 26,750 factors when selecting and retaining not indemni ed in respect of liabilities to for cancellation.
The total consideration for investments and have asked the Managers the Company, any regulatory or criminal these shares was 1,990,000. to take these issues into account as long fines, any costs incurred in connection with The principal reason for share buy-backs is as the investment objectives are not criminal proceedings in which the Director to enhance net asset value for continuing compromised.
The Managers policy has is convicted or civil proceedings brought by shareholders by purchasing shares at a been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
the Company in which judgement is given discount to the prevailing net asset value.
In addition, the indemnity does Investment Managers not apply to any liability to the extent that it The shares were purchased at a price after An Investment Management Agreement is recovered from another person.
allowing for costs below the net asset value between the Company and Baillie Gifford and subsequently cancelled, thereby reducing & Co sets out the matters over which the Directors the issued share capital see note 14 on Managers have authority in accordance page 36.
As a result of such purchases Information about the Directors, including their with the policies and directions of, and since April 1999, the net asset value of the relevant experience, can be found on page 18. subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
Company is approximately 5.9% higher now The Management Agreement is terminable Mr JGD Ferguson retires by rotation and than it would otherwise have been.
on not less than 12 months notice.
Details offers himself for re-election.
Mr McDougall, of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford The Directors are seeking shareholders being a director of another investment trust & Co are shown in note 3 on page 31. approval at the Annual General Meeting to managed by Baillie Gifford, offers himself renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% The Board considers the Companys for re-election.
Following formal performance of the Companys ordinary shares in issue investment management and secretarial evaluation, the Board considers that their at the date of passing of the resolution, such arrangements for the Company on an performance continues to be effective and authority to expire at the Annual General ongoing basis and a formal review is they remain committed to the Company.
The Meeting of the Company to be held in respect conducted annually.
The Board considers, Board therefore recommends their re-election of the year ending 30 April 2009. amongst others, the following topics in to shareholders.
its review: the quality of the personnel In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Share Capital assigned to handle the Companys affairs: UK Listing Authority, the maximum price the investment process and the results Capital Structure excluding expenses that may be paid on achieved to date: investment performance: The Companys capital structure consists of the exercise of the authority must not exceed the administrative services provided by 264,179,859 ordinary shares of 5p each the higher of: the Secretaries and the marketing efforts at 30 April 2008. i 105 percent of the average of the undertaken by the Managers.
Following the Voting middle market quotations for the shares most recent review it is the opinion of the Each ordinary shareholder present in person over the five business days immediately Directors that the continuing appointment or by proxy is entitled to one vote on a preceding the date of purchase: and of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote on the terms agreed, is in the interests of ii the higher of the last independent bid for every share held.
shareholders as a whole due to the strength and the highest current independent bid of the investment management team, the on the London Stock Exchange.
Information on the deadlines for proxy Managers commitment to the investment trust appointments can be found on page 44.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses sector and the quality of the secretarial and that may be paid is 5p per share.
Purchase of Shares of shares will be made within guidelines Directors Indemnity During the year to 30 April 2008 the established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company maintains Directors and Company bought back 16,472,834 Your attention is drawn to Resolution 8 in the Of cers Liability insurance.
ordinary shares nominal value 824,000 : Notice of Annual General Meeting.
