DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Directors and Management Directors Directors Service Details JGD Ferguson Date of Due date for James Ferguson, who is 60, was appointed appointment election re-election a Director in 2002 and became Chairman JGD Ferguson 3 January 2002 AGM 2008 in 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is chairman of Value and CC Ferguson 1 September 2003 AGM 2010 EM Harley 3 June 2003 AGM 2009 Income Trust plc, The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust Plc and Edinburgh DCP McDougall 30 November 1999 AGM 2008 U. S. Tracker Trust.
He is a director of The Independent Investment Trust PLC, Northern 3 VCT Plc, Audax Properties PLC and Lloyds markets, having worked in New York and Managers and Secretaries TSB Scotland PLC.
He joined Stewart Ivory latterly with responsibility for the rms in 1970, becoming chairman and chief Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & business in Latin America, S. E. Asia and executive in 1989 and retiring in 2000.
Co, an investment management rm formed Australia.
He is currently a director at He is a former deputy chairman of the in 1927 out of the legal rm Baillie & Cazenove Fund Management and is deputy Association of Investment Companies and is Gifford, WS, which had been involved in president of the Historic Houses Association.
a former member of the Executive Committee investment management since 1908.
Baillie He is also involved with the charitable of the Fund Managers Association.
Gifford are one of the largest investment trust sector both as a trustee and as a member of managers in the UK and currently manage CC Ferguson investment committees.
Carol Ferguson, who is 61, was appointed DCP McDougall a Director in 2003.
A quali ed Chartered Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts Douglas McDougall, who is 64, was and Open Ended Investment Companies, Accountant, she began her investment appointed a Director in 1999 and is career with Ivory & Sime, an Edinburgh together with investment portfolios on the Senior Independent Director.
He is behalf of pension funds, charities and other fund management group.
Thereafter, she chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, institutional clients, both in the UK and plc, The Law Debenture Corporation plc, overseas.
Funds under the management becoming a partner in 1984.
Her most The Independent Investment Trust PLC and recent position was as Finance Director for or advice of Baillie Gifford total over 55 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust plc.
Based in Edinburgh, they are one Timney Fowler, a textiles company.
She is a director of Stramongate Assets PLC, Herald non-executive director and chairs the audit of the leading privately owned investment Investment Trust plc and Paci c Horizon management rms in the UK, with 33 committees of Gartmore Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 Investment Trust plc, Merrill Lynch Greater partners and a staff of around 500. he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co Europe Investment Trust plc, Vernalis plc The manager of Monks portfolio is Gerald and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior and Ardana plc.
She is a director of the Smith.
Gerald is a partner of Baillie Gifford partner and chief investment of cer.
He Chartered Accountants Compensation and is the head of Baillie Giffords Asia and is a former chairman of the Investment Scheme and chairman of the Association of Emerging Markets Team and is a member of Management Regulatory Organisation, Investment Companies.
Baillie Giffords Investment Policy Committee.
the Fund Managers Association and the EM Harley Association of Investment Companies.
Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and Edward Harley, who is 48, was appointed regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
He joined Cazenove in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He All Directors are members of the Audit has considerable experience of overseas Committee.
