MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Managers Portfolio Review During the year signi cant changes were a builders merchant with a substantial Returns From Markets made to the portfolio.
In particular, sixty-four American business it was clearly positioned for the year ended 30 April 2008 of the holdings that were in the portfolio at right in the path of the storm.
The holdings the end of April 2007 were no longer there that were sold for reasons related to this Geographical performance against a year later.
Of these, two, Abbott Group broad theme included: nancials such as and Todco, were taken over but the rest Moodys, the rating agency, M&T Bank, an FTSE World Index in sterling terms were sold.
At the year-end there also were American bank, T Rowe Price, an American 60% thirty-nine new equity holdings and twentyfund management company, AIB, an Irish 50% two new bond holdings.
Rather than go bank, and UBS, the Swiss investment bank: 40% through each individual decision in detail we house builders such as Ryland in the United 30% have attempted to group them together in States and Bovis and Persimmon in the terms of broad themes in order to bring out United Kingdom: companies dependent 20% the resulting changes to the overall portfolio.
on discretionary spending by American 10% consumers such as Carnival, the cruise 0% The first theme is capital preservation.
The operator, and Nissan, the Japanese car global credit crunch that was triggered by 10% maker: and the advertising agencies WPP the bursting of the US house price bubble 20% and Omnicom.
UK CONTINENTAL NORTH JAPAN ASIA OTHER was not something that came out of a EUROPE AMERICA PACIFIC EMERGING MARKETS clear blue sky.
It may in fact have been A related theme is our exposure to the Source: Baillie Gifford & Co one of the most predicted financial crises, banking sector.
We began the year with only preceded as it was by numerous books, a small proportion of the portfolio invested Monks portfolio articles and warnings from well-informed in bank shares, but on some measures our FTSE World Index sources.
If there is anything truly surprising overall exposure to the sector increased All figures are calculated on a total return basis about it, then that is that it took so long to during the year.
Firstly, because we increased with net income reinvested.
This may have lulled investors, the amount of money held on deposit during Past performance is no guarantee of future including ourselves, into remaining invested much of the year and, secondly, because we performance.
in companies that had bene ted from the subsequently invested some of this cash into huge in ation of asset prices caused by the bonds issued by banks.
widespread availability of cheap credit.
bought relatively long dated securities, The collapse of the edi ce of structured Despite the fact that in last years annual including CDOs and other securities backed finance, the process by which loans were report the Chairman expressed concern by mortgages, credit card receivables etc.
bundled together and then sliced and about loans being extended on excessively and funded these investments by issuing diced into new types of securities for sale to generous terms to borrowers likely to have short-dated debts of their own in the form investors, derivatives created based on these dif culty repaying their debts, we started of commercial paper.
This commercial securities and new, more exotic, securities the year with a number of holdings in paper was awarded high ratings by the created out of packages of these securities companies that could be expected to suffer leading credit rating agencies but offered and derivatives, has left banks with a serious reversals of fortune during a period slightly higher yields than similarly rated number of serious problems.
One of the most in which these excesses were unwound.
more traditional forms of commercial paper, obvious problems is that banks holdings Purging the portfolio of these holdings was making it attractive to investors seeking extra of these collateralised debt obligations, or therefore necessary to avoid or limit losses yield with minimal risk.
CDOs, cannot be sold for anything like the to shareholders.
Some of these sales took values at which they had been carried on Anything that seems too good to be place relatively early in the Companys year, their balance sheets, leading to large write true usually is and the straw that broke such as the sale of the highly aggressive downs under mark-to-market accounting the camels back was a high level of mortgage lender Northern Rock in June rules, which erode their capital.
Another is defaults on recently issued US sub-prime 2007 at 955p.
In other cases, however, the strain on balance sheets and liquidity mortgages.
This cascaded through the we were guilty of being seduced by caused by off-balance sheet exposures complex and arcane structures of CDOs arguments about the quality of business becoming on-balance sheet exposures.
and closely related entities in ways that models, the excellence of management and were not anticipated by rating agencies claims that all the bad news was already In recent years banks have set up a variety or purchasers, leading to unexpected re ected in lowly valuations, and sales of off-balance sheet entities known as losses for holders of securities regarded by were delayed as a result.
For example, it conduits and provided back-stop lending them as extremely low risk.
In the resulting took us until the end of November 2007 facilities to these and structured investment climate of risk aversion, conduits and SIVs to sell Wolseley, despite the fact that as vehicles, or SIVs.
The conduits and SIVs 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW were unable to replace maturing issues they need to issue more bonds to bolster have strong balance sheets and have of commercial paper with new ones and their balance sheets.
We believe it is this demonstrated that they are able to secure drew on the back-stop facilities granted by imbalance between buyers and sellers that bank finance.
We believe that this should banks.
Those banks then found themselves accounts for the unusually large premium enable them to buy assets at attractive in need of cash to advance against over the interest rate on government bonds prices, and so we have made some small portfolios of assets of questionable value.
rather than a realistic estimate of the additions in this area.
This contributed to increased demand for likelihood of suffering a loss of capital if held Overall we now have a bit less invested in funds in the wholesale market in which to maturity.
This premium is likely to reduce Japanese equities than we had a year ago.
banks borrow from each other.
The increase over time as banks rebuild their capital One reason for this is that the holding in the in demand coincided with a reduced positions through a combination of equity Baillie Gifford Japanese Smaller Companies willingness on the part of those banks with issues and retained earnings.
A number Fund has been sold.
We no longer see available funds to lend to other banks.
The of bank regulators around the world have a very strong case for a broad exposure potential lenders were particularly unwilling also indicated that they believe that in future to smaller companies in Japan, based on to lend for periods measured in months, for banks should be required to have more the observation that in this group the good fear that they themselves might need that equity to support a given level of business.
companies are not cheap while the cheap money before those deposits matured.
As All of these developments are unhelpful to companies are not good.
The holding in the a result, the rates of interest banks were holders of bank shares, at least in the near Baillie Gifford British Smaller Companies willing to offer on term deposits rose sharply, term, as they will be diluted and suffer from Fund has also been sold.
We see a creating an opportunity for us to earn dividend cuts, but they are extremely good difference in the prospects of companies attractive returns by supplying funds to the for holders of bank bonds, as they increase exposed to the effects of the financial crisis banking system in the form of term deposits.
the cushion of equity that has to be eaten on the economies of the United Kingdom, Our initial investment was in sterling term through before bond holders suffer losses.
the United States and parts of Continental deposits but towards the end of 2007 we It is our view that it is the premium or Europe and those of companies whose became concerned about the over-valuation spread over government bond yields that customers are in industries bene ting from of the pound and so maturing sterling will contract, rather than that the absolute the booming demand from those parts of deposits were replaced by a mixture of level of bond prices will rise, and we are the world that have not been living beyond euro, Swedish krona and Norwegian krone concerned that government bond yields their means.
The United Kingdom is home term deposits.
Throughout we have restricted are in fact too low in light of the outlook to a number of high quality engineering exposure to those banks that fall into the for in ation.
We have, therefore, bought businesses with strong exports and in the category of too big to fail, meaning that oating rate euro-denominated bonds and current circumstances having direct holdings their failure would pose such a large risk hedged our sterling-denominated investment in such companies appears preferable to a to the overall financial system that central grade bond holdings against the risk of a broad exposure to a range of small British banks and governments would almost general rise in yields by selling a gilt future.
New holdings in the UK that t certainly intervene to prevent their collapse.
Through these means we are effectively only into this general engineering theme include: We believe that other ways to pro t from investing in the change in spread.
Aggreko, a provider of temporary power: the distress in the financial system have also Cookson, which supplies the steel industry We did not succeed entirely in anticipating been thrown up.
One of these opportunities worldwide: Hamworthy, which supplies the rami cations of the unfolding credit has arisen in the market for bonds issued valves for ships: Renishaw, which supplies crisis and, in particular, we did not foresee by banks and other financial companies.
the machine tool industry: Rotork, which its impact on our holdings of Japanese These bonds have been trading at prices makes equipment for controlling valves: real estate investment trusts and property that appear to re ect a level of forthcoming Rolls-Royce, which makes aero engines: companies.
Vacancy rates in the major defaults that would be much worse than and Wellstream, which makes exible pipes metropolitan areas are low, new supply is the outcome of previous periods of extreme for the oil industry.
A similar theme can be very limited, rents have been rising, albeit distress for banking systems around the seen in new holdings in other engineering relatively gradually, and yields are attractive world.
The most likely explanation for this companies elsewhere including: SNCrelative to returns available on government state of affairs can be found in the discovery Lavalin in Canada, one of the worlds bonds.
Despite this, capital values have that the conduits and SIVs mentioned above largest engineering consultancies: Alstom been falling under the pressure of forced were among the largest buyers of bonds in France, which makes power generation sellers, the effective closure of the market for issued by financial companies, including equipment and trains: Sandvik in Sweden, securities backed by commercial mortgages banks.
They are now sellers rather than which makes cutting tools and mining and reductions in maximum loan to value buyers and at the same time banks and equipment: and Vallourec in France, which ratios.
The companies in which we invest other financial companies are nding that makes seamless pipes for the oil and gas THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW industry.
We also took new holdings in two sea-bed, Seadrill in Norway, which has one steel producers, ArcelorMittal, the worlds of the fastest growing and most modern fleet largest steel maker based in the Netherlands of ultra-deepwater drilling rigs and drillships, and US Steel, a leading American steel and Aker Solutions, also Norwegian, which maker with its own iron ore supplies.
supplies drilling equipment for the latest generations of deepwater drilling rigs and Only minor changes have been made to the equipment used in developing deepwater overall positions in oil and gas producers elds.
We have, however, also taken and oil service companies.
Taken together some pro ts during the year in some of our these positions still represent one of the successful holdings.
largest exposures within the portfolio.
The pattern of previous years has been repeated In addition to these major themes, the with the oil price reaching new record levels following changes are worth highlighting.
as production growth has fallen short of We took some pro ts in our largest holding, expectations and demand has continued the Baillie Gifford Paci c Fund, following a to grow rapidly despite high prices.
period of strong performance, on concerns There has also been a recovery in North that proved well-founded that share prices American gas prices.
Two of our holdings, in the region had run too far in the latest EOG and Petrobras announced major new round of China fever.
EOG substantially increased region remains one of the regions in which its reserves of gas in North America and we continue to nd attractive investments Petrobras announced two new discoveries and we have taken some direct holdings in in deepwater off the coast of Brazil, one of Hong Kong based bulk shipping companies which may turn out to be one of the largest during the year.
A new area of investment new discoveries in decades.
This Petrobras for us is the Middle East, where economies discovery encapsulates many of the issues have been booming and we now have facing oil companies in their efforts to nd holdings in the United Arab Emirates and and develop new reserves of oil to replace Egypt.
Small holdings have also been those currently in production.
It involved taken in companies bene ting from rising drilling more than three miles under the agricultural prices.
We are continuing seabed, which in turn lies more than a mile to look for opportunities in this area, in below the surface of the ocean and the alternatives to oil, including coal, and technical challenges involved in developing for ways to pro t from the general rise in these reserves will be immense.
It is hard to in ation around the world.
avoid the conclusion that oil is getting harder to nd and more expensive to produce.
Apart from the handful of companies such as Petrobras that are able to grow their production and increase their reserves, the main bene ciaries of these trends have been the oil service companies that supply the drilling rigs, services and equipment needed to explore for and develop these new reserves and to squeeze out as much oil and gas as possible from existing elds.
New holdings in this area have been taken in companies that are well placed to bene t from increasing activity in deep water.
These include Cameron International in the United States, which makes equipment used on the 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
