Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive, and the majority of whom are independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Murray Income Trust PLC and represent the interests of Shareholders.
Patrick Gifford BA Adrian Coats MA, ACA, FCT Marian Glen MA LLB Status: Chairman and Independent Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director, Chairman of Audit Committee Age: 48 Age: 63 and Senior Independent Director Length of Service: 5 years and 4 Length of Service: 8 years 11 months Age: 53 months Experience and other public Length of Service: 9 years 5 months Experience and other public company directorships: Patrick Experience and other public company directorships: Marian Glen is Gifford was previously a director of company directorships: Adrian Coats head of Funds and Financial Services at Robert Fleming Holdings and chairman is treasury and purchasing director for Shepherd Wedderburn Solicitors.
of Fleming Investment Trust Scottish Power and a Trustee of the She is a member of the Technical Management.
He is chairman of Scottish Power Pension Scheme.
He Committee of the Association of Invesco Perpetual Select Trust, Martin was formerly a director of Grand Investment Companies.
Currie Pacific Trust and Vtesse Metropolitan Finance and chairman of Employment by Manager: None Networks.
He is also a director of the Scottish Branch of the Association Other connections with the Trust or AlphaGen Aldebaran Fund Ltd, of Corporate Treasurers.
Manager: Shepherd Wedderburn have JPMorgan Russian Securities and Employment by Manager: None provided legal advice to companies Tapestry Investment Company PCC Ltd. Other connections with the Trust or within the Aberdeen Asset Employment by Manager: None Manager: None Management group.
Other connections with the Trust or Shared Directorships with any other Shared Directorships with any other Manager: None Trust Directors: None Trust Directors: None Shared Directorships with any other Shareholding in Company: Beneficial Shareholding in Company: Beneficial Trust Directors: None 5,000 Ordinary shares, Non- 3,000 Ordinary shares Shareholding in Company: Beneficial Beneficial 25,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 21,710 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2008 18,000 Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2008 21,000 2008 25,000 20 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support Neil Honebon MA Humphrey van der Klugt BSC HONS, FCA Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Status: Independent Non-Executive Age: 54 Director and Chairman of Length of Service: 2 years and 11 Remuneration Committee months Age: 54 Experience and other public Length of Service: 4 years and 2 company directorships: Neil Honebon months is a director of Fleming Family and Experience and other public Partners Asset Management, where he company directorships: Humphrey is Chief Investment Officer.
He has over van der Klugt was previously a director 25 years experience in investment of Schroder Investment Management analysis and research and, while Limited.
In a twentytwo year career at previously at Flemings, he was Head of Schroders, he was a member of the Global Research and deputy chair of Group Investment and Asset Allocation the asset allocation committee.
He is Committees: and as a UK equity also a director of Avior, Volantis and manager, he was directly responsible Octanis, three hedge funds within for 3 billion of funds under Gartmores AlphaGen range.
management, including the Schroder Employment by Manager: None UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
Other connections with the Trust or He is currently chairman of the Manager: None Supervisory Board of Schroder Exempt Shared Directorships with any other Property Unit Trust and a nonTrust Directors: None executive director of BlackRock Shareholding in Company: Beneficial Commodities Income Investment Trust 15,000 Ordinary shares plc, Fidelity European Values PLC and Remuneration: Year ended 30 June JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment 2008 18,000 Trust PLC.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 7,500 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2008 18,000 Murray Income Trust PLC 21 Enfocus Software - Customer Support
