Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Net asset value total return relative to the Companys Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 30 benchmark June 2008.
Share price total return Discount to net asset value Performance attribution Review of the Business Earnings and dividends per share.
A review of the Companys activities is given in the Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans A historical record of these measures is disclosed on pages 9 Statement on pages 4 and 5, and in the Managers Review on to 11.
We compare our performance with the Companys pages 6 to 9.
This includes a review of the business of the benchmark and selected peer companies.
A range of Company and its principal activities and likely future comparator groups are used, including the AIC UK Growth & developments of the business.
Income peer group and the Open Ended UK Equity Income peer group.
Investment Objective and Policies The Boards objective is to achieve a high and growing Management of Risk income combined with capital growth through investment in The Board regularly reviews the major strategic risks that the a concentrated selection of UK equities.
The shares that Board and the Manager have identified, and against these the make up the portfolio are selected from British companies Board sets out the delegated controls designed to manage that have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, those risks.
The principal risks facing the Company relate to while at the same time providing an above-average portfolio the Companys investment activities and include market yield.
The emphasis is on the management of risk and on the price, interest rate, liquidity and credit risk.
An explanation of absolute return from the portfolio, which is achieved by these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors, 17 to the accounts on page 48.
Such key risks relating to with a high proportion of its assets in strong, well-known investment and strategy as, for example, inappropriate asset companies.
The portfolio at the year end is set out on pages allocation or gearing, are managed through investment 12 to 15, and its analysis on page 16.
The Company makes policy, guidelines and restrictions and by the process of use of low-cost, flexible borrowing facilities to enhance oversight at each Board meeting outlined above.
Operational Shareholder returns when appropriate, and the Board disruption, accounting and legal risks are also covered regularly reviews gearing, which was 10% of net assets at 30 annually, and regulatory compliance is reviewed at each June 2008 2007 5.7%.
The major risks associated with the Company are: Investment Policy Guidelines Investments are not formally limited as to market Resource risk like most other investment trusts, the capitalisation or sector weightings within the UK.
It is the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies Companys policy to have a focused portfolio.
There were 49 on services provided by third parties, including, in particular, holdings at 30 June 2008. the Manager, to whom responsibility for the management of the Company has been delegated under an investment It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per management agreement the Agreement further details cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies of which are set out on page 26.
The terms of the including listed investment trusts.
Agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions expected of the Manager.
The Board reviews the Oversight and Review of Performance performance of the Manager on a regular basis, and their The Board meets at least five times a year to review compliance with the Agreement formally on an annual performance with the Manager.
As well as carrying out the basis.
matters set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance Investment objective the objective of the Company is to pages 28 to 32, the Board receives, for each meeting, a achieve a high and growing income combined with capital detailed portfolio report and an analysis of economic growth.
As a consequence, the investment portfolio may indicators, and discusses performance and strategy, not always match that of the stock market as a whole, with considering perceived risks and economic conditions.
It uses a consequential impact on Shareholder returns.
The Boards measures such as attribution analysis against the benchmark, aim is to maximise absolute returns to Shareholders while active weights and valuation matrices to assess the managing risk by ensuring an appropriate diversification of Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key stocks and sectors.
performance indicators KPIs are established industry Investment policy and gearing a major risk affecting the measures, and are as follows: Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection leading to under-performance relative to the Companys 22 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support benchmark index and peer group.
In addition, the use of business as an investment trust.
The Directors do not borrowing facilities to invest in markets may have a envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
negative impact if markets fall.
To mitigate these risks, the Manager operates within investment guidelines and agreed In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs levels of borrowing.
Performance against the benchmark have been conducted in a manner as to satisfy the conditions index and the peer group is regularly monitored.
During the which enable it to continue to obtain approval as an year, an element of portfolio protection was put in place by investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and the purchase of put options.
HM Revenue & Customs will Discount volatility investment trust shares tend to trade grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided that the at discounts to their underlying net asset values, which can Companys affairs have been conducted in such a manner as fluctuate considerably.
To seek to minimise the impact of to satisfy the conditions of that section, although approval such fluctuations, the Company has operated a share buyfor the period would be subject to review were there to be back programme for a number of years.
any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
Regulatory risk - the Company operates in a complex HM Revenue & Customs approval for such status has been regulatory environment and faces a number of related risks.
given for the year ended 30 June 2007.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could result in the Company being subject The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully to capital gains tax on the sale of its investments.
Serious qualifying investment trust for inclusion in a general PEP, and breach of other regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules also so that the Companys shares will be qualifying and the Companies Act, could lead to suspension from the investments for the stocks and shares component of an ISA.
Stock Exchange and reputational damage.
The Board receives monthly compliance reports from the Manager to Share Capital monitor compliance with regulations.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 30 October 2007, Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority Results and Dividends permitting the Company to repurchase up to 9,754,335 of its The total return attributable to equity Shareholders for the Ordinary shares, and gave approval for the Company to hold year amounted to 102,690,000. shares in treasury.
During the year ended 30 June 2008, share repurchases totalling 521,450 Ordinary shares of 25p each A third interim dividend of 5.00p per Ordinary share was paid 0.8% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2007 on 13 July 2007, and the final dividend for the year ended 30 took place at an average price of 630p, to be held in treasury.
June 2007 of 9.25p per Ordinary share was paid on 31 From the date of renewal of the authority on 30 October October 2007.
The first and second interim dividends for the 2007 to 12 September 2008, 439,450 Ordinary shares of 25p year ended 30 June 2008 of 5.25p per Ordinary share each each 0.7% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 30 were paid on 18 January 2008 and 18 April 2008 October 2007 were bought back at an average price of respectively, making a total distribution to Ordinary 513p, to be held in treasury.
Subsequent to the year end and Shareholders of 16,082,000 as shown in Note 6 on page 46. up to the date of this Report, share repurchases totalling The sum of 2,898,000 has been added to the Companys 28,000 Ordinary shares of 25p each took place at an average revenue reserve.
The third interim dividend of 5.25p per price of 547.6p.
Subsequent to the year end and up to the Ordinary share was paid on 18 July 2008. date of this Report, no shares were re-issued from treasury.
The Directors now recommend a final dividend of 11.25p per The issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2008 consisted Ordinary share payable on 6 November 2008 to holders of of 64,617,458 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,799,000 Ordinary shares on the register on 3 October 2008.
A Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 12 September 2008, the resolution in respect of the final dividend will be proposed at issued share capital consisted of 64,589,458 Ordinary shares the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of 25p and 1,827,000 Treasury shares of 25p.
Dividends are paid by means of three interim dividends and a Each Ordinary share of the Company carries one vote at final, normally in January, April, July and November.
Further general meetings of the Company.
information on dividends is contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5.
Principal Activity and Status The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on Murray Income Trust PLC 23 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report continued held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to such Special Business at Annual General Meeting shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is Issue of New Shares and sale of Treasury Shares that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Ordinary Resolution No.
8 in the Notice of Annual General Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and Meeting will renew the authority to allot the unissued share improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 807,368 that any re-sale of treasury shares would only take place at a equivalent to 3,229,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of price of greater than 0.5% above the net asset value the Companys existing issued share capital on 12 September prevailing at the date of sale.
It is also the intention of the 2008.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Board that sales from treasury would only take place when Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the Board believes that to do so would assist in the provision the date of the passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
of liquidity to the market.
The Directors recommend that This means that the authority will have to be renewed at the shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions 8 and 9. next Annual General Meeting.
Share Repurchases When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 1 of the At the Annual General Meeting held on 30 October 2007, Companies Act 1985 the Act provides that existing shareholders approved the renewal of the authority shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
shares must be offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance existing shareholders.
9 will, if passed, shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to net give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up asset value, as and when the Directors consider this to be to an aggregate nominal amount of 807,368 equivalent to appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at 3,229,472 Ordinary shares, or 5 per cent of the Companys a discount to net asset value per share, should result in an existing issued share capital on 12 September 2008, as if increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining Section 89 1 of the Act does not apply.
This is the same shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the net seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
8. asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established earlier.
This authority will not be used in connection with a from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek rights issue by the Company.
shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions 8 and 9 to allot shares and disapply pre-emption Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market would be available for investment in line with the Companys quotations for the shares over the five business days investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the would effectively alter the control of the Company without higher of the last independent trade and the highest current the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Under independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share share.
Shares which are purchased under this authority will Regulations the Company is permitted to buy back and either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share Special Resolution No.
10 in the Notice of Annual General Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of signing by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
this Report, amounting to 9,681,959 Ordinary shares.
Such Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to allot authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General unissued Ordinary share capital on a non pre-emptive basis, Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of Resolution No.
9, if passed, will give the Directors authority passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in to sell Ordinary shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next basis.
Under the Treasury Share Regulations, the holding of Annual General Meeting or earlier if the authority has been treasury shares is restricted to 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, no dividends may be paid on any shares 24 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support exhausted.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote Mr Gifford and Mr van der Klugt retire by rotation at the in favour of Resolution No.
10. forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Resolutions 3 and 4 to this Amendment to Articles of Association effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
"Over the past year, and since the articles of association the ""Articles"" of the Company were last updated in 2006, The firm of which Ms Glen is a partner provides legal advice company law in the United Kingdom has undergone major to companies within the Managers group."
She will, therefore, reform through the coming into force of parts of the offer herself for re-election annually.
"Resolution 5 to this Companies Act 2006 the ""2006 Act""."
Accordingly, the effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
"Board considers it prudent to amend the Company's existing Articles of Association in order to take account of certain The re-election of Mr Gifford, Mr van der Klugt and Ms Glen, developments the ""New Articles""."
At this year's Annual whose biographies appear on pages 20 and 21, was General Meeting, the Company proposes to adopt provisions considered and approved by the Nomination Committee.
The which reflect changes in the law brought about by the 2006 reasons for the Committees recommendations for their reAct in respect of electronic communications, directors election, and the subsequent approval of those conflicts of interest and the indemnity of officers and recommendations by the Board, are set out on page 30, in insurance.
11 to this effect will be the Statement of Corporate Governance.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors A copy of the New Articles will be available for inspection at must offer themselves for re-election at least once every the offices of Dickson Minto W. S. Royal London House, three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking re- 22 25 Finsbury Square, London EC2A 1DX and the registered election at this time, it has been less than three years since office of the Company during normal business hours on any their previous re-election.
weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of the Notice of the Annual General Meeting No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and on business and in which any of the Directors is interested has the date of the Annual General Meeting from 12.15pm until subsisted during the year.
the conclusion of the meeting.
A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages A summary of the changes proposed to be brought about by 34 and 35. the amendment to the Articles is set out in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of in the Ordinary share capital of the Company were as Resolution No.
11. follows: Substantial Interests At 30 June 2008 At 1 July 2007 At 12 September 2008, the following share interests in the Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Company had been notified: NonNonBeneficial beneficial Beneficial beneficial Number of P A F Gifford 21,168 18,807 - Shareholder shares held % held A J M Coats 5,000 25,000 5,000 25,000 Clients of Aberdeen Asset 10,602,338 16.3 M Glen 3,000 - - - Management N A Honebon 15,000 - 10,000 - Legal & General Investment 2,688,474 4.13 H van der 7,500 - 7,500 - Management Klugt Clients of Rensburg 2,307,049 3.54 Sheppards Investment Mr Giffords beneficial holding increased to 21,710 Ordinary Management shares by the acquisition of 177 Ordinary shares on 18 July 2008, 183 Ordinary shares on 22 July 2008 and 182 Ordinary shares on 22 August 2008.
As at 12 September Directors 2008 there have been no other changes in the above The Directors, who held office throughout the year under holdings.
review, are shown on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report, and their share interests are shown opposite.
Murray Income Trust PLC 25 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Directors Report continued Manager and Company Secretary Political and Charitable Donations Investment management services are provided to the The Company has not made any political or charitable Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company donations in the year 2007 - nil.
secretarial, accounting and administrative services are provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Going Concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to For the year ended 30 June 2008, the management and adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and Statements.
The Company has adequate financial resources charged on the following basis: to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
A monthly fee at the rate of one-twelfth of 0.55% on the first 400 million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 Creditor Payment Policy million of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment million.
The value of any investments managed within the before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware Aberdeen Asset Group is deducted from net assets.
The of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
investment management fee remains chargeable 50% to The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year revenue and 50% against realised capital reserves.
secretarial fee of 75,000 per annum is also payable, which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
Additional Information The management and administration contracts may be Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Report, the terminated by either the Company or the Manager on the following provides the additional information required to be expiry of three months written notice.
On termination, the disclosed by Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006: Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would otherwise have been due to that date.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions which may from The management and secretarial fees paid during the year time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading ended 30 June 2008 are shown in Note 3 on page 43. law.
In monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board The Company is not aware of any agreements between considers the investment record of the Company over short shareholders that may result in restriction on the transfer of and longer-term periods, taking into account both its securities and or voting rights.
performance against the benchmark index and peer group investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the management The rules governing the appointment of Directors are set out processes, risk control mechanisms and marketing activities in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 28 to of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board 32.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be considers the continuing appointment of the Manager to be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of in the interests of the Shareholders because the Aberdeen shareholders.
Asset Management Group has the investment management, marketing and associated secretarial and administrative skills The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to required for the effective operation of the Company.
The which it is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a Board continues to keep this matter under review.
change of control of the Company following a takeover.
Corporate Governance Other than the management and administration contracts with the Manager, further details of which are set out on this The Statement of Corporate Governance is contained on page, the Company is not aware of any contractual or other pages 28 to 32. agreements which are essential to its business which ought to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
Audit Committee Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Annual General Meeting Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading The Annual General Meeting will be held on 5 November Audit Committee on page 30.
The Notice of Meeting is contained on pages 55 to 57.
26 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 7, to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors, will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting along with Resolution 8, to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
It should be noted that the only fees paid to the Auditors over the past seven years have been in respect of audit services.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Company's Auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretaries One Bow Churchyard Cheapside London, EC4M 9HH 16 September 2008 Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Enfocus Software - Customer Support
