Managers Review Background During the period, the level of merger and acquisition broadly The UK equity market performed poorly during the year to reduced in line with the availability of funding.
However, the the end of June 2008.
Following four years of high returns, Company benefited from bids for Kelda from Saltaire Water, the FTSE All-Share Index fell by 12.9% with the environment Resolution from Pearl, Scottish & Newcastle from a particularly challenging for income-seeking investors.
The so Carlsberg Heineken joint venture and Emap by Guardian called credit crunch essentially a dramatic reduction in Media Group, all announced during the first half of the year.
the availability of debt finance - resulted in significantly In addition, towards the end of the period Rio Tinto was the higher costs for borrowers.
In addition, a sharp increase in the recipient of an approach from BHP Billiton.
Following a price of many commodities, including oil, led to inflationary period of equity withdrawal where capital has been retired pressure making the backdrop for equities even tougher.
from the market, this has now reversed with the recapitalisation of parts of the Bank sector a major Volatility has been a significant feature of the market over contributing factor.
Midand Smaller-cap companies the year, initially caused by concerns over the ability of the underperformed, due to their greater exposure to domestic holders of lower-quality mortgages in the United States to earnings and a lower weighting in commodity-related meet their payments.
The collapse of two hedge funds run by companies than the FTSE 100.
Bear Stearns in July 2007 brought the issue to the fore and led to a broad reappraisal of risk as credit spreads widened.
Performance The resulting market fall was cushioned by a reduction in US interest rates by the Federal Reserve Bank, and the prospect The Company generated a negative total return of 19.9% in of a looser monetary environment prompted the market to the 12 months to 30 June 2008 compared to a fall in the recover sharply, peaking for the year in October.
The FTSE All-Share Index of 12.9%, a disappointing result both in remainder of 2007 and beginning of 2008 witnessed further absolute and relative terms.
The reasons for this are market weakness as problems in financial markets spilled explained below.
LIBOR rates the interest rate at which banks borrow from each other became elevated, as Sector Allocations for the year to 30 June 2008 banks withdrew credit availability to protect their balance 2008 sheets.
In the UK, the inability to source external funds was % the ultimate reason for the collapse of Northern Rock and its subsequent nationalisation.
In the US the takeover of Bear Net asset value total return for year per 19.9 Stearns by JPMorgan Chase was announced in March for Ordinary share similar reasons.
Coordinated central bank intervention at the FTSE All Share Index total return 12.9 beginning of April helped to relieve some of the pressure and Relative return 7.0 the market rebounded from the March lows.
However, this optimism was reversed quickly as oil prices rose, reaching $140 at the end of the period, and limiting the opportunity Analysis of relative return for Central Banks to reduce interest rates to promote growth.
Stock selection equities As a consequence, the market fell sharply over the last six Oil & Gas 0.6 weeks of the period.
Basic Materials 0.3 In the UK, at the start of the period, economic conditions had Industrials 0.2 appeared relatively healthy and the Bank of England Consumer Goods 1.6 increased interest rates to 5.75% in July, citing a need to Health Care 0.1 reduce the growth rate of total demand.
However, over the autumn, the macroeconomic picture began to deteriorate, Consumer Services 1.9 with survey data providing a more pessimistic outlook of Telecommunications future growth.
Consumer confidence started to decline Utilities 0.2 rapidly, reflecting weakness in the housing market where Technology prices, compounded by a lack of mortgage availability, had begun to fall on a month on month basis.
The increase in oil Financials 0.5 and soft commodity prices provided a challenging backdrop Total stock selection equities 0.6 for the Bank of England as it tried to balance the polarising Asset allocation equities factors of increased inflation and lower growth prospects.
Interest rates were subsequently progressively reduced, Oil & Gas 1.2 reaching 5.0% in April.
The end of the period witnessed Basic Materials 2.5 continued weakness, with Q2 2008 GDP growth of 0.2%, the Industrials 0.1 lowest quarter on quarter growth for three years, and the Consumer Goods 0.2 Consumer Price Index rising to 3.8% in June, its highest level for 11 years.
6 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support beneficiary of increased capital expenditure by the oil majors.
Health Care 0.1 Similarly, our holding in Weir in the Industrial Engineering Consumer Services 1.5 sector performed strongly driven by sales of equipment it Telecommunications 0.5 manufactures for the Mining industry.
The Mining holdings Utilities 0.1 themselves, Rio Tinto and Anglo American, generated strong performances.
Technology 0.1 Financials 0.6 Unfortunately, there were a number of holdings that Total asset allocation equities 6.3 performed poorly over the year.
Premier Foods profits were Non-equity Investments & Options 0.6 hurt by a significant rise in the cost of wheat.
There were also concerns over the amount of debt on its balance sheet.
Gearing cash effect 1.5 Barratt Developments acquisition of Wilson Bowden proved Management fees & other expenses 0.8 to be ill-timed given the problems in the housing market and Residual effect 0.4 the share price fell dramatically over the year.
The housing downturn in the United States also damaged Wolseley, Total 7.0 where, despite extensive efforts to reduce the cost base, Sources : Aberdeen Asset Management, Mellon & Factset profitability was severely affected.
Amongst the Banks, both Notes: Stock Selection measures the effect of equity selection relative to the Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland were sold down heavily benchmark.
Asset Allocation measures the impact of over or underweighting as the credit crisis deteriorated.
each industry basket in the equity portfolio, relative to the benchmark weights.
Nonequity Investments & Options effect measures the impact on relative Portfolio Activity and Structure returns of the two asset categories.
Gearing cash effect measures the Commensurate with our patient buy and hold strategy, the impact on relative returns of net borrowings.
Management fees & other portfolio has undergone only a modest level of change during expenses these reduce total assets and therefore reduce performance.
However, during the period a number of new effect is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average holdings were added to the portfolio.
We introduced a total assets less current liabilities.
Residual effect this arises as a result of the position in Daily Mail and General Trust, which has an different methodologies of calculating performance between the NAV total attractive business to business operation and appealing return, the benchmark provider Factset and the performance attribution system valuation: and Close Brothers, which has a diversified earnings base and good dividend yield.
These were funded partly through the sale of Mitchells & Butlers, where we Over the year, sector performance across the market as a became increasingly concerned that the valuation was whole was unusually polarised.
Indeed, excluding Oil & Gas stretched.
and Basic Materials from the FTSE All-Share Index reveals that the market peaked in February 2007 and has We added Whitbread, now predominantly a budget hotel subsequently fallen 40%.
Only Oil & Gas and Basic Materials company with significant asset backing, to the Trust.
In generated a positive return over the year.
The Company has addition, we purchased a holding in Tesco: the company has maintained a sizeable underweight position in Mining where attractive international growth prospects and opportunities dividend yields are very low and valuations are high.
This has to increase sales in the UK, coupled with a strong balance also been the case with the oil sector as we do not aim to sheet.
Finally, we introduced a holding in Dunedin Smaller replicate the high weights of BP and Shell in the FTSE AllCompanies Investment Trust, which is managed by Aberdeen.
Both of these sector positions have hurt This trust provides broad small cap exposure and generates a performance relative to the benchmark as shown on the healthy dividend yield.
It was purchased at a generous table above.
discount at a time when the underlying holdings offered attractive long-term value.
These purchases were funded Within the broad Basic Materials sector, Mining shares from companies that had been the subject of takeovers performed very strongly in reaction to rising commodity including Resolution and Kelda.
Although the oil price rose dramatically, the greatest end of the period we sold Barratt Developments as we did beneficiaries within the Oil sector from a share price not feel that the risk reward ratio was attractive.
The perspective were the smaller explorers and oil services company had been severely affected by the downturn in the companies rather than the large integrated majors.
housing market at a time when its debt-funded purchase of Significant underperformance was a feature of Consumer Wilson Bowden had left its balance sheet vulnerable to Services, given the domestic economic exposure, and Banks, external shocks.
where diminishing capital ratios provided cause for concern.
Throughout the period, we maintained our policy of recycling As mentioned above the Company benefited from takeover capital from some of the stronger performers into areas of approaches for Kelda, Resolution, Scottish & Newcastle and weakness.
To that end, Rio Tinto, Anglo American, BP, Shell, Emap.
Other highlights included the performance in the Oil AMEC, Weir and HSBC amongst others, were reduced to fund & Gas sector of Venture Production and AMEC, the latter a top-ups in more attractively-valued companies such as Murray Income Trust PLC 7 Enfocus Software - Customer Support Managers Review continued AstraZeneca, GKN, Centrica, National Grid and Premier For the financial year ended 30 June 2008, the Company has Foods.
Weakness in consumer-related investments, such as witnessed a healthy increase in income with the revenue Kesa, Mothercare and Ladbrokes, provided the opportunity to return per share rising from 24.7p to 29.3p, or 18.6%.
There have been disappointments from an income We increased the gearing of the Trust twice, each time by perspective, with a number of holdings cutting their 5m during the market falls in August and January.
In dividends, for example Friends Provident and Premier Foods.
addition, although we maintained a degree of put protection However, there have also been positive surprises, when BP throughout the period, we crystallised profits on a number of and British American Tobacco announced substantially occasions and rolled forward the protection at lower market higher dividends, for example.
We continue to keep a very levels where we felt appropriate.
This provided further close watch on the revenue account but, having modelled funding for a number of top-ups.
our revenue forecast on a conservative basis, remain relatively comfortable with the income characteristics of the The proceeds from the BT and Vodafone reverse convertibles underlying portfolio.
The dividend cover of the holdings in were reinvested on expiry into their ordinary shares, while the portfolio is now approximately 2 times.
The consensus the BATS reverse convertible was rolled forward for a further expectation for dividend growth during 2009 for the FTSE twelve months.
Reverse convertibles, or equity-linked notes, All-Share Index is currently 7.7%.
provide an uplift in yield and will also help use part of the Companys off-balance sheet tax asset in years when taxable Outlook income exceeds expenses.
At the time of writing, although oil prices have fallen from peak levels, the Bank of England continues to walk a The result of the actions above have marginally altered the tightrope as it tries to balance the prospects of lower growth sector positioning of the Trust.
The weighting in the Oil & and higher inflation.
This has been made more difficult as Gas sector has increased slightly over the period, mainly as a inflation expectations have witnessed a pronounced move function of the strong relative performance of the sector as a upwards.
The Governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King, whole.
The exposure to the Basic Materials sector has fallen expects the current period of above-target inflation to be despite the strong performance as the holdings have been temporary and for this to be the case it is imperative that reduced as profits were taken.
expectations do not lead to a negative cycle of second round effects.
So far, wage growth remains relatively subdued and The exposure to the Consumer Goods sector has decreased it seems likely that although inflation will rise substantially slightly reflecting the sale of Scottish & Newcastle and the above the target level over the coming months, it will ease return of cash from Aga following the sale of their back towards 2% during 2009.
However, the outlook for the foodservice division.
The Healthcare weight has increased UK economy remains difficult with consumer confidence hit due to purchases of AstraZeneca.
by falling house prices and the Chancellor does not have the luxury of being able to increase government spending to The sector weight of Consumer Services has also increased, cushion the impact as public finances are in a relatively weak despite the sale of Emap, given the introduction of Daily Mail position.
and General Trust, Whitbread and Tesco and additions to some of the weaker performers.
Sentiment is likely to remain fragile and the market volatile for the foreseeable future.
However, to a large extent The weight in Financials has fallen, due to the valuations have already priced in a sharp slowdown for the underperformance of the Bank sector, with the purchase of domestic economy.
Indeed, we believe the current market Close Brothers, Dunedin Smaller Companies Investment Trust weakness has presented interesting opportunities in welland the Royal Bank of Scotland rights issue only partly financed attractive yielding companies for patient longer offsetting the sale of Resolution and reductions to HSBC.
We would expect merger and acquisition activity to return as sovereign wealth funds and private Income equity funds look to deploy capital towards these attractive assets.
With the FTSE All-Share Index currently trading on a Following a period of strong dividend enhancement, P E ratio of 11.3 times and a dividend yield of 4.1%, while unsurprisingly, expectations for dividend growth have mindful of the risks ahead, we remain positive on the longer weakened considerably as the credit crunch has taken effect.
term outlook for UK equities.
In aggregate, dividends are estimated to increase by 1.9% for calendar 2008.
However, the dividend payout ratio for the Charles Luke & Anne Richards market still remains below historical levels as companies Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited have tended to act conservatively as earnings have increased Investment Manager over recent years.
This provides a degree of comfort as 16 September 2008 earnings come under pressure.
8 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support
