Corporate Summary Significant changes to gearing levels will be communicated Investment Objective to Shareholders.
The Company aims to achieve a high and growing income combined with capital growth through investment in a Achieving the Investment Policy portfolio of UK equities.
The Directors are responsible for determining the investment Benchmark policy and the investment objective of the Company, while day to day management of the Companys assets has been The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index.
delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
The Manager invests in a diversified range of companies throughout the Investment Policy Investment Region, following a bottom-up investment The Company pursues a policy of investing in shares of process based on a disciplined evaluation of companies United Kingdom companies that have potential for real through direct visits by its fund managers.
Stock selection is earnings and dividend growth, while at the same time the major source of added value, concentrating on quality providing an above-average portfolio yield.
The emphasis is first, then price.
Top-down investment factors are secondary on the management of risk and on the absolute return from in the Managers portfolio construction, with diversification the portfolio, which is achieved by ensuring an appropriate rather than formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
diversification of stocks and sectors, with a high proportion The Manager is authorised to invest up to 15% of the of its assets in strong, well-known companies.
The Company Companys gross assets in any single stock.
Currently, the top makes use of low-cost, flexible borrowing facilities to five holdings may not exceed 40% of the total value of the enhance Shareholder returns when appropriate.
portfolio, and the top three sectors represented in the portfolio may not exceed 50%.
"The Manager is permitted to The Company maintains a highly-diversified portfolio of invest in options and in structured products, provided that investments, typically comprising in the region of 30 to 70 any structured product issued in the form of a note or bond has a holdings but without restricting the Company from holding minimum credit rating of ""A""."
a more or less concentrated portfolio from time to time.
The Company is unconstrained as to the market sectors in which A detailed description of the investment process and risk it may invest.
controls employed by the Manager is set out on page 19.
The portfolio at the year end is set out on pages 12 to 15, and its The Company invests primarily in the equity securities of analysis on page 16.
At the year end the Companys portfolio large, well-known UK companies with an emphasis on consisted of 49 holdings including one fixed-interest investing in quality companies with good management, security and a put option.
strong cash flow and a sound balance sheet, and which are generating a reliable earnings stream.
Capital Structure The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of The Companys issued share capital as at 30 June 2008 enhancing portfolio returns and for hedging purposes in a consisted of 64,617,458 Ordinary shares of 25p and manner consistent with the Companys broader investment 1,799,000 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
2008, the issued share capital consisted of 64,589,485 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,827,000 Ordinary shares held It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per in Treasury.
cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including investment trusts.
The Company complies with Total Assets and Net Asset Value section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and does not invest more than 15% of its assets in the shares At 30 June 2008, the Company had Total Assets see of any one company.
definition on page 54 of 440.5m and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary share of 619.9p.
The Board is responsible for setting the gearing policy of the Company and for the limits on gearing.
The Manager is Borrowings responsible for gearing within the limits set by the Board.
The The borrowings at 30 June 2008 of 40 million represent Board has set its gearing limits at a maximum of 25%.
Borrowing facilities of 45 million are Gearing is used selectively to leverage the Companys committed to the Company until 1 October 2009.
Financial portfolio in order to enhance returns where and to the extent covenants contained within the loan agreement provide, this is considered appropriate to do so.
Particular care is inter alia, that borrowings shall at no time exceed 45% of taken to ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum Net Assets, and that the Net Assets must exceed 225 flexibility of investment policy.
The Net Assets were 400.5 million at 30 June 2008.
2 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support If any of the financial covenants are breached the Lender is Customer Services entitled, following the serving of notice to the Company, to Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 declare the loans and all accrued interest, fees and other open Monday Friday 9am 5pm sums owed under the agreements to be immediately due and repayable.
com Duration The Company does not have a fixed life.
Risk The UK equity market is volatile and short-term movements may therefore be greater than justified by longer term trends.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to an increase in the volatility of the Companys Net Asset Value.
Currently, 50% of the investment management fees and interest costs are charged to capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense of capital growth which will be reduced to the same extent.
The policy of investing in higher-yielding shares may also diminish capital growth.
There is no guarantee that the market price of investment trust shares will accurately reflect their underlying Net Asset Value or move in line with it.
Share Dealing Shares in Murray Income Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through the Aberdeen savings schemes and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see page 52.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of investment management and other services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 26 and in Note 3 on page 43.
AIC Murray Income Trust is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
com Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2BY Email: company.
co. uk Murray Income Trust PLC 3 Enfocus Software - Customer Support
