Information about the Manager The Group manages 33 investment trusts and other closedAberdeen Asset Managers Limited ended funds, which have combined total assets of around Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited is the Manager of the 8.5 billion under management.
They adhere closely to the Company.
It is a subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management Groups investment style which is that of fundamental PLC, whose Group Companies as at 30 June 2008 managed a investors, with an emphasis on company visits and original combined 113.7 billion for institutions, unit trusts, research.
investment trusts, closed end investment funds, private clients and offshore funds.
It has its headquarters in Aberdeen with offices in Bangkok, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Hong Kong, Jersey, London, Philadelphia, Singapore and Sydney.
The Investment Team Charles Luke Anne Richards Ben Ritchie Senior Investment Manager Chief Investment Officer Investment Manager BA in Economics and Japanese 1st Class BSc Honours in BA Hons in Modern History and Studies from Leeds University and Electronics and Electrical Politics from Pembroke College, an MSc in Business and Economic Engineering from the University of University of Oxford, and a CFA History from the London School of Edinburgh and an MBA from INSEAD charterholder.
Joined Aberdeens Pan in France.
A Chartered Engineer and An investment manager on European equities team in 2000. a fellow of the Securities and Aberdeens Pan European equities Previously worked at Framlington Investment Institute.
Joined Aberdeen in 2002 as a Investment Management for two Chief investment officer, head of graduate, having been an intern with years.
multi-asset investment and a Aberdeen in 2001 and 2002. member of Aberdeens group management board.
Formerly chief investment officer and joint managing director of Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Previously with Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, JPMorgan Investment Management, Alliance Capital Limited and Cambridge Consultants Limited.
18 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support
