Marketing Strategy Murray International Trust contributes to the Marketing Shareholder Services Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant its management.
This agreement sees the Companys literature on request and have queries answered contribution matched by AAM and is now 538,000 plus immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the VAT for the year ending 31 December 2009 and the direction of AAMs Group Head of Marketing who has marketing arrangements are reviewed on an annual basis by extensive experience in the marketing and communications the Board.
He is supported by a team of marketing professionals.
The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, Internet thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and Murray International Trust has its own dedicated website: rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also www.
This allows web users to access shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys information on the Companys share price performance, investment merits through packaged products, whether capital structure, stock exchange announcements and singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
These aims can be met in several ways: Investors in the Share Plan, PEP and ISA can now use our secure system to view their valuations and transact on their Investor Relations Programme Plan accounts.
AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Each The Company is committed to a close monitoring of the month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Marketing Programme.
The Marketing Director provides a Managers report on your Company that includes detailed written summary quarterly to the Board.
If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager Group Schemes or performance, please telephone our Investor Services AAM runs a group Share Plan, PEP and ISA.
Alternatively, internet users allow investment free of dealing costs and with only nominal may e-mail us on inv.
com or write to exit charges, have proved popular with private investors.
us at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
The information on pages 56 and 57 has been approved for the Direct response advertising purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is the Trust in selected national press as well as the specialist authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
financial titles Direct mail Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM is distributed free of charge.
Public Relations The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are brought to public attention.
56 Murray International Trust PLC How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of Direct capital gains tax.
Investors can buy and sell shares in Murray International trust PLC directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through ISA Transfer a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be bought directly through You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens us which can be invested in Murray International Trust PLC Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
while retaining your ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per trust of 250.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an Investment Plan for Note Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the investment companies under its management including future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause Murray International Trust PLC.
Anyone can invest in the the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well Childrens Plan, including parents, grandparents and family as rise and investors may not get back the amount they friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on the originally invested.
initial purchase of shares, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 150 per purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference trust, while regular savers may invest from 30 per month.
between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently market makers spread.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in the Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any Childrens Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax held in nominee accounts.
treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
Keeping you Informed Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan For internet users, detailed data on Murray International AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in Murray International Trust PLC can be purchased.
There are Trust PLC, including price, performance information and a no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although monthly fact sheet is available from the Trusts website investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website occasions, be a significant amount.
Alternatively you can call 0500 00 00 start at 250, while regular savers may invest from 100 per 40 for trust information.
Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There Literature Request Service is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a For literature and application forms for the Managers Plan, and regular savers can stop or suspend participation by investment trust products, please contact: instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights Email: aam@lit-request.
For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share Stocks and Shares ISA Plan, ISA or ISA Transfer please contact: An investment of up to 7,200 in Murray International Trust PLC can be made in the tax year 2008 2009.
Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration Block C, Western House There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although Lynchwood Business Park investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a Peterborough, PE2 6BP significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Telephone: 0500 00 00 40 Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT, calculated six monthly and deducted from income.
Under Murray International Trust PLC 57
