The Investment Process Philosophy and Style Stock Selection Long term investment success demands a clear focus and a The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for sound structure.
The Aberdeen Asset Management Group portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working AAM has as its primary objective in managing Murray closely with the relevant underlying desks in each case, International Trust the delivery of consistent outperformance portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager against the benchmark based on the concept of seeking utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by growth at a reasonable price.
each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, which are then To achieve this, a disciplined investment process has been used as the investment universe.
If a stock no longer meets developed.
However, to meet the different performance the criteria to be included on the Buy List, it is sold within 30 objectives mandated for specific funds, there is built in days.
This process enables the investment manager to better flexibility.
reflect top down themes that emerge from the global equity strategy and investment themes meetings that take place Key decisions are implemented consistently across all funds monthly.
and portfolio risk limits are set and closely monitored.
A continuous watch is kept over critical factors that influence Risk Controls investment decisions, so that when views change, action is Integral to the investment process is regular provision, by a taken swiftly and decisively to reposition portfolios.
specialised team, of performance and risk analysis data to ensure that funds are operated within the terms of their Asset Allocation mandate.
Based on the guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy Committee, and after consultation with relevant AAM area As well as market price risk inherent in all portfolio specialists, the investment manager of Murray International investment, Murray International Trust is also exposed to risk Trust, Bruce Stout, recommends asset allocation to the from movements in foreign exchange rates and changes in Board.
There is a strong top down influence to establish the interest rates.
Market price risk is managed by strict economic overview and to identify potential investment adherence to parameters set for portfolio construction.
The approach is highly focused and portfolios are foreign exchange risk involved may be hedged by the use of tightly constructed to provide the greatest scope for forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk lies with the outperformance within the agreed risk parameters.
portfolio holdings of fixed income securities and on-call deposits.
A detailed risk profile of the Company is given in For Murray International Trust, regional allocation of funds in Note 19 to the financial statements on pages 49 to 55. line with guidelines set by the AAM Investment Strategy Committee is the first stage of the portfolio construction process.
At this stage, house views on specific global sectors are also taken into account.
Established themes and trends are considered within the process of country allocation, which is also influenced by analysis of key data covering macroeconomic and monetary factors, value and performance.
Country selection is driven overall by short and medium term estimates of macroeconomics, politics and liquidity, and the market implications of those.
