Managers Review Background Performance The past twelve months will be remembered for delivering The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 the worst global equity returns since the Great Depression.
December 2008 with net dividends reinvested was -12.3% Against a backdrop of deteriorating economic fundamentals compared with a negative return on the benchmark of and outright seizure of credit markets, the history books will -21.7%.
A full attribution analysis is given on page 15 which show just how close the world came to systemic financial details the various influences on portfolio performance.
Banks in the United States and the UK buckled summary, of the 1170 basis points before expenses of under the burden of escalating bad debts and deteriorating performance above the index, asset allocation contributed capital structures, leaving respective Governments with no 110 basis points and stock selection 740 basis points.
option but to quasi-nationalise domestic banking systems.
Structural effects relating to the fixed income portfolio, net Billions of pounds of taxpayers money was used in attempts of borrowing and hedging costs, added a further 320 basis to restore confidence.
As financial panic spread around the points of positive relative performance, a reflection of the world, Central Banks began co-ordinated monetary easing in out-performance of bonds relative to equities.
Within the order to provide debt service relief and tempt individuals to equity asset allocation, positive contributions came from the spend.
Interest rates were slashed to extremely low levels, underweighting of the UK and overweighting towards Asia but persistently rising unemployment, multiple corporate and Japan, but the majority of out-performance can be bankruptcies and collapsing confidence prevented any attributed to superior stock selection in Europe, North meaningful response from consumers.
Recession gripped the America, Asia and Latin America.
debt-laden Anglo Saxon world with policymakers virtually impotent to respond.
In what will USA likely turnout to be the largest fiscal stimulus the world has The United States endured horrendous economic conditions ever seen, the United States and the UK more than tripled in 2008.
Financial deleveraging throughout the economy their respective budget deficits in pursuit of financing gathered momentum causing widespread corporate and insolvent institutions and stimulating demand.
Access to capital came to an abrupt end.
was piled upon existing debt with scant regard to future Numerous irregularities were uncovered as some of the financing requirements or eventual repayments.
Alas, in the leading protagonists in the structured financing industry hostile uncharted economic territory that evolved in 2008, underwriters, rating agencies, bankers and hedge funds populist policies prevailed over the need for more pragmatic were exposed as unscrupulous practitioners, having profited longer-term solutions.
The structural imbalances of the debt from positions of trust and the ignorance of others.
As fears ridden world that dominated and destroyed the economic of economic depression intensified, policymakers pledged landscape last year need time to unwind.
Unfortunately hundreds of billions of dollars in mortgage debt relief, time is the one thing impatient capital markets and nervous banking sector bailouts and corporate support programs.
investors cannot seem to give.
As if to compound the Unfortunately this witnessed the socialisation of bad debts, economic misery of 2008, spectacular declines in commodity with imprudent private sector practices being bailed out by prices adversely affected many exporting countries of the the public purse.
Many argued the Government had no emerging world, further correlating the general contraction.
option but to follow such quasi nationalisation of the High savings rates and low capital requirements in Asia and financial sector but in reality such practices merely prolong Latin America counted for nothing in a year totally the agony.
Until such times that distressed assets are dominated by negative investment sentiment.
properly priced and unsustainable businesses are allowed to go bust, true recovery of the US economy cannot begin.
Stockmarket returns over the year were universally negative Indeed the most worrying aspect of the current crisis is that, with relatively low variance.
The collapse in Sterling against despite the deluge of deteriorating economic data reported most leading currencies, however, had a material impact on over the past eighteen months, there remain no signs of cushioning declines.
The devaluation of Sterling, which had stabilisation.
Property prices continue to plummet, begun to take hold last year, gained momentum as investors consumer spending contracts, unemployment is rising watched Base Rates collapse and the UK budget deficit sharply and confidence is evaporating.
Against this backdrop balloon to record levels.
Against the Yen, US Dollar and Euro, it would be premature to predict an end to the credit crunch.
Sterling lost 40%, 27% and 23% respectively of its value.
This suggests another very tough year ahead for the US Nor did Sterling fare much better against most other global economy and those companies that derive most of their currencies.
This greatly enhanced relative performance for profits from it.
This keeps us very cautious on the prospects the portfolio, as did the low exposure to UK equities and high for the US market and the US dollar, especially if the exposure to cash and government fixed income securities.
relentless expansion of the budget deficit continues.
There was very little portfolio activity over the period, with a new 6 Murray International Trust PLC position in leading global household product company deleveraging was systematic and orderly.
Unfortunately this Procter & Gamble being the most notable addition.
came to an abrupt end in September and October with the collapse of Lehman Brothers Investment Bank in the United UK States and the subsequent panic that ensued.
Exaggerated weaknesses were suddenly exposed at both country and Frightening is not an adjective commonly used to describe an corporate level.
The IMF was hastily called into Iceland, economy, but the language required to accurately describe Hungary and the Ukraine to provide emergency funding as the unfolding economic malaise in the UK required such bank deposits poured out of these countries.
The worldwide brutal honesty in 2008.
For in no uncertain terms, the UK collapse of oil and commodity prices was perceived as being economy hit the proverbial wall.
Political rhetoric claimed particularly negative for Russia, causing rapid capital flight the nation had never been in better shape heading into a and a 67% decline in the equity market.
And the Baltic downturn in reality it was the complete opposite.
The States, relatively new to the world of international banking sector was the first major casualty.
Tightening capitalism, were badly affected as trust in fledgling banking credit conditions exposed gross mismanagement of balance systems evaporated.
This prompted the European Central sheets where insufficient deposits and over-dependency on Bank to embark on its boldest ever series of interest rate cuts wholesale funding quickly led to financial collapse.
In which in turn were replicated around all other European Scotland three hundred years of hard earned respect and countries.
By year end, the Region was mired in recessionary reputation was destroyed in three months as the leading fears.
What now then for a united Europe in an increasingly commercial banks went caps in hand to the Government.
Declining demand from export markets trust evaporated from the banking system, so too did and falling consumer activity will constrain growth in Europe consumer confidence.
Property prices sharply declined and over the coming year but the downturn will be more cyclical.
retail sales severely contracted as economic activity ground With the exception of perhaps Spain and Ireland, most to a halt.
In response policymakers outwardly delivered Europeans are not overleveraged and hence unshackled by assurances whilst internally they panicked.
Interest rates the need to repay punitive amounts of debt.
This leaves were slashed to historical lows whilst simultaneously fiscal more potential scope for recovery when it comes.
The effects of such drastic Corporates in Europe have also profited from implementing measures have yet to be felt, but given the chronic state of strict capital discipline during the previous seven years of the banking system and the sheer scale of debt outstanding, plenty.
They remain well placed to manage through any the UK economy is likely to suffer the worst recession of all impending famine.
As valuations declined dramatically last G7 countries.
Sharply lower interest year, additional funds were added to existing positions in rates, heavily indebted public and private sectors, large fiscal companies such as E. On, ENI, Mapfre, Nordea and Total, and and current account deficits, recessionary conditions and a a new position was established in Schneider Electric, a structurally flawed banking system are characteristics leading global manufacturer of power distribution systems historically consistent with a weak currency.
Not surprising based in France.
The long term profit outlook for these and then that Sterling sharply devalued against its major trading many other European companies remain good despite the partners last year.
Unfortunately in the absence of any complete lack of near term transparency.
economic improvement whatsoever, the pressure on Sterling is unlikely to abate.
It was against this backdrop that further Japan reduction to UK exposure occurred last year although this was entirely related to divestment of the large holding in The developed worlds credit crunch, debt deflation, property Resolution Life in April.
A new holding in international collapse and recessionary contraction was nothing new for mining company Rio Tinto was established towards year end, Japan.
The country has experienced nearly every negative but general concerns over domestic profitability and dividend economic condition imaginable over the past twenty years growth from UK companies kept the overall exposure low.
due to widely recognised policy mistakes that accompanied This is likely to continue over the medium term.
financial meltdown in the early 1990s.
As the world grappled to avoid debilitating deflation, the Japanese case Europe was constantly quoted as what not to do.
Such hindsight is always so clear.
Of more relevance was how the evolving For much of the year Europe coped relatively well with the global economic landscape was impacting Japan now.
The capital dislocations associated with the global financial crisis.
sharp worldwide slowdown in capital expenditure The banking sectors in Italy, France and Germany acted experienced in 2008 significantly hurt Japanese exports of promptly and transparently to declare bad debt exposure.
machine tools and industrial products to Europe and Asia.
Write-downs and credit-losses associated with structured The nascent recovery in domestic loan growth was halted finance loans were identified and capital raising measures prematurely by falling confidence and GDP growth turned promptly embarked upon.
The European Central Bank negative for the sixth time this decade.
The response from provided liquidity when necessary and for the most part policymakers was muted, but then Japan used up all its Murray International Trust PLC 7 Managers Review continued monetary and fiscal initiatives many years ago.
This left and dividend growth must at some point be recognised by corporate Japan with no option but to deal with the hostile the market place in the future.
Fortunately Japanese companies have become very adept at operating in deflationary conditions Outlook where volumes and prices are falling.
Core portfolio holdings For the second consecutive year our global economic and such as Takeda Pharmaceutical and Astellas Pharmaceutical market review does not make positive reading.
We make no both delivered solid earnings and double digit dividend apologies for this.
Prevailing financial conditions dictated the growth last year.
Early indications suggest this can be narratives content and these were overwhelmingly negative.
Indeed with both companies now Unfortunately, as the private sector intensifies its yielding close to 4% their global attractiveness is rising.
New deleveraging, the economic backdrop is likely to get worse money was added to existing positions in Canon, one of the before it gets better.
This is primarily because in the worlds leading manufacturers of imaging products and Parco, stampede towards reducing debt, as dictated by higher a domestic operator of retail shopping centres.
Such unemployment and collapsing consumer confidence, rising companies have consistently delivered for shareholders savings provide the power to actually intensify the recession.
during all stages of the business cycle and provide important This paradox of thrift represents a real danger to economic diversification in a global portfolio.
Somewhat ironically, Yen stability in 2009.
Should everyone save money during times strength against Sterling resulted in the Japanese portfolio of recession, then aggregate demand falls further, declining the least in 2008, a feat which was most welcome.
compounding declines in economic growth.
In this form, a prisoners dilemma arises, since saving is beneficial to each Asia and Emerging Markets individual yet in total, harmful to everyone.
This is a paradox The shockwaves from economic contraction in the Western because it runs contrary to common intuition.
With world rippled into Asia in varying degrees throughout the Governments in the Western World well aware of such year.
Those countries heavily reliant on exports suffered private sector risks, they have no alternative but to further most with China topping the list of worst affected.
This expand public sector debt in an attempt to offset declining prompted aggressive policy responses from the Chinese demand.
Just how much further the United States and the Monetary and Fiscal Authorities, although it remains to be UK can increase already mountainous budget deficits seen just how effective such measures will be.
What is without inflicting irrevocable damage to their respective clearly less ambiguous is that China, and indeed Asia, faces currencies remains our major economic concern for the year distinctly different macro-economic conditions than those ahead.
Unlike the developed world, which faces a structural debt-deflation bust manifested in a vicious Turning to the outlook for global equity markets, arguably cycle of deleveraging, Asia must confront a severe cyclical another paradox arises.
We cannot and will not make the shock.
This will force the Orient to further pursue domesticcase that equity markets will not go lower, but we have seen led growth initiatives.
The relative lack of financial leverage more value opportunities emerge over the past three months in the region plus the strength of domestic banking systems than we can remember for quite some time.
When it will occur is more difficult to expectations are declining faster than actual profits bringing predict, but history will show the financial crisis of 2008 as much needed realism to the market place.
Companies are being another step in the movement of economic power going bust, thereby removing over-capacity from a wide from West to East.
Unfortunately, this structural cyclical range of industries, leaving the survivors much more distinction emerging in the world remained of only academic operationally geared into recovery when it comes.
Common relevance in terms of market performance last year, which intuition might again deduce that such near term economic became almost completely Wall Street correlated.
The index and financial uncertainty is no backdrop to be investing in correlation between the S&P500 Composite and the MSCI equities but, taking a longer term view, we are becoming AC Asia ex Japan indices soared from 0.6 in 2007 to 0.97 in more optimistic that decent returns can be made in selective 2008.
So much for market decoupling!
Such irrational opportunities from current levels, especially given the selling was unwelcome, but it did provide some excellent flexibility a global mandate provides.
Money was added to existing positions in Taiwan Mobile, PTT Exploration, the Bruce Stout leading oil and gas company in Thailand, and QBE Insurance, Investment Manager one of the worlds leading insurance companies based in 24 February 2009 Australia.
With strong balance sheets, powerful free cash flows and competitive positions within their respective markets, such companies continue to form the bedrock of our Asian and Emerging market exposure.
In a world of slowing economic activity, relatively superior profitability 8 Murray International Trust PLC
