Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007 of financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 8.1p per Ordinary share was paid on 16 May 2008.
Interim December 2008. dividends of 4.80p each were paid on 14 August 2008, 14 November 2008 and 16 February 2009 making a total Business Review distribution to Ordinary Shareholders of 19.7 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 A review of the Companys operations is given in the December 2008 of 8.8p per Ordinary share payable on 15 Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans May 2009 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register at Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Report on close of business on 3 April 2009. pages 6 to 8.
This includes a review of the business of the Company and its principal activities, likely future In line with the changes to the dividend procedures approved developments of the business, recommended final dividend at the Annual General Meeting in 2006, whenever a cash and details of the issue of new shares during the year by the dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a bonus issue of B Company.
The major risks associated with the Company are Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B Ordinary shares.
detailed in the Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3 and in In connection with the final dividend the Directors will make Note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Details of the risk a corresponding capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares management objectives and policies are provided in the credited as fully paid.
This capitalisation issue will be Corporate Governance Statement internal controls report on equivalent in asset value to the final dividend now pages 30 and 31.
Further details on how the portfolio is recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any tax managed to achieve the risk management policies and credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of Shareholders of the objectives are disclosed in The Investment Process on page final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the 19.
The Key Performance Indicators for the Company capitalisation issue will be posted on 15 May 2009. including NAV and share price information are detailed on Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of page 9. shareholders.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank equally with the existing B Ordinary shares.
The current Directors, Messrs J F H Trott, D H Benson, J D Best, and A C Shedden and Lady Balfour of Burleigh were the Resolution No.
7 to approve the above distribution will be only Directors who served during the year.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting, and the Notice of Meeting is on page 59.
The Company does not make political donations or expenditures and has not made any donations for charitable The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 purposes during the year and, in common with most December 2008 was 625.8p 2007 736.8p.
investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover has been maintained Special Business at AGM throughout the year at the expense of the Company.
Share Buybacks Principal Activity and Status At the Annual General Meeting held on 22 April 2008, Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority The Company is an investment company in accordance with permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on business as an investment trust.
In the opinion of the The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in Shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The a manner to satisfy the conditions to enable it to continue to principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of Shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be Customs will grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at that the Companys affairs have been conducted in such a a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an manner as to satisfy the conditions of that section.
Approval increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining for such status has been given by HM Revenue & Customs Shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be for the year ended 31 December 2007. exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining Shareholders and if it Results and Dividends is in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
Any The total loss attributable to equity Shareholders for the year purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established amounted to 78,197,000. from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek Shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year at the Annual General Meeting.
22 Murray International Trust PLC Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the Report.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2010, whichever is of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the earlier.
This means that the authority will have to be London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 1 of the and the current highest independent bid on the trading Companies Act provides that existing Shareholders have prevenue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price emption rights and that the new shares must be offered first which may be paid is 25p per share.
to such Shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, Shareholders can, by special resolution, It is currently proposed that the purchase of shares by the authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a Company will be made from the realised capital reserve of pro rata issue to existing Shareholders.
The purchase price will normally be paid out No.
9 will, if passed, also give the Directors power to allot for of the cash balances held by the Company from time to cash, equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of time.
2,293,990 equivalent to 9,063,899 Ordinary shares and 112,059 B Ordinary shares or 10 per cent of the Companys Special Resolution 10 will permit the Company to buy back existing issued share capital at 24 February 2009, the latest shares and to hold the shares bought back as treasury shares practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual rather than cancel them immediately.
The benefit of the Report, as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act does not ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be apply.
This is the same nominal amount of share capital resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
This authority will also expire The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in June 2010, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors The Directors intend to use the authority given by believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought Resolutions No.
8 and 9 to allot shares and disapply preback, such shares would be cancelled.
emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to Shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues Special Resolution No.
10 in the Notice of Annual General will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the shares are available under the savings plans operated by the Annual General Meeting amounting to 13,586,785 Ordinary Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the shares and 167,976 B Ordinary shares as at 24 February Company stands at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to 2009.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Net Asset Value, it may be advantageous for the Company Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2010, whichever is to allot new shares directly to participants in the savings earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be plans or to other prospective purchasers.
Such issues would renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the only be made at prices greater than Net Asset Value, and authority has been exhausted.
would involve no dilution for existing Shareholders.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the During the year ended 31 December 2008 and up to the date Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be of this Report no share repurchases have taken place.
made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of Shareholders in Issue of shares general meeting.
Resolution 9 will also disapply pre-emption In terms of the Companies Act 1985 the Act the rights on the sale of Treasury shares as envisaged above.
Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised Once again, the pre-emption rights would only be disapplied by the Shareholders.
8 in the Notice of where the Treasury shares were sold at a premium to Net Annual General Meeting, if passed, will therefore give the Asset Value of 0.5 per cent.
Directors the necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,293,990 The Directors consider that the above authorities are in the equivalent to 9,063,899 Ordinary shares and 112,059 B best interests of the Company and Shareholders taken as a Ordinary shares or 10 per cent of the Companys existing whole and recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of issued share capital at 24 February 2009, the latest the resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their Murray International Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued own beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in Mr D H Benson was appointed to the Board on 25 October aggregate to 89,577 shares, representing approximately 0.1% 1999 and has indicated his intention to retire at the of the Companys issued share capital as at 31 December forthcoming Annual General Meeting and not seek re- 2008. election.
The Board has retained the services of an external recruitment agency in order to assist in the process of looking for a new non executive Director to join the Board.
Share Capital Mr J D Best and Mr A C Shedden retire in accordance with The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2008 the Articles of Association of the Company at the Annual amounted to 89,788,992 Ordinary and 1,111,928 B Ordinary General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for reshares.
Details of the changes in share capital during the election.
year are provided in Note 14 to the financial statements.
On 16 February 2009 the issued B Ordinary share capital Resolutions 3 and 4 to this effect will be proposed at the increased to 1,120,588 B Ordinary shares following the Annual General Meeting.
capitalisation issue of 8,660 B Ordinary shares in lieu of the third interim dividend.
Between 31 December 2008 and the In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors date of this report, a further 850,000 new Ordinary shares must offer themselves for re-election at least once every were issued for cash at a premium to the prevailing asset three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking revalue.
election at this time, it has been less than three years since their previous re-election.
Share Interests At 24 February 2009 the following share interests in the No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys Company above 3% had been notified: business and in which any of the Directors is interested has subsisted during the year.
Percentage of Ordinary Ordinary The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the shares of 25p capital Company were as follows: Brewin Dolphin 7,092,895 7.8 Rathbones 5,889,752 6.5 31 December 2008 1 January 2008 Aberdeen Asset Managers 5,722,636 6.3 Beneficial Beneficial Savings Plans non J F H Trott 35,000 35,000 discretionary Lady Balfour of 1,300 1,300 Speirs & Jeffrey 5,708,594 6.3 Burleigh Legal & General Investment 3,824,885 4.2 D H Benson 4,000 4,000 Management J D Best 42,200 15,200 D C Thomson & Company 3,735,000 4.1 A C Shedden 7,001 5,611 Limited Rensburg Sheppards 3,128,659 3.4 Mr A C Sheddens beneficial holding increased to 7,077 Ordinary shares by the acquisition, through the Aberdeen Percentage of Share Plan, of 34 Ordinary shares and 42 Ordinary shares on B Ordinary B Ordinary 22 January 2009 and 16 February 2009 respectively.
Mr D H shares of 25p capital Benson is deemed to have a non-beneficial interest in a T C Nominees Ltd of which 457,444 40.6 further 4,250 Ordinary shares which are controlled by a the undernoted has a Family Settlement Trust created by Mr D H Benson.
With holding of 3% or over: the exception of these further disclosures, the above holdings Carol Barrie Trust 247,990 22.1 were unchanged at 24 February 2009, being the nearest The Hon Mrs C Baillie 207,501 18.5 practicable date prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
Hamilton Trust Directors Fees Directors A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages The Directors, who held office during the year under review, 33 and 34. are shown on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report and their interests are shown below.
All the Directors held office Manager and Company Secretary throughout the year under review.
Investment management services are provided to the Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company 24 Murray International Trust PLC secretarial, accounting and administrative services are Audit Committee provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the For the year ended 31 December 2008, the management and Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and Committee on page 28. charged on the following basis: Directors and Officers Insurance an investment management fee payable to the Manager, The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
The the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the liability incurred in defending proceedings or in connection six previous quarters.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged with any application to the Court in which relief is granted.
on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and ISA Status 70% against realised capital reserves: and included in the charge of 0.5% in part a above is a The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully secretarial fee of 100,000 per annum which is chargeable qualifying investment for the stocks and shares component 100% to revenue.
In addition, the Manager was entitled to a performance fee Going Concern on the following basis: The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Companys net asset total return over that of its statements.
The Company has adequate financial resources benchmark: to enable it to continue in operational existence for the a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the foreseeable future.
Creditor Payment Policy The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment one year comprising the basic management fee and the before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year end.
period with any future underperformance offset against the fee payable.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting which will be held on No fees have been charged in the case of investments managed or advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The management agreement may be terminated by either party on the expiry of one years written notice.
On Financial Instruments termination the Manager would be entitled to receive fees The Companys financial instruments comprise its which would otherwise have been due up to that date.
investment portfolio, cash balances, loans and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales The Board considers the continued appointment of the and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial Shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset instruments are disclosed in Note 19 to the financial Management Group has the investment management, statements.
secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for the effective operation of the Company.
Accountability and Audit Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, Corporate Governance there is no relevant audit information of which the The Statement of Corporate Governance is shown on pages Companys auditors are unaware, and he or she has taken all 27 to 31. the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Murray International Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued that information.
Additionally there are no important events since the year end.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006 The following further information is disclosed in accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on page 3 and page 58: Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 24: The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are summarised on page 24: Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares require a special resolution to be passed by shareholders: There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that might affect its control following a takeover bid: There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Directors Conflicts of Interests The Board confirms that, as at the date of this Report, the Directors do not have any conflicts of interest which might require to be approved by the Board or otherwise recorded in the Companys Register of Conflicts.
Independent Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
5 to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Resolution No.
6 to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
During the year the Auditors received 10,000 VAT in relation to non-audit services of which 7,500 VAT was in respect of interim review work and 2,000 VAT was for other services, being the review of the B Ordinary share capitalisation issue calculations.
By order of the Board Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretaries 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY 24 February 2009 26 Murray International Trust PLC
