Corporate Summary The Company Market capitalisation is not a primary concern.
The Company Murray International Trust is an investment trust traded on is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE in any single stock at the time of purchase.
Some 25,000 of its Shareholders are private investors.
Murray International Trust is A detailed description of the investment process and risk differentiated from other investment trusts in that it offers controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 19.
A the advantages of exposure to world markets while comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is maintaining the higher income generally associated with the disclosed on pages 11 to 14 including a description of the UK equity market.
The Company is invested in a diversified twenty largest investments, the Portfolio of Investments by portfolio of international equities and fixed income securities.
value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and distribution of equity investments.
Benchmark The Companys benchmark is a composite index made up as At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 67 to 40% of the FTSE World-UK Index and 60% of the FTSE equity and 11 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by World ex-UK Index.
the Board to hold between 50 and 150 stocks in the portfolio.
Investment Objective The primary aim of Murray International Trust is to achieve a The Board is responsible for determining the gearing strategy total return greater than its benchmark by investing for the Company.
Gearing is used selectively to leverage the predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this objective Companys portfolio in order to enhance returns where and the Manager will seek to increase the Companys revenues in to the extent this is considered appropriate to do so.
Total order to maintain an above average dividend yield.
gearing is not in normal circumstances to exceed 30% of net assets.
For this purpose sums held on cash deposit may be Investment Policy netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year end there was net gearing of 11.1% and particular care is taken to The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility of international securities and fixed income securities spread of investment policy.
across a range of industries and economies.
History It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment Murray International Trust started its life in 1907 as The companies including listed investment trusts.
The Company Scottish Western Investment Company Limited.
The Scottish currently does not have any investments in other investment Western of the early days was very highly geared but it was companies.
Total gearing is not in normal circumstances to mainly invested in bonds, though the international spread exceed 30% of net assets with cash deposits netted against was just as great with countries such as Argentina, China, the level of borrowings.
Japan, Canada and many others appearing in the portfolio.
Although the range of currencies was much smaller, multi Delivering the Investment Policy currency or even gold-backed bonds were all the rage, as many of the eras bond certificates show.
The Directors are responsible for determining the investment policy and the investment objective of the Company.
"Day to The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, day management of the Companys assets has been when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers ""AAM"" or the equities to fund the costs of the Trusts gearing."
The Manager invests in a diversified range of Managers were not slow to spot an opportunity, but it international companies in accordance with the investment started as Hobsons choice, and was only later trumpeted as objective.
The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for In 1929 just under 20% of the assets were in equities, in portfolio construction across all regional segments.
Working 1940 38%, in 1948 51% of the assets, which were still only closely with the relevant underlying fund management 2.65 million.
After deducting the preference shares which teams in each case, portfolio construction is an interactive were repaid in 1999 and debentures, the Company was process.
The Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List effectively over 100% geared into equities by the start of the which is constructed by each of the specialist country great post war boom.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each management team, which are After a number of amalgamations, the Company emerged as then used as the investment universe.
Stock selection is the a generalist investment trust.
However, there was an excess major source of added value.
of trusts with a similar broad remit, so towards the end of the 1970s the Board defined the investment brief more Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers narrowly as the achievement of growth in income and capital portfolio construction, with diversification rather than formal through a well diversified portfolio.
controls guiding stock and sector weights.
2 Murray International Trust PLC Symbolised by the name change from Murray Western to Currently 70% of the investment management fee and Murray International Trust in 1984, the focus has since been finance costs and 100% of the performance fee are taken out on a relatively high yielding portfolio of equities in a well of capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense diversified mix of world markets.
of capital growth, which will either be eroded or constrained.
Maintaining a high level of dividend may also diminish In 2008 the Board circulated to all shareholders a short capital value.
In common with most investment trusts, booklet to commemorate the centenary of the incorporation Murray International Trust is able to borrow for investment of the Company on 18 December 1907.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to volatility in available and requests should be addressed to the Company the Net Asset Value NAV, meaning that a relatively small Secretary.
movement either down or up in value of the Companys total assets will result in a magnified movement in the same Capital Structure direction of that NAV.
There is no guarantee that the market price of shares in investment trusts will fully reflect their The Companys issued share capital as at 24 February 2009 underlying NAV.
consisted of 90,638,992 Ordinary shares of 25p 98.8% of the total share capital and 1,120,588 B Ordinary shares of The market prices of fixed interest stocks and, to a lesser 25p 1.2% of the total share capital.
The difference between extent, convertibles may be affected by changes in interest the rights of the B Ordinary Shareholders and that of the rates.
Ordinary Shareholders is contained in the glossary on page 58.
Share Dealing and ISA Status Total Assets and Net Asset Value Shares in Murray International Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be At 31 December 2008, the Company had Total Assets of purchased through Aberdeen savings schemes and fully 731.5 million and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see Ordinary share of 625.8p.
Management Agreement Summary Borrowings The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset The borrowings at 31 December 2008 of 159.1 million Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen represent 28.0% of Net Assets without cash deposits netted Asset Management PLC, for the provision of management against the borrowings.
Committed and uncommitted services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on borrowing facilities to the Company are detailed in note 13. pages 24 and 25 and in note 3 on page 42.
Financial covenants contained within the relevant loan agreements provide, inter alia, that borrowings shall at no AIC time exceed 50% of Net Assets and that the Net Assets Murray International Trust is a member of the Association of must exceed 250 million.
The Net Assets were 568.8 Investment Companies.
Websites If any of the financial covenants were to be breached, the www.
co. uk Lenders would be entitled, following the serving of notice to www.
com the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, fees and other sums owed under the agreement to be Company Secretary immediately due and repayable.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Duration Email: company.
co. uk The Company does not have a fixed life.
Customer Services Principal Risks and Uncertainties Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - 5pm Email: inv.
com Many of the stocks in which the Company invests are exposed to the risk of political change, exchange controls, tax or other regulations which may affect their value and marketability.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of the Companys investments and the income derived therefrom.
Companies in emerging markets are not always subject to the equivalent accounting, auditing and financial standards of those in the United Kingdom.
There may therefore be less supervision and regulation in this respect.
