GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Directors Report The directors of Cairn Energy PLC present their annual report for the year ended 31 December 2008 together with the financial statements of the Group for the year.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Tuesday 19 May 2009.
Results and Dividend The Group made a profit after tax and exceptional items of $366.7m 2007: $1,555.8m restated.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Subsequent events that have occurred after the Balance Sheet date as at 31 December 2008 are included in Note 38 of the Notes to the Accounts.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas.
Details of the development of the Groups business during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Highlights of 2008, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Assets, Operating & Exploration Review, Corporate Responsibility and Financial Review on pages 5 to 37 of this document and the Risk Factors section on pages 41 to 44, which are deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Details of Cairns offices are given on the back cover of this report and details of Cairns advisers are given on page 136.
Change of Control All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 72.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the executive directors is also entitled, pursuant to their service contracts, to compensation of a sum equal to their annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
There are no agreements providing for compensation to employees on a change of control.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company except the $850 million syndicated revolving credit facility agreement dated 22 November 2006 entered into by certain of the Companys subsidiaries, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and IFC and a syndicate of other commercial banks the Facility.
Under the Facility, lenders may, upon 30 days notice, cancel all of their commitments and declare all outstanding loans made by them, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company while it retains control of Cairn India.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company are given on pages 38 and 39.
The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: As at 31 December 2007 As at 31 December 2008 As at 6 April 2009 1 Sir Bill Gammell 500,000 421,732 421,732 Dr Mike Watts 200,000 193,383 193,383 Malcolm Thoms 37,600 53,869 53,869 Phil Tracy 6,400 11,550 11,550 Jann Brown 32,200 41,434 41,434 Simon Thomson 6,637 9,403 9,403 Norman Murray 81,250 40,000 40,000 Hamish Grossart 5,000 5,000 5,000 Todd Hunt 28,436 18,280 18,280 Mark Tyndall 4,062 4,062 4,062 Iain McLaren 2,000 2,000 Dr Jim Buckee 2,000 Former directors 2 Andrew Shilston 4,062 3 Ed Story 4,062 4,062 Notes: 1 Sir Bill Gammells interest includes 102,257 shares which are held in discretionary trusts, where his children are potential beneficiaries.
2 Andrew Shilston resigned as a director on 23 May 2008.
3 Ed Story resigned as a director on 15 January 2009.
56 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Directors Report Continued At 31 December 2008, none of the directors or any members of their families holds an interest in options over ordinary shares in the Company.
None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the directors service contracts are set out on pages 67 and 68 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share Capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in Note 27 of the Notes to the Accounts.
At the date of this 2 report, 137,681,011 ordinary shares of 6 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock 13 Exchange.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles of association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Voting Rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares.
A person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of shares in the Company remains unpaid.
Further, if a member has been served with a notice by the Company under the Companies Acts requesting information concerning interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, within 14 days of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class of shares.
Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at, or on the same day as, the meeting or adjourned meeting not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Variation of Rights Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes.
The rights attached to any class of shares shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with or subsequent to the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
Transfer of Shares Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of the Company.
The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members of the Company.
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company has a lien.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 57 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Directors Report Continued The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the directors refuse to register a transfer, they shall, within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on which the operator-instruction as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 was received by the Company in the case of a share in uncertificated form or in either case such longer or shorter period if any as the Listing Rules may from time to time permit or require, send to the transferee notice of the refusal.
Major Interests in Share Capital As at 6 April 2009, the Company had received notification that holdings exceeding the 3% notification threshold were as follows: Number of Shares % of Share Capital BlackRock Investment Management 12,950,020 9.41 HSBC Global Asset Management 10,295,930 7.48 Baillie Gifford 9,511,098 6.91 Legal & General Investment Management 7,938,733 5.77 F&C Asset Management 7,721,304 5.61 Fidelity Investments 6,716,093 4.88 TT International Investment Management 6,219,768 4.52 Henderson Global Investors 4,621,928 3.36 Barclays Global Investors 4,603,925 3.34 Charitable and Political Donations The Company has a Charities Committee which is responsible for distributing the Companys charitable donations to selected charities within an overall annual budget.
There are currently seven members of the Charities Committee comprising a broad range of employees from across the organisation.
The Chief Executive is not a member of the Charities Committee.
During the year the Company made various charitable contributions in the UK totalling $285,968 2007: $3,146,764.
Contributions in the UK are made to a variety of charitable organisations whose areas of operation and activities are aligned with Cairns.
In addition, the Group provides funding to various charitable initiatives outwith the UK.
Further details of these can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice It is Cairns payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers services in accordance with the terms of the applicable contracts.
In most circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2008 were equivalent to 27.5 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during the year.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are detailed in Note 30 of the Notes to the Accounts.
Election Re-Election of Directors The directors biographies are on pages 38 and 39.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed by the Company, by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The nomination committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules governing the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 45 to 55 and in the Companys Articles of Association.
An explanation of the performance evaluation procedure carried out by the Company is also contained in the Corporate Governance Statement, on pages 45 to 55.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM.
58 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS Directors Report Continued Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2008 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant audit information and that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
Reappointment of Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and their reappointment at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2009 will be proposed in accordance with the Companies Act.
AGM 2009 The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2009 are set out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which is being posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Please note that this Annual Report and Accounts is an important document and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser immediately.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in Cairn Energy PLC please send this document and the accompanying Circular containing the Notice of AGM and the Form of Proxy to the purchaser or transferee or to the bank, stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 6 April 2009 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 59
