BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2 1, 2, 3 From left to right: Christopher Collins 69, F. C. A. Nigel Andrews 61, B. Sc.
A. Richard Pym Mr Collins has been non-executive Chairman of the Mr Andrews has been an independent non-executive Christopher Collins Company since May 2005 and a non-executive director director of the Company since June 2002.
He is also Bongani Nqwababa since March 1999.
He also chairs the Nomination non-executive Chairman of the Companys principal Julian Roberts Nigel Andrews Committee.
He was formerly Chairman of Hanson PLC US holding company, Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc. Philip Broadley from 1998 until April 2005.
He is also Chairman He is a non-executive director of Chemtura Corporation, Russell Edey Reuel Khoza of Forth Ports plc.
a governor of the London Business School and a trustee Rudi Bogni of the Victory Funds.
Previously he was an Executive 2 Lars Otterbeck Julian Roberts 51, B.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Vice President and member of the of ce of the CEO Mr Roberts succeeded Jim Sutcliffe as Group Chief of GE Capital, having spent 13 years with The General Key: Executive in September 2008.
He was previously Chief 1 Member of the Group Audit Electric Company, Inc. Executive of the Groups Skandia businesses and and Risk Committee 1, 2, 3 2 originally joined the Company as Group Finance Director Rudi Bogni 61, D. Econ.
Bocconi Member of the Nomination Committee in August 2000.
Prior to joining the Company, he was Mr Bogni has been senior independent non-executive 3 Member of the Group Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings director since May 2008, having served on the Board Remuneration Committee plc.
Before that, he was a director and Chief Financial since February 2002.
He also chairs the Remuneration Of cer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Mr Bogni is Chairman of Medinvest International SCA, Luxembourg.
He is also a member of Philip Broadley 48, M. A. F. C. A. the boards of the LGT Foundation, Common Purpose Mr Broadley joined the Company as Group Finance International Limited and Prospect Publishing, of the Director on 10 November 2008, succeeding Jonathan Governing Council of the Centre for the Study Nicholls.
He was previously Group Finance Director of Financial Innovation and of the International Advisory of Prudential plc from 2000 until March 2008.
Prior to Board of Oxford Analytica.
He served previously as joining Prudential, he was a Partner of Arthur Andersen a member of the Executive Board and Chief Executive, from 1993 to 2000.
He has been Chairman of the 100 Private Banking, of UBS AG, and before that he was Group of Finance Directors, a founding member and Group Treasurer and a member of the Executive trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance Committee of Midland Bank plc.
Company Finance Directors, and a member of the IASBs Insurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of the Takeover Panel.
Page 82 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 1, 2, 3 1 Russell Edey 66, F. C. A. Bongani Nqwababa 42, B. Acc.
A. Mr Edey has been an independent non-executive Mr Nqwababa has been an independent director of the Company since June 2004.
He is non-executive director since April 2007.
He became Chairman of Anglogold Ashanti Limited, a member of the Chief Financial Of cer of the South African mining group, Conseil fide Surveillance of Paris-Orlans, SA and a Anglo Platinum Limited, in January 2009, having non-executive director of a number of companies in the previously been Finance Director of the South African Rothschild Group.
He previously served on the boards of electricity utility group, Eskom Holdings Limited, from English China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods plc 2004.
Prior to joining Eskom, he had been Treasurer and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the Finance and CFO of Shell southern Africa.
He is currently Division of the Anglo American Corporation of South Chairman of the South African Revenue Services Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
In the 1970s he was Receiver of Revenue Audit Committee.
General Manager Corporate Finance of Capel Court Lars Otterbeck 66, Dr. Econ.
He joined Rothschild in 1977 Mr Otterbeck has been an independent non-executive and was Head of Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996. director of the Company since November 2006.
D. M. A. also Chairman of Skandia Insurance Company Limited, Mr Khoza has been a non-executive director Hakon Invest AB, The Free Enterprise Foundation and of the Company since January 2006 and Chairman of Nringslivets Brskommitt Industry and Commerce Nedbank Group since May 2006.
Mr Khoza is Chairman Stock Exchange Committee.
He is Vice Chairman of AKA Capital, which is 25 percent owned by Old of the Swedish Corporate Governance Board and Mutual South Africa and the single largest participant of the Third AP Fund as well as a non-executive in Nedbanks Corporate Client Scheme established director of AB Svenska Spel.
as part of its BEE ownership arrangements.
F. C. A. a non-executive director of the Nampak Limited, Protea Mr Pym has been an independent non-executive Hospitality Holdings Limited and Corobrik Pty Limited.
He chairs the Group His previous appointments include Chairmanship of Audit and Risk Committee.
Mr Pym is Chairman of Eskom and non-executive directorships of Glaxo Bradford & Bingley plc.
He was Group Chief Executive Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, of Alliance & Leicester plc from 2002 until his retirement Standard Bank Group and Liberty Life.
He is also Chairman of BrightHouse Group Limited and is a former Vice President of the British Bankers Association and former Chairman of Halfords Group plc.
