2 Bermuda 3.2 US Asset Management Tom Turpin President and CEO, Old Mutual Asset Management US Chris Chapman CEO, US Life KEY FACTS Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis Funds under management 2008 2008 270m 167.5bn 2007: 260m 2007: 170.1bn Life sales APE basis Unit trust sales 281m 335m 1,022m 1,891m 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number of countries Number employed 2 1,952 Page 58 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 US Life Our activities in North America 3.1 Our US Life business consists of two span annuities, life insurance and businesses: US Life onshore, and our offshore, asset management.
They serve different customer groups, offering different products to each as detailed Headquartered in Baltimore, US Life in the relevant sections below.
offers a diverse portfolio of annuities We entered the US life insurance market in 2001 and life insurance products by acquiring several established insurance companies, the largest being Fidelity and Guaranty Life Insurance distributed through agents across Company now OM Financial Life Insurance Company.
Old Mutual Our Bermudan business enjoys a progressive regulatory Bermuda, part of US Life, is an environment.
Bermuda is a major offshore financial offshore business that develops centre with a reputation for high quality business.
and distributes investment products It offers a well-developed legal framework, providing certainty and effectiveness in accordance with to non-US customers in a variety international standards of best practice and offers of markets around the world.
a highly sophisticated infrastructure with ef cient banking, trust, investment, accounting, custodial US Asset Management, based in and legal services.
Boston, comprises 20 investment Performance in 2008 boutiques offering high-quality, For key gures see highlights table on page 60. actively managed investment Decrease in funds under management driven by products in all the major asset unprecedented equity and credit market movements Despite the turbulent markets, net client cash ows were classes and investment styles for four percent of opening funds under management.
Funds individual and institutional customers.
under management ended the year at $20.7 billion, down 14 percent from the opening position primarily due to a 21 percent decrease in the market value of funds under management.
The net unrealised loss on the xed income portfolio increased by $2.3 billion to $2.6 billion and Old Mutual Bermuda OMB variable annuity separate account asset values decreased by $2.4 billion.
The market value decrease was mainly the result of widening credit spreads in the bond markets and dramatic declines in global equity markets.
Sales driven by variable annuities Total life sales on an APE basis were $519 million, down 23 percent from 2007.
Sales by OMB were the largest contributor to APE.
However as a consequence of the high cost of guarantees in the volatile environment, we withdrew products during the year and therefore the OMB sales in the last four months of the year were signi cantly lower.
Fixed indexed annuity sales, down 40 percent from 2007, were affected by dif cult market conditions.
However, xed annuity sales of $60 million were up 216 percent from 2007, following the industry trend as customers seek xed interest guarantees during this period of extreme equity market volatility and economic instability.
Page 59 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW NORTH AMERICA 3.0 % Highlights $m 2008 2007 Change 1.0 2.0 Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 679 195 448 Return on equity 50.0% 5.9% 3.0 4.0 Adjusted operating loss pro t covered business MCEV basis post-tax 1,112 65 1,811 Return on embedded value covered business 121.4% 4.1% Life assurance sales APE 519 671 23 Value of new business 122 63 294 3.1 US Life 3.1.
2 Bermuda PVNBP 4,990 6,375 22 3.2 US Asset Management PVNBP margin 2.4% 1.0% Net client cash ows $bn 1.0 1.6 38 Funds under management $bn 20.7 24.1 14 Restated, as now r eporting on an MCEV basis.
Stated on a start manager basis as USAM manages funds on behalf of US Life.
Value of new business VNB Underlying adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis results VNB reduced by $185 million in 2008 compared to Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis decreased 2007, with a margin of negative 23 percent compared $874 million from the level at 2007 to a loss of $679 to nine percent in 2007.
The decrease in margin was million for 2008.
The 2008 loss re ects $436 million mainly due to a the reduction in swap rates which of additional mortality reserves related to life SPIAs, reduces the investment returns relative to guaranteed a $295 million charge in the fourth quarter for revisions minimum crediting rates in US Life onshore: and b the to estimates of future gross pro ts which resulted in additional provisions for non-modelled risks and higher an unlocking of the deferred acquisition cost asset guarantee costs in respect of the offshore variable DAC, and $126 million of hedge losses related to annuity business.
The latter was part of a total IFRS pre-tax and pre-DAC charge of $508 Review of reserving basis million relating to the variable annuity product with $382 We continually monitor our assumptions and make million owing through the short-term uctuations line.
adjustments based on experience as appropriate.
During 2008 we lowered the mortality assumption for Dif cult credit markets resulted in higher impairment life contingent single-premium immediate annuities losses and volatile equity markets increased the costs SPIA, which increased the IFRS reserve and reduced associated with the guaranteed bene ts on our variable embedded value.
We modi ed the expected lapse rates annuity contracts.
for deferred and indexed annuities to re ect higher expected surrenders when the contracts exit the surrender charge period, which resulted in the unlocking of a portion of deferred acquisition costs DAC.
We also included a non-performance risk factor in discount rates used to determine the indexed annuity embedded derivative liability and the variable annuity guaranteed minimum accumulation bene t GMAB liability, which decreased the liabilities.
Finally, we updated the variable annuity GMAB assumptions related to fund indices, mortality, free partial withdrawal utilisation, services fees and volatility, which resulted in a net decrease in the liability.
Page 60 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Useful link: Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV results Many large, high pro le financial rms suffered failures Adjusted operating pro t MCEV basis was signi cantly and regulatory interventions during the year, resulting in www.
com lower in 2008 than in 2007, mainly due to the large creditor losses, almost completely illiquid credit markets, negative assumption changes made in 2008: dramatically wider credit spreads and lower bond prices strengthening of SPIA mortality reduced the VIF by in all sectors.
In line with other US insurers, our xed $280 million, an increase in expense assumptions income portfolio aggregate credit experience and current reduced the VIF by a further $291 million, and the unrealised loss position have been affected by these strengthening of OMB GMAB reserves reduced the events and market conditions.
US Lifes xed income ANW by $126 million.
Experience variances were also portfolio recorded impairments of $237 million in the signi cantly adverse, due largely to higher than expected fourth quarter of 2008, contributing to total impairments lapses and the impact of reinsurance deals which had of $768 million for the 2008 year.
The main components been priced to be broadly cost-neutral on a real world of this were public xed income security losses basis.
Other negative experience variances included principally in respect of Washington Mutual $78 million, lighter than expected SPIA mortality and an expense Lehman Brothers $50 million, three foreign financial overrun, which resulted in the operating assumption institutions $98 million, several structured securities changes already outlined.
$165 million, three monoline insurers $38 million and losses on preferred stocks $225 million of which Credit update Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae was the majority The markets nished the year on a slightly positive note, $151 million.
US Lifes net unrealised losses on the as credit spreads tightened from historical wide levels xed income security portfolio was $2.6 billion at in November.
Overall, the markets remained fragile as 31 December 2008 re ecting the market-wide repricing continued financial sector rescue and economic stimulus of credit spreads and continuing fallout from the initiatives were required to boost economic activity and sub-prime mortgage crisis.
Actual defaults on our con dence.
The recessionary environment projected for corporate bonds for the year were $158 million resulting 2009-2010 depressed all market sectors.
in a default rate of approximately 1.3 percent on US Lifes xed income portfolio aggregate credit our corporate bond portfolio.
The value of our US experience continued to be affected by poor economic investment portfolio at 31 December 2008, after and financial market conditions.
For 2008, impairments recognition of these impairments, totalled $20,347 million.
total $768 million on 43 securities with three of the 43 being subprime asset-backed securities and another 15 indirectly linked to sub-prime or monoline insurer exposures.
3.4 percent of US Lifes xed income portfolio has direct exposure to sub-prime mortgage collateral.
The majority of the sub-prime exposure remains highly rated but has experienced several ratings downgrades.
Of sub-prime holdings at 31 December 2008, 67 percent was rated AAA, 80 percent AA and higher, 93 percent A and higher with an aggregate 68 percent fair value-to-book value ratio.
Approximately 2.9 percent of US Lifes xed income portfolio has exposure to monoline insurers, of which $508 million 89 percent of the total exposure is indirect wrapped exposure, with an 82 percent fair value-tobook value ratio, and $64 million is direct unsecured exposure, with a 56 percent fair value-to-book value ratio.
The indirect exposures include $197 million of sub-prime asset-backed securities which are wrapped by monoline guarantees.
Page 61 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW NORTH AMERICA 3.0 % Highlights US Life onshore $m 2008 2007 Change 1.0 2.0 Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 425 111 483 Life assurance sales APE 251 312 20 3.0 4.0 Value of new business 21 13 62 APE margin 8% 4% PVNBP 2,307 2,778 17 PVNBP margin 0.9% 0.5% 3.1 US Life 3.1.
1 US Life onshore Funds under management $bn 14.9 18.1 18 3.1.
2 Bermuda 3.2 US Asset Management US Life onshore Protection products 3.1.
1 Our US Life onshore business consists of We offer two principal protection product lines: term life OM Financial Life Insurance Company and its subsidiary, protection and xed indexed universal life products.
These OM Financial Life Insurance Company of New York.
provide exible life assurance protection in the event of death or disability.
Quick underwriting turnaround times US Lifes xed income investments are managed by and the introduction of product features such as return our US Asset Management business on a commercial of premium bene ts enabled these products to maintain basis.
The majority of its administrative functions are market share in 2008 despite the rapidly declining outsourced to third-party service providers.
The indexed universal life designs Markets and products specialise in providing supplementary retirement income Implementation of our core product strategy was options for customers who use preferred loan features completed by the beginning of 2009.
We have pared on a tax advantaged basis.
back the range of xed annuity products we offer and Our products are distributed through various channels.
stopped selling seven life products and our US variable The majority of sales are generated through established annuity product, to focus our range on indexed groups of managing general agents MGAs who typically annuities, xed annuities including immediate annuities, offer agents a range of annuity and life assurance and protection products such as indexed universal life products from various providers.
These are designed to deliver higher pro tability while providing customers with Market overview transparency and value-driven bene ts.
Although the economic downturn has hit sales of high net worth and middle market products, US life insurance Fixed indexed annuities FIAs remains a fundamentally attractive market with signi cant Our FIA product has been rated in the top five of its prospects.
Demographic and economic changes US product segment by LIMRA International for most increasing life expectancy and earlier retirement will of the past few years.
It guarantees the policyholder no continue to generate new customers and new needs loss of principal due to market risk, with a return derived and to increase the average time people spend in from the greater of a guaranteed xed rate or a formula retirement.
The Baby Boomer generation represent relative to equity market index movements.
The potential a huge opportunity for the next 20 to 30 years as they equity index upside is hedged using equity index options head towards retirement and look for products with and futures, enabling us to provide the potential for income and risk management features.
While discretionary gains while managing exposure to loss of principal.
spending is likely to fall in 2009, 75 percent of middleFixed annuities income consumers see life insurance and retirement Under these xed-rate contracts we invest in a portfolio savings as necessary.
of bonds that earn a spread above the rate guaranteed US sales of individual annuities continued at a record to the policyholder.
There are two main types of xed pace in 2008, reaching $197.1 billion through the first annuities: one aims primarily to offer a tax-ef cient way three quarters.
Variable annuities were down 18 percent of saving money for retirement, and the other to provide on the previous year but xed annuity sales rose an income stream for life.
Traditional xed annuities saw the most dramatic increases 81 percent while xed indexed annuity gains were more modest five percent.
Page 62 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 US Life onshore Financial scale: Major brands Old Mutual FUM 10bn 135m Life APE sales Products IFRS AOP 229m Fixed indexed annuities Fixed annuities Term life insurance Fixed indexed universal life products Number of employees 329 Key geographies All 50 states of the USA District of Columbia Most xed annuities are sold through independent The cost structure was re-engineered for lower sales agents and banking channels, but the channel volumes, with speci c action to consolidate locations, mix is changing: bank sales in 2008 increased by comprehensively restructure the organisation and reduce 90 percent from the previous year while sales through headcount.
With these changes made, the business is on independent agents increased by only 16 percent.
a better footing to tackle the challenges ahead in 2009.
Although demand for the guarantees offered by insurance Performance in 2008 products is growing, the capital available to support them For key gures see highlights table on page 62. is not.
This has led many signi cant insurance industry We are focused on transforming and scaling our players to apply to buy regional banks so as to qualify business to improve performance by drawing back to for Troubled Asset Relief Program TARP funds.
reduced volume but more pro table sales, lowering new The dif culties insurance companies face in hedging business capital strain and reducing operating expenses guarantees has led many to restructure their products while creating a more ef cient foundation for potential by repricing them and simplifying product features.
There is a push for federal regulation of the insurance The key focus will be on the successful implementation business to assure consistency across the various of the business transformation strategy.
This could offer companies and agents product pro le will be less capital intensive through economies of scale in compliance: but a more onerous streamlining the current product portfolio and eliminating regime similar to that for securities dealers could drive unpro table lines.
The sales strategy will centre on core out companies and agents that sell primarily or only distribution partners to produce more effective xed products and do not wish to entertain the expense relationships.
In addition to the consolidation of locations upfront cost and new business strain involved.
and reduced headcount, a strong expense discipline will A regulatory change that could reduce the viability be employed throughout the organisation.
We will of indexed life and annuity products is currently being embed a risk management framework that reinforces a challenged in the US Court of Appeals.
In effect it would conservative risk culture into the business operations.
mean that indexed products would be treated like An additional capital injection of $225 million was made securities and could only be sold through agents in February 2009 to US Life onshore from the Group to who have securities licences.
maintain the Risk Based Capital in line with the operating Strategy for growth target.
The total capital injection for 2008 and early 2009 We are well placed to take advantage of current was $325 million, resulting in a RBC ratio of 305 percent.
demographic trends and are striving to develop innovative product solutions, deliver strong investment performance and enhance our retail presence.
In the fourth quarter of 2008 we launched a major transformation initiative to improve pro tability and dramatically reduce our cost structure.
We streamlined product offerings to focus on pro table core products, and revised sales targets downwards to achieve capital management and pro tability goals.
Page 63 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW NORTH AMERICA 3.0 Marketing downgrades or other events impairing the value of our Throughout 2008, US Life collaborated with US Asset xed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our 1.0 2.0 Management in a drive to make Old Mutual a household earnings.
Changes in market interest rates may name in the US.
Targeting key distribution segments, signi cantly affect our pro tability and a downgrade 3.0 4.0 prospective partners and, for the first time, consumers, in our financial strength or credit rating could result this integrated approach signi cantly increased visibility in a loss of business.
A further decline in equity markets with the target audiences.
or a sustained increase in volatility may adversely affect 3.1 US Life sales of our investment products and our pro tability.
1 US Life onshore The two business units also teamed-up on several 3.1.
2 Bermuda high pro le sponsorships including the 2008 Tavistock Outlook for 2009 3.2 US Asset Management Cup, 2008 Masters Champion Trevor Immelman and Despite the economic conditions we remain optimistic all the Triple Crown Thoroughbred events.
These events about our core products, which offer customers doubled as hospitality opportunities for our key guarantees, exibility and transparency as we work distribution partners, af liates and strategic partners with them to meet their risk and retirement needs.
and we achieved signi cant ef ciencies by building Experience in previous recessions suggests that this milestone and planning meetings into the event timetables.
economic downturn may have only a limited effect on A US Life roadshow, which visited over 30 cities, sales in the life industry.
During the last recession, total allowed leaders from the sales and compliance areas new premiums for individual life insurance dipped but to demonstrate best sales practices, dos and donts, were trending upward again before the recession ended.
suitability examples and motivational techniques.
It We expect traditional insurance sales to small attracted higher attendance by existing and prospective businesses to be strong as companies recognise the distributors than the previous two years roadshows.
need for asset protection and indemni cation and look Customer service for simpler solutions to meet their objectives.
A service platform that fosters exceptional customer We will continue working proactively to improve capital experiences is the foundation for attracting and ef ciency and investment portfolio performance.
Measures to do this include the defensive restructuring Our 2008 operational initiatives aimed to provide an of the asset portfolio, reducing the concentration of experience rather than merely service for customers exposures to corporations in recession prone sectors, calling our service centres.
Competitive benchmarking reducing financial credit exposures, upgrading studies show that service levels have improved on commercial mortgage-backed security and sub-prime average by 17 percent since 2007.
Our reputation for portfolios and increasing treasury and liquidity balances.
treating all customers professionally and fairly continues Priorities for 2009 to improve, and we are con dent that this will aid the Continue the transformation of the business growth and retention of customers.
At the same time, Maintain current risk-based capital levels, aided we continued to improve our monthly unit costs in by the streamlined and less capital-intensive respect of our one million in-force policyholders.
product pro le As part of enhancing the services we provide to our Focus sales strategy on core distribution partners MGAs, we implemented online self-service capabilities to build more effective relationships for key distribution partners, allowing them to aggregate Consolidate locations, reduce headcount, and data from our systems and present a consolidated maintain strong cost discipline throughout the portfolio for their customers.
Our distribution partners organisation can now also contract and license new agents Embed into the business a risk management electronically via our secure internet portals.
framework that reinforces a conservative risk culture Continue to concentrate on the most appropriate Principal risks and uncertainties markets and distribution channels to create US Life onshore is exposed to a number of risks, a foundation for future growth.
including the attraction and retention of key staff during the business restructure, retaining the capital required to meet target risk-based capital levels, funding and meeting product guarantees, and asset liability management, including the need to maintain suf cient liquidity to protect the bond portfolio from crystallising losses in the current volatile market.
In addition, defaults, Page 64 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Old Mutual Bermuda Financial scale: Key geographies 150 countries worldwide FUM 4bn 145m Life APE sales Major brands IFRS AOP 137m Old Mutual Bermuda Products Number of employees Universal Investment Plan Guaranteed Investment Plan Guaranteed Rate Plan 23 Old Mutual Bermuda Limited Market overview 3.1.
2 Old Mutual Bermuda Limited OMB Record low levels of consumer and business con dence provides investment products to international, non-US are creating a dif cult operating environment with and non-US resident customers seeking a wide range consumers switching their investments away from of investment choices including xed rate accounts equity-based products into safer deposit options.
and international mutual funds quoted in US dollars.
Weak equity markets, lower bond yields and higher A signi cant attraction for customers is the fact that volatility have reduced variable annuity VA pro tability the assets are held in segregated accounts and the in the marketplace highlighting that companies have investment plans are held within a trust structure not been effectively hedging all risks associated with outside their own country.
Our core competency lies in building and developing The largest unhedged risk that companies providing relationships with large financial institutions, meeting such products are facing is that of policyholder their needs by providing innovative and competitive behaviour.
As expected, there has been an increase products on an open-architecture platform.
in the use of guaranteed withdrawals to help distressed Markets and products customers meet their cash needs.
We distribute through over 70 institutions, primarily Lower equity markets and yields, coupled with increased international banks, as well as serving a range of private hedge costs, are likely to lead to signi cant changes to and institutional customers in over 150 countries.
As a VA pricing and product design.
This could signi cantly leading and innovative provider of investment products change the competitive landscape and weaken overall for international banks high net worth and af uent consumer demand.
Trust needs to be rebuilt through customers, we focus on developing customised leadership, with a clear focus on delivering the right products.
Customisation generally involves tailoring products to meet changing market needs.
a proprietary product to each distributors branding guidelines, giving it the look and feel of the institutions Strategy for growth own products.
While falling asset values and actions to fide-risk the existing book have adversely affected sales and funds The current product mix comprises three investment plans: under management in the short-term, we believe our The Universal Investment Plan UIP : an international open-architecture platform and distribution capability investment plan which offers long-term growth place us in a strong position for the future.
potential with a variety of investment options including We have a number of strategies for building our international equity, bond, hedge and money market market presence and enhancing pro tability.
We aim funds, as well as xed rate accounts.
The plan also to rebuild distribution with a more customer-centred offers strategies to help protect and potentially grow focus on increasing sales to institutions.
Increased use the investment of index funds and xed income options, as well as the The Guaranteed Index Plan GIP : an investment introduction of asset allocation and or volatilityplan with index options that link returns to the values controlled funds, will enable effective hedging and help of the worlds major indices, while guaranteeing us to provide cost-effective guarantees.
Our newlya minimum of 105 percent of the amount invested.
developed multi-currency capability will allow customers The plan provides investors with full participation in to invest in currencies other than the US dollar, and we any upside subject to an annual cap are introducing products speci cally designed to meet The Guaranteed Rate Plan GRP : an investment plan retirement needs.
We are also undertaking a range offering a xed rate solution that allows control over of cost management initiatives.
maturity and exibility of return.
The plan enables investors to diversify by allocating into multiple guarantee periods.
Page 65 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW NORTH AMERICA 3.0 Performance in 2008 % 1.0 2.0 Highlights $m 2008 2007 Change Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 254 84 402 3.0 4.0 Life assurance sales APE 268 359 25 Value of new business 101 76 233 APE margin 38% 21% 3.1 US Life PVNBP 2,683 3,597 25 3.1.
2 Bermuda PVNBP margin 3.8% 2.1% 3.2 US Asset Management Funds under management $bn 5.8 6.0 3 During the year, continuing market volatility and The turbulent economic conditions and failure to fully signi cant strengthening of the US dollar led to further hedge certain risks, coupled with hedge ineffectiveness, increases in guarantee reserves in respect of variable meant that the cost of providing the guarantees annuity contracts.
In 2008, we recognised a total loss increased substantially in 2008.
This resulted in swift in respect of this business of $508 million, of which and decisive action in the second half, including senior $126 million was recognised in adjusted operating pro t. management changes, the withdrawal of the UGO, Cash of $582 million was transferred to OMB during strengthening of governance and risk management 2008: it now has a signi cant excess to the minimum practices, the adoption of more conservative assumptions, Bermuda regulatory capital requirement.
implementation of improved fund mapping and the launch of the Accelerated Universal Guarantee Option The Universal Guarantee Option UGO, launched UGO offer.
in January 2007, was an optional bene t connected Improved fund mapping has enabled us to have a much to the Universal Investment Plan UIP.
It provided a Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Bene t GMAB, clearer understanding of our exposures in terms of the guarantees we have offered.
Whilst it is not possible to guaranteeing that the policyholders account value would grow by at least five percent over five years i. e. if the fund eliminate risk entirely, we have been able to improve signi cantly hedge effectiveness, from around 75 percent is below 105 percent of the initial premium, we would top it up and by 20 percent over 10 years.
There was measured over the full year, to around 92 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008.
We have also taken action also in some cases a Highest Anniversary Value HAV guarantee on death and or maturity.
The UGO was which has given us a better understanding of the sensitivity of our reserves to changes in the underlying withdrawn from the Hong Kong book in May, and from the rest of the market on 15 August 2008. markets.
As a general guidance: a one percent decrease in equity markets results in a loss of approximately The death and living bene t guarantees, which are $10 million: a one percent strengthening in the US embedded within the variable annuity products issued dollar results in an adverse impact of around $4 million: by OMB, mean that OMB bears the risk associated with and a one percent parallel increase in volatility costs market downturns.
In addition, since the guarantees are approximately $15 million.
fide ned in US dollars but are backed by funds that are invested in foreign currency denominated securities, Better asset and liability management of the margin OMB bears foreign currency exchange risk in connection and bank accounts was instituted in the fourth quarter with these exposures.
The funds backing the guarantees of 2008 to help increase yields, reduce counterparty are not directly hedgeable, and therefore linear exposure and minimise unintentional currency exposure.
combinations of liquid market indices are used to proxy As market turmoil increased worldwide, we introduced the return of every fund in a technique known as fund 24-hour monitoring and trading in October 2008 to mapping.
For effective hedging, the correlation between improve our reaction time.
We enhanced our valuation the funds and the chosen set of hedgeable indices methodologies to ensure assets and liabilities are should be as high as possible.
calculated on a consistent basis, reducing unnecessary pro t and loss volatility.
A new product development process has been implemented, which includes the sign-off of products by the Group Chief Actuary, as well as the sign-off of the hedging strategy and hedge cost by the Chief Investment Of cer and risk tolerance by the Chief Risk Of cer.
Page 66 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Many customers who had opted for UGO guarantees Customer service had seen their initial investments fall substantially as We made major service improvements during the year, a result of market falls.
In November we offered to including the enhancement of websites catering for accelerate these guarantees for direct customers seven languages, and the offshore hosting of our i. e. excluding the Hong Kong book, on which OMB is production web portal in Geneva.
The offer was to restore their account Having confronted the challenges of 2008 we are value to 85 percent of their initial investment, less any able to return to our global bank partners who have, subsequent redemptions.
In return, all guarantees would themselves, been addressing the consequences of the be terminated and the associated fees would no longer global economic crisis with new offerings that provide be charged.
In little over three weeks, 14 percent of the security of con dential investment in a wide selection policyholders receiving the offer accepted.
This was a of underlying assets.
One of the bene ts of our approach further step in fide-risking the business.
It resulted in a is that accumulated investments can be passed on from cash payout of $94.5 million, and a release of reserves generation to generation, with guarantees that can be of $133.4 million.
delivered whatever the economic environment.
We also delivered signi cant operational improvements, Principal risks and uncertainties including the development of a multi-currency facility OMB is primarily exposed to risks which include basis and the implementation of process improvements that risk, being the risk that customers investments in the will substantially eliminate breakage costs arising from underlying mutual funds underperform relative to the a mismatch in the pricing contractually agreed with a liquid market indices used to hedge the exposure, or customer and the actual price achieved, resulting from the assumptions as to currency exposure prove to be inef ciency of systems and or processes.
inaccurate: and credit risk in connection with its xed Looking forward, further action will be taken on a account assets.
Another risk is an increase in the cost number of fronts, including restructuring the business of hedging as a result of increased market volatility.
to further improve governance, risk management and OMB does not currently hedge volatility, but would look accountability: further fide-risking the existing book to hedge on a strategic basis, should this be deemed through improved hedge performance and regular appropriate.
One further risk is that of further reductions monitoring of fund performance and the soft closing in terms of fee income should the value of the assets of funds that exhibit poor hedging characteristics.
under management upon which the company earns Further action will also be taken in the development fees continue to fall.
of new investment and insurance products that meet Outlook for 2009 customers needs, such as Shariah compliant funds In 2009, we aim to rebuild our position as a leading and guaranteed funds based on quoted indices, asset distribution platform while maintaining high levels of allocation models or  funds that customer service.
A return to more normal market conditions and the Marketing launch of a range of new hedgeable products will We continue to target international bank customers underpin a good recovery in pro tability, although inter ested in wealth accumulation, wealth preservation, we still expect some modest volatility in earnings estate planning and trust management, primarily in the medium term.
through our relationships with global banks and financial intermediaries.
Priorities for 2009 Restructure to further improve governance, risk We are also committed to serving the needs of our management and accountability distribution partners: partnering with them enables us Further fide-risk the existing book through better to deliver our promise of creating innovative products hedge performance, supported by improved fund aimed at meeting the needs of international investors.
mapping, regular monitoring of fund performance and the soft closing of funds that exhibit poor hedging characteristics Develop new investment and insurance products that meet customers needs, such as Sharia-compliant funds and guaranteed funds based on quoted indices, asset allocation models or  funds, which facilitate effective hedging.
Page 67 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW NORTH AMERICA 3.0 US Asset Management Markets and products 3.2 We have built a signi cant asset management Institutional accounts 1.0 2.0 business in North America through acquisitions as well We offer actively managed investment products in as strong organic growth over the past seven years.
all the major asset classes and investment styles.
3.0 4.0 We have created an environment in which unique, Our investment capabilities span US and global equities, entrepreneurial asset management boutiques can thrive.
xed income, property and alternative asset classes.
Separate accounts and actively managed commingled 3.1 US Life US Asset Management, based in Boston, consists accounts are offered across a range of asset classes 3.1.
1 US Life onshore of 20 distinct boutique rms, including asset managers 3.1.
We have been a pioneer who specialise in high-quality, active investment 3.2 US Asset Management in 130 30 and similar strategies that seek to enhance strategies for institutional customers, high net worth the alpha produced through active management.
individuals and retail investors around the world.
Our Several of our af liates manage assets in this fastboutiques are located mainly throughout North America, growing area for investors, where products typically with two in London.
Dwight Asset Management, a xed command higher fees.
Our customer base is now income manager, is the largest with 27 percent of total diversifying, with a signi cant proportion of our net client funds under management.
Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney cash ows coming from investors outside the US.
& Strauss, a value equity manager accounts for 19 percent and Acadian Asset Management, an international Retail accounts equities rm, holds another 18 percent.
Over time, The Old Mutual Advisor Funds offered through our retail the size rankings within the business may change, distribution arm Old Mutual Capital allow individual depending on the market environment and investment investors access to  management styles in favour at the time.
Collectively, we offer over 100 distinct investment We offer individual mutual funds in a wide range of strategies.
Individually, each boutique has its own asset classes and investment styles.
Funds are offered vibrant, entrepreneurial culture and capabilities as single-strategy mutual funds, or alternatively as focused on its own area of expertise.
diversi ed asset allocation funds under the Pure Portfolio brand.
We currently offer single-strategy mutual funds Our structure combines the investment focus of in US equities, xed income, international equities, boutique managers with the stability and resources emerging markets, property investment trusts and of a large, international rm.
This delivers signi cant money markets.
In addition, we offer multi-strategy bene ts for example, offering a diversity of investment funds that draw on the capabilities of our boutiques styles which minimises exposure to the changing as well as those of selected outside managers.
It provides the ef ciency savings that come from central capabilities in product Market overview development, infrastructure and distribution.
The The current market environment presents signi cant boutiques themselves are free to focus on delivering challenges for the asset management industry.
Earnings strong investment performance and customer service.
pressure exists across the industry due to the steep drop in asset levels resulting from depressed global Most of the boutiques now operate under pro t-sharing markets.
Few indexes have remained positive and most arrangements under which we pay them a percentage of of the major indexes have had negative threeand operating pro t, after overheads and salaries.
Long-term five-year returns as a result of 2008 market performance.
equity plans have also been implemented within most A general lack of con dence and liquidity continues of them, with final implementation planned for 2009. to inhibit recovery.
This model differentiates us from competitors and the combination of pro t-sharing and equity plans ensures Investment rms with undiversi ed portfolios, heavy that the interests of the boutiques are closely aligned equity weightings or performance fees with high with those of our shareholders and customers.
thresholds are the most susceptible to earnings pressure.
A signi cant number of asset management rms restructured during the fourth quarter of 2008 to alleviate anticipated margin pressure.
But many are wary of cutting deeper than necessary in the short term and so risking their market positioning for the next wave of growth.
Page 68 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 US Asset Management Financial scale: Key geographies North America FUM 165bn 1,022m Unit trust sales Major brands IFRS AOP 97m Acadian: Analytic Investors: Ash eld Capital Partners: Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss: Clay Finlay: Copper Rock Capital Partners: Dwight Asset Management Company: Heitman: Investment Counselors Number of employees of Maryland: Larch Lane Advisors: Lincluden: Old Mutual Asset Managers UK : Rogge: Useful link: The Campbell Group: Thompson Siegel & 1,600 Walmsley: Thomson Horstmann & Bryant, www.
com Inc: 2100 Xenon: 300 North Capital.
Products Actively managed investment products in all major asset classes and geographies.
Competition in North America is strong, and each of Investment performance strong through a dif cult our boutiques faces signi cant competition from other investing environment specialist providers.
The differentiating factors between Aggregate long-term investment performance from rms are often investment performance and product our boutiques remained strong.
Our investment managers have a record 53 percent of institutional assets had outperformed their of excellent long-term performance, and by applying benchmarks and 54 percent of institutional assets were the diverse styles of our individual rms we can ranked above the median of their peer group over the target new investment opportunities to broaden trailing three-year period.
These numbers represent our product offering.
signi cant improvement from the third quarter and demonstrate that our af liates disciplined investment The signi cant losses incurred by investors as a result processes, based on sound valuation and business of hedge fund strategies are prompting pressure for fundamentals, continue to deliver for clients.
tougher regulation of the asset management industry.
The new US Presidential Administration is expected Net ows and funds under management impacted to push for a signi cant overhaul of the US financial by market turbulence regulatory framework.
As a result, fringe strategies and Net client cash ows for the year were a solid non-transparent hedge strategies are experiencing great $1.5 billion.
Including securities lending at Dwight Asset market pressure which presents opportunities for Management, which we suspended in the third quarter, traditional asset management models to gather assets total out ows were $5.2 billion.
Given the dif cult market and institutionalise alternative offerings for clients.
conditions and the net out ows being experienced across the industry, our result for the year was encouraging and Strategy for growth compares favourably to our peers.
Our track record of We are focused on optimising the multi-boutique investment performance coupled with our diverse investment management model to deliver high-quality multi-boutique model positions us well to continue to investment solutions to our customers, grow pro tably attract net in ows despite the current market climate.
and deliver exceptional returns to shareholders.
Our business is well placed to take advantage of market, Funds under management ended the year at $240.3 billion, demographic and other related trends as we continue a 28 percent decrease from 2007.
$89 billion 96 percent working to develop innovative products, deliver strong of the reduction was due to negative market returns.
Our investment performance and grow our business.
We diversi ed asset mix helped to lessen the impact with continue to maintain expertise in sourcing, cultivating xed income and alternatives being less volatile and and integrating investment talent and capabilities within uncorrelated in periods of market instability.
We have also concentrated effort on classes represented over half of the total funds under delivering thought leadership in product development, management at year end.
On 1 July 2008, Rogge Global packaging and distribution while enabling our investment Partners acquired ING Ghent, which contributed $1.5 professionals to focus on investment management and billion to funds under management during the year.
delivering superior investment results for customers.
Retail sales challenges Performance in 2008 Like most of our competitors, retail sales faced a For key gures see highlights table on page 70. challenging year in 2008.
OMAM UK unit trust sales and Old Mutual Capital mutual fund sales for the year were $1.1 billion and $831 million, respectively, down a combined $1.9 billion 50 percent from 2007.
At 31 December 2008, 12 of Old Mutual Capitals mutual funds carried fouror five-star rankings by Morningstar, and we remain con dent in the competitiveness of the underlying products we offer.
Page 69 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW NORTH AMERICA 3.0 % Highlights $m 2008 2007 Change 1.0 2.0 Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 181 324 44 Return on capital 7.2% 11.3% 3.0 4.0 Operating margin 20% 27% Unit trust mutual fund sales 1,892 3,782 50 Net client cash ows $bn 5.2 35.2 115 Funds under management $bn 240.3 332.6 28 3.1 US Life 3.1.
2 Bermuda 3.2 US Asset Management Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis down 44 percent In addition to our continued focus on product quality we Adjusted operating pro t for the year was down have begun to build out the next generation distribution 44 percent from 2007.
The decrease was primarily a model adding several new team members covering result of lower management fees as well as performance Alternatives, fide ned Contribution Investment Only, and fees, both of which were negatively impacted by the Wall Street and Global Distribution.
This is an example volatile markets.
In addition, while we recorded of our commitment to grow the business and bring in $11 million in realised gains on seed investments in talented experienced people to serve the evolving needs 2008, we also recorded $35 million of unrealised losses of our customers.
in adjusted operating pro t. The operating margin, which Marketing is calculated inclusive of minority interest expense, also In addition to partnering with US Life on a number declined from 2007.
Actions were taken to reduce costs of sponsorships, we hosted industry events showcasing across the business in the fourth quarter, and we remain our boutiques investment capabilities in key market committed to managing expenses through the current areas.
We hosted a 130 30 conference in February to operating climate.
showcase several of our boutiques and emphasise our Continued focus on product development leadership in this eld.
We also continued to seed new and distribution investment strategies to broaden our capabilities in We remain committed to the delivery of unique and areas of high demand and support continued growth.
Recent product focus Customer service has included asset allocation and risk-adjusted return Our boutiques enhanced their customer service and objectives which have positioned us well in the current took extra steps in communicating with customers market environment.
Speci cally, we recently launched during the market volatility.
The success of these efforts Old Mutual Target Plus Portfolios, the only targetis evident in our net client cash ows relative to retirement mutual funds with three risk-speci c asset our peers.
These funds enable Old Mutual to capitalise on the trend of target date funds as retirement Principal risks and uncertainties plan default options.
The broad market downturn had, and will continue to have, an impact on the US asset management business To capitalise on the movement of asset ows towards OMAM.
The exposure to current market uctuation both global and alternative products we launched the continues to impact assets under management, revenues following strategies: Copper Rock International Small and earnings targets, thereby affecting our ability to execute Cap Growth managed by a newly acquired team, against the overall business strategy.
In addition, given Barrow Hanley International Value, Thompson Siegel activities over the last year, there is a high likelihood of & Walmsley Global Equity, Acadian Emerging Market regulatory reform across the financial services industry.
Debt, 2100 Managed Futures, and 300 North Capital In aggregate, these factors create an environment that Long Short.
could result in OMAM facing continuing pressure on earnings as well as higher than normal levels of litigation and reputational risks.
Page 70 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Outlook for 2009 Priorities for 2009 We see good potential both in the US and globally.
Maximise the value of the multi-boutique portfolio Dif culties within financial institutions have created a and maximise its value by delivering consistently highsigni cant opportunity to attract investment talent within quality investment performance and retaining assets the US.
Market volatility also creates opportunities for with consistently active management managers to provide outperformance for customers Maintain a co-ordinated strategy aimed at managing at a time when the gap between the top and bottom the portfolio of companies to meet the changing quartile performers has widened.
demands of the market Continue to build on existing global success Before the current market dif culties, client cash by sharing best practice in managing boutique ows were driving asset allocation decisions towards investment rms and driving greater global international, global and alternative strategies.
We distribution for our existing boutiques believe these trends will continue in 2009, but many Continually energise excellence in our distribution customer searches have been halted given the recent and customer service model by supporting the volatility.
Search activity should return with client cash boutiques distribution efforts: augment those efforts ow as the volatility in the financial markets subsides, for products such as investment-only fide ned but customers will remain wary.
They will put a premium contribution or distribution channels that are on companies that are truly institutional in quality and not easily serviced by traditional institutional asset offer effective risk management, continuity of staff, management rms strong ownership structures, transparency of investment Continue to diversify the core of our business, process and longevity of performance.
which is based in institutional asset management, Until global equity markets recover, our earnings growth by sourcing investment teams and rms, identifying new will be restricted.
However, our investment track record distribution channels and creating innovative products has positioned us well relative to competitors, and our Achieve all this within a framework of strong diversi ed asset mix will continue to help us weather financial and capital management focused on cost market volatility.
management, prioritising ef cient capital spending, and our seed capital programme.
