BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa 2.2 Nedbank 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance Paul Hanratty Head, Long-Term Savings and Managing Director, Old Mutual South Africa Keith Kennedy Managing Director, Mutual & Federal Tom Boardman CEO, Nedbank KEY FACTS Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis Funds under management 2008 2008 1,191m 41bn 2007: 1,245m 2007: 41.7bn Life sales APE basis Unit trust sales 353m 336m 1,534m 1,138m 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number of countries Number employed 7 48,072 Page 38 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Old Mutual South Africa OMSA We operate the largest financial 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa OMSA comprises services business in South Africa, asset management and life operations and has one of providing wealth management, the largest advice-based distribution capabilities in the South African industry.
The Retail division covers both investment products, retirement the Af uent and Mass markets, while the Corporate savings, life, disability and health division provides products and services to corporate, insurance to individuals and groups.
institutional and public sector customers.
We also offer financial services in Our asset management operations in South Africa are other parts of Africa through represented by Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa OMIGSA.
This multi-boutique asset management operations in Namibia, Zimbabwe, business, currently comprising 13 individual boutiques, Malawi, Kenya and Swaziland.
was formed in 2007 in response to a growing demand Our banking business in Africa for core and specialist investment capabilities.
Our boutiques provide a range of investment capabilities is conducted by Nedbank Group, designed to meet a variety of retail and institutional in which we have a 55 percent customer needs.
We offer investment capabilities controlling interest.
Nedbank is one to the pension fund and corporate market, as well as managing a range of retail portfolios which individuals of the four largest banks listed on can access through the various Old Mutual products.
the Johannesburg Stock Exchange The Old Mutual brand has very high awareness, trust JSE.
We also have a 74 percent and loyalty among South African consumers across controlling interest in Mutual & all market segments.
In 2008 it was rated number one for life assurance 2008 Markinor Brands Survey and Federal Insurance Company for after-sales service 2008 Ask Afrika Orange Index.
Limited, the South African general Established in 2003, Old Mutual Service Technology and insurance company.
Administration OMSTA provides a single, cost-effective point of service, technology and administration for the Retail Af uent, Retail Mass and Corporate customerfacing businesses.
It services all our customers, intermediaries and retirement fund members across our full product range through our extensive branch network, call centres, web capabilities and back of ce.
In addition it offers technological infrastructure for OMSA, along with application development for both OMSA and other Old Mutual Group companies internationally.
Page 39 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 Markets and products Asset management Retail Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa OMIGSA 1.0 2.0 Our Retail division covers both the Af uent and Mass investment boutiques collectively span all major asset markets, offering life, disability, retirement annuities, classes and employ unique strategies to meet our 3.0 4.0 savings and investment products.
We distribute these customers different needs and risk pro les.
Together, through independent brokers IFAs, bank brokers, tied they give customers access to a comprehensive range distribution personal financial advisers for the Af uent of savings and investment solutions.
We are building 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa segment and salaried sales force for the Mass segment, on our traditional South African customer base by 2.2 Nedbank 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance a direct distribution channel and other retail partnerships.
offering property, exchange traded funds ETFs and Bancassurance through Nedbanks financial advisers hedge-fund solutions that also meet the needs and staff is another important channel.
Our key Retail product offerings include Greenlight, Our investment boutiques include: a exible and comprehensive range of life, disability, Specialist equity businesses and future-needs cover.
We provide a range of Futuregrowth xed income retirement savings plans, annuities, investment and Umbono Fund Managers index tracking income products through different wrappers including OMIG Property Investments property asset the Max, Investments Frontiers and Galaxy product management and property management ranges.
In the Mass segment we offer customers SYmmETRY multi-manager portfolios for institutional savings, retirement and funeral cover products.
investors across multiple asset classes To ensure products are appropriate for todays Private equity and infrastructure investment environment, our more recent investment and savings Old Mutual Specialised Finance corporate products feature signi cantly lower charges and advisory, corporate lending, securities lending capital requirements and have greater transparency and structured products.
Market overview Our investment offering is open-architecture, but In 2008 local markets followed a similar pattern to Old Mutual managed funds form a large part of the international markets, with a dramatic fall followed underlying assets managed for Retail customers.
by a marginal recovery at the end of the year.
The Johannesburg All Share index lost over a quarter Corporate of its value, with dramatic variances between sectors.
Our Corporate division sells investment, retirement, In ation continued to rise through the first three quarters insurance, structured products and advisory services of the year but fell back in the last quarter, prompting to corporate, institutional and public sector customers.
a reduction in interest rates at the end of the year.
Under a life wrapper, we provide underwritten investment These factors, combined with slower global growth products for retirement funds, and group life and disability and lower demand for South African exports, slowed insurance to retirement funds established by employers local economic growth in 2008 after four years for their employees and by trade unions for their members.
Group assurance products provide life cover to employees The financial services sector has so far remained largely in the event of death, funeral cover and funeral support unaffected by the global financial crisis.
Competition has services, and a full range of disability solutions.
continued to increase as banks, life assurers and asset We customise investment products to meet our managers expand their product ranges in an effort individual customers requirements.
These include to grow market share.
New entrants challenge existing smoothed bonus portfolios, absolute return portfolios, practices without the burden of legacy issues.
structured solutions and annuity products, and Following the changes in the leadership of the African third-party asset management.
We offer other multiNational Congress ANC at the end of 2007, 2008 was managed asset management solutions and administer an eventful year on the political front.
The most notable a range of retirement schemes for corporates and change was the replacement of Thabo Mbeki by umbrella arrangements.
Many of these schemes Kgalema Motlanthe as State President in the second half are fide ned contribution and open-architecture.
We view the peaceful change in ANC and state leadership and the subsequent emergence of a new political party as encouraging signs of the development of democracy in the country.
Page 40 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 OLD MUTUAL SOUTH AFRICA Financial scale: Major brands Old Mutual FUM 34bn Old Mutual Investment Group 336m Life APE sales Unit trust sales 1,350m Products IFRS AOP 522m Retirement savings plans Annuities Investment products Number of employees Savings products Group life and disability insurance Group assurance products Useful links: 15,970 www.
com Key geographies South Africa This includes the long-term investment return LTIR plus other shareholder income and pro t from OMSTA.
The LTIR is the long-term return that we assume can realistically be earned on investible shareholder assets when deriving a smoothed operating result.
The regulatory regime has been evolving to provide To achieve this, we are working to become a greater transparency and protection to the consumer.
consistently top-performing asset manager in every New commission regulations, effective from 1 January asset class through our range of investment boutiques 2009, represent one of the most profound changes which we will expand to cover more niche positions.
to the long-term insurance sector for many years.
We are already recognised as the number 1 long-term The overall savings rate in South Africa remains low, insurance brand in the market and are building and a large proportion of savings is being channelled recognition and awareness as a leading savings into nonfinancial investment vehicles such as property.
We will broaden our financial The economic growth of recent years has fuelled growth services offerings, and update existing products, in the emerging and middle-income market segments: to satisfy a demanding customer base and new these segments will continue to present opportunities regulations.
We will also add products aimed at the going forward, albeit with growth at lower levels.
At a time when others are expected to make cutbacks, we will unlock competitive advantage The long-term outlook for the savings and investment by growing access to customers and distribution ahead environment is positive for a number of reasons: of our competitors.
And we will use our strong operating The prudent scal and monetary policies of recent position in southern Africa to expand selectively into years are expected to continue and to guide the other parts of Africa that offer high growth potential.
economy back to robust growth Operational excellence and cost control are essential The growing black middle class and af uent markets if we are to provide our customers with affordable supported by economic expansion and Black and competitive products at a sustainable margin.
Economic Empowerment efforts will sustain growth Through OMSTA, we will continue reducing the in consumer spending operational cost of the business, making better use The Government is continuing to invest in infrastructure of IT to improve customer service and provide a solid There are Government plans for a mandatory platform for growth.
retirement savings framework The level of financial awareness and the transparency We also want to position Old Mutual as the leading of financial products is improving.
South African corporate citizen in financial services.
OMSA has always played a leading role in supporting Strategy for growth the economy and people of South Africa.
We will Our strategic aim is to move from being a traditional life continue doing this through broad-based initiatives insurer to become a leading provider of investment and aimed at creating opportunities for disadvantaged savings solutions to each and every South African.
Page 41 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 Performance in 2008 % 1.0 2.0 Highlights Rm 2008 2007 Change Long-term business adjusted operating pro t 3,390 3,082 10 3.0 4.0 Asset management adjusted operating pro t 1,078 946 14 Long-term investment return LTIR 3,521 2,988 18 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 7,989 7,016 14 2.2 Nedbank 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance Return on allocated capital 27.8% 24.0% Adjusted operating pro t covered business MCEV basis post-tax 4,972 3,857 29 Return on embedded value covered business post-tax 14.4% 11.7% Life assurance sales APE 5,145 4,516 14 Unit trust mutual fund sales 20,648 15,547 33 Value of new business 831 694 20 APE margin 16% 15% PVNBP 35,440 32,010 11 PVNBP margin 2.3% 2.2% Net client cash ows Rbn 5.5 18.7 71 SA client funds under management Rbn 443.0 445.0 Life sales now exclude healthcar e business.
2007 sales have been restated from R4,699m.
Unit trust mutual fund sales now include Marriott.
Restated as now reporting on MCEV basis.
Funds under management were at over 2007 mainly Life recurring-premium sales were strong, up eight percent due to lower asset values in volatile markets and over 2007.
Sales of recurring-premium savings products improved net client cash out ows of R5.5 billion offset increased by 16 percent compared to 2007 driven by an by the inclusion of Futuregrowths R35 billion of funds expansion in the Retail Mass segment sales force.
The acquisition of Futuregrowth has interest rates adversely affected our credit life sales resulted in an expanded set of xed income products through the banking channel as loan advances dropped.
available to the Old Mutual customer base.
Retention Sales of risk products to the Retail Af uent market were of third-party assets has improved signi cantly with largely at over 2007 as customers faced affordability the bedding down of the OMIGSA boutique structure problems.
In December 2008 we reached an agreement leading to the overall reduction in client out ows relative to sell our healthcare business to Lethimvula.
Out ows remained a challenge, affected by we now exclude healthcare sales from our life sales and higher bonuses declared in 2007 and early 2008, which from our embedded value calculations.
increased the level of normal bene t payments, particularly Unit trust sales of R20.6 billion were 33 percent higher in Employee Bene ts EB, as well as higher member than in 2007, showing excellent growth, albeit from withdrawals from pension funds as a result of the a low base with investors moving to lower risk money deteriorating economic environment.
We continue to focus on improving Life assurance sales increased 14 percent in 2008. investment performance, as well as focus on the This improvement was particularly pleasing considering alignment of our unit trust fund offering to our boutique the effect of the current economic climate on consumer capability and allowing the OMIGSA boutiques to spend.
We achieved excellent growth in life singleoperate with independent investment philosophies premium sales of 26 percent compared to 2007, but and processes.
we experienced a slow down in single-premium sales VNB grew 20 percent over 2007 driven by the increase in the fourth quarter.
Savings products sales grew by in sales and the increase in the margin as a result 12 percent as investors opted for more conservative of strong with-pro t annuity sales in the Corporate fund options under the life wrapper in response to Segment where the APE margin increased from 15 volatile investment markets, particularly in the Retail percent in 2007 to an outstanding 23 percent for 2008.
Annuity sales were up 85 percent with The contribution of the with-pro t annuity sales to the some good ows in the Corporate Segments new APE margin was partly offset by the higher frictional tax guaranteed-term annuity product as well as with-pro t costs after reducing the proportion of capital invested annuities.
Our focus on working closely with consultants in equities.
The Retail Af uent margin also declined advising institutional investors has helped us grow our as a result of the lower proportion of high margin risk sales pipeline, although the sales process is longer as business following the fall in credit life sales.
investors are more cautious in the current markets before deciding to move assets.
Page 42 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis increased strongly, Capital position % up 14 percent over 2007.
Despite challenging markets, Rm 2008 2007 Change our long-term business pro ts increased 10 percent, Admissible capital 42,582 45,039 6 driven by lower costs due to sound management of Statutory capital adequacy expenses with the lower Old Mutual plc share price requirement SCAR 11,176 11,739 4 impacting incentive costs.
In addition we gained some Statutory capital cover 3.8 times 3.8 times signi cant non-repeating items including a reduction in employee bene t obligations of R128 million, interest on OMSAs life company capital position remains strong in SARS refund of R64 million and an insurance claim of spite of turbulent markets.
The statutory capital cover R37 million.
We also saw improved general experience remained stable at 3.8 times since December 2007. variances.
Although we increased our allowance for Admissible capital was lower than December 2007 levels worsening persistency and we increased our investment due to a fall in market values, offset by the effect of our guarantee reserve IGR by R409 million during the year, hedging programme and increased cash holdings.
these assumption changes were not as adverse as in 2007 when we determined the IGR on a marketAt 31 December 2008 the statutory capital requirement consistent basis for the first time.
These positive factors reduced four percent to R11,176 million as a result of a were partially offset by lower capital charges as a result decision to hold more cash and reduce our exposure to of lower asset values and the move to lower margin equities.
The impact of lower equity markets and the new products such as the move by Old Mutual Staff Fund to regulatory requirement to include allowance for operational Absolute Growth Portfolios as well as negative termination risk, credit risk and investment guarantee reserve sensitivity experience especially in the mass market segment.
in capital requirements, were offset by higher assumed management actions in the investment resilience Our asset management adjusted operating pro t was scenario used for calculating the capital requirement.
up 14 percent due to lower expenses attributable to the impact of a lower Old Mutual plc share price on incentive Retail Mass % costs.
The impact of the move to performance based Rm 2008 2007 Change income in the current environment resulted in lower Life sales APE asset management fee income which was offset by Savings 736 613 20 strong performance in our credit operation OMSFIN.
Protection 576 477 21 The LTIR increased by 18 percent after increasing Total 1,312 1,090 20 the rate applied at the beginning of the year by 100bps to 16.6 percent, re ecting the high investment returns on Value of new business 270 240 13 shareholder funds achieved in 2007 and higher investible APE margin 21% 22% asset balances.
Net client cash ows Rbn 2.0 1.9 5 Adjusted operating pro t MCEV basis increased by Restated, as now reporting on an MCEV basis.
29 percent over 2007, mainly due to higher expected return based on higher one-year swap rates, higher new Retail Mass sales were up a pleasing 20 percent over business contribution and the higher adjusted operating 2007 largely due to strong growth in salaried adviser pro ts IFRS basis discussed above.
The broker and direct channels also factors were partly offset by the impact of adverse delivered strong sales growth.
Net client cash ows termination experience particularly in the Retail segments were five percent ahead of last year.
The impact of as a result of the tougher economic environment.
higher surrenders indicative of the current economic conditions and greater volumes of maturing savings business introduced ten years ago and short-term savings business introduced five years ago was offset by favourable mortality experience.
VNB increased at a slower rate than sales due to the re-pricing of our protection product range and the impact of lower expected returns based on assumed lower future swap yields on the value of future pro ts on the segments protection products.
Page 43 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 Retail Af uent Life single-premium sales were up four percent with % living annuities up 20 percent on 2007.
Conventional 1.0 2.0 Rm 2008 2007 Change annuity sales were also solid as a result of the continued Life sales APE competitiveness of our annuity rates, enhanced by a 3.0 4.0 Savings 1,428 1,321 8 recent repricing exercise.
Total annuity sales including Protection 996 1,056 6 living annuities were up 11 percent on 2007.
However, Annuity 219 197 11 Max Investment and Investment Frontiers single- 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa premium sales were down 10 percent and one percent 2.2 Nedbank Total 2,643 2,574 3 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance respectively on 2007 as a result of the impact of market Life sales APE volatility on single-premium investments.
Single 907 868 4 Non life single-premium savings business was up Recurring 1,736 1,706 2 25 percent on 2007 due to investors moving to money Non-life sales market funds in the volatile investment markets and Unit trust the relaunch of Galaxy Elite, an upgrade to our existing mutual fund sales 17,978 13,339 35 investment platform.
Other non-life sales 4,782 4,871 2 Value of new business 320 336 5 VNB decreased by five percent despite the overall APE margin 12% 13% increase in sales.
In addition to the higher frictional Net client cash ows Rbn 1.1 2.7 59 tax costs following the change in shareholder investment mandate more cash, fewer equities the decline was Restated, as now reporting on an MCEV basis.
also caused by the lower credit life sales, which have Net client cash out ows improved over 2007 but high margins.
remained negative, as the prevailing adverse economic Corporate Segment environment increased client withdrawals.
% Rm 2008 2007 Change Total Retail Af uent life sales on an APE basis increased a solid three percent.
Recurring-premium sales Life sales APE experienced challenges, with in ationary pressures and Savings 386 346 12 higher interest rates which impacted negatively on Protection 125 145 14 consumer disposable income.
Recurring-premium Annuity 350 111 215 savings sales grew by 13 percent with Max Investment Total 861 602 43 recurring-premium sales up six percent and a full year contribution from Nedlifes Dreammaker, launched in the Life sales APE middle of 2007, producing a 112 percent increase albeit Single 671 393 71 off a low base.
Recurring 190 209 9 The shift from life-wrapped savings business to other Value of new business 201 91 121 wrappers continues with non-life recurring-premiums APE margin 23% 15% up 32 percent from a relatively low base.
Greenlight Net client cash ows Rbn 4.0 4.1 2 sales grew by one percent as a result of affordability Restated, as now reporting on an MCEV basis.
issues among customers and credit life sales declined on 2007 after the reduction in loan volumes as a result Corporate life sales on an APE basis were 43 percent of the high interest rate regime and the impact of the higher in 2008, driven by higher sales in Employee National Credit Act.
Bene ts savings and annuity products.
The introduction of the Guaranteed Term Certain product boosted annuity sales, and there were also good ows into Smoothed Bonus products.
Sales of protection products were below 2007 as insurers stepped up efforts to retain business thereby reducing potential new business.
Our retention of protection business also improved in 2008.
Page 44 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 VNB increased signi cantly in 2008 relative to the Life sales were ahead of 2007 as a result of good repeat increase in sales.
This was because of higher sales investments by existing customers in SYmmETRY.
volumes in EB combined with the favourable mix of Non-life sales were higher than 2007 as a result of better sales, notably the higher proportion of with-pro t annuity unit trust ows on the back of improved stability of our sales.
This had a ow on impact in the new business investment professional teams in the boutiques.
Net margin improving relative to 2007. client cash out ows were largely from institutional customers to fund bene t payments.
Net client cash ows in the EB arena were marginally better than in 2007.
Higher in ows were almost offset by As our boutique structure has bedded down, our teams higher out ows.
Terminations were similar to 2007 levels, have stabilised.
We have set strong foundations over but bene t payments were much higher.
Higher bonus the last two years and are seeing improving levels declarations during 2007 smoothed bonus and early of acceptance and con dence in individual boutique 2008 annuities increased the level of normal bene ts.
The acquisition In addition to this, a trend of increased bene t of Futuregrowth and merger of the OMIGSA Fixed Income withdrawals from funds as a result of current economic and Futuregrowth teams has proceeded smoothly, with pressures contributed to increased out ows.
minimal disruption to their investment processes.
Customers continued to transfer from the old smoothed The South Africa equity market JSE All Share Index bonus products to the Absolute Growth Portfolios fell 26 percent during 2008.
The outperformance of launched in 2007.
Transfers of R21 billion occurred resources during the six months to the end of June during the year.
These transfers are not counted as reversed abruptly in the second half of the year, with new business.
resources down 46 percent relative to a -1 percent return from financial stocks.
Compelling valuations in Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa OMIGSA the financial sector meant that a number of OMIGSA boutiques were underweight resources and overweight % Rm 2008 2007 Change nancials from the last quarter of 2007.
This positioning led to improved performance over the second half of Life sales APE 329 250 32 2008, with some of the ground lost since September Unit trust mutual 2007 regained.
Performance in our xed income area fund sales 2,669 2,208 21 was very good.
The Old Mutual Income Fund and Value of new business 40 28 43 Mining and Resources Fund won certi cates for top APE margin 12% 11% straight performance in their respective categories for Net client cash ows Rbn 2.4 13.8 83 the three years ended 31 December 2008 at the Raging Bull Awards.
Funds under management Investment performance across our diverse boutiques was mixed.
Our relative fund performance across the % Rbn 2008 2007 Change majority of boutiques nevertheless ended the year better than at the end of 2007, albeit below our target levels.
Life 296 319 7 Over one year to the end of 2008, 57 percent of peer Unit trusts 45 48 6 group funds outperformed the median compared Third party 110 88 25 to 39 percent as at the end of 2007.
Over three years Total OMIGSA to the end of 2008, we improved from 31 percent managed assets 451 455 1 outperforming to the end of 2007 to 40 percent above median at end 2008, and similarly measured over five Funds managed by external years improved from 36 percent to 54 percent above fund managers 29 34 15 median.
Compared to industry median, overall, 55 percent of unit trust funds were above median over Total OMSA funds under management 480 489 2 one year, 35 percent over three years and 45 percent over five years to the end of December 2008.
Less: managed by Group companies for OMSA 37 44 16 Total OMSA client funds managed in SA 443 445 Page 45 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 On the benchmark performance front, the dif culty We have combined all customer servicing for our Retail of beating in ation and cash-plus benchmark in an Af uent, Mass Retail and Corporate customer-facing 1.0 2.0 environment where growth assets are very negative, businesses into OMSTA.
We continually drive service weighed heavily on the delivery of funds which are levels higher through LEAN process re-engineering 3.0 4.0 measured mostly against an absolute benchmark.
end of 2008, 38 percent of funds measured against Customers and intermediaries are serviced via a benchmark were outperforming over one year, compared 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa combination of call-centres, web capabilities and the to 50 percent at the end of 2007.
However, over the 2.2 Nedbank extensive branch infrastructure.
By applying OMSTAs 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance longer term period of five years we improved slightly, IT expertise we reduced servicing cost per policy with 55 percent of funds outperforming benchmarks while improving service levels and were voted No1 for compared to 50 percent for the five years to end 2007. after-sales service in the 2008 Ask Afrika Orange Index.
Marketing Principal risks and uncertainties Recognising the increasingly competitive environment As we go into 2009 we face a number of risks from the and the need to r each new markets, we increased our economic environment.
These include a weak equity marketing investment improving our brand presence market and the possibility of further equity falls adversely and product support, making progress in promoting affecting our earnings, our embedded value and our the new OMIGSA boutique model, and reaching the sales as customers avoid investment and savings previously under-serviced Foundation Market which products with equity content.
In addition, increased we see as central to the success of the South African terminations due to the current economic climate put economy in years to come.
We launched Max II, more pressure on the net client cash ow position, our recurring-premium product range, to meet new earnings and embedded value.
Lower sales may commission regulations.
Our aim in product development eventuate as a result of job losses and concerns about is to exceed customer expectations: hence Galaxy the global economic outlook.
Further decline in Elite, an investment product that delivers excellent value longer-term swap yields and further increase in equity for high net worth retail customers, and our Absolute and swaption volatilities, which would increase the size Growth Portfolios product, which is now a market of the Investment Guarantee Reserve.
leader in the corporate segment.
Outlook for 2009 We also used the uncertainty in the financial markets National Treasury expects growth in the economy for towards the end of the year to highlight the bene ts of 2009 to be 1.2 percent.
This growth rate is vulnerable our smoothed bonus and guarantee products as well as to demand for South African exports from developed our strong capital position and credit rating through the markets and how that will impact on manufacturing Certain friend in uncertain times campaign.
output as well as levels of commodity prices and their This above-the-line activity supports our extensive impact on our mining sector.
Growth will continue to face-to-face distribution in the retail and corporate markets.
be supported by the Governments infrastructure drive.
Customer service The current economic environment has led to a Customers are at the heart of our business.
In 2008 signi cant decline in consumer con dence in the we revitalised our retail sales and customer services investment markets and increase in concerns about branches.
We set a new benchmark in convenient job security.
There has been a shift in demand from financial services by moving into retail shopping areas investment vehicles with high levels of market exposure and opening 19 Greenzones one-stop shops offering to more traditional smoothed bonus and guaranteed banking, assurance, insurance and investment products.
products, which will bene t OMSA.
However, the overall We extended our reach by signi cantly growing tied pressure on the consumer will restrict sales growth until distribution and increasing our activity in both the broker concern over the market settles and consumers start and direct markets.
In the corporate segment, focus feeling the bene ts of falling in ation and interest rates.
on relationships with consultants is building our pipeline We have received noti cation to terminate early in 2009 and sales.
the existing mandate to manage the Public Investment Corporations PIC assets worth about R25 billion.
This will adversely affect net client cash ows and reduce operating pro t by approximately R21 million for 2009.
Page 46 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 New regulations on commission, implemented at the start Malawi of 2009, are revolutionising the retail market.
Changes The operation in Malawi was established in 1930. include minimum early termination values on long-term We are the market leader in asset management, life savings contracts and a move to spread commission over assurance, third-party asset management, pension the term of a policy, rather than the current front-loaded fund administration and management, and property structure.
We have already launched a set of products investment.
Historically, we have focused on the that meet the new requirements and have been working corporate segment of the market and sell group life with intermediaries to help them move to the new cover and annuities, pension fund management, credit environment.
The legislation presents us with life and funeral cover.
We currently sell life cover to opportunities as our infrastructure is well equipped individuals in the retail segment and are developing to deal with changes of this magnitude.
additional products to meet the needs of this segment.
The year ahead will challenge consumers, businesses Namibia and policymakers to adapt their thinking and behaviour Old Mutual Namibia was launched over 80 years to a changing and more challenging economic ago and is the countrys leading financial services environment.
OMSAs strong capital position, brand company, dominating both the life assurance and loyalty and dominant presence will allow us to compete asset management industries.
We are a leader in more aggressively in a market with declining margins pension fund administration and are developing the and capital restrictions.
Our capital position, at 3.8 times property investment side of the business.
Our unit trust the required level, and our AAA credit rating are the best business offers solutions to both corporate and retail in the long-term insurance industry.
As a result, we still customers.
We provide life, disability, retirement savings see opportunities for growth, albeit at lower levels than and investment products to individuals in the Retail in the recent past.
Priorities for 2009 Zimbabwe Continue our transition from a traditional life insurer Our business in Zimbabwe has operated for just over to a modern savings and investment business 100 years and is the largest financial services company Continue to grow the business and net client in the country, having captured the largest market share cash ows of the life assurance and asset management industries.
Focus on growing distribution while improving We also own the countrys largest building society.
We investment performance, service levels and provide life, disability, retirement savings and investment managing our costs.
products for both corporate and retail customers.
Rest of Africa Swaziland Kenya We launched our business in Swaziland in May 2008.
Launched eighty years ago, Old Mutual pioneered unit With ambitious plans, the business strives to be the trusts and offshore investments in Kenya.
We continue leader in asset management, life assurance and property to lead the market in both asset management and unit investment by providing relevant goal-based advice and trusts and have been the fastest growing life assurer value-for-money products.
While the business launched in Kenya.
We offer a diverse product set, ranging from with a focus on the retail segment of the Swazi market, unit trusts, group life cover and annuities, pension solutions for the corporate market will be introduced fund management and third-party administration in in the near future.
the corporate segment, to private wealth management, unit trusts, risk products and annuities in the Retail segments.
We recently launched Kenyas first ever low-cost mass market risk product, ensuring that it remains relevant to this markets financial needs.
Page 47 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 Nedbank specialist advice, and debt and equity raising, 2.2 Nedbank Group Limited Nedbank is a bank execution and trading in all the major South African 1.0 2.0 holding company 55 percent owned by Old Mutual.
Principal customers include a It is one of South Africas four largest banking groups signi cant number of the top 200 domestic corporates, 3.0 4.0 through its principal banking subsidiaries, Nedbank as well as public sector bodies, leading financial Limited and Imperial Bank Limited, in which Nedbank institutions, non-South African multinationals and has a 50.1 percent interest.
Its shares have been listed customers undertaking major infrastructure and mining 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa on the JSE since 1969. projects in Africa, and emerging Black Economic 2.2 Nedbank 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance Empowerment consortia.
Nedbank focuses on southern Africa, positioned as a bank for all.
It offers a wide range of wholesale and Nedbank Retail retail banking services through four main divisions: This division provides transactional, credit card, lending, Nedbank Corporate, Nedbank Capital, Nedbank Retail investment and insurance products and services to and Nedbank Business Banking which separated individuals and small businesses.
It groups its customers from Nedbank Corporate in January 2009. into five primary segments: high net worth, af uent, middle, mass and small business.
It is further organised Nedbank is based in Sandton, Johannesburg, with around its principal product areas: card, home loans, large operational centres in Durban and Cape Town personal loans, bancassurance and wealth, vehicle complemented by a regional network throughout South and asset-based finance, and transactional banking.
It also has facilities in other southern African countries which are operated through its 10 subsidiary Imperial Bank and or af liated banks, and branches and representative Imperial Bank focuses on motor vehicle finance, of ces in key global financial centres that exist to serve marketed through its Motor Finance Corporation brand.
the international banking requirements of its South It also offers property, medical, aviation and supplier African-based multinational customers.
Markets and products Market overview Nedbank Corporate South African banking is currently impacted by a slowing This comprises the Corporate Banking, Property Finance domestic economic cycle coupled with political change and Nedbank Africa businesses, and the specialist and the secondary effects of the global financial crisis.
Transactional Banking and Corporate Shared Services Increased infrastructure spending and moderate scal businesses.
These provide lending, deposit-taking and stimulus are expected to provide some opportunities for transactional banking services to Nedbanks Wholesale growth.
The outlook for domestic in ation has improved, banking customers.
Nedbank Corporate has a strong with the first interest rate cut of 50 basis points since customer base and is well placed to take advantage April 2005 providing some relief for consumers.
of opportunities, both internally through cross-selling Operating conditions have become increasingly dif cult services offered by other divisions of Nedbank and the for Nedbank Retail, with signs of slowing growth wider Old Mutual Group, and externally in the private extending to the small and medium size business sector.
The tough trading conditions have also affected Nedbank Business Banking investment banking and debt and equity trading, Business Banking focuses on businesses with resulting in lower earnings in Nedbank Capital.
turnover between around R7.5 million and R400 million.
The principal challenges for local banking come from It provides a full spectrum of banking products and pressure on margins due to the industrys reliance on solutions as well as advisory services and specialist wholesale funding: the increased cost of funding in solutions.
To make Business Banking easily accessible international debt capital markets: rising non-performing to its customers, its 14 regions and over 70 area of ces loans and weaker recoveries in retail banking as are organised around four geographically fide ned household nances remain strained and house business units run as decentralised, regional, customerprices come under increased pressure: and sharply centered businesses.
slower Retail advances, partly offset by robust Nedbank Capital Wholesale advances.
Nedbanks investment banking business consists But there are also opportunities, driven by growth in the of divisions that together manage structuring, lending, mass, black middle and SME markets: growth in Africa underwriting, corporate finance, private equity and generally: growth in retail deposits and other funding: trading operations.
It provides a full product range, from increases in transactional banking fees: and improving equity research to long-term project nancing, enabling it asset margins.
to compete effectively in southern Africa and in niche areas throughout Africa.
It seeks to provide seamless Page 48 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Nedbank Financial scale: Key geographies southern Africa FUM 6.4bn 575m IFRS AOP Major brands Nedbank, BOE Products Number of employees Transactional banking services Lending Investment banking Useful link: 27,570 www.
co. za Strategy for growth The progress made during the recovery programme Nedbanks strategy is based on growing its share of and over the recent past to build a sustainable business economic pro t in South African financial services and continues to bene t Nedbank and has resulted in a making the most of the increasing opportunities that number of factors including ongoing growth in the Retail emerge in selected African markets.
It concentrates Mass and middle-income segments and Corporate resources on the businesses best positioned to increase markets, solid growth in Retail deposits, pleasing growth economic pro t based on their capabilities and related in transactional banking volumes, improved margins on industry growth.
Businesses with lower economic pro t new advances through risk-based pricing and increased characteristics are managed for value through strong client activity in foreign exchange and interest rate focus on pro tability.
Initiatives across the various markets as well as an intensi ed focus on improving divisions include selectively growing assets, passing client service levels.
increased funding costs onto customers, managing The Competition Commission inquiry into bank charges risks, increasing cross-selling and transactional income, issued a detailed report in December 2008.
Industry smart cost management and reacting exibly and nimbly stakeholders have been given an opportunity by National to opportunities.
Treasury to comment on the recommendations contained in the report.
This input will be discussed Nedbank will also continue to investigate opportunities to expand into the southern African Development by National Treasury with the Department of Trade and Industry, the South African Reserve Bank and the Community region.
This work will be supported by its recently established regional of ces in Angola and Kenya, Competition Commission and it is anticipated that the final outcome of the banking inquiry process and the along with its new strategic alliance with Ecobank which has operations in 25 countries mainly in Western, impact on the banking industry will be nalised during 2009.
Nedbank remains committed to an outcome that Central and Eastern Africa.
provides real bene t to consumers and ensures the In addition, Nedbank will continue to grow its Retail ongoing competitiveness and stability of the financial franchise, strive for leadership in business banking, gain services industry.
more public sector business and remain a top three player in the Wholesale banking market.
Basel II was successfully implemented on 1 January 2008 and was used as a catalyst to enhance the management Performance in 2008 of risk and capital across the industry.
For key gures see highlights table on page 50.
Financial performance Banking environment Given the turmoil in the global financial markets and The local banking environment faced a number of the slower domestic economy Nedbank is curr ently challenges in 2008.
These included, rstly, pressure adopting a more conservative approach across its on margins as the overall cost of longer-term funding operations.
We have intensi ed our focus on increasing increased.
It was pleasing to note that, throughout the capital levels, growing deposits and liquidity, proactive year, rand liquidity remained stable, with the interbank risk management, selectively growing assets in lending market continuing to operate ef ciently.
Local businesses that are well positioned to increase banks have been able to finance new assets in the economic pro t, continuing to manage for value in those normal course of business.
Secondly, reduced capacity businesses that have lower economic pro t pro les and and increased cost of funding in the domestic debt managing down positions in riskier lines of businesses.
Thirdly, rising non-performing loans At the same time we continue to invest for the future and lower levels of recoveries, especially in the Retail and we are not seeking to maximise short-term environment as household nances remained strained pro tability at the expense of longer-term sustainability and asset prices came under pressure.
This trend at this point in the cycle.
intensi ed in the second half of 2008 and has been increasingly affecting small and medium-sized businesses, and will undoubtedly also impact some larger corporates going forward.
Finally, sharply slower retail advances growth, partly offset by reasonable Wholesale advances growth.
Page 49 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 % Highlights Rm 2008 2007 Change Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 8,800 9,220 5 1.0 2.0 Headline earnings 5,765 5,921 3 3.0 4.0 Net interest income 16,170 14,146 14 Non-interest revenue 10,729 10,445 3 Net interest margin 3.66% 3.94% Cost to income ratio 51.1% 54.9% 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa 2.2 Nedbank ROE 17.7% 21.4% 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance ROE excluding goodwill 20.1% 24.8% As r eported by Nedbank in their report to shareholders as at 31 December 2008.
Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis was down We continued to see a steady in ow of customer five percent to R8,800 million with headline earnings deposits, resulting in Retail deposits growing in line down three percent to R5,765 million.
Basic earnings with Retail advances.
Pressure on short-dated maturities grew by six percent to R6,410 million 2007: has been partially alleviated by market expectations of R6,025 million.
Diluted headline earnings per share decreasing interest rates and a strategy of increasing EPS decreased by two percent from 1,429 cents deposit duration, particularly in the second half of to 1,401 cents.
Diluted EPS grew seven percent from the year.
Given our domestic focus and small foreign- 1,454 to 1,558 cents, driven largely by the R622 million funding requirements foreign deposits are 1.3 percent after-tax pro t on the sale of Visa shares in the first half of total Nedbank deposits, our funding and liquidity of the year.
levels have remained sound with limited impact from the global financial crisis.
Nedbanks return on average ordinary shareholders Net interest income NII equity ROE, excluding goodwill, decreased from 24.8 percent to 20.1 percent.
ROE dropped from NII grew 14 percent to R16,170 million on the back of gr 21.4 percent to 17.7 percent for the year.
These owth in average interest-earning banking assets of declines were caused by slightly lower headline 23 percent.
Nedbanks net interest margin for the year earnings, mainly as a result of increasing Retail was 3.66 percent, down from 3.94 percent in 2007. impairment levels that reduced the return on assets, The positive endowment impact of interest rate together with higher capital levels as capital adequacy increases on capital and current and savings accounts ratios increased during 2008. was offset by a number of factors including liability margin compression, re ecting the higher cost of term Credit quality deteriorated throughout 2008 with funding, and asset margin compression from a changing Nedbank Retails impairments worsening signi cantly, asset mix.
Asset pricing continues to be a key focus for while the Wholesale banking portfolios showed a improving margins, with higher margins being generated moderate deterioration in the second half of 2008. on new assets.
Further offsets include the cost of Overall impairments have increased, although the holding additional liquidity buffers deemed prudent impact on earnings was partially offset by controlled in the current environment: and debits relating to the cost growth.
The momentum built from disciplined accounting for historic structuredfinance transactions cost management over the past few years continued with related credits offset in taxation.
into 2008 and contributed towards the ef ciency ratio improving from 54.9 percent in 2007 54.3 percent excluding Bond Choice to 51.1 percent in 2008 and the jaws ratio growing to 7.5 percent 2007: 6.9 percent.
Page 50 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Impairments charge on loans and advances Trading income increased by 16 percent from R1,334 The credit loss ratio increased from 0.62 percent million in 2007 to R1,553 million in 2008, re ecting good in 2007 to 1.17 percent for the year.
The growth in trading activity in the foreign exchange and global advances and the increase in the credit loss ratio are market businesses, although equity and debt trading re ected in a 123 percent increase in the impairments both had a disappointing year.
Adjusting for the loss in charge from R2,164 million to R4,822 million.
Retail the first six months of 2007 in respect of the Macquarie credit loss ratios have deteriorated since June 2008 business alliance, trading income would be at similar and remain above expected through-the-cycle levels, levels year-on-year.
largely as a result of continuing increases in defaulted The sharp fall in equity markets resulted in historic advances in the Nedbank Retail Home Loan and Vehicle unrealised gains in mark-to-market private equity and Asset Finance divisions.
Wholesale banking credit positions reducing.
In spite of these challenging markets loss ratios remain below expected through-the-cycle Nedbank managed to record a positive NIR of R303 levels, although the credit loss ratio in Business Banking million from its private-equity portfolios on the back increased as expected.
The credit quality in the of revaluations, realisations and dividend income.
Corporate and Investment Banking books remains good but is expected to be impacted by worsening credit Expenses quality in the year ahead, resulting in increased credit Nedbank continues to invest in its franchise while loss ratios on these books.
Notwithstanding seasonal maintaining a disciplined approach to expenses.
Despite effects, the unsecured Retail portfolio re ected encouraging high in ation and the increased distribution footprint, signs of improvement in the latter part of 2008. expenses continued to be tightly controlled, increasing by two percent to R13,741 million 2007: R13,489 million.
Defaulted advances increased by 75 percent from On a like-for-like basis, excluding Bond Choice, expenses R9,909 million to R17,301 million and total impairment increased by five percent.
provisions increased by 29 percent from R6,078 million to R7,859 million.
Taxation The taxation charge decreased by 25 percent from Non-interest revenue NIR R2,336 million in 2007 to R1,757 million.
The effective NIR, excluding Bond Choices commission and sundry tax rate decreased from 26.3 percent in 2007 to income from the 2007 base, grew by nine percent 21.6 percent, mainly due to a reduction in the corporate on a like-for-like basis.
Total NIR including Bond Choice taxation rate in South Africa from 29 percent to in the 2007 base increased by three percent to 28 percent, a change in tax legislation impacting R10,729 million.
investments held in private equity portfolios and Commission and fee income grew by 14 percent on increase dividend income.
a like-for-like basis five percent including Bond Choice, Non-trading and capital items mainly from volume growth and transactional price Income after taxation from non-trading and capital items increases.
Cheque processing fees continue to decrease increased from R104 million in 2007 to R645 million for with the NetBank electronic banking system now the year.
The main contributions were the R622 million implemented for all Business Banking clients and a after-tax pro t on the sale of Visa shares and the process of migration initiated for Corporate Banking R15 million pro t on the sale of 33.5 percent in clients.
Cash handling fees and transactional banking Bond Choice.
volumes grew strongly due to the growth in customer numbers, re ecting the success of Nedbanks strategy Capital adequacy to increase delivery channels, improve customer Nedbank has strengthened capital ratios signi cantly, service and strengthen brand positioning.
The sale with a Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 9.6 percent of Bond Choice reduced commission and fee income December 2007: 8.2 percent pro-forma Basel II and by R578 million.
a total capital adequacy ratio of 12.4 percent December 2007: 11.4 percent pro-forma Basel II.
These ratios are now above the Groups historic target ranges.
The core Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio was 8.2 percent December 2007: 7.2 percent pro forma Basel II.
Nedbank currently holds a surplus of R9.5 billion against its regulatory capital adequacy requirements.
Page 51 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 Advances and deposits Groups funding base, while the increase in the pricing Total assets increased by 16 percent to R567 billion 2007: of capital market debt has increased the cost of rolling 1.0 2.0 R489 billion.
Growth in average interest-earning banking over conduit paper and new subordinated-debt issues, assets slowed to 23 percent 2007 growth: 29 percent.
with volumes issued in this market also being lower.
3.0 4.0 Advances increased by 16 percent, re ecting ongoing During 2008 Nedbank successfully issued hybrid debt, growth in Nedbank Corporate but slower growth from raising R1.75 billion.
In addition, to diversify the funding Nedbank Retail and a drop in advances in Nedbank 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa base, raise further foreign funding and lengthen the Capital.
Nedbank Capitals client loan book grew strongly, 2.2 Nedbank banks existing funding pro le Nedbank issued foreign 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance but this growth was more than offset by a reduction in the syndicated club loans of $165 million and 165 million: advances in the trading portfolio.
Imperial Bank showed registered a $2 billion European medium-term note strong growth through most of the year.
EMTN programme: obtained a $100 million credit line from African Development Bank: and continues to focus Overall deposits increased by 21 percent from R385 billion to R467 billion at December 2008, with on the Retail deposit base through competitive products and pricing.
higher interest rates increasing demand for savings and investment products.
Key performance indicators Despite strong growth in Retail funding, deposit growth The global economic crisis and cyclical downturn was still largely concentrated in the Wholesale market.
in the South African market prevented Nedbank from Management has remained focused on optimising the achieving some of its medium-term targets.
The fact funding mix and pro le of the Group through utilising that it still met its targets relating to ef ciency ratio, alternate funding sources, concentrating especially capital adequacy ratios and dividend cover re ects on the Retail and Business Banking deposit bases, the conservative and risk-averse stance it has taken while pricing competitively for term deposits.
The impact of the Marketing global financial crisis on South African markets has, to Nedbank supported its positioning as a bank for all date, been largely limited to an increased cost of through soccer sponsorship and expanded further international funding as a result of the reduction in into the mass market by locating over 60 percent of all international liquidity.
This decreased the banks ability new ATMs and branches in previously under-serviced to access such funding and has led to an increase in the areas.
It continues to be the most affordable bank at the cost of and decrease in appetite for capital market lower end of the market as a result of fee cuts in 2005 debt.
Given Nedbanks domestic focus, international and 2006. funding has traditionally not been a large portion of the Mediumto long-term financial target Performance in 2008 Return on 10% above monthly weighted average 20.1% shareholders equity cost of ordinary shareholders equity excluding goodwill New target: 5% above Ef ciency ratio Maintain ratio below 55% 51.2% New target: below 50% Fully diluted headline Growth in fully diluted HEPS of at least average 1.7% earnings per share HEPS CPIX plus GDP growth plus 5% Impairment charge Between 0.55% and 0.85% of average advances 1.17% Capital adequacy ratios Tier 1: 8.0% to 9.0% Tier I: 9.6% Total: 11.0% to 12.0% Total: 12.4% New targets: Core Tier 1: 7.5%-9.0%: Tier 1: 8.5%-10.0%: Total: 11.5%-13.0% Economic capital adequacy Adequately capitalised to a 99.9% con dence Ainterval on economic capital basis target debt rating Aincluding 10% buffer Dividend cover 2.25 to 2.75 times cover 2.29 times Page 52 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 To attract more deposits, it launched a new deposit market, with counterparty credit risk being restricted to account for individuals and small businesses Park-It, non-complex, vanilla banking transactions.
We have a offering extremely competitive interest rates and strong, well-diversi ed funding deposit base including short-term accessibility.
a strong retail deposit franchise and limited offshore funding, low securitisation risk exposure compared to Nedbanks positioning as a caring brand is important global banks, low leverage ratio compared to global to its commercial success.
It continued to demonstrate banks and higher ratio of risk-weighted assets to this aspect of the brand through its Local Heroes total assets ratio than that of peers, indicative of programme through which it supports causes that its our appropriately conservative measurement of risk.
customers and staff are involved in and its Ask Once In addition, we have a low level of assets and liabilities service promise You only have to ask once.
The person exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting, you talk to will take responsibility for ensuring your our small market trading risk in relation to total bank request is resolved.
operations, we have a low interest rate risk in the Customer service banking book and we have low equity investment risk Initiatives such as the Nedbank Retail Ask Once service exposure, having successfully completed our non-core promise are helping to position Nedbank as a leader asset disposal strategy in 2007.
We have low currency in customer service.
To ensure that it is equipped translation risk and an optimal offshore capital structure.
to deliver on its promises, it has employed Client Our earnings streams across our full commercial Management Assessment Tool CMAT methodology banking activities are well-diversi ed and our wellsince 2006.
This framework allows it to benchmark its diversi ed subordinated debt pro le has maturities capability against some 700 other organisations using of existing Tier 2 regulatory capital until 2011.
CMAT worldwide, and to identify and address We undertake comprehensive stress and scenario weaknesses.
In 2008 its CMAT scores remained in the testing to con rm the adequacy of our capital ratios top quartile for financial services companies worldwide and accompanying capital buffers.
and for the second year running Nedbank was ranked Against this background, we believe that capital levels number one among South African banks for customer both regulatory capital and internal capital assessment, service in the 2008 Ask Afrika Orange Index.
based on economic capital and provisioning for credit impairments are appropriate and conservative, and that The move to a more decentralised decision-making process in Business Banking is also being appreciated Nedbank and its subsidiaries are appropriately capitalised relative to our business activities, strategy, by customers: customer satisfaction surveys showed upward trends in relationship quality and loyalty.
risk appetite, risk pro le and the external environment in which we operate.
Additionally, Nedbank is currently Principal risks and uncertainties not holding excess capital for acquisitions.
The appropriate level of capital for a bank is a function of its strategy, individual risk appetite and risk pro le.
This aligns with one of the key objectives of Basel II which is to differentiate capital requirements and capital buffers above the regulatory minimum, to re ect the unique risk pro le on a bank-by-bank basis, rather than following the one-sizets-all approach that Basel I engendered.
Nedbank has cultivated and embedded a prudent and conservative risk appetite, primarily focused on the basics of banking in southern Africa.
This is illustrated by reference to a number of factors including having neither direct exposure to US sub-prime credit assets nor associated credit derivative transactions and having conservative credit underwriting practices which have culminated in a high-quality, well-collateralised Wholesale book and further tightening of credit criteria in our Retail book since 2007 in anticipation of the economic downturn and resulting from the introduction of the National Credit Act.
We have reasonable credit concentration risk levels in relation to the South African Page 53 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 Outlook for 2009 Mutual & Federal 2.3 The global financial crisis and resultant recessionary Old Mutual plc owns 74 percent of Mutual & 1.0 2.0 conditions will place more pressure on an already Federal Insurance Company Limited Mutual & Federal, slowing domestic economy.
Weaker international trade, whose shares are publicly listed on the JSE.
3.0 4.0 lower commodity prices and continued volatility on major Mutual & Federal is one of the leading insurance financial markets are expected to restrict corporate companies in southern Africa, providing tailored activity.
Consumer nances are likely to remain strained 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa short-term insurance services to the personal, as a result of continued pressure on disposable income, 2.2 Nedbank commercial, corporate and agricultural markets 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance falling asset prices, increasing unemployment and the in South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe.
Lower economic activity is also placing increasing strain on corporates.
The business has three main portfolios: Commercial, Personal and Risk Finance.
The Commercial Further interest rate cuts are anticipated during the portfolio comprises Large Corporate, Credit and course of 2009.
The bene ts of these would be Agricultural accounts.
expected to impact positively on the South African banking environment only in 12 to 18 months time.
Markets and products In the short term the decrease in interest rates will Mutual & Federal offers insurance products and have a negative endowment effect on banking interest advice to individual and corporate customers, mainly margins, while impairments are likely to continue via brokers.
Our professional and highly experienced to deteriorate.
brokers offer customers personal service and advice on purchasing policies, and practical assistance Priorities for 2009 with claims.
Focus on liability growth and the banks strong depositor franchise Commercial Slow down growth in advances and focus The Commercial portfolio provides comprehensive on more pro table business insurance services including domestic and export Increase capital levels to the top end of the credit risk, insurance against property, accident, marine, target ranges engineering, liability and motor risks and crop insurance Price for risk and increased cost of funding services to a diverse range of customers for smallRe ne credit and risk parameters and medium-sized businesses to large corporations.
Focus on growing primary customer Personal and transactional income The Personal portfolio provides domestic household, Strengthen cross-selling motor, and all-risks short-term insurance products Emphasise smart cost management to individual customers through white-labelled Stay agile and alert to opportunities.
One of our in-house products, Allsure, offers comprehensive cover by combining homeowners, household goods, personal accident and motor insurance into one policy.
The portfolio also offers hospital cash plans and personal accident policies.
For the budget end of the personal market it offers policies covering livestock and informal dwellings.
Risk Finance The Risk Finance portfolio has a signi cant position in the South African market.
It continues to enjoy a positive pro le within the industry and is one of the largest suppliers of risk nancing solutions in Africa, providing all types of alternative risk transfer products.
Market overview The southern African short-term insurance market remained competitive during 2008.
There was strong growth in the direct channels, driven by individuals and small companies growing preference for dealing with direct channel insurers.
Broker-based insurers lost business to this channel, albeit more slowly than in Page 54 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Mutual & Federal Financial scale: Major brands Mutual & Federal IFRS AOP 76m Products Short-term insurance including: domestic: household: motor: personal Number of employees 2,703 Useful link: Key geographies www.
co. za South Africa Namibia Botswana Zimbabwe previous years.
Growth in the overall insurance market Performance in 2008 was reduced by a slowdown in economic activity, For key gures see highlights table on page 56. particularly in the sale of new motor vehicles.
Lower Pro ts impacted by financial turmoil in the investment sales of furniture and other luxury items meant that environment negatively impacting investment returns the personal market in particular did not keep pace Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis declined following with in ation.
the lower underwriting margin, but was partially offset Overall underwriting returns reduced slightly for the third by the impact of a higher LTIR.
This added R57 million year running, after the record levels achieved in 2004 to our Adjusted operating pro t. The pro t attributable and 2005.
Although current levels have allowed to equity shareholders declined 117 percent, primarily participants to deliver satisfactory returns overall, a as a result of a reduction in the value of listed equities.
number of sectors of the industry remain substantially The underwriting surplus for the year declined by underrated.
Signi cant remedial measures and rate 18 percent but the 2007 result was positively impacted increases are required to return these portfolios to by the release of R96 million from reserves following pro tability and it is hoped that 2009 will see a return re nements to estimation methods.
Without this to responsible underwriting standards.
adjustment, underwriting pro t increased by 11 percent.
Although there were further increases in the frequency The motor books of most broker-based insurers have and severity of industrial re claims in the first half of been either unpro table or marginally pro table, and the year, trading conditions improved during the second correction of the motor book remains a strong challenge half.
This, together with corrective measures on the for insurers.
An increase in the number and severity underperforming group schemes portfolio resulted of large corporate res has made this portion of every in satisfactory levels of underwriting pro tability being insurers portfolio unpro table: re risks remain achieved for the full year.
Gross premium income underrated and correction will be required in 2009. declined by two percent as growth in the commercial Strategy for growth portfolios was offset by the cancellation of a number Our vision is to be the strongest and most successful of personal group schemes and a contraction in the short-term insurer in our chosen markets.
These include risk finance portfolio.
all classes of general insurance except those that carry Investment income reduced sharply during the year long-tail claims liabilities.
To achieve this, we are focusing following a decline of approximately 27 percent in the on pro tability while pursuing growth through new and value of listed equities which was in line with the JSE.
existing markets and channels, new regions and Whilst dividend income declined slightly, interest income acquisitions, and new products.
increased strongly as a result of higher levels of cash We remain committed to continued development holdings during the year and higher interest rates.
of the intermediary channel and the further development Restructuring undertaken during the year of relationships with brokers.
During the year Mutual & Federal undertook a substantial We will continue to focus on our key financial targets restructure to promote customer service and operating of sustaining a long-term average underwriting ratio ef ciency.
Staff numbers declined by more than 600 as a of five percent and delivering a return on capital above result of the restructure and R55 million in retrenchment 20 percent, while maintaining service excellence costs were paid.
A further non-recurring expense of to intermediaries and policyholders.
To enhance R147 million was incurred from the closure of a channel underwriting pro t we will apply responsible underwriting development project.
This project was undertaken to standards in setting rates commensurate with risks.
seek growth opportunities from a number of different We will be rigorously disciplined in managing expenses channels but was prudently abandoned when it proved and will carefully control claims costs through strict to be too ambitious and ill-timed.
monitoring and management of the claims supply chain.
The operational improvements following the restructuring of operations during 2008 will help us meet these goals.
Page 55 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA 2.0 % Highlights Rm 2008 2007 Change Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 1,169 1,256 7 1.0 2.0 Gross premiums 9,159 9,323 2 3.0 4.0 Earned premiums 7,669 7,948 4 Claims ratio 67.1% 65.8% Combined ratio 96.1% 95.4% Solvency ratio 41.0% 42.0% 2.1 Old Mutual South Africa 2.2 Nedbank Return on capital 3 year average 33.9% 31.7% 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance As r eported by Mutual & Federal in their report to shareholders as at 31 December 2008.
Solvency margin in the target range Principal risks and uncertainties As a result of the decline in the value of investments, There are two main risks and uncertainties facing the the net asset value per share declined by 13 percent business.
The first is operational risk and the second during the year to R10.92 at 31 December 2008.
Operational risk arises from the solvency margin being the ratio of net assets to net introduction of a new computer system across all premiums declined to 41 percent at 31 December operations and branches taking place in 2009.
2008 but remains in the target range adopted by A smooth transition and introduction of the new Mutual & Federal.
operating environment is critical to the future pro tability and success of the business, to the degree that some Marketing business may be lost if the conversion fails.
While the Our business restructuring aimed to provide better re-insurance panel of the Company is graded on service to customers, more customer-facing sales average A and above Standard and Poors, the failure staff and cost ef ciencies that allow us to price more of a re-insurer could cause signi cant solvency strain competitively.
We have been working to make signi cant and going-concern problems to the business.
inroads into specialist insurance markets, and appointed two new underwriting agencies specialising in classes Outlook for 2009 of business that we had previously not underwritten.
The impact of the turmoil experienced at the end of 2008 in Europe and the United States is expected We appointed a new advertising agency, which also to be felt in South Africa in 2009.
Economic growth took over the Companys PR function.
An entirely new will be challenged as commodity prices continue to advertising strategy has been devised with the intention fall.
This will further dampen South African consumer to enhance Mutual & Federals brand pro le in the spending in 2009 and inevitably inhibit growth in the market.
Work began on refreshing the Company brand short-term insurance industry.
While Government for launch in 2009 and 2010. infrastructure spending and the anticipated 2010 We also established a dedicated team to grow our FIFA Football World Cup may provide some growth share of the growing black consumer market.
opportunities, much of this business is inadequately rated and will decline.
As consumers are stretched, Customer service we are unlikely to see meaningful growth in existing A speci c goal of the business restructuring was to personal portfolios.
enhance customer service and shorten turnaround times for settling claims and issuing policies.
New business processing systems introduced in 2008 are moving us rapidly towards becoming paperless, and in 2009 a state-of-the-art underwriting system will further enhance our service levels.
Page 56 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 If commodity prices stay low the local currency will remain weak, particularly if the Reserve Bank follows the example of Europe and the United States with aggressive interest rate cuts.
Any decline in the value of the rand threatens to increase claims costs because of the large imported component in motor vehicles and replacement plant and equipment.
Despite these factors, we remain committed to producing underwriting pro ts in 2009 and, although the economic downturn may subdue growth, our streamlined structure should provide us with a competitive advantage.
Priorities for 2009 New products and exploration of alternative distribution channels and emerging markets Pro table premium growth: cancel persistently unpro table portfolios Evaluate opportunities in the direct insurance market, where we do not currently compete.
Growth in this market has outpaced the broker-based market in recent years, and margins are higher as direct insurers can select risks more rigorously and apply policy conditions more strictly Achieve operational ef ciencies through new business processes and technology: our new systems and revised structure should signi cantly reduce the cost of delivering products and time taken to implement new products Improve employee satisfaction and realise signi cant transformation in the workplace Rejuvenate the brand to meet the challenges of the current and future markets.
