BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 1.1 UK and Offshore 1.2 Nordic 1.3 ELAM 1.4 Skandia Investment Group Nick Poyntz-Wright CEO, Skandia UK Bertil Hult CEO, Skandia Nordic Bob Head Regional Director, Old Mutual Europe Rafael Galdn CEO, Skandia ELAM KEY FACTS Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis Funds under management 2008 2008 266m 52.8bn 2007: 268m 2007: 60.6bn Life sales APE basis Unit trust sales 977m 1,077m 3,626m 4,635m 2008 2007 2008 2007 Number of countries Number employed 14 6,055 Page 22 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 UK and Offshore The Skandia group of companies, 1.1 This business provides products that serve acquired by Old Mutual in 2006, the needs of long-term investors in the UK and has been led by Bob Head since international offshore markets.
With over a million customers and 35 billion of funds under management Julian Roberts appointment as at 31 December 2008, we are a leading player in the Old Mutual Group Chief Executive offshore savings market and a major investment platform in September 2008.
It is divided company in the UK.
into three business units: UK and Our main UK operations are investment-led businesses: Offshore, Nordic and Europe and a life and pensions operation, Skandia Life: an investment platform company, Skandia Investment Latin America ELAM.
In addition Solutions: an asset manager creating multi-manager Skandia Investment Group SIG blended solutions, Skandia Investment Management provides investment management Ltd: and an adviser distribution and support service company, Bankhall.
services to the three Skandia Skandias success in the UK has been built by businesses as well as other businesses establishing a strong financial adviser franchise across the Group.
Skandias heritage offering excellent service and a distinctive proposition.
lies in the Swedish market, where it It introduced the multi-manager concept to the UK and has built a strong position in the high-growth has operated for over 150 years.
It is open-architecture segment of the UK market.
It has a strong and well-respected brand.
a track record and reputation for bringing innovative ideas to market.
Skandia Investment Solutions is an investment platform often referred to as a fund supermarket.
It combines the reputation and strengths of the Selestia business, owned by Old Mutual before we acquired Skandia, with Skandias MultiFUNDS platform.
This platform gives advisers and their customers access to Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, PEPs and Collective Investment Accounts, which are provided by Skandia MultiFUNDS Limited.
In addition, the platform offers an approved pension wrapper and UK and offshore life assurance bonds.
Skandia Investment Management Ltd SIML is our asset management company.
It provides innovative multimanager funds created by Skandia Investment Group, the part of the Skandia group that specialises in investment research and the construction of multimanager funds.
The SIML funds make use of the investment research capability of third-party managers by creating blended solutions of third-party managers with different styles and processes.
Since SIMLs launch in March 2003, funds under management have grown from around 750 million including funds held on behalf of other Group companies to 3.2 billion.
The number of funds has expanded from 10 to 48, increasing diversi cation and appealing to a wider customer base.
Skandia International is our offshore and cross-border specialist, working in partnership with other Skandia and Old Mutual businesses.
It includes Royal Skandia, based in the Isle of Man, Skandia Life Ireland based in Dublin, Old Mutual International based in Guernsey and Skandia Leben based in Liechtenstein.
Page 23 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 Providing investment solutions in more than 25 Pensions countries, Skandia International has generated We provide a range of pension wrappers to meet the 1.0 2.0 signi cant sales and pro t growth for almost a quarter retirement-planning needs of individuals, employers and of a century.
Its continuing high growth potential is trustees.
Our pension products offer wide investment 3.0 4.0 based on a number of factors, including the continued choice in funds where the underlying investments are growth of its target customer segment, very strong through third-party fund managers: 80 percent of assets distribution relationships and attractive new market and are invested directly into funds and 20 percent are 1.1 UK and Offshore product development opportunities.
In addition to its invested through its own manager-of-managers blended 1.2 Nordic 1.3 ELAM own growth, Skandia International generates bene ts investment solutions.
Pensions business represents 1.4 Skandia Investment Group within the Group by working in partnership with fellow 9.4 billion of assets under management.
Skandia and Old Mutual businesses to create growth Investment bonds opportunities in domestic markets using international We offer a single-premium investment bond which products and expertise.
is tax-ef cient for certain consumer segments.
As with Bankhall is a standalone division within the UK and pensions, the bond offers access to third-party funds Offshore business.
It mainly provides support services, and blended investment solutions, all managed by including compliance consultancy, to directly-regulated third-party fund managers.
It has maintained a market-leading Protection position by providing demonstrable value to advisers.
We also offer premium protection solutions in the form Through our market-leading platform, a comprehensive of a unit-linked whole life product and critical illness range of investment solutions and tax wrappers cover and we have signi cant market share in these manufactured in-house, and the competitive advantage markets.
Average premium sizes are high and typical achieved through scale, we are well placed to bene t customers include the self-employed and entrepreneurs from the growth in platform business and increasing use as well as customers seeking protection linked to of platforms by the UK financial services industry.
ef cient inheritance tax solutions.
Protection accounts for about 3.4 percent of UK Life sales on an APE basis.
Markets and products Skandia UK Skandia International Skandia UK focuses on long-term investments.
Unlike Skandia International provides a range of award-winning traditional with-pro ts providers, it allows each customer single and regular-premium insurance wrappers to have a personalised and exible investment portfolio, designed for private, trustee and corporate investors, suited to their goals and risk appetite.
local residents in selected markets and expatriates.
All its products offer tax ef cient investment growth from We provide tools for customers to analyse and construct secure and stable offshore centres.
The business is the ideal portfolio using open-architecture solutions focused on six core geographic regions: Asia, Middle which give access to over 1,000 funds from more than East, UK, South Africa, South America and Europe.
50 top fund management companies as well as These regions have varying levels of market maturity, manager-of-managers funds created both in-house and competition and consumer needs.
Our buying power enables us to offer these is the target customer base: English-speaking funds to customers at very competitive prices.
expatriates and selected local nationals from the af uent Since 2003 we have been at the forefront of the UK advice-seeking sector.
fund management industry, introducing innovative funds The product range includes an award-winning portfolio that have proved popular with advisers and investors.
bond and a number of single and regular-premium Following the launch of the Global Best Ideas Fund savings and investment vehicles.
The exibility of the in 2006 and UK Strategic Best Ideas Fund in 2007, portfolio bond enables customers to invest in virtually the range was enhanced in 2008 with the launch of any tradeable fund and in a variety of currencies.
Our the Skandia Alternatives Investment Fund and the products are supported by a comprehensive suite of creation of the Spectrum risk-rated funds launched trust options, e-business facilities and first-class service.
in April 2008 which attracted over 100 million in their first eight months.
Our target market in the UK is mediumto high-net worth individuals and products are distributed through independent financial advisers IFAs.
Most customer investments come through consolidation bringing together investments built up across a number of providers to take advantage of the increased investment exibility that we offer.
Page 24 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 UK and Offshore Financial scale: Major brands Skandia FUM 35bn Skandia International Skandia Investment Group 596m Life APE sales Unit trust sales 1,715m IFRS AOP 167m Products Pensions Investment bonds Number of employees Premium protection solutions Single and regular-premium insurance wrappers Useful link: 2,220 www.
com Key geographies UK Countries of Asia, Middle East, South Africa, South America and Europe Market overview Skandia International conducts all business through The UK has a sophisticated financial services market, advised intermediary channels and its distribution with a well developed advice channel that accounts for proposition is structured according to the needs and the majority of new business in the market.
It is highly regulatory environment of its principal markets.
regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, Long-term global and local distribution partnerships which is moving towards a more principles-based are critical to its success and remain a core strength regulation regime and a focus on outcomes that of the business.
demonstrate fair treatment of the customer.
In 2006 Skandia Internationals broad geographic coverage the FSA began its Retail Distribution Review, a major is supported by a robust regulatory and compliance initiative to review the way financial services are framework which ensures strong and close relationships distributed in the UK.
Following discussions and with all its regulators.
As in the UK, regulators throughout consultations, the FSA is proposing to introduce a the world are expected to heighten their supervision of number of measures over the next four years to build the financial services industry which may lead to some consumer con dence in financial services.
In particular, convergence of regulations across markets.
these aim to clarify the services being provided and have a requirement for charges to be agreed between the Strategy for growth adviser and the customer.
Our modern solutions already We aim to build on our current position as a leader meet some of the new requirements and we will develop in the UK platform market by maintaining a customerour proposition further to offer the necessary exibility.
centred proposition with a full range of investment solutions, simple and transparent charges and exible Despite the majority of platform assets being equities, remuneration options.
which have fallen in value by 35 percent since October 2007, platforms have grown successfully their total Increasingly, advisers are adopting one platform for assets by 20 percent during the period.
This is the the majority of their business.
To ensure that Skandia result of collectives continuing success as investment is selected as the preferred platform, our sales force vehicles, investors desire to consolidate their portfolios is working closely with advisers to embed the platform and the tax-ef cient wrappers now available on into their businesses.
It is estimated that assets on platforms Skandia International will continue to provide leading could grow to 300 billion within the next five years offshore and cross-border investment solutions to Source: Navigant Consulting.
af uent advice-seeking investors worldwide.
We will The financial crisis is reducing customers appetite enhance the value proposition by developing a closer for investing new money.
However, the majority of relationship with our customers to improve their investments made into Skandia are consolidations of experience with us.
We aim to grow across all core existing portfolios.
It is estimated that in the UK there regions through continued strength of service and are 3 trillion of wrappable assets in traditional savings distribution relationships.
and investments and it is expected that more of this will be moved onto platforms in future.
Compared with single domestic markets, the offshore financial services market offers greater diversity of geography, distribution and risk management as well as the opportunities generated by variable macro and micro conditions.
Such diversity gives Skandia International greater resilience against regional market effects.
Page 25 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 Performance in 2008 % 1.0 2.0 Highlights m 2008 2007 Change Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 167 173 3 3.0 4.0 Return on Equity 5.0% 6.8% Return on Equity excluding goodwill 12.0% 21.4% Adjusted operating pro t covered business MCEV basis post-tax 235 206 14 1.1 UK and Offshore Return on embedded value covered business 15.3% 15.5% 1.2 Nordic 1.3 ELAM Total life assurance sales APE 596 740 19 1.4 Skandia Investment Group UK life assurance sales APE 335 468 28 Offshore life assurance sales APE 261 272 4 Unit trust mutual fund sales 1,715 2,275 25 Value of new business 67 81 17 APE margin 11% 11% PVNBP 4,902 6,311 22 PVNBP margin 1.4% 1.3% Net client cash ows bn 1.7 3.9 56 Funds under management bn 34.9 41.9 17 Restated, as now r eporting on an MCEV basis.
Positive net client cash ows despite low Unit trust performance impacted investor con dence by volatile markets Skandia UK and Offshore continued to deliver positive Unit trust sales were down 25 percent on 2007 as net client cash ows for the year with net in ows of a result of one of the lowest ISA seasons on record for 1.7 billion representing four percent of opening funds the whole industry and again a re ection of the turbulent under management.
This comprised strong International market conditions.
Within this, institutional mutual fund net in ows and positive UK net in ows which were business of 239 million was up by 45 percent over lower than 2007.
Our market share in platform business fell to a 17 percent decrease in funds under management marginally in the year but there were indications that but this compared favourably with the 31 percent drop the re-pricing of the platform business in the latter part in the FTSE 100 in 2008.
Investment performance was of the year was starting to have a positive impact on driven by the diversity of our offering with signi cant sales.
We continue to increase investment solutions on changes in asset mix occurring as investors moved into the platform to create wider appeal, especially during cash based investments.
Foreign currency denominated periods of market volatility.
funds bene ted from the weakened sterling.
New business contribution Investment volatility affects sales VNB fell by 17 percent to 67 million due to lower new Life assurance sales APE declined in line with the business volumes.
The reduction was partially mitigated market.
The largest relative falls in sales were in the by a strengthening of the assumptions for the amount bonds and single-premium pensions products and of fee income rebated from fund managers, aligning because the 2007 pensions business gure bene ted Skandia more closely to the market.
New business from the lingering bene ts of pensions A-day and contribution was also positively impacted by the mix higher investor con dence at the time.
In 2008 the of business effects, with a shift towards sales of more market for single-premium bonds was affected by the pro table portfolio bond charging structures within introduction of 18 percent at rate of CGT con rmed Skandia International.
The new business margin in the March 2008 Budget.
Skandias market share ended the year at 11 percent, in line with 2007. across the entire pensions market remained strong particularly in the core product area of single-premium personal pensions.
Regular-premium business held up better, ending the year nine percent up on 2007.
Skandia International performed very well in 2008 due to its geographical diversity, full open-architecture proposition, strong distribution relationships and a focus on high net worth customers.
Product and e-business developments greatly enhanced our customer proposition in 2008.
Page 26 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis level and continues to be one of the best-selling funds.
with 2007 despite market conditions Amid deteriorating equity markets the UK Strategic Best An excellent adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis Ideas Fund has continued to perform exceptionally well, was generated in spite of the current climate with a with the fund being the best performing UK fund in the decrease of three percent to 167 million for the year, in IMA UK ALL Companies Sector during 2008 a universe part re ecting the reduction in funds under management of over 320 funds.
This was partially offset by changes to the Skandia supports changes in the UK policyholder taxation basis for Skandia UK following the distribution landscape market falls experienced in 2008.
Additional integration The FSA published its paper on the Retail Distribution costs were incurred in 2007, as previously communicated.
Review on 25 November 2008 moving the Review from A favourable variance of 33 million arose following the the consultation phase into the implementation stage.
implementation of PS06 14 the prudential reserving The paper focused on the clarity of the service requirements that permit non-linked insurance business distribution channels, remuneration, professional to be valued on a more realistic basis.
We have already Increase in adjusted operating pro t started to support our distributors through offering covered business MCEV basis assistance in preparing our businesses for the change The adjusted operating pro t MCEV basis, on and assisting advisers in obtaining the necessary covered business after tax, increased by 14 percent quali cations.
The intention of the FSA is to consult with to 235 million.
This increase includes a positive impact the industry on implementing the proposed changes of 56 million from operating assumption changes.
over a period running through to 31 December 2012.
This mainly resulted from the recognition of retained On 3 November 2008 we announced that we are unit trust company rebates referred to above as we ending our membership of the Association of British outsource the investment of policyholder funds to unit Insurers ABI.
Our proposition is clearly differentiated trust companies.
Other operating assumption changes from old-style life and pensions companies, nding little included adjustments to expense assumptions to re ect alignment of interests with the broader ABI membership.
current maintenance expense experience and modeling improvements.
Experience variances were positive We announced a new pricing structure in September in aggregate at 17 million due to impacts on charges 2008 removing the initial charge on platform sales.
This and continued positive experience in relation to retained move not only made our proposition very competitively rebates assumptions.
priced but it also made the charging structure simple and transparent.
The price changes have been positively Capital received by financial advisers.
Current levels of statutory capital for Skandia UK and Skandia International are within or above the target ranges Marketing set by management.
The businesses are well capitalised The volume of business placed electronically has with a solvency ratio of 2.6 times the required level.
Alongside the competitive terms that we negotiate from the fund management groups, Continued investment innovation at Skandia this enabled Skandia UK to re-price its proposition During the year, we continued our track record of in September 2008, making it highly competitive.
innovation in multi-manager investment solutions.
The Spectrum range of risk-controlled funds was Skandia International enhanced its proposition launched in April 2008 and attracted over 120 million by developing a new Swedish pension and adding of gross subscriptions by 31 December 2008.
In the to its online capability.
volatile market, the risk controlled nature of the funds proved very effective from both a return and risk perspective.
In June 2008, we launched the Skandia Alternative Investments Fund which has an absolute return focus and has funds under management in excess of 30 million.
The high pro le Best Ideas fund range continued to attract new sales with funds under management of over 391 million at 31 December 2008.
The UK Strategic Best Ideas Fund had funds under management of 80 million at 31 December, Page 27 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 Customer service Outlook for 2009 We continued to focus on excellent customer Details of the changes to be introduced as part 1.0 2.0 service, which is seen as a major differentiator of the FSAs Retail Distribution Review are still under in financial services.
Meanwhile, we are already preparing to 3.0 4.0 incorporate the changes that the FSA wishes to include, In recognition of our outstanding customer service with the aim of optimising our position in the new model we achieved a five-star rating in the industry Financial of financial services and the distribution landscape 1.1 UK and Offshore Adviser Awards for the eleventh year running and that is likely to emerge.
It will be particularly important 1.2 Nordic became the first company to win the Outstanding 1.3 ELAM to secure signi cant funds under management to Achievement Award for Pensions and Investments.
1.4 Skandia Investment Group ensure scale in the platform market that this review will We have now won more than 30 five-star awards stimulate.
To secure assets on our platform we are in the 18-year history of the Financial Adviser Awards.
running an aggressive campaign of activity which began We won the MultiManager of the Year award at the in 2008 with the removal of the initial margin on platform annual Investment Life & Pension Moneyfacts Awards products to make our costs highly competitive.
in September 2008 and were also Commended in the Our offshore business is geographically diversi ed, with Best Unit Trust OEIC Provider category.
These awards sales in Europe, the Middle East, the Far East, Africa and recognise the outstanding achievements of providers Latin America, as well as in the UK.
It is well positioned who manage to stand out from the crowd by offering for further growth in 2009 and beyond.
Investment in high calibre products and delivering first-class service.
the operating infrastructure to drive ef ciencies and Skandia International continues to meet customers continued excellence in customer services will support service expectations through a programme of further market, product and distribution opportunities.
operational improvements, including establishing Whilst 2009 will be a challenging year, Skandia an optimum service model for overseas branches.
International remains con dent about long-term future Technological enhancements will support the growth prospects owing to a growing customer base, continuing drive for greater operational ef ciency.
robust regulatory and compliance infrastructure and a strong offshore brand.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks to Skandia UK arise from operational Priorities for 2009 experience, along with market risk as Skandia UK Continue to build our position as a leading platform derives income from fees which are charged as a by widening customers investment choices, offering percentage of funds under management.
The Broader greater exibility and access to more investments, financial risks are limited.
Skandia UK does not offer and providing simple, transparent pricing material investment guarantees.
Although we offer Work more closely with distributors to help protection business, and so have exposure to mortality them meet the new requirements of the Retail and morbidity risk, the majority of the risk is transferred Distribution Review to reinsurance counterparties.
Credit risk exposures Maintain our high level of customer service and are small: the main exposures are the risk of default continue to improve ef ciency by increasing our ability on the investment of company assets.
Skandia UK to process business electronically has exposure to risk arising from operating experience Generate growth for Skandia International in new in respect of factors including persistency and and existing markets through product and distribution management expenses.
These risks are managed efforts and building on the operational infrastructure within the operational functions which have primary to facilitate new product development.
responsibility for the identi cation, mitigation and monitoring of risks.
Risks exceeding pre-determined thresholds are escalated and reported to management and to the Group Chief Risk Of cer, along with details of the mitigating management action.
Recent falls in investment markets have adversely impacted fund-related revenues and new business volumes.
The pro tability and capital position of Skandia UK remain strong.
Page 28 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Nordic Financial scale: Major brands Skandia Link FUM 8bn Skandia Liv SkandiaBanken 213m Life APE sales Unit trust sales 262m IFRS AOP 88m Products Unit-linked Traditional life Number of employees Banking products Health and protection 1,912 Key geographies Sweden, Norway, Denmark Nordic sector.
It distributes its products through independent 1.2 This business operates in Sweden, Denmark financial advisers IFAs, other external partners and a and Norway, offering a wide range of products for both directly employed sales force.
Corporate Sweden and retail and corporate customers including traditional life, Denmark offer products and financial advice from our unit-linked, healthcare insurance, banking, financial unit-linked, traditional life and healthcare businesses.
Our vision is to have the The Retail business operates in Norway and Sweden, most satis ed customers in the Nordic savings market.
targeting af uent and mass af uent private customers.
Our operations focus on four end-customer groups, This market is served mainly through our directly which we class as Private Sweden, Corporate Sweden, employed advisers, the internet and IFAs.
Private Private Norway and Corporate Denmark.
Sweden offers savings products and financial advice from our banking, unit-linked, mutual funds and traditional life Skandia Liv is a traditional life assurance company business.
Private Norway offers products and financial serving customers in Sweden and Denmark.
It is a advice from our bank and healthcare businesses.
wholly owned subsidiary of Skandia but run on a mutual basis.
It operates within a strict local legal framework Unit-linked and the bene ts usually associated with share ownership We offer a wide range of unit-linked funds in various accrue to Skandia Livs policyholders rather than to the classes and with varying risk pro les.
Consequently, Skandia Liv is not those offered by our own fund companies, are managed consolidated in the Old Mutual Group accounts.
externally and managers are selected and monitored using our proprietary evaluation process.
In 1990 Skandia launched Swedens first fund insurance company, Skandia Link.
Today Skandia Traditional life Link offers savings products for both private and Traditional life products are an important part of the corporate business.
integrated product offering in the Swedish market.
As the markets largest life company, Skandia Liv SkandiaBanken was initially a niche player in the is active in both the private and corporate pensions Nordic banking market but has now become established segments of the Swedish traditional life market.
We as a full-range online retail bank serving customers provide insurance products with a security pro le in Sweden and Norway.
It is well positioned to take featuring long-term savings with a guaranteed yield advantage of the growing demand for direct self-service plus protection.
In 2008 Skandia Liv was ranked top savings products.
traditional life assurer by independent Swedish Together, the Skandia Nordic divisions have a broad consultants and distributors.
product mix, a range of insurance, banking and Mutual funds investment business, market-leading expertise and a We offer unit trust products through our banking proven business model.
This combination differentiates subsidiary, SkandiaBanken.
Skandia Fund us and gives us competitive advantage.
Products offerings are available to customers Markets and products via SkandiaBanken for unit-linked savings, direct We have a combined Nordic customer base of savings and individual pension savings.
Customers around 2.5 million customers and, with our full range can access premium pension savings via the national of product offerings, are well positioned in a challenging  PPM system and savings market.
decide how they wish their money to be managed by choosing from PPMs range of funds.
Our Corporate business operates in Denmark and Sweden, serving small and medium enterprises, large companies, international corporates and the public Page 29 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 Banking The current growth of advisory services in the individual SkandiaBanken offers a full online retail banking service.
market offers us a huge potential opportunity but 1.0 2.0 It is focused on strengthening its offering to small it will be important to manage our relationships with enterprises and private individuals by selling nonIFAs effectively.
It also serves as a direct distribution The 2008 financial crisis created a move towards more channel, targeting self-service customers with a full traditional savings products.
While the major banks range of savings products through a new online platform.
1.1 UK and Offshore lost customers to small niche banks, SkandiaBanken In 2008 SkandiaBanken won several awards in Norway 1.2 Nordic increased their customer numbers by 24 percent and 1.3 ELAM and Sweden for outstanding service.
During the year grew market share from 12 percent to 16 percent by 1.4 Skandia Investment Group the savings offering was further strengthened by the offering new products with high interest rates.
The major widening of the fund range, introducing discounted banks lost funds under management of SEK35 billion share trading and launching new saving products.
in 2008, while the niche banks gained SEK11 billion.
Private healthcare In the Nordic countries the crisis led to government-led We offer private healthcare products to companies initiatives including increased bank guarantees and and their employees.
Our healthcare division also lowered repossession rates.
It is expected that further provides support to our unit-linked and traditional life legislative change will follow.
business in Sweden and Denmark, adding value to the Interest in complementary and alternative solutions to pension scheme products and providing cross-selling opportunities for further business.
national healthcare systems remains great in the Nordic countries.
However, competition in this area has Market overview intensi ed considerably.
The Swedish savings and pension market has three pillars: individual, employer-generated and stateStrategy for growth generated savings.
In 2008 the individual market held Our vision is to have the most satis ed customers about 50 percent of assets while employer-generated in the Nordic savings market.
To achieve this, we will and state-generated savings each held about move from our current position as a product supplier 25 percent.
The gure for state-generated savings mainly offering insurance products to become a more includes only the PPM part, as this is the only part customer-oriented financial solutions provider.
We will of the public pension system where the individual improve and develop our customer interface, enhance decides on the investment.
our product offering and make our products available to customers via different channels.
Traditionally, we have been very strong in corporate pensions, the dominant segment of the Swedish life The principal challenge is to build attractive offerings market.
However, the corporate market is changing.
Our that provide both end-customers and distributors strategies to increase sales in this segment must now take with advisory tools and top quality advice, innovative account of pricing pressures and collective agreement products, top-quartile returns and the markets best procurements.
Swedish brokers are shifting their focus customer service.
to smalland mid-size companies and individuals.
The individual market is expected to continue growing in signi cance.
Factors such as reduced state and employer pension bene ts will require people to take more responsibility for their future financial security.
We see this growth and the demand for advice and self-directed solutions in the private business area as major business opportunities.
The individual market is characterised by multiple savings instruments and varying customer preferences.
The main savings forms are insurance SEK700 billion, bank deposits SEK700 billion, mutual funds SEK600 billion, equity SEK600 billion and bonds SEK100 billion.
Revenue in the total individual savings market is expected to grow from SEK40-50 billion in 2008 to SEK70-80 billion by 2015, driven primarily by market appreciation, increasing disposable income and asset reallocation.
Page 30 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance in 2008 % Highlights SEKm 2008 2007 Change Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 1,076 874 23 Return on Equity 5.6% 4.3% Return on Equity excluding goodwill 17.0% 16.3% Adjusted operating pro t covered business MCEV basis post-tax 1,839 880 109 Return on embedded value covered business 12.9% 7.6% Life assurance sales APE 2,599 1,992 30 Unit trust mutual fund sales 3,207 3,474 8 Value of new business 397 313 27 APE margin 15% 16% PVNBP 12,108 9,329 30 PVNBP margin 3.3% 3.3% Net client cash ows SEKbn 7.0 2.7 159 Funds under management SEKbn 91.9 116.7 21 Restated, as now r eporting on an MCEV basis.
Strong net client cash ows controls.
These largely offset the business mix impact in Net client cash ows for the year were an exceptional Sweden, particularly from the removal of Kapitalpension SEK7.0 billion, representing six percent of opening funds product tax advantages as well as the strengthened under management.
The positive performance was retention assumptions in 2008 and the negative largely driven by strong net in ows in the life business economic changes in 2007.
The life new business bene ting from an excellent sales performance and margin ended the year at 15 percent just below the reduced out ows.
However, volatile equity markets margin in 2007.
In the medium term, the new business negatively impacted asset growth during the year, with margin is expected to improve to reach the high teens.
funds under management at 31 December 2008 down Strong underlying adjusted operating pro ts despite 21 percent to SEK91.9 billion.
market turbulence Sales performance continued to improve Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis increased 23 percent We delivered excellent growth in sales during 2008 over 2007 despite the equity market downturn.
with life sales on an APE basis up 30 percent mainly This was largely due to excellent cost control and due to strong sales in Sweden.
The broker sales channel SkandiaBanken continuing to bene t from an improved accounted for the majority of this increase as a result interest margin.
of strengthened relationships, supported by the new The adjusted operating pro t MCEV basis was up 109 investment portfolio product and faster introduction percent on 2007, mainly due to strong VNB growth and of new funds to the market.
A focus on the selling of the positive effect from assumption changes.
In 2007 unit-linked products has continued throughout the there was a negative effect of SEK526 million relating internal sales force which together with several sales to strengthened retention assumptions and lower fund initiatives, contributed to the improved sales.
The very charges on tick-the-box collective agreements and strong upward trend in new sales continued throughout tendered corporate business.
In 2008 the effect from 2008 and so far there have been no negative effects operating assumption changes was SEK391 million.
on sales performance from the volatile markets.
This was mainly attributable to the introduction of Mutual fund sales were down eight percent on 2007, currency spreads and increased assumption for the mainly due to lower in ows to fund deposits within take-up rate for unit-linked contracts on retirement, our bank offering, partially offset by growth through partly offset by strengthened retention assumptions.
This growth was mainly through Experience variances in 2008 of SEK142 million deposits in xed income and money market funds and were driven by a higher level of fee income than through a hedge fund launched in the third quarter.
assumed and tax and pro ts not valued within the value of in-force e. g. Healthcare Business.
Both were VNB grew strongly in 2008 partly offset by a negative retention effect mainly caused VNB of SEK397 million for the year was up 27 percent by premium reductions due to a Swedish legislative on 2007, in line with the excellent life sales.
In addition change relating to the level of tax deductible pension to strong volume growth, the APE margin bene ted from savings contributions.
the introduction of currency spreads and tighter cost Page 31 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 Continued growth in banking business bene ting from Other market conditions with improved interest margin Our integration of Skandia, Skandia Liv and 1.0 2.0 SkandiaBanken is completely funded by deposits SkandiaBanken continued during 2008.
We implemented and therefore has a unique liquidity position enabling a new operating structure in the private and corporate 3.0 4.0 it to bene t from the current market situation with an business areas where there are strong potential improved interest margin and increased business synergies in terms of scale, brand, cross-selling and volumes.
SkandiaBanken has suf cient surplus liquidity administration.
Restructuring and other activities resulted 1.1 UK and Offshore and management continue to ensure that the liquidity in cost reductions of SEK150 million in 2008, making 1.2 Nordic 1.3 ELAM position remains strong.
The capital ratio as at 31 a signi cant contribution to the years good result.
1.4 Skandia Investment Group December 2008 was 14.1 percent Basel II, pillar one.
During the year we announced that Skandia and SkandiaBankens lending portfolio has been built on  Skandia publ Skandia Liv sound lending practices and comprises of 95 percent are reviewing the potential bene ts to both the Group mortgages which have excellent credit worthiness with and to Skandia Liv policyholders of demutualising the remaining five percent comprised of unsecured Skandia Liv.
The review is at a very preliminary stage loans.
The average loan-to-value in the portfolio at the and a conclusion is not likely before late 2009. end of the year was approximately 40 to 45 percent.
As a consequence, the bank has been only marginally As announced on 3 October 2008, a ruling has been affected by the market turbulence.
The credit loss passed in respect of the arbitration proceedings ratio credit losses as a percentage of the opening between Skandia AB and Skandia Liv.
The arbitration lending balance remains low at only 0.13 percent.
board did not accept Skandia Livs claim to any part of The net interest margin was 1.67 percent in 2008 the purchase price paid, but ruled that Skandia AB is compared to 1.32 percent in 2007.
We are con dent obliged to pay Skandia Liv a total sum of SEK580 million that SkandiaBankens conservative lending policy 47 million plus interest by way of compensation in means it is well positioned to respond to any adverse relation to fees under the asset management agreement market developments.
which Skandia Liv deemed to be higher than prevailing market rates.
Old Mutual had already set aside SEK500 Both deposit and loan books at SkandiaBanken increased million 41 million to cover the arbitration within our in 2008.
Excluding the divested car finance business, pre-acquisition balance sheet.
Skandia AB will also lending increased to SEK43.8 billion, up nine percent have to compensate Skandia Liv for future payments since 2007.
The increase related mainly to successful to DnB NOR that are higher than prevailing market rates mortgage campaigns during the year in Sweden, together until the contract with DnB NOR expires in 2013.
A new with a highly competitive oating interest rate which led provision of SEK426 million has therefore been set up.
As a consequence of the turbulent market conditions, customers have been In 2008, Skandia Link won the Risk & Frskring award switching funds from ordinary saving accounts with for Best Average Return to Clients Over Three and variable interest rates to saving accounts with xed Five Years in the Swedish Market, and SkandiaBanken interest rates.
Deposits of SEK52.0 billion were up Sweden won Privata Affrers Initiative of the Year award.
three percent since 2007 and the number of customers Marketing increased seven percent over 2007.
SkandiaBankens We successfully launched a number of innovative operating pro t for 2008 was SEK283 million, market-facing products including the insurance-wrapper 48 percent higher than 2007.
Skandia Investment portfolio, unit-linked mutual funds Capital such as Swedish Stars and Skandia Global Hedge, Skandia Nordics capital position is stable with suf cient Skandia Lifeline child insurance and a number surplus equity exceeding both external requirements and of banking products.
The businesses are well capitalised with Customer service a surplus 9.9 times the required level.
Our focus on enhancing customer service delivery earned SkandiaBanken Sweden the runner-up position in the award for Best Home Loan Institute and SkandiaBanken Norway the award for Most ClientFriendly and Service-Minded Internet Bank for the seventh year running.
Skandia Sweden also reclaimed top position in the broker satisfaction index.
Page 32 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA Financial scale: Major brands Skandia FUM 10bn 168m Life APE sales Products Unit trust sales 1,649m Unit-linked life insurance IFRS AOP 11m Mutual Funds Number of employees 1,923 Key geographies Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Poland, Italy, France Colombia, Mexico, Chile Principal risks and uncertainties EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.3 Nordics main risks relate to strategic and operational Our Europe and Latin America business risks as well as market risks.
The market risks mainly ELAM provides long-term insurance and savings relate to asset based income which reduces when products across continental Europe and in Latin the value of the unit-linked funds declines.
Our entrepreneurial approach and leadership diversi ed product range and a wide range of investment style has enabled us to deliver strong growth since options addresses some of the market risks.
Risks start-up in the late 1990s.
We have a strongly local arising from operating experience e. g. persistency and distribution focus, while continuously seeking to exploit management expenses are managed through the risk the scale and revenue enhancement opportunities framework which includes a  that come from being part of the Old Mutual Group.
model and risks exceeding pre-fide ned risk tolerance From January 2009 we have restructured the business levels are escalated to the Group Chief Risk Of cer.
in continental Europe to re ect our principal customer Political and regulatory changes which could have an segments in order to leverage capabilities and impact on the businesses are continuously monitored operational ef ciencies across geographies.
transition to two main business structures will take Outlook for 2009 place throughout 2009: The continuing financial crisis will make 2009 a Af uent: targets the af uent segment and currently challenging year.
In addition, there will be more comprises the businesses in France, Italy and Spain legislative changes that will impact on our business.
Mass Retail: meets the savings needs of this Our corporate customers have been affected by the signi cant part of the population and comprises economic downturn and the effects of that will start the businesses in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, to be seen in 2009.
The private client market is now Poland and Eastern Europe.
already under pressure and customer behaviour will This foundation for ef ciency in Central Europe and be impacted.
This could lead to lower customer the integration of the Southern European businesses activity during the year, however we continue to focus will allow us to take advantage of further ef ciency on developing innovative financial product solutions opportunities in the future in the Mass Retail and to address customer needs in the current Af uent businesses.
Latin America continues to serve a mix of customer We continue to bene t from a combination of a segments, primarily through tied financial planners.
broad product mix, a range of insurance, banking and investment business, market-leading expertise and Markets and products a proven business model.
We believe ourselves to Our products include both unit-linked insurance and be well positioned to handle the challenges ahead, mutual funds.
These are invested through a wide range as demonstrated by the delivery of excellent results of open-architecture funds in various asset classes, in 2008 despite the market turbulence.
including funds selected and tracked using our 4P Philosophy, Process, People, Performance process.
Priorities for 2009 Our managed funds allow asset allocation in line with Top quality customer service customers risk pro les.
High quality, innovative offers for our end-customers and distributors through advisory tools and top To meet customer demand our offer includes both quality advice, innovative products, top quartile regular-premium products with optional top-ups and returns and excellent customer service single-premium products.
Regular-premium products New investment portfolio products create a steady ow of lower-value premium amounts with Cost control.
a high embedded value, while single-premium products create larger but more volatile net client cash ows.
Page 33 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 We sell through a number of channels.
In Europe we Technology continues to offer interesting opportunities distribute via independent financial advisers IFAs, sales for reaching and serving customers and distributors.
In Latin America While online direct sales are not a big driver of life most of the business is distributed via our tied financial insurance sales, the servicing and communication 3.0 4.0 planners.
We employ a segmentation approach to opportunities should allow providers to reduce distribution, understanding that each channel has operational costs while delivering improved service different needs, objectives and drivers.
Effective use of technology linking 1.1 UK and Offshore distributors and suppliers to make product delivery 1.2 Nordic Market overview 1.3 ELAM simpler is a cornerstone of the open-architecture model.
Our external market environment is strongly regulated.
1.4 Skandia Investment Group Strategy for growth Over recent years government policy has driven growth in private long-term savings as well as improved We believe that success comes from serving customers and distributors ef transparency for customers.
This has generally been fectively through constant innovation.
favourable to us though some regulations aimed Our strategy is to place the customer at the centre of at the market as a whole, such as Germanys what we do and to fully focus the business on meeting , have not matched customer needs.
Focusing our product and service offer our niche offering well.
on speci c customer segments will allow us to meet We believe the fundamentals of the European market their expectations better.
The key drivers for success remain positive over the long term.
Shortfalls in public in the Af uent segment are breadth of offer and quality pension systems and transfer of wealth to the next of advice and service.
Mass Retail business is driven by generation provide opportunities for investment from ef ciency and simplicity.
Institutional business is driven individuals.
Similar opportunities should emerge in by investment performance and access to products.
Latin America as its economies mature.
We remain focused on building scale in funds under In the short term, the global economic crisis is offsetting management through net client cash ows and these positive market fundamentals.
Government increased market share, as well as securing pro tability interventions in European financial markets in 2008 through cost ef ciency.
dampened the demand for long-term savings products through the securing of bank deposits and stimulation of private spending rather than savings.
The unit-linked segment continues to attract competition from traditional players an indication of its relevance and future potential.
In the short term, traditional life has increased its relative importance as investors seek guarantees.
We believe that this is a temporary effect and that the unit-linked segment will regain ground as the market recovers.
The IFA channel remains important and is expected to continue growing, with banks and sales organisations continuing to be strong players.
Consolidation in these channels will change the landscape over the longer term and will make strong relationships even more important.
Page 34 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance in 2008 % Highlights m 2008 2007 Change Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 14 43 67 Return on Equity 0.3% 1.5% Return on Equity excluding goodwill 1.3% 7.3% Adjusted operating pro t covered business MCEV basis post-tax 5 13 62 Return on embedded value covered business 0.6% 1.5% Life assurance sales APE 211 276 24 Unit trust mutual fund sales 2,077 3,071 32 Value of new business 13 57 77 APE margin 6% 20% PVNBP 1,559 2,182 29 PVNBP margin 0.8% 2.6% Net client cash ows bn 1.1 1.8 39 Funds under management bn 10.3 13.0 21 Restated, as now r eporting on an MCEV basis.
Strongly positive net client cash ow during smaller premium sizes and habitual nature of saving on market volatility a regular-premium basis.
Nevertheless, regular-premium Net client cash ows were robust considering the market sales have also been under pressure during the year, volatility, especially in the highly unstable fourth quarter and the market volatility had a dampening effect on of 2008.
With the market in some of our operating the traditional European seasonal ramp-up in sales countries, for example France and Italy, showing in the final quarter, with the fourth quarter falling short substantial out ows during the fourth quarter, our own of prior year levels.
Strong persistency, Focused activity to support mutual fund sales driven by pro-active retention campaigns and the ability Given the market volatility and our core differentiator for clients to switch to more conservative portfolios, of this business line being international equities, mutual provided support to strong net client cash ows.
fund sales provided a solid contribution, although down Funds under management ended the year 15 percent 20 percent compared with 2007 on a like-for-like basis.
below 2007 on a like-for-like basis net of Palladyne We continued our efforts to deliver innovative products which was divested during 2008.
This included negative and quality service.
During 2008, much focus was market movements on portfolio values of 27 percent placed on improving the productivity of financial planners of opening funds under management, re ecting the fall in Latin America.
Increased training, new product offers in financial markets across the globe throughout 2008. and planning tools assisted financial planners in In comparison, the majority of European equity indices generating sales in the current conditions.
fell between 30 percent and 50 percent in 2008.
Value of new business and pro t margins down Funds under management were partially supported VNB of 13 million was down 77 percent over 2007, by the effective asset mix of the portfolio which mainly as a result of lower sales in 2008 in light of the incorporates non-equity asset classes and re ects market crisis.
In addition, VNB was negatively affected the investment appetite of customers that shifted by changes in operating assumptions, where in further during 2008 towards guaranteed funds and particular the changed regulation on policyholder pro t other less risky asset classes.
The APE margin Life sales impacted by constrained sales environment deteriorated to six percent from 20 percent in 2007.
Life sales on an APE basis were down throughout the This was attributed to lower APE sales, which for the year but especially in the fourth quarter due to negative more recently established businesses was aggravated investor sentiment.
This effect was stronger in singleby a relatively xed expense base leading to acquisition premium business, where investors typically have expense over-runs.
In addition, the strong sales of high access to a wider range of investment opportunities and margin business in Poland in 2007 was not sustained seem to have been taking a wait-and-see approach to in 2008. investing under the current conditions.
Regular-premium business has been relatively more stable, re ecting the Page 35 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA 1.0 Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis impacted Marketing by wider market environment The volatility of international financial markets increased 1.0 2.0 We generate a signi cant element of our revenues from the importance of marketing to reinforce our sales funds under management and these fees were lower message in three areas: 3.0 4.0 in line with reduced levels of funds under management.
Product innovation This negative impact was partially offset by the growth Innovation focused on protecting investments to retain of the in-force book of business during the year.
1.1 UK and Offshore existing business and generate new sales.
Examples Furthermore the revised policyholder participation 1.2 Nordic included launching our own traditional life fund in France 1.3 ELAM regulations implemented in Germany during 2008 both offering customers capital security and a product with 1.4 Skandia Investment Group widened the fide nition of revenues to be shared with annuity features in Germany.
policyholders and increased the level of participation.
This had a 20 million impact on the IFRS adjusted Expansion of distribution operating pro t for the year.
This calculation is net We continued to grow our distribution base across of acquisition expenses and these were lower, in line all our markets.
In Italy we added a number of large with new sales levels, and so policyholder participation distributors and in Spain we launched an internal levels were relatively high.
To protect the bottom line, sales force.
we maintained our expense base at 2007 levels, Branding identifying ef ciencies to offset growth in sales force All our businesses operate under the Skandia brand and in ationary impacts.
name in their local markets.
We carried out the first Adjusted operating pro t MCEV basis suffered wave of rebranding to the new Skandia green brand from weak new business contribution and negative in several markets: this enabled us to re-emphasise experience variances the bene ts of our offer even in the current negative MCEV adjusted operating pro t was 5 million for 2008, financial market environment.
This was largely due Customer service to lower VNB and poorer experience variances which We continued to focus strongly on our customers, included divisional restructuring costs.
The operating delivering a number of new products and service assumption changes had a negative impact on innovations throughout the year.
Examples include the adjusted operating pro t, but not to the same annuity features in Germany, a second Easy Plan magnitude as for 2007.
Changes have been made product in Switzerland, various distributor products in to persistency rates and expense levels, both of which Italy and France, dollar-cost averaging and rebalancing have been strengthened.
features in Europe and new investment alternatives in Capital Latin America.
We also improved service to our customers ELAMs businesses continue to measure and monitor and distributors through differentiated service offers to their capital resources on an ongoing basis to ensure top distributors, pro-active service and retention campaigns, compliance with the minimum capital requirements and improved distributor tools.
of the regulators in each territory in which we operate.
These innovations have been well received by the Internally we manage our businesses to maintain market, as can be judged from the various product a buffer of at least 25 percent in excess of the local and service awards won during the year, including: requirements.
Due to the decrease in funds under management levels, solvency requirements across our Austria: FONDS Professionell Service Award markets reduced while our capital employed increased, Germany: Runner-up, AssCompact Fondspolicen and therefore solvency coverage increased signi cantly Award over the year.
France: Gold Pyramid, Investissement Conseils Awards Spain: Winner, Expansion Mutual Funds Portfolio Competition France: Gold Medal, Dossiers fide lEpargne Awards France: Bronze Trophy, Le Revenu Awards.
Page 36 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Principal risks and uncertainties Priorities for 2009 ELAMs business model carries limited guarantee and Rapid transition to the new business structure, liability risk.
Strategic and operational risk is reviewed building on existing expertise and improving regularly and managed through our risk framework.
Our operational scale ef ciencies while retaining ongoing focus to build and diversify distribution aims to day-to-day focus on customers and distributors reduce concentration risk.
The existing concentration Further develop the platform for reaching and levels remain within a reasonable range and we expect servicing the Af uent segment, including products, that future planned activities will assist us to manage this distribution, advice and service risk further.
Improve ef ciency in the Mass Retail business, focusing on simpli cation and matching the offer ELAMs business mix, which includes regularand to the market, improving pro tability and increasing single-premium, retail and institutional business, provides market share mitigating support to impacts on business results in the Innovative solutions for customers and distributors current volatile market conditions.
However, uncertainty to support them through the dif cult times.
about the future extent and length of a global recession remains and market trends remain dif cult to predict.
Skandia Investment Group 1.4 ELAMs geographic diversity reduces the economic, Skandia Investment Group SIG is our market political and legal regulatory risks that would investment management organisation.
It brings together typically exist in single-market businesses.
The transition all Skandias investment research, analysis, portfolio to our new business line structure carries some change management, open-architecture and investment product risk.
A strong change management programme has been expertise.
SIG encompasses Skandias three in-house fide ned to reduce impacts to new and existing business.
investment management companies: Skandia Global Funds, Skandia Fonder and Skandia Investment Outlook for 2009 Management Limited SIML.
The global financial crisis and recessionary pressures are expected to be the main in uence on the market The formation of SIG created one of the worlds largest in 2009.
We expect new business to be constrained multi-manager investment organisations, managing as investor con dence remains suppressed.
assets of around 53 billion across a variety of multimanager and open-architecture investment products.
Guaranteed products are likely to remain important to investors in 2009, temporarily slowing the growth of the unit-linked segment compared with traditional life.
Products such as our traditional life fund in France and our rebalancing features will help us win sales in the current climate.
Regular-premium business which has been relatively unaffected by the market crisis is expected to help our sales development in 2009, as the averaging effect of regular-premium investments should support our sales propositions.
Our strong performance in net client cash ow and client asset values compared to the market has been positive for our market share.
We believe that we will be able to capitalise on this further once con dence returns and markets return to growth.
