SUPPLIERS At both Group and business unit level we work with many different suppliers.
It is vital that we show consistency across the Group in the way we manage our relationship with all our suppliers.
Here we outline some of the steps we have taken in 2008 to improve our procurement processes.
An illustration of the difference we can make through RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: our procurement is the Black Economic Empowerment SUPPLIERS BEE programme.
This programme was launched by the South African government in 1994 to redress the Developing long-lasting relationship with suppliers is good for our inequalities of apartheid by giving disadvantaged groups business.
We will: economic opportunities previously not available to them.
BEE is intended to transform the economy so that it Treat our suppliers as partners and strive to create better re ects the countrys demographic make-up.
long-term relationships It includes measures such as employment equity, skills Act fairly and honestly in all our dealings with suppliers development, ownership, management, socio-economic development and preferential procurement.
Factor the environmental and social impact of our suppliers into our procurement decisions, in accordance with our In accordance with the South African Financial Sector Group procurement policy Charter, our South African businesses are committed to using BEE partners in their procurement.
This commitment is set out in a joint procurement policy that covers Old Mutual South Africa, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal.
Nedbank, for example, has a Developing a Group-wide procurement policy dedicated BEE Procurement Management unit in its We recognise that our procurement activities have an central Group Procurement area.
This unit sets the impact on the environment and the wider community.
framework rules for BEE procurement based on So it is important that they not only re ect our values Nedbanks agreed Procurement Policy, and engages as a company but also consider ethical implications, all parts of the business in achieving its BEE goals security of supply, future costs, ef ciency savings and targets.
Developing strong relationships with suppliers In 2008, to help us manage all these considerations, Making sure we have strong relationships with our we developed our first Group-wide procurement policy.
suppliers is important for us, as it ensures we have This commits the Group and our employees to: a reliable, high-quality and fairly priced source of goods Act legally and with integrity at all times to safeguard and services.
If these relationships bene t our suppliers our employees, resources, and tangible and as well as us they will grow and thrive.
intangible assets particularly our reputation One example of how we do this is Nedbanks regular Create and maintain a trust-based and inclusive supplier forums.
During 2008 we used these to highlight internal culture in which bribery and corruption issues and discuss potential solutions.
are not tolerated Conduct all business relationships in an ethical As part of our development as a Group we plan in 2009 and lawful manner to introduce more integrated Group-wide processes that Co-operate fully with law enforcement and regulators foster greater feedback from our supply chain.
This will locally within the bounds of local legislation.
help us improve the way we work with suppliers and increase the overall ef ciency of the business.
In addition to these commitments, the policy outlines speci c expectations from our suppliers relating to human rights, child and forced labour, environmental impact and ethical standards.
In 2009 this Group-wide policy will be used to help ensure we have a consistent approach in all our supplier relationships.
