BUSINESS REVIEW ASIA 4.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 4.1 China and India Steffen Gilbert President, Asia KEY FACTS Adjusted operating pro t IFRS basis Funds under management 2008 2008 17m 3.5bn 2007: 2m 2007: 6.5bn Unit trust sales 418m 719m 2008 2007 Number of countries Number employed 2 467 Page 72 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Asia The Asia region consists of 4.1 China operations in two countries, China Our business in China, Skandia:BSAM is a 50:50 life and India, which are managed insurance joint venture established in 2004 with the Beijing State-Owned Asset Management Company through joint ventures.
It provides retail unit-linked assurance solutions the region also included operations for high net worth individuals and operates in Beijing, in Australia but in March 2009 Shanghai, Jiangsu Province and Guangdong Province.
Distribution is exclusively through third parties including Old Mutual announced the sale banks, securities houses and brokers.
India Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Ltd, our joint venture with Kotak Mahindra Bank one of Indias leading financial services groups, was established in 2001 and is expanding rapidly.
It has nearly 200 branches in 142 cities across India and more than 5,500 employees.
It sells predominantly unit-linked investment policies and offers a complete range of traditional life assurance products.
We currently own a 26 percent stake, with an option to increase this to 48 percent when legislation permits.
In July 2008 we established an of ce in Bangalore to support the development of wealth management and asset gathering opportunities in India under the Old Mutual brand.
Markets and products China In China, we sell retail unit-linked and universal life products through banks and independent advisers.
We continue to expand our distribution footprint, geographically as well as by channel, and are broadening our product range.
India Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance offers a full range of assurance products although, in common with the rest of the industry, most of its sales over the past few years have been unit-linked investment products.
It distributes through multiple channels a large tied-agency force, exclusive bancassurance relationships with local banks, and other alternative and direct channels.
Page 73 Business review BUSINESS REVIEW ASIA 4.0 % Highlights m 2008 2007 Change Adjusted operating loss pro t IFRS basis pre-tax 17 2 950 1.0 2.0 Australia unit trust mutual fund sales 418 719 42 3.0 4.0 Australia institutional sales 123 115 7 Skandia:BSAM China Gross Premiums 28 122 77 KMOM India Gross Premiums 279 163 71 Net client cash ows bn 1.6 100 4.1 China and India Funds under management bn 3.5 6.5 46 This r epresents 100 percent of the businesses: OM owns 50 percent of Skandia:BSAM and 26 percent of KMOM.
Includes Bermuda Asset Management now included in USAM.
Market overview Strategy for growth China Our strategy in Asia aims to maximise the performance Chinas economy is already the worlds second largest and potential of our existing businesses and to seek in terms of purchasing power parity.
A number of studies new opportunities to extend our portfolio in India and have already predicted that Asia, particularly China, the Greater China region.
will signi cantly outpace the rest of the world in growth Our existing businesses in India and China are making in GDP and power consumption.
A recent Economist good progress but are still young and, like all start-ups, Intelligence Unit study forecast that by 2020, Chinas have some ground to cover before becoming signi cant economy measured at purchasing power parity exchange contributors to the Groups overall pro tability.
rates will be on a par with the US and Asias overall share of the global economy will rise to 43 percent In India, we increased our KMOM business branch from about 30 percent today.
network with 197 branches now open across the country compared to 106 in 2007.
Chinas industry assets under management AUM grew by 5.2 percent over the final quarter of 2008 Performance in 2008 to RMB1.94 trillion after three consecutive quarters For key gures see highlights table above.
This was however, well below Results impacted by current market conditions the 2007 year-end AUM of RMB3.27 trillion.
A combination of stock market volatility and increased India competition resulted in tough business conditions India has one of the worlds fastest growing economies, for the year.
Sales and net client cash ows were achieving over 8.5 percent GDP growth in both 2006 disappointing with total out ows of 1.6 billion, primarily and 2007.
In terms of purchasing power parity, it is the as a result of the lower equity markets and the impact fourth largest global economy.
It has a large and growing of large institutional client redemptions in Australia.
middle to upper income population and well-developed Funds under management reduced accordingly, partially money, debt, foreign exchange and equities markets.
offset by the strengthening of local underlying currencies against sterling.
The Insurance Amendment Bill, which would increase the foreign direct investment limit from 26 percent to We incurred an adjusted operating loss IFRS basis for 49 percent, has already been introduced to Parliament the year of 17 million.
This was largely due to lower although its adoption remains uncertain.
revenues which were impacted by weakened sales and signi cant market value depreciation caused by Funds under management across the industry have the market downturn.
Non-recurring expenses relating shown compound annual growth of 47 percent over to the new regional of ce set-up and the inclusion the past five years consistently outgrowing the stock of costs for new initiatives contributed to the higher market index, indicating a signi cant ow of funds into operating losses.
Page 74 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Asia Financial scale: Major brands Kotak Life Insurance joint venture FUM 4bn Skandia:BSAM 0m Life APE sales Unit trust sales 418m Products IFRS AOP 17m Unit linked assurance Unit linked investment products Universal life products Number of employees Useful link: 467 www.
com Key geographies China India Not including Kotak Life Insurance.
Marketing Outlook for 2009 Skandia:BSAM established a three-year branding Although we believe there is good long-term growth strategy and launched a new investment education potential in the Asia Paci c region, we have decided brand SWV Skandia Wealth Vision.
We produced for the foreseeable future to scale back our aspirations our first TV commercial for China.
We enhanced the for this area.
We have therefore reached an agreement Companys brand in uence and set up distribution to sell our Australian businesses Skandia Australia marketing, investment marketing and product marketing and Intech Investments and intend to rein back our functions which gave great support to both internal expansion plans to focus on our established businesses communication and external business.
Following the in India and China.
Sichuan earthquake in 2008 we made a substantial Priorities for 2009 donation to the affected areas.
Continue to support organic growth of our existing Customer service businesses in China and India Throughout 2008, we won awards for customer service Seek to distribute more Old Mutual products in and staff engagement.
In September we were recognised India and capture a greater share of total assets as one of the 10 Best Industrial Employers in China under management and in early December we were rated among the top Evaluate opportunities to extend our portfolio in the five in the CIRCs 2008 Life Insurance Customer Greater China region.
Principal risks and uncertainties As uncertainties in market and economic conditions persist, the market downturn may continue to impact on the growing economies of emerging markets.
The Chinese local regulator, CIRC, has placed stricter regulations on the distribution of unit-linked products and has also suspended all new branch openings, new products and funds, placing further strain on business performance.
Given that some of our businesses or investments in the region are with joint venture partners, our challenges remain on managing risks through adequate representation on the relevant boards, audit committees and working reports from internal and external auditors.
