CUSTOMERS Our ability to manage and grow our customers savings and wealth is the primary source of our value as a business.
We do this most effectively when we build long-term relationships that allow us to better understand individuals or organisations changing needs and respond to them accordingly.
Throughout 2008 we continued to invest time and RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRINCIPLES: resources in the way we deal with our customers CUSTOMERS making sure the products and services we sell are marketed responsibly, ensuring our customers money Our ability to manage and grow our customers investments is safe from financial crime or simply ensuring that our is the source of our value as a business.
Across our business units customers receive a high quality of service whenever we will: they come into contact with us.
Deal with all our customers and clients in a way that is open, In 2008, we faced challenges quite unlike any that honest and respectful we had encountered before.
Volatile market conditions made it more important than ever to ensure we met Give the best advice that we can, to grow our customers our customers needs.
Below we outline some of the assets in a way that meets their needs key areas on which we focused our efforts in 2008.
Sell and promote our financial products in a way that is Transparent marketing and selling transparent and never misleading As a Group, we market and sell a wide array of different products and services.
These range from life assurance Ensure that we provide clear information to customers about and property and casualty insurance to savings and how our funds are invested pensions.
Ensuring we sell and market these products Seek and listen to customer feedback and act on it across the Group in an honest and transparent way is vital to building trust with our customers and retaining Rectify any mistakes that affect customers as quickly their business.
This is re ected in our Responsible as possible Business Principle that states that we will: Sell and promote our financial products in a way that is transparent and never misleading.
To ensure this principle is followed, each business unit has its own process for signing-off all external marketing and communications materials.
For example, Old Mutual Financial Network in the US has an Advertising Review Committee that must sign-off all written and electronic forms of communication before they can be published.
The guidelines it uses require, amongst other things, that all sources are cited, that testimonials are backed up and that details are not hidden in the small print.
These sign-off processes at business unit level help us prevent the publication of material that could mislead our customers.
Preventing financial crime We are committed to protecting our shareholders funds and our customers money from all forms of financial crime.
The most important issues for us are preventing the Group from involvement in money laundering, fraud or bribery and corruption.
Page 88 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 At Group level we have emphasised our commitment to Awards won for customer service meeting the challenge posed by rising levels of financial crime worldwide by expanding and strengthening Nedbank our Group risk and forensic policies.
In addition, many business units have taken an innovative approach to Ranked number one for customer service combating financial crime.
For example, to help protect in South Africa for the second year against card fraud, Nedbank provides con rmation running by the independent Ask Africa of transactions to cardholders on their mobile phones.
Orange Index This contributed to a 26 percent decrease in card fraud in 2008, compared with an increase of 39 percent for the South African card industry over the same period.
Skandia-BSAM To tackle financial crime effectively, our employees are fully informed about their responsibilities and the Given the Best Customer Service Award by the China Information Association and role they play.
Business units across the Group provided training to employees on financial crime issues during China Service Trade Association 2008.
In addition, a conference in November 2008 enabled business unit financial crime experts to share experiences and increase their knowledge with input from industry experts.
Providing high-level customer service Ensuring customers receive the best possible service from us not only helps retain customers, but also Volatile market conditions builds their con dence in the business.
Below are some examples of initiatives we have taken in 2008 made it more important to improve the service our customers receive.
than ever to ensure that Skandia-BSAM China : To improve access to our services we set up a centralised customer service we met our customer needs.
hotline, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
This enabled customers to obtain assistance whenever they need it Nedbank: To improve the coverage to our customers, in 2008 we formed a strategic business partnership with Ecobank Transnational Incorporated ETI, the parent company of the Ecobank Group.
This has given our customers access to a combined pan-African banking network covering 30 countries, including South Africa, with over 1,000 branches and banking outlets across the continent Old Mutual Financial Network: We employed a third-party company to evaluate and help improve customers satisfaction with our call centres.
This enabled us to develop new benchmarks, create an improved set of call scripts and start a new training programme for call centre staff Skandia UK: We helped improve customer service by enabling our financial advisers FAs and customers to learn more about the financial industry and the market.
We used channels such as Skandia Magazine for customers, and Informer, a monthly publication for FAs.
We also ran seminars and developed a website informerLive!
