DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS Governance is about managing the company effectively and showing that we have a transparent, consistent and effective way of governing ourselves.
Martin Murray, Group Company Secretary Index to this section of the Report Other Directors Report matters 111 Relations with shareholders and analysts Introduction and Combined Code compliance 98 Directors shareholdings and share dealings Directors indemnities Board of Directors 99 Supplier payment policy Membership and directors interests Charitable contributions Rotation and re-election of directors Environmental matters Skills, experience and review Political donations Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Dividend policy Authority Share capital Executive and non-executive roles Rights and obligations attaching to shares Independence of non-executive directors Signi cant agreements Directors con icts of interest Substantial interests in voting rights 2008 operations Going concern Disclosure of information to the auditors Group Executive Committee 103 Governing law 117 Board Committees 103 Group Audit and Risk Committee Introduction and Combined Code compliance Remuneration Committee The Group is committed to achieving high standards Nomination Committee of corporate governance.
The organisation is directed Approvals Committee and controlled by its Board of Directors and through Management Committees 106 systems of delegation and escalation, so as to achieve Group Risk and Capital Committee its business objectives responsibly and in accordance Group Capital Management Committee with high standards of accountability and integrity.
The principal governance rules that apply to UK Terms of reference 107 companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are Attendance record 107 set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Auditors 107 Financial Services Authority the Combined Code.
General Meetings 108 As the Companys primary listing is on the London Stock Exchange, this report mainly addresses the Results of the Annual General Meeting 2008 matters covered by the Combined Code, but the Internal control environment 110 Company also has regard to governance expectations Responsibility for internal control in the four other territories where its shares are listed Assessment of the system of internal control South Africa, Malawi, Namibia and Zimbabwe.
Group Internal Audit Page 98 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 In the year ended 31 December 2008 and in the member of the Group Audit and Risk, Nomination and preparation of this Annual Report and these Accounts, Remuneration Committees at the end of Annual General the Company has complied with the main and Meeting on 8 May 2008.
Mr J Sutcliffe resigned as supporting principles and provisions set out in the Group Chief Executive and ceased to be a member Combined Code as described in the following sections of the Board and of the Nomination Committee on of this Report.
The Companys compliance with 9 September 2008, when he was replaced as Group Combined Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1 to C3.7, Chief Executive by Mr J Roberts.
Mr J Nicholls ceased and the statement relating to the going concern basis to be Group Finance Director and resigned from the adopted in preparing the financial statements, have been Board with effect from 10 November 2008, when he reviewed by the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, was replaced by Mr P Broadley.
in accordance with guidance published by the Auditing Details of the directors interests including interests Practices Board.
of their connected persons in the share capital of the Board of Directors Company and quoted securities of its subsidiaries at Membership and dir the beginning and end of the year under review are set ectors interests out in the following tables, while their interests in share The Board currently has 10 members, with two options and restricted share awards are described in the executive and eight non-executive directors.
All of the section of the Remuneration Report entitled Directors current directors except for Mr P Broadley who was interests under employee share plans.
There have appointed to the Board in November 2008 served been no changes to any of these interests between throughout the year ended 31 December 2008.
Mr N Broadhurst retired from the Board and as a Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 31 December 2008 Mr N Andrews 7,000 Mr R Bogni 19,000 Mr P Broadley Mr C Collins 100,000 Mr R Edey 25,000 2,604 1 Mr R Khoza 2,062 Mr B Nqwababa Mr L Otterbeck Mr R Pym 20,000 2 Mr J Roberts 1,089,604 Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 1 January 2008 or date of appointment as a director, if later Mr N Andrews 7,000 Mr R Bogni 19,000 Mr P Broadley Mr C Collins 75,000 Mr R Edey 25,000 2,604 1 Mr R Khoza 2,062 Mr B Nqwababa Mr L Otterbeck Mr R Pym 20,000 2 Mr J Roberts 806,546 Former directors Mr N Broadhurst at 1 January 2008 and at date of resignation 2,416 2 Mr J Nicholls at 1 January 2008 106,764 2 Mr J Nicholls at date of resignation 214,566 2 Mr J Sutcliffe at 1 January 2008 1,692,769 2 Mr J Sutcliffe at date of resignation 2,130,434 1 This gure does not include shares in the Aka-Nedbank Eyethu Trust, one of Nedbanks Eyethu BEE trusts.
2 These gures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
No director had a material interest in any signi cant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Additional details of various non-material transactions between the directors and the Group are reported, on an aggregated basis along with other transactions by senior managers of the Group, in note 45 to the Accounts.
Page 99 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued OUR GOVERNANCE What does Governance mean at Old Mutual?
FRAMEWORK It is the articulation of the way we run the business.
Governance is about managing the company effectively, providing accountability Board and Policies to shareholders and showing all our external stakeholders Committees regulators, shareholders, ratings agencies, analysts that we have Roles and a transparent, consistent and effective way of governing ourselves.
Culture Responsibilities Governance is broader than just thinking about committee structures and manuals: it covers every aspect of the organisation Governance including how we make strategic decisions, how we incentivise Management Information people, how we manage our risks and most importantly how Incentivisation we create the culture to build shareholder value.
The adjacent diagram illustrates what we see as the key components of a Scheme of Governance framework.
All of these components are interconnected and all Delegated Processes are necessary for robust governance and the effective function Authority Risk Appetite of Old Mutuals  risk governance model.
Rotation and re-election of directors Board have regular contact with the other senior executive management including the most senior The Articles of Association of the Company require executives of the main business units of the Group, that any newly appointed directors should be subject through the periodic participation in Board meetings to election at the next following Annual General Meeting and other brie ng sessions by those executives.
and also that at least one third of the directors excluding those appointed by the Board during the year should Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority retire by rotation each year.
These provisions are applied The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership in such a manner that each director submits himself for to the Company within a framework of prudent and election or re-election at regular intervals and at least effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and once every three years.
The Board sets the Companys strategic The Nomination Committee considered the candidates aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human who are standing for election or re-election at this years resources are in place for it to meet its objectives and Annual General Meeting as referred to in Ordinary reviews management performance.
It regularly reviews Resolutions 2 i to iv in the Notice of Annual General strategic issues through the Group Chief Executives Meeting at its meeting in March 2009.
In accordance report and also holds one or more strategy sessions with its findings, it recommends to shareholders each year at which high-level strategic matters are the election of Mr P Broadley, and the re-election of debated.
The Board sets the Companys values Mr R Bogni, Mr R Khoza and Mr J Roberts as directors and standards, and ensures that its obligations to based on their respective professional quali cations, shareholders and others are understood and met.
prior business experience and contribution to the The Board receives a wide array of information on Board.
Biographical details of each of the candidates the Groups businesses on a regular basis.
Monthly are contained in the Board of Directors section of management accounts are circulated to each member this document.
of the Board within three weeks of the month-end.
Skills, experience and review These contain detailed analysis of the businesses financial performance, including comparisons against Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards budget.
Any issues arising from these are addressed composition are managed proactively by the Nomination at Board meetings or can be raised directly with Committee so as to ensure that changes take place management.
The Board calendar ensures that all key without undue disruption and that there is an appropriate matters are scheduled for attention over the course of balance of experience and length of service.
That the year, including presentations on each of the Groups Committee also has regard, in making recommendations, major businesses.
Board meetings are held regularly to independence of candidates and their suitability in the principal overseas territories where the Group and willingness to serve on other Committees of the operates, at which local management makes detailed Board.
All of these aspects are currently believed by that presentations of business and strategic issues affecting Committee to be satisfactory and appropriate for the those businesses.
requirements of the Groups business.
While there are currently only two executive directors, members of the Page 100 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The Board has oversight of the Groups wholly-owned The Company maintains directors and of cers liability businesses, but also: insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
Delegates speci c responsibilities for certain matters Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board to its committees Approvals, Nomination, Remuneration, and Group Audit and Risk, subject to procedures are complied with.
their respective terms of reference, which provide for There is an agreed list of matters reserved for the reports on their activities to be made to the Board Boards decision.
These are set out in the Companys Delegates decision-making relating to wholly-owned Scheme of Delegated Authority and currently include, subsidiary businesses to the boards of the Groups among other things, the following: principal subsidiaries, subject to speci ed escalation criteria that require higher-level authorisation based Payment or recommendation of dividends on the materiality of the matter concerned.
Approval of results announcements, Annual Reports and any other public statements relating to the The governance relationships with the Groups majorityGroups financial position likely to have a material owned subsidiaries, Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual impact on the Groups reputation & Federal Insurance Company Limited, are somewhat Approval of the Groups budgets and the formulation different from those that apply to wholly-owned subsidiaries, of medium and long-term direction and strategy in recognition of their own governance expectations as for the Group separately-listed entities on the JSE Limited and the fact Establishment of committees of the Board, their that they each have minority shareholders.
constitution and terms of reference With respect to Nedbank Group, the Company entered Monitoring of compliance with the Groups into a relationship agreement in February 2004 setting environmental policies out the Companys requirements and expectations as Approval of the acquisition or disposal of any its majority shareholder.
The full text of that relationship business or investment for a consideration agreement is available on the Companys website.
of 25 million or more Among the matters covered are: Approval of capital expenditure by a principal subsidiary exceeding its delegated expenditure authority Transactions involving members of the Nedbank Approval of signi cant changes to the accounting Group that require prior consultation with or policies or practices of the Group agreement by the Company Approval of any proposal as a result of which either Provision of information, including that required Nedbank Group Limited would cease to be a for assuring the Company about various aspects majority-owned subsidiary of the Company of corporate governance Approval of appointments to the Board and renewal Consultation over senior appointments of non-executive directors appointments, following Business co-operation.
prior review by the Nomination Committee Approval of any major decision relating to the conduct The policyholders funds of the Groups African life or settlement of any material litigation involving the assurance operations have holdings representing in Company or its subsidiaries aggregate more than 20 percent of the issued share Appointment and removal of the Company Secretary capital of companies listed on the stock exchanges Appointment or termination of appointment of key of the countries in which those businesses operate.
professional advisers to the Group These are held purely as investments, and the companies Any other matters that are likely to have a material concerned are not subject to the governance or control effect on the Groups financial position, future strategy structures of the Group.
The Chairman and Company Secretary are both involved Executive and non-executive roles in ensuring good information ows within the Board and The executive element of the Board is balanced by its committees and between senior management and a strong independent group of non-executive directors the non-executive directors, as well as in facilitating so that no individual or small group of individuals can induction and encouraging non-executive directors to dominate the Boards decision-making.
attend courses at the Companys expense to update their skills and knowledge.
The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives, On appointment, new directors receive induction, and monitor the reporting of performance.
Procedures including information about matters of immediate are in place to enable them to satisfy themselves about importance to the Group, such as the current budget the integrity of the Groups financial information and and strategy documents, management accounts, to ensure that financial controls and systems of risk the Scheme of Delegated Authority and details of management are robust and sustainable.
Non-executive the Companys directors and of cers liability policy.
directors on the Remuneration Committee are They also have a series of meetings with other directors, responsible for determining appropriate levels of senior management and external advisers such as remuneration for the executive directors.
of the Nomination Committee have a primary role in Processes are in place for any potential con icts recommending the appointment and, where necessary, of interest to be disclosed and for directors to avoid removal of executive directors.
The Board as a whole participation in any decisions where they may have receives and considers regular reports on talent any such con ict or potential con ict.
The directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense for the furtherance of their duties, whether as members of the Board or of any of its committees.
Page 101 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued The Board has determined that, in the absence of Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the Chairman holds meetings with the other non-executive exceptional circumstances, no non-executive directors three-year cycle of appointment which is itself subject directors, without any executives being present, to provide a forum for any issues to be raised.
He also to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director should be renewed more conducts an annual performance evaluation of each of the other non-executive directors, with any resulting than twice, i. e. that non-executive directors should serve a maximum of nine years in that role.
The renewal of action points being reported to the Nomination Committee.
These are designed to ensure that each director is non-executive directors terms for successive three-year cycles is not automatic and the continued suitability continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time of each non-executive director is assessed by the Nomination Committee before renewal of his appointment for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
The outputs from these performance evaluations takes place.
A particularly searching review is carried out at the end of six years.
The section of the Remuneration are taken into account by the Nomination Committee in deciding whether to recommend to the Board the Report entitled Non-Executive Directors Terms of Engagement describes the current position of each extension of engagement of non-executive directors and also whether to recommend to shareholders the of the non-executive directors with respect to their maximum three terms of three years and how the re-election of any non-executive directors who are due to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
extension process has been applied to them.
They would also form the basis, if the need arose, The Board conducts an annual self-assessment for the Chairman to act to address any weaknesses exercise to evaluate the effectiveness of its procedures.
identi ed in the Board by seeking the resignation of In 2008, this process was carried out through a detailed underperforming directors or proposing, through the questionnaire, with returns being submitted to the Nomination Committee, that additional directors should Company Secretary, who collated a report for the be appointed.
The Chairman took these into account in one-to-one meetings with the other Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, without the Chairman or any executive being present, directors, to ensure that any concerns about Board processes or capabilities were aired.
Various action are also facilitated by the Company.
Among the activities carried out at such meetings is the annual review of the points were identi ed, and the Board has agreed processes to address and track progress against Chairmans own performance, under the aegis of the senior independent director, who also obtains such input these during 2009. as he considers appropriate for such purpose from the Independence of non-executive directors executive directors.
Six of the seven current non-executive directors other Where directors have concerns that cannot be resolved than the Chairman Messrs N Andr ews, R Bogni, about the running of the Company or a proposed action, R Edey, B Nqwababa, L Otterbeck and R Pym are they are encouraged to make their views known and considered by the Board to be independent within the these are recorded in the minutes of the Board meeting.
meaning of, and having regard to the criteria set out No written statements on resignation containing matters in, paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code i. e. of concern, such as are referred to in paragraph A.
1.4 of independent in character and judgement and there the Combined Code, were received by the Chairman being no relationships or circumstances which are likely during 2008. to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Mr N Broadhurst, who retired during the year, was also The assignment of responsibilities between the considered to be independent.
The Board decided in Chairman, Mr C Collins, and the Group Chief Executive February 2006, following a review by the Nomination is documented so as to ensure that there is a clear Committee, that it was not appropriate to classify division between the running of the Board and executive Mr R Khoza as independent in view of the business responsibility for running the Companys business.
interests between his company, Aka Capital, and the This, together with the Scheme of Delegated Authority Companys banking subsidiary, Nedbank.
and the matters reserved for decision by the Board, ensures that no single individual has unfettered powers Mr R Bogni succeeded Mr N Broadhurst as the of decision.
senior independent director in May 2008.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders if they The responsibilities of Mr C Collins as Chairman include have concerns that are unresolved after contact through those contained in the Supporting Principle to paragraph the normal channels of the Chairman, Group Chief A.
2 of the Combined Code, namely leadership of the Executive or Group Finance Director or where such Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role contact would be inappropriate.
The senior independent and setting its agenda: ensuring that the directors receive directors contact details can be obtained from the accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring effective Company Secretary martin.
communication with shareholders: facilitating the effective contribution to the Board of non-executive directors in particular: and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors.
Page 102 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The terms and conditions of engagement of each of Board Committees the non-executive directors are available in the The Board has a number of standing committees or Corporate Governance section of the Companys sub-committees, to which various matters are delegated website.
These include details of the expected time in accordance with their respective terms of reference.
commitment involved which each of the non-executive The Board also establishes committees on an ad hoc directors has accepted.
Other signi cant commitments basis to deal with particular matters.
In doing so, of potential appointees are considered by the it speci es a remit, quorum and appropriate mix Nomination Committee as part of the selection process of executive and non-executive participation.
Further and are disclosed to the Board when recommendation information on the main standing committees and of an appointment is submitted.
Non-executive directors sub-committees of the Board is set out below.
are also required to inform the Board of any subsequent Group Audit and Risk Committee changes to such commitments, which must be Members and years of appointment: Mr R Pym pre-cleared with the Chairman if material.
Chairman 2007, Mr N Andrews 2003, Mr R Bogni Directors con icts of interest 2002, Mr R Edey 2004, Mr B Nqwababa 2007.
The executive directors are permitted to hold one Other member during part of the year: Mr N Broadhurst external non-Group non-executive directorship but who served as Chairman of the Committee from not a chairmanship of another listed company, subject 1999 to May 2008.
Secretary and year of appointment: to prior clearance by the Board and the directorship Mr M Murray 1999. concerned not being in con ict or potential con ict with All members of the Group Audit and Risk Committee any of the Groups businesses.
Neither Mr J Roberts nor are independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman, Mr P Broadley currently holds any external non-executive Mr Pym, is a chartered accountant with a wide range of directorships of other publicly quoted companies.
recent and relevant financial experience, being Chairman The Companys procedures for dealing with of Bradford & Bingley plc and formerly Chief Executive directors con icts of interest have operated effectively of the major UK banking group, Alliance & Leicester plc, during 2008. until July 2007.
All members of the Committee are expected to be nancially literate and to have relevant 2008 operations corporate finance experience.
Board meetings are held regularly, with scheduled meetings being co-ordinated with the Companys The Committee: reporting calendar to allow for detailed consideration Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of of interim and preliminary results and quarterly the Company and any formal announcements relating business updates.
Sessions are also devoted speci cally to the Companys financial performance, including to strategy and business planning.
The Board also reviewing signi cant financial reporting judgements meets ad hoc to deal with speci c matters requiring contained in them its consideration.
In all, 17 Board meetings were held Reviews the Companys internal financial controls during 2008.
Monitors and reviews the independence and The scheduled Board meetings in 2008 included visits effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function to the Groups businesses in South Africa and the USA.
An internal audit charter, reviewed These included presentations to the Board by the senior and approved by the Committee, governs internal management teams of the local businesses.
audit activity within the Group and such activities are conducted in accordance with an annual audit Group Executive Committee plan.
Progress against that plan is reported regularly The Group Executive Committee is the executive to the Committee management committee through which the Company Receives and reviews reports on risk and exercises its co-ordination and stewardship of the Group.
governance matters Makes recommendations to the Board, for it to put In addition to the executive directors of the Company to shareholders for their approval in general meeting, Mr J Roberts and Mr P Broadley, the other members in relation to appointment, reappointment and of the Group Executive Committee are now following removal of the external auditors and approving changes announced by Mr Roberts on 4 March 2009, their remuneration and terms of engagement Mr A Birrell Head of Risk and Actuarial, Mr T Boardman Chief Executive of Nedbank, Mr P Hanratty Head of Long-Term Savings, Mr D Hope Head of Strategy, Mr P Maddox Head of Strategic Implementation and Mr T Turpin Chief Executive of US Asset Management.
It is also envisaged that the new Head of Group HR, when appointed, will join this Committee.
Page 103 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Reviews and monitors the external auditors The Committee is responsible for the development, independence and objectivity and the effectiveness implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on of the audit process, taking into consideration external audit.
The policy assigns overall responsibility relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements for monitoring the independence and objectivity of, and Develops and implements policy on the engagement compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, by, the external auditors to the Committee and taking into account relevant ethical guidance day-to-day responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
regarding the provision of non-audit services The Groups policy on external audit sets out the by the external audit rm, reporting to the Board categories of non-audit services that the external auditors any matters where it considers that action or may and may not provide to the Group.
Further details improvement is needed and making recommendations of this policy are set out under the heading Auditors on the steps to be taken later in this report.
Reviews the Groups whistleblowing arrangements.
To ful l its responsibility regarding the independence At its meetings during 2008, the Committee received of the external auditors, the Committee reviewed: reports covering, among other things: Changes in key external audit staff in the external The accounting principles, policies and practices auditors plan for the year adopted in the Groups accounts The arrangements for day-to-day management Reports from the external auditors, including their of the audit relationship audit plans for the year A report from the external auditors describing their Signi cant accounting and actuarial issues arrangements to identify, report and manage any Economic Capital principles that are being adopted con icts of interest by the Group The overall extent of non-audit services provided Tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting by the external auditors, in addition to their casethe Group by-case approval of the provision of non-audit Any signi cant findings or control issues arising services by the external auditors.
from internal audits carried out around the Group Environmental and corporate responsibility matters To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, Signi cant risks and related risk management the Committee reviewed: practices across the Group.
The external auditors ful lment of the agreed audit A number of audit or audit and risk committees operated plan and variations from the plan at subsidiary level during 2008, including at Old Mutual The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited, in their handling of the key accounting and audit Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc. Skandia UK, Skandia judgements.
Nordic, Skandia Europe & Latin America, Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & Federal Insurance To ful l its responsibility for oversight of the external Company Limited, with terms of reference in relation audit process, the Committee reviewed: to the businesses under their respective remit broadly The terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties equivalent to those of the Committee.
The Committee and scope of the audit as set out in the external received minutes of the proceedings and reports from auditors engagement letter for the year subsidiary audit committees on a regular basis and The external auditors overall work plan for the year several of their Chairmen were invited to attend meetings The external auditors fee proposal of and report to the Committee periodically.
A planning Any major issues that arose during the course meeting was held between the Chairman of the of the audit and their resolution Committee and the Chairmen of the main subsidiary The key accounting and audit judgements audit committees, the regional heads of internal audit, The levels of errors identi ed during audit the Group Risk Director and representatives of the Any recommendations made by the external Groups auditors during December 2008, to co-ordinate auditors in their management letter and the adequacy the audit committees activities and to review and of managements response.
approve the scope of internal audit plans for 2009.
Such planning meetings take place annually.
Based on its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Committee has recommended to the The Group operates Internal Review Committees Board that the external auditors should be reappointed through which Group Finance reviews in detail the for 2009. results of the major businesses half-yearly with their Chief Executives and Finance Directors, including, where applicable, the actuarial aspects of the results of the life businesses around the Group.
Findings from these meetings are incorporated into reports to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
Page 104 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The Committees role in relation to monitoring of risk Nomination Committee is explained in more detail in the Internal control Members and years of appointment: Mr C Collins 1999, environment section of this report.
became Chairman in May 2005, Mr N Andrews 2005, Mr R Bogni 2003, Mr R Edey 2005, Mr R Pym 2008, In relation to internal audit, the Committee reviewed: Mr J Roberts 2008.
Other members during part of the year: Mr N Broadhurst appointed 1999, ceased Internal audits terms of reference, reporting lines and May 2008, Mr J Sutcliffe appointed 2003, ceased access to the Committee and members of the Board September 2008.
Secretary and year of appointment: Internal audits plans and resources and its Mr M Murray 1999. achievement of the activities planned as part of its agreed programme for the year The Nomination Committee makes recommendations The results of key audits and other signi cant to the Board in relation to the appointment of directors, findings, the adequacy of managements responses the structure of the Board and membership of the and the timeliness of resolution Boards main standing committees.
It also reviews Statistics on staff numbers, quali cations development and succession plans for the most senior and experience and timeliness of reporting.
executive management of the Group and proposed appointments to the boards and standing committees The Groups whistleblowing arrangements enable of principal subsidiaries where these are material in the employees of the Group and others to report complaints context of the Group as a whole.
It is chaired by the on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing Chairman of the Board, Mr C Collins, and a majority issues and related matters.
They can do this in of its members four out of six are independent con dence, using a dedicated hotline operated by non-executive directors.
an independent rm of accountants.
Any reports are investigated and escalated to the Committee as The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that its appropriate.
Efforts are also made to educate staff around process for identifying candidates for recommendation the Group about the existence of the whistleblowing to the Board as new directors is formal, rigorous and facility and to help them detect the signs of possible transparent.
Vacancies generally arise in the context fraudulent or improper activity.
of either planned refreshing and renewal of the Board, replacing directors who are due to retire, or adjusting the The Committee holds private meetings with the external Boards balance of knowledge, skills or independence.
auditors twice yearly or more often, if requested by the auditors to review key issues.
The Chairman of the Mr J Roberts appointment as Group Chief Executive Committee also has regular interaction with the external in succession to Mr J Sutcliffe which took effect from auditors, the Group Internal Audit Director and the 9 September 2008 was recommended by the Committee Group Risk Director, as well as with the Chairmen in line with existing succession-planning arrangements, of subsidiary audit committees and the Group Finance and having regard to the merits of stability and continuity Director, to remain abreast of issues as they arise in the context of the challenges then facing the Group.
Mr P Broadley was appointed as Group Finance Director following a search for a candidate with appropriate Remuneration Committee financial services and accounting experience.
Members and years of appointment: Mr R Bogni Chairman 2005, Mr N Andrews 2002, Mr R Edey In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is paid 2007, Mr R Pym 2008.
Other member during part to ensuring that they will have suf cient time available of the year: Mr N Broadhurst appointed 1999, ceased in the light of their other commitments to discharge May 2008.
Secretary and year of appointment: their duties as directors of the Company.
Approvals Committee Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Members: Mr P Broadley, Mr J Roberts.
Committee and how the Remuneration Committee The Approvals Committee formerly known as the and the Board have applied the main and supporting Executive Committee is a committee of the Board principles and the Code Provisions in Section B of the comprising the executive directors of the Company, Combined Code relating to remuneration matters are to which executive control and decision-making are provided in the Remuneration Report.
delegated, subject to reservation of matters that require approval by the Board itself.
A quorum comprises two of the executive directors.
The Committee met 11 times during 2008.
Page 105 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Management Committees Group Risk and Capital Committee The Board Members and years of appointment: responsible for the approval and Mrs R Harris Chairman 2008, Mr A monitoring of the Groups enterprise Birrell 2008, Mr P Broadley 2008, risk management framework.
Mr G Cookman 2008, Mr A Darfoor The GRCC brings together senior Group Chief 2008, Mr A Duncan 2008, Mr P Group Audit Executive executives across Group functions and Risk Keynes 2008, Mr S Lock 2008. including risk, finance, actuarial, capital Committee Secretary and year of appointment: and compliance.
The external and Group Executive Mrs D Loxton 2008.
Committee internal auditors, as well as the The Group Risk and Capital Committee Company Secretary, have standing GRCC was established in July 2008 invitations to these meetings.
Other as part of our work to strengthen risk key Group or business unit executives governance and oversight and to align are invited to attend meetings where Group Risk risk and capital management more appropriate.
The GRCC receives and Capital Committee closely.
The GRCC supports the Group reports from risk, finance and treasury Executive Committee in understanding and provides input to the Group the exposure and management of risks Executive Committee and the Group impacting the Group, having regard Audit and Risk Committee.
It met four to our risk appetite and the allocation times in 2008. of that appetite to the Groups business units.
The GRCC is also Group Capital Management Committee Members and years of appointment: Mr P Broadley Key governance developments during 2008 Chairman 2008, Mr A Birrell 2008, Mr A Duncan 2006, Mrs R Harris 2007, Mr J Roberts 2008.
Group Risk and Capital Committee established Secretary and year of appointment: Mr J Simpson 2007.
New employee share schemes approved The Group Capital Management Committee is a at the Annual General Meeting sub-committee of the Approvals Committee.
Its role Mr R Bogni succeeded Mr N Broadhurst is to: as senior independent director in May Mr R Pym appointed as Chairman of the Agree capital allocation up to the delegated Group Audit and Risk Committee in May authority of the Approvals Committee, or make Executive Remuneration Committee recommendations to the Board for allocations established see the Remuneration Report.
beyond the Approvals Committees authority Recommend to the Board the most appropriate capital structure for the Group having regard to long-term strategic objectives, the current business plan, risk appetite parameters and target credit ratings Sign off a capital plan for the Group as part of the annual business planning process Allocate capital in accordance with the business plan Approve the overall investment strategy of the Groups shareholders funds Set an appropriate framework for managing capital and issue guidelines and or recommend targets to ensure the appropriate management of capital Receive reports from Group Finance, Group Risk and business units so that it can monitor performance against agreed criteria Consider and approve any changes in required capital outside that agreed in the business plan, including the remittance or withdrawal of capital from business units.
Page 106 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Terms of reference but absented themselves for any matters relating to their own respective remuneration arrangements.
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees of the Board are available in the Corporate Attendance at Committee meetings by persons other than the members is always at the invitation of the Governance section of the Companys website.
Chairman of the Committee concerned.
The membership and chairmanship of the Boards Auditors standing committees are regularly reviewed by the Nomination Committee to ensure that they are During the year ended 31 December 2008, fees paid refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed by the Group to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, on particular individuals.
and its associates totalled 11.0 million for statutory audit services 2007: 9.6 million, 0.5 million for other Each of the Group Audit and Risk, Remuneration and audit and assurance services relating to Old Mutual Nomination Committees conducted a self-assessment Market Consistent Embedded Value reporting 2007: exercise during 2008 to address, among other things, 0.4 million, and 4.3 million for tax and other services whether their respective terms of reference had been 2007: 3.9 million.
In addition to the above, Nedbank ful lled satisfactorily during the year, whether the Group paid a further 2.6 million 2007: 2.5 million Committees had the necessary skills and resources and to Deloitte in respect of joint audit arrangements.
were receiving a satisfactory level of information in order to discharge their responsibilities, and whether their The following guidelines have been approved by the processes and methods could be improved.
These were Group Audit and Risk Committee as part of the Groups each conducted via questionnaires to members of the policy on non-audit services: Committee concerned and other key participants in that Before accepting a proposed non-audit engagement, Committees activities including the external auditors, the lead audit engagement partner and management in the case of the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
will assess the threats to objectivity and The results were collated by the Company Secretary independence and consider safeguards to be and reported to the Committees for consideration.
Such assessment will be repeated whenever Attendance record the scope and objectives of the non-audit service change signi cantly.
Before accepting a proposed The table below sets out the number of meetings held and individual dir engagement to provide a non-audit service to the ectors attendance at meetings of the Group and its subsidiaries, the audit engagement Board and its principal standing committees based partner and management will: on membership of those committees, rather than Consider whether it is probable that a reasonable attendance as an invitee during 2008. and informed third party would regard the proposed The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group engagement as being inconsistent with the Finance Director attended all the Group Audit and Risk objectives of the audit of the financial statements Committee meetings held during the year at the invitation Identify and assess the signi cance of any related of the Chairman of that Committee but members of threats to the rms objectivity including any management were absent for the private sessions perceived loss of independence between members of that Committee and the auditors.
Identify and assess the effectiveness of the available Mr C Collins and the Group Chief Executive also safeguards to eliminate or reduce threats to an attended all the Remuneration Committee meetings acceptable level.
at the invitation of the Chairman of that Committee, Board Group Audit scheduled and Risk Remuneration Nomination and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 17 6 6 5 Mr N Andrews 16 17 5 6 5 6 5 5 Mr R Bogni 16 17 6 6 6 6 5 5 Mr P Broadley 2 2 Mr C Collins 17 17 5 5 Mr R Edey 14 17 5 6 6 6 5 5 Mr R Khoza 16 17 Mr B Nqwababa 15 17 4 6 Mr L Otterbeck 17 17 Mr R Pym 16 17 6 6 4 4 4 4 Mr J Roberts 17 17 1 1 Former directors Mr N Broadhurst 4 6 2 2 1 2 2 2 Mr J Nicholls 14 15 Mr J Sutcliffe 8 8 4 4 Page 107 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Where it is felt probable that an informed party would the Group demutualised in 1999 and that appropriate regard the proposed service as being inconsistent arrangements have been in place for the rotation and with the objectives of the rm as auditors, the rm will renewal of key audit personnel.
The Company has not not be permitted to undertake the non-audit service entered into any contractual restriction preventing it Reports are tabled quarterly at Group Audit and Risk from considering a change of auditors and the choice Committee meetings setting out the details of the nonof auditors is kept under review by the Board from audit services being provided by the Groups auditors year to year, taking into account appropriate The Company and its auditors have agreed that they benchmarking data.
will not, directly or indirectly, solicit the employment Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with of key senior staff and management of their KPMG Audit Plc, for appropriate audit partner rotation respective organisations without prior written mutual in accordance with recommendations of the Institute consent.
Partners and directors of the audit rm who of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
have acted as lead partner or as a key audit partner The current lead audit director in the UK, Mr A Barbour, for the Group will not be permitted to join Old Mutual has been in place since 2005.
Group as a director or in a senior management position until at least two years after the partner General Meetings director ceased to be associated with the audit.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to comment on the Groups trading performance The following process governs the provision of non-audit during the first quarter of the year.
A record of the services provided by the auditors: AGM proceedings is made available on the Companys There is a schedule of non-audit services that need website shortly after the end of the Meeting.
All items to be approved in principle on an annual basis and of formal business at the AGM are conducted on are reported, as and when provided, on a regular a poll, rather than by a show of hands.
This is in line with the SECs guidelines on registrars, Computershare Investor Services, ensure auditor independence that all validly submitted proxy votes are counted, All non-audit work costing less than 50,000 placed and a senior member of Computershares staff acts with the external auditors is to be approved by the as scrutineer to ensure that votes cast are properly Head of Group Finance or Business Unit Chief received and recorded.
Financial Of cer Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is All non-audit work costing over 50,000 placed dealt with by a separate resolution and the business with the external auditors is to be agreed by the of the AGM always includes a resolution relating to Group Finance Director or his designate the approval of the Report and Accounts.
The Chairmen All non-audit work costing over 300,000 placed of the Group Audit and Risk, Remuneration and with the external auditors is to be subject to Nomination Committees are available to answer any competitive tender and agreed by the Group questions on the matters covered by these Committees Finance Director and Group Chief Executive at AGMs.
All the directors in of ce at the date of the All non-audit work costing over 1 million placed meeting attended the AGM in 2008. with external auditors is to be approved by the Group Audit and Risk Committee The notice of AGM and related materials contained Cumulative fees for non-audit services in any in the Report and Accounts or Summary Financial financial quarter should not exceed 500,000 without Statements are sent out to shareholders in time to arrive approval of the Group Audit and Risk Committee in the ordinary course of the post at least 20 working or its Chairman days before the date of the AGM.
Cumulative fees for non-audit work for the Group should not exceed total statutory audit and auditResults of the Annual General Meeting 2008 related fees in any one year without the approval The results of the polls on the resolutions at the Annual of the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
General Meeting held on 8 May 2008 were as follows: KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in of ce as auditor to the Company and, following a recommendation by the Group Audit and Risk Committee to the Board, a resolution proposing its reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting Resolution 3 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
In reaching its decision to recommend the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors, the Board took into account the fact that the rm had been the Companys auditors since Page 108 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Ordinary resolutions Resolution 7 i Resolution 1 Approval of the Old Mutual plc Performance Share Plan To receive and adopt the directors Report and Accounts for the year In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld ended 31 December 2007 2,380,177,848 156,971,157 93.81 131,220,271 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,648,735,322 3,663,707 99.86 15,970,248 Resolution 7 ii Approval of the Old Mutual plc Share Reward Plan Resolution 2 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld To declare a final dividend of 4.55 pence per ordinary share 2,486,491,219 102,053,749 96.06 79,824,308 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,654,352,414 506,106 99.98 13,510,757 Resolution 7 iii Approval of the Old Mutual plc 2008 Sharesave Plan Resolution 3 i In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Election of Mr R Pym as a director of the Company 2,559,361,429 61,813,634 97.64 47,194,214 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,634,737,531 5,684,447 99.78 27,947,299 Resolution 8 Authority to allot relevant securities up to a maximum aggregate Resolution 3 ii nominal amount of 53,262,000 Re-election of Mr N Andrews as a director of the Company In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,434,406,236 202,322,809 92.33 31,640,232 2,633,494,884 6,296,949 99.76 28,577,444 Special resolutions Resolution 3 iii Resolution 9 Re-election of Mr R Edey as a director of the Company Authority to allot equity securities up to a maximum nominal aggregate amount of 26,631,000 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,632,716,511 5,579,468 99.79 30,073,298 2,513,313,456 119,715,791 95.45 35,340,030 Resolution 3 iv Resolution 10 Re-election of Mr J Sutcliffe as a director of the Company Authority in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld to purchase up to 532,620,000 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in 2,629,561,219 18,233,058 99.31 20,575,000 the Company by way of market purchase In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Resolution 4 2,632,549,754 5,486,372 99.79 30,333,151 Reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Resolution 11 2,616,824,765 14,464,287 99.45 37,080,225 Approval of contingent purchase contracts to enable shares to be bought back on the overseas stock exchanges where the Companys shares have secondary listings Resolution 5 Authority to the Group Audit and Risk Committee of the Company to In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld settle the remuneration of the auditors 2,610,885,835 24,958,228 99.05 32,525,214 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld 2,637,621,957 5,087,039 99.81 25,658,981 Resolution 12 Adoption of new Articles of Association Resolution 6 In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld Approval of the Remuneration Report in the Companys Report and 2,617,637,427 3,258,242 99.88 47,473,608 Accounts In favour Against % in favour Votes withheld A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is therefore not counted in the calculation of votes.
Page 109 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Internal control environment These activities are in addition to the regular risk management activities which are performed on Responsibility for internal control an ongoing basis as described in more detail in The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups the Risk Management section of this document.
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the implementation of internal The certi cation process described above does not control systems is the responsibility of management.
apply to certain joint ventures where the Group does not exercise full management control.
In these cases, Executive management has implemented an internal Old Mutual monitors the internal control environment control system designed to help ensure: and the potential impact on the Group through The effective and ef cient operation of the Group representation on the board of the entity concerned.
and its business units by enabling management The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system to respond appropriately to signi cant risks to of internal control during and at the end of the year.
achieving the Groups business objectives Material control weaknesses in connection with our US The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use life offshore business were highlighted during the year or from loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities and reported publicly as part of our Interim Results 2008 are identi ed and managed and Interim Management Statement for Q3 2008.
The quality of internal and external reporting Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Within the offshore business Old Mutual Bermuda, the and with internal policies on the conduct of business.
emergence of earnings volatility in 2008, largely caused by the turbulent economic conditions, highlighted the The system of internal control is designed to manage, need for a better hedging process.
This issue has led to rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the the creation of additional guarantee reserves and capital Groups business objectives, and can only provide injections to support the ongoing capital needs of the reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Bermudan business.
A number of management actions material misstatement or loss.
have been taken to limit the exposures including: Assessment of the system of internal control Withdrawal of the Universal Guarantee Option An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Implementation of improved fund-mapping, managing the signi cant risks faced by the Group has allowing quanti cation of our liabilities and been in place for the year ended 31 December 2008 improved hedge effectiveness.
and up to the date of approval of this Report.
The process accords with the Turnbull guidance set out in Further actions have been taken to strengthen Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined governance and risk management practices and Code and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
to reduce the risk of similar issues occurring again.
They include: The Groups actions to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include: Senior management changes, including the appointment of a new CEO for Old Mutual Bermuda An annual review of the risk assessment procedures, Revised guarantee policies and new product control environment considerations, information development sign-off procedures and communication and monitoring procedures A review of all product lines, covering their potential at Group and within each Business Unit.
This review and their risks covers all material controls, including financial, The signi cant re-engineering which is currently operational and compliance controls and the risk in progress of our oversight functions and the level management systems of supervision over business units A certi cation process, under which all Business An independent review by Group Internal Audit.
Units are required to con rm that they have undertaken We are in the process of implementing the risk management in accordance with the Group risk recommendations and sharing the lessons learned.
framework, that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, that internal policies During November 2008, an offer was made to holders have been complied with and that no signi cant risks of guaranteed products in Old Mutual Bermuda to or issues are known which have not been reported surrender their guarantees in exchange for their account in accordance with policy values being topped up to 85 percent of their initial Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the system investment.
This offer, which was taken up in relation of internal control by the Group Audit and Risk to approximately 15 percent of the eligible policies, Committee, which receives reports from Group was a further step in the fide-risking of the Bermudan Risk and Group Internal Audit.
The Committee also book of business.
receives reports from external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, which include details of signi cant internal control Other than the issue above, our annual internal control matters that they have identi ed during the course assessment has not highlighted any material failings.
We remain committed to having a robust internal control environment across the Group.
Page 110 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Other Directors Report matters Group Internal Audit Group Internal Audit GIA provides independent, Relations with shareholders and analysts objective assurance on the effectiveness of Old Mutuals The Company places considerable importance systems of governance, risk management and internal on regular, clear and direct communication with its control.
The work of GIA is focused on the areas shareholders, institutional investors and sell-side of greatest risk to Old Mutual as determined by a analysts.
The Group The Chairman makes contact with major investors Audit and Risk Committee GARC approves the annual during the year and meets them as required.
The internal audit plan and any subsequent amendments.
Company has a dedicated Investor Relations team, There are internal audit teams in each of our major which responds to a variety of enquiries from investors business units.
The heads of internal audit in our and analysts.
The team also runs a programme to wholly-owned subsidiaries report directly to the Group facilitate communication between executive management Internal Audit Director GIAD.
The GIAD reports and a wide range of institutional investors worldwide functionally to the Chairman of the GARC and within the constraints of the Listing, Prospectus, administratively to the Group Risk Director.
The GIAD Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In 2008 the attends all meetings of the GARC, and has unrestricted programme included over 100 meetings with investors access to the Group Chief Executive as well as in the UK, South Africa, North America and Continental open invitations to attend any Business Unit Audit Europe.
In most cases the meetings involved the Group Committee meetings and meetings of the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or another Risk and Capital Committee.
GIA teams across Old Mutual use a single audit In addition, the Company presented at a number of methodology which meets the standards set by the major investor conferences around the world.
It also Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
Issues raised by GIA hosted and webcast two events for institutional investors during the course of their work are communicated and analysts: a presentation on the Companys North to management, who are responsible for taking action American businesses, which was given by members to address the issues identi ed within an appropriate of US management, and a presentation by the Chief and agreed timeframe.
Economist of Nedbank, who talked about the South African economy and outlook.
Copies of all Formal reports are submitted by the GIAD to each presentations and, where appropriate, transcripts are meeting of the GARC, summarising the results of internal posted on the Companys website so that they are audit activity, managements progress in addressing accessible to shareholders generally.
issues and other signi cant matters.
The Board is updated regularly by the Investor An extensive independent review of GIA by external Relations team on issues arising from any shareholder experts was carried out in 2007, which concluded that communications and from analyst research.
In May GIA complied with the requirements of the Standards of 2008, the Company commissioned an independent Professional Practice of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
survey of major investors in the UK, South Africa, the In 2008, under the leadership of a new GIAD appointed US and Continental Europe in order to obtain a better in April 2008, and continuing in 2009, GIA has continued understanding of their views.
The survey findings were to seek opportunities for enhancing internal audit reported directly to the Board.
practices, and an enhanced quality assurance function was established at the beginning of 2009.
Currently 12 sell-side analysts from the UK and South Africa actively publish research on the Company.
Other sell-side analysts are encouraged to cover the Company to help investors assess the Groups valuation, its performance and the business environment in which it operates, and also to make meaningful comparisons with peers.
Page 111 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Information on strategy, Group activities, operational The lists of persons discharging managerial and financial performance and outlook are communicated responsibilities and other employee insiders are regularly to financial markets through regular reports, regulatory reviewed.
Currently all members of the Group Executive news releases, speeches and presentations.
The Committee, together with certain other heads of major Company holds two results meetings each year, at the businesses, are regarded as persons discharging time of its preliminary and interim results, which are managerial responsibilities.
hosted and webcast simultaneously in London and Directors indemnities Johannesburg.
In May and November each year, the Following a change in applicable UK law introduced by Company issues interim management statements in the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community accordance with the requirements of the Disclosure Enterprise Act 2004, the Company has entered into and Transparency Rules.
These statements also include formal deeds of indemnity in favour of each of the an update on sales performance in the previous quarter directors.
These are dated as follows: Messrs N Andrews, and are accompanied by a teleconference call for R Bogni, C Collins, R Edey and J Roberts 19 October analysts and institutional investors.
2005: Mr R Khoza 24 February 2006: Mr L Otterbeck The Companys website contains a range of up-to-date 15 November 2006: Messrs B Nqwababa and R Pym information for shareholders as well as useful tools 17 December 2008: Mr P Broadley 10 November relating to share price and dividend calculations.
A specimen copy of the indemnities is available individual shareholders, a dedicated shareholder centre in the Corporate Governance section of the within the investor relations section of the site provides Companys website.
information about the Companys registrars, a number Supplier payment policy of downloadable forms and the facility for shareholders In most cases suppliers of goods or services to the to register for electronic communications.
The Group do so under standard terms of contract that lay Companys public announcements, statements and down terms of payment.
In other cases, speci c terms presentations to the investor community are posted are agreed to beforehand.
It is the Groups policy to on the website in a timely fashion.
ensure that terms of payment are noti ed in advance Directors shareholdings and share dealings and adhered to.
The Company has signed the Better The Remuneration Committee has established Payment Practice Code, an initiative promoted by the guidelines on shareholdings by executive directors of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Company.
Under these, the Group Chief Executive is Reform in the UK to encourage prompt settlement expected to build up a holding of shares in the Company of invoices.
equal in value to at least 150 percent of annual base The total outstanding indebtedness of the Company salary within five years of appointment: the equivalent and its service company subsidiary, Old Mutual gure for other executive directors is 100 percent of Business Services Limited to trade creditors annual base salary.
Further details of the executive at 31 December 2008 amounted to 5,230,801, directors shareholdings and interests in awards under corresponding to 36 days payments when averaged the Companys employee share plans are given in the over 2008.
The Board has considered whether to adopt a shareholding requirement for Charitable contributions non-executive directors, but does not consider this The Group made a wide range of signi cant donations to be appropriate.
to charitable causes and social development pr ojects during 2008, as described in more detail in the All directors of the Company, together with other Responsible Business section of this document.
persons discharging managerial responsibilities in The Company, its subsidiaries in the UK, and the relation to the Company, are restricted persons for the Old Mutual Bermuda Foundation collectively made purposes of the Model Code annexed to section LR9 charitable donations of 672,000 during the year of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Company continues to operate provisions equivalent to those set out in the Model Code for a wider category of employee insiders who hold certain senior positions around the Group, even though the Model Code itself no longer requires this.
The Model Code imposes restrictions on the periods when restricted persons may deal in affected securities which comprise shares and other listed securities of the Company and other quoted entities within the Group.
Dealings by restricted persons during open periods must be pre-cleared through the appropriate designated of cer of the Company, and any dealings in affected securities by the directors or other persons discharging managerial responsibilities must be publicly announced once they have been noti ed to the Company.
Page 112 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Environmental matters Out of the 239,434,888 shares held in treasury at 31 December 2008, 134,333,829 shares were bought A description of the Groups environmental impact into treasury during 2008.
87,405,685 of these were and management during 2008 is given in the repurchased on the London Stock Exchange at an Responsible Business section of this document.
average price of 1.35 each and 46,928,144 were Political donations repurchased on the JSE at an average price of The Group made no EU or other political donations R18.32 each.
The total number of voting rights in the Companys Dividend policy issued ordinary share capital at 31 December 2008 The Board has determined that, in order to preserve which excludes the 239,434,888 shares held in cash and capital during the current period of economic treasury, but includes the shares held by the African stress, no dividends will be paid by the Company during life subsidiaries was 5,276,706,472.
It will consider the position for 2010 in the light of In the period 1 January to 3 March 2009, no further prevailing conditions nearer the time.
Longer term, the shares were issued by the Company and none were Board will look to pay a dividend based on the Groups bought back.
The Companys issued share capital capital, cash ow and earnings with a view to maintaining and the total number of voting rights at 3 March 2009 cover of at least two times.
were accordingly unchanged from the position at Share capital 31 December 2008.
The Company has a single class of share capital, Rights and obligations attaching to shares which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The following description summarises certain provisions The Companys issued share capital at 31 December of the Companys current Articles of Association, as 2008 was 551,614,136 divided into 5,516,141,360 adopted by special resolution passed on 8 May 2008 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 2007: 551,027,253.70 the Articles, and applicable English law concerning divided into 5,510,272,537 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence companies the Companies Act 1985 and the each.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, Companies Act 2006, together referred to as the 5,841,448 shares were issued under the Companys Companies Acts.
This is a summary only: for further employee share option schemes at an average price information please see the relevant provisions of the of 87.82 pence each.
Companies Acts or the Articles.
At 31 December 2008, authorities were in force from Issue of shares the shareholders for the Company to make market Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders purchases of, and or to purchase pursuant to contingent rights, shares may be issued with such rights and purchase contracts relating to each of the overseas restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution exchanges on which the Companys shares are listed, approve or as the directors may decide.
Subject to the its own shares up to an aggregate of 532,620,000.
Articles, the Companies Acts and other shareholders Out of the 5,516,141,360 shares in issue at 31 December rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
2008: At each Annual General Meeting the Company seeks shareholder authority for the directors to allot up to a 239,434,888 were held by the Company in treasury certain amount of unissued shares, and up to a lower A total of 240,239,413 shares were held by African limit for cash.
These limits are established in light of the life subsidiaries of the Company, with 225,928,657 guidelines of the UK Investor Protection Committees.
of these shares being held on books for the bene t of the Groups South African life operations and Voting related businesses.
Under UK company law these Subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any class shares cannot be voted while they are held by of shares, every member attending a general meeting subsidiaries of Old Mutual plc.
or class meeting in person has one vote in a show of hands.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint shareholders: seniority will be determined by the order in which the joint holders names are listed in the register.
Under the Companies Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
Page 113 Financials Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation The Board may withhold payment of all or any part to a general meeting or class meeting provided that of any dividends or other monies payable in respect each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached of the Companys shares from a person with an interest to a different share or shares held by that member.
in 0.25 percent or more in nominal value or in number, Proxies may vote in a poll or a show of hands.
calculated exclusive of any shares held as treasury shares in the Companys share capital if such person A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more has been served with a restriction notice as fide ned individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or in the Articles after failure to provide the Company class meeting as a corporate representative.
Where more with information concerning interests in those shares than one corporate representative has been appointed, required under the Companies Acts.
any one of them is entitled to vote and exercise other powers on behalf of the member at a general meeting Liquidation or class meeting, but if the representatives votes or other Under the Companies Acts, on a liquidation the powers con ict, the power is treated by the Company liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution as not having been exercised and the member will be of the Company and any other approvals required by deemed to have abstained.
To avoid inappropriate legislation, divide among the members in kind all or consequences of this rule, the Company adopts part of the assets of the Company.
the Designated Corporate Representative procedure Variation of rights recommended by the Institute of Corporate Secretaries Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify and Administrators, as explained in more detail in that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied the notes accompanying the Notice of Annual with the written consent of the holders of not less than General Meeting.
three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares Restrictions on voting of that class calculated excluding any shares held No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting as treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special or class meeting in respect of any shares they hold if resolution passed at a separate general meeting any call or other sum they owe on that share remains of the holders of those shares.
In addition, no member may vote if they have At every such separate general meeting except an been served with a restriction notice as fide ned in the adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two people Articles after failing to give the Company information holding or representing by proxy at least one-third due under the Companies Acts concerning interests in nominal value of the issued shares of the class in those shares.
The rights conferred on Deadlines for voting rights the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the expressly provided in the rights attached to those Company in respect of which the business being voted shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them by proxy or, in relation to corporate members, by unless those rights state otherwise.
Under the Companies Acts, Transfer of shares the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier Any shares in the Company may be held in uncerti cated than 48 hours excluding non-working days before form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncerti cated the meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
shares may be transferred by means of a relevant However, the current Articles provide a deadline system.
Provisions of the Articles do not apply to any for submission of not less than 48 hours before the uncerti cated shares to the extent that such provisions meeting not excluding non-working days.
are inconsistent with the holding of shares in Dividends and distributions uncerti cated form or with the transfer of shares by Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer the Company may by ordinary resolution from time of an uncerti cated share may be refused in the to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount circumstances set out in the Uncerti cated Securities recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay Regulations as fide ned in the Articles and where, in dividends, and also any xed-rate dividend, whenever case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint the financial position of the Company justi es its holders to whom the uncerti cated share is to be payment, in the Boards opinion.
If the Board acts transferred exceeds four.
in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or xed dividends on other shares.
Page 114 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all Appointment and replacement of directors or any of their certi cated shares by an instrument of Under the Articles, directors must be at least four and transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the not more than 16 in number.
Directors may be appointed Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer must by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the A director appointed by the Board holds of ce only until case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
The transferor the next following Annual General Meeting and is then of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board transferees name is entered into the register.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more directors may also decline to register a transfer of a certi cated to hold employment or executive of ce for such period share unless the instrument of transfer: subject to the Companies Acts and on such terms as it may determine and may revoke or terminate any Is duly stamped or certi ed or otherwise shown such appointment.
to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and accompanied by the relevant share At every Annual General Meeting, at least one-third certi cate and such other evidence of the right to of the directors must retire by rotation.
The directors to transfer it as the Board may reasonably require retire by rotation must be those who have been longest Is in respect of only one class of share in of ce since their last election or re-election.
If there are If to joint transferees, is in favour of not more directors who were last elected or re-elected on the than four such transferees.
same date, they can agree among themselves who is to retire, but if they do not agree, this will be determined The Board may decline to register a transfer of any by lot.
The Company may by special resolution remove of the Companys certi cated shares by a person with any director before the expiration of his or her term of an interest in 0.25 percent or more in nominal value of ce.
Directors shall vacate their of ce if: or in number, calculated exclusive of any shares held as treasury shares in the Companys share capital if Their resignation is requested by all the other such a person has been served with a restriction notice directors, numbering at least three as fide ned in the Articles after failure to provide the They deliver a written letter of resignation at a meeting Company with information concerning interests in those of the directors or to the Companys registered of ce shares required to be provided under the Companies They are or have been suffering from mental ill health Acts, unless the transfer is in connection with an outright and the directors pass a resolution stating that they sale to an independent third party.
have ceased to be a director They are absent from Board meetings without the Repurchase of shares Boards permission for six consecutive months and Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the the Board resolves that their of ce is vacated Company may purchase its own shares in accordance They become bankrupt or make any arrangement with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been or composition with their creditors bought may be held as treasury shares or else must be They are prohibited from being or cease to be a cancelled immediately the purchase is completed, so director by law or by any powers conferred on the reducing the amount of the Companys issued share Board or the Companys shareholders by the Articles capital.
Further details of the existing authorities that the Their appointment as an executive director is Company was granted by shareholders at the Annual terminated or expires and the Board resolves General Meeting on 8 May 2008 and how these that their of ce is vacated.
authorities have been used are set out under the heading Share capital earlier in this report.
Details of the proposed renewal of those authorities at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2009 are set out in the shareholder circular relating to that meeting.
Amendment to the Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by special resolution.
The Companies Act 2006 is being implemented in stages and changes effective up to 1 October 2008 are re ected in the new Articles of Association adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2008.
The remaining changes will be re ected in new Articles of Association that will be proposed for adoption at the Annual General Meeting in 2010.
Page 115 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS continued Powers of the directors Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. the Issuer $750 million 8 percent.
Guaranteed Cumulative Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, any legislation and any directions given Perpetual Preferred Securities the Preferred Securities guaranteed on a subordinated basis by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the directors, who may exercise by the Company.
Under the terms of the Preferred Securities, the Issuer is required to give notice to the all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
holders of such securities the Holders in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In such case In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage the Issuer and the Company agree, to the extent that such action is within their reasonable control, or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other to vary the terms of the Preferred Securities and the Companys guarantee and to use all reasonable securities and give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
endeavours to ensure that the entity that has acquired control of the Company the Acquiror Shares held in employee bene t trusts gives such undertakings as are necessary in order The shareholdings in the Company of the Groups to preserve the rights of the Holders.
The Issuer and employee bene t trusts and the policies of those trusts the Company shall also take such steps as are in on voting those shares are described in the section their reasonable control to ensure that the economic of the Remuneration Report entitled Employee share interests of the Holders are not adversely affected ownership trusts.
by the actions of the Acquiror following the change of control.
Signi cant agreements The following signi cant agreements to which the Substantial interests in voting rights Company is a party contain provisions entitling At 3 March 2009, the following substantial interests counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in voting rights had been declared to the Company in in the event of a change of control of the Company: accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of % of 1,250 million Revolving Credit Facility the Facility voting rights voting rights dated 2 September 2005 between the Company, various syndicate banks the Banks and Lloyds TSB Public Investment Corporation Bank plc as agent the Agent.
If a person or group of the Republic of South Africa 307,212,664 5.82 of persons acting in concert gains control of the Legal & General Group Plc 250,395,703 4.75 Company, the Company must notify the Agent.
Old Mutual Life The Agent and the Company will negotiate with Assurance Company a view to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable South Africa Limited 225,928,657 4.28 to the Company and all of the Banks for continuing Franklin Resources Inc. 164,533,278 3.12 the Facility.
If such negotiations fail within 30 days of the original noti cation to the Agent by the Company, the Banks become entitled to declare any outstanding indebtedness repayable by giving notice to the Agent within 15 days of the 30-day period mentioned above.
On receiving notice for payment from the Agent, the Company shall pay the outstanding sums within three business days to the relevant Bank s Page 116 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Going concern Disclosure of information to the auditors The Groups business activities, together with factors The directors who held of ce at the date of approval likely to affect its future development, performance and ectors Report on Corporate Governance of this Dir position are set out in the Business Review.
The financial and Other Matters con rm that, so far as they are each position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position aware, there is no relevant audit information of which and borrowing facilities are described in the Group the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director Finance Directors Statement.
In addition, notes 47 has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as and 48 to the financial statements include the Groups a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit objectives, policies and processes for managing its information and to establish that the Companys auditors capital and set out details of the risks related to financial were aware of that information.
instruments and insurance risks taken on by the Group.
Governing law The Group continues to meet Group and individual The Group Chief Executives Statement, the Risk entity capital requirements, and day-to-day liquidity Management section, the Business Review, the Group needs through the Groups available credit facilities.
Finance Directors Statement and this Directors Report The Companys existing revolving current facility of on Corporate Governance and Other Matters collectively 1.25 billion does not mature until September 2012. comprise the directors report for the purposes of section 463 i a of the Companies Act 2006.
The current economic conditions create uncertainty The Remuneration Report set out in this document is particularly over the future levels of world equity markets, the directors remuneration report for the purposes of defaults in corporate bond portfolios, particularly in the section 463 1 b of that Act.
English law governs the United States, currency uctuations, demand for the disclosures contained in and liability for the directors Groups products and other economic factors.
These report and the directors remuneration report.
uncertainties have been considered individually and in combination in the Groups forecasts and projections, By order of the Board taking account of reasonably possible changes in Martin C Murray trading performance and economic conditions in the Group Company Secretary markets in which the Group operates.
The results show 4 March 2009 that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its available credit facilities and with an adequate level of capital, both at a Group level and within each of its major regulated Group entities.
To the extent that changes in trading performance and economic conditions prove to be more severe than thought reasonably possible, the Group has evaluated and concluded on feasible management actions that would be possible in such circumstances so as to ensure adequate levels of liquid and capital resources are maintained.
After making enquiries, the Board of Directors has a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
