GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE From left to right: In addition to the Group Chief Executive and the Group Andrew Birrell 39, B.
Sc Hons, Paul Maddox Finance Director, there are 7 other positions of the Group FASSA, FFA, ASA Julian Roberts Executive.
The Committee meets regularly to address Head, Risk and Actuarial Andrew Birrell strategic issues, to review the Groups progress against Andrew joined Old Mutual in August 2007, as Chief Risk Philip Broadley Tom Boardman its business plan for the year and to discuss other Of cer and was appointed Group Chief Actuary in July Paul Hanratty high-level matters affecting the Groups performance 2008.
Previously he was Chief Operating Of cer and Tom Turpin Don Hope or prospects.
Chief Financial Of cer at Investec Securities.
Prior to this he was Chief Financial Of cer at Capital Alliance 2 Julian Roberts 51, B.
His early career was at Metropolitan Life, Group Chief Executive where he held various positions.
Andrew is a Fellow of Julian succeeded Jim Sutcliffe as Group Chief Executive the Faculty of Actuaries, Fellow of the Actuarial Society in September 2008.
He was previously Chief Executive of South Africa and an Associate of the Society of the Groups Skandia businesses and originally joined of Actuaries.
the Company as Group Finance Director in August 2000.
Prior to joining the Company, he was Group Finance Thomas Boardman 59, B. Com, CA SA Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc.
Before Chief Executive, Nedbank Group that, he was a director and Chief Financial Of cer of Tom was appointed Chief Executive of Nedbank Group Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Limited and Nedbank Limited in October 2003.
He was previously Chief Executive and an executive director of Philip Broadley 48, M. A. F. C. A. BoE Limited.
He was the founding shareholder and Group Finance Director Managing Director of retail housewares chain Philip joined the Company as Group Finance Director Boardmans.
Prior to this he was a director of Blaikie on 10 November 2008, succeeding Jonathan Nicholls.
Johnson Limited, Managing Director of Sam Newman He was previously Group Finance Director Limited and worked for the Anglo American Corporation of Prudential plc from 2000 until March 2008.
He is a non-executive director of Mutual joining Prudential, he was a Partner of Arthur Andersen & Federal Insurance Company Limited and The Banking from 1993 to 2000.
He has been Chairman of the 100 Association of South Africa, and serves as a trustee of a Group of Finance Directors, a founding member and number of charitable foundations.
trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance Company Finance Directors, and a member of the IASBs Insurance Working Group.
He is a member of the Code Committee of the Takeover Panel.
Page 84 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Paul Hanratty 47, B.
Hons, FIA Paul Maddox 48, M. A. FSA Head, Long-Term Savings and Managing Director, Head, Strategic Implementation Old Mutual South Africa Paul joined Old Mutual in February 2009 on a longPaul has been with Old Mutual South Africa OMSA term secondment from Ernst & Young where he was since 1984.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries the Partner in charge of the Programme Advisory and has held a number of roles at Old Mutual.
Paul has spent the last 20 years as These included Head of Product Development, a management consultant delivering major change General Manager, Finance and Actuarial and Head programmes in Financial Services.
From 2002 to 2005, of the Retail business of OMSA.
He joined the Board Paul led the trial and rollout of the highly successful of the OMSA life business in 2003 and became the Chip & PIN Programme for all of the UKs banks and Managing Director in 2006. retailers, and the Home Of ce.
Paul started his career by qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte Don Hope 52 Haskins and Sells.
Head, Strategy Development Tom Turpin 48, BS Accounting Don joined Old Mutual as Group Treasurer in May President and Chief Executive Of cer, Old Mutual 1999, with responsibility for developing the Groups Asset Management US international treasury function.
He was appointed to Tom was appointed President and Chief Executive the current role of CEO of Old Mutual Bermuda Limited Of cer, Old Mutual Asset Management US in June in August 2008.
Don was Chairman of the Intech 2008.
He previously served as Chief Operating Of cer Fiduciaries Ltd and the Old Mutual Australia Ltd boards of Old Mutual US.
Prior to that, he was Managing until their sale from the Old Mutual Group, a role he Director and Head of fide ned Contribution Plans assumed in November 2007.
Before joining Old Mutual, as well as Chief Administrative Of cer for Institutional Don was Group Treasurer of Eagle Star Holdings plc, a Management, fide ned Contribution, and Retail Businesses subsidiary of B.
From 1982 to 1993 he held a variety of leadership positions with The Boston Company.
He is a member of the board of directors of several af liated companies and investment fund structures.
The process for appointing a Group Human Resources Director is ongoing.
The person appointed will join the Group Executive Committee.
