PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The UK equity market experienced considerable volatility during the 12 months to 31 March 2008, with the FTSE All-Share Index declining by 7.7% total return.
Given the performance of the market, it is worth spending a few moments analysing this in more detail.
In the first six months of the review period, the UK equity market generated positive returns, building on four years of steady gains.
The performance of the market was characterised by the rise in the FTSE 100 Index to over 6700 for the first time since August 2000 and the appreciation of sterling against a weakening US dollar to over US$2 1 for the first time since 1992.
In the corporate sector, merger and acquisition activity continued to provide support to the market.
For example, Reuters received a bid from Thomson Corp, Hanson received an offer from HeidelbergCement and ICI was acquired by Akzo Nobel.
However, the buoyant first half to the review period was reversed in summer 2007, due to the disruption in credit and money markets.
This emanated from a collapse in the US subprime high-risk home loans mortgage sector, which forced investors to reassess their appetite for risk.
Northern Rock dominated the headlines in September following a run on the bank on news that it had approached the Bank of England for emergency funding.
Northern Rocks heavy reliance on interbank lending meant that it suffered severe liquidity problems when banks became reluctant to lend to each other.
In these circumstances, the UK stockmarket fell as investors exited riskier assets and fled to the relative safe haven of large-cap companies.
Positive sector performance was limited to defensive areas, such as tobacco, food producers and utilities, while consumer-facing areas such as retailers, house-builders and leisure declined.
However, as the credit crunch unfolded and doubts over the durability of the UK economy grew in the early months of 2008, the stockmarket sold-off sharply, with little differentiation between companies and sectors.
Equities in general were offering very few safe havens.
The only area to have performed consistently well over the period was the mining sector which benefited from the strength of commodity prices and the continued growth of the emerging economies.
In the economy, UK interest rates ended the period at the same level as at the beginning, 5.25%.
However, this masked two 25-basis-point interest-rates rises early in the period to stem consumption growth, and two reductions by the same amount later in the period in response to weakening economic data.
Inflationary pressures continued to build, resulting from high and rising commodity and food prices, and prevented the Bank of England from reducing interest rates in response to the deteriorating economic outlook as swiftly as the Federal Reserve has in the US.
Portfolio Strategy & Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, fell by 10.8% during the 12 months to the end of March 2008, compared to a fall of 7.7% from the FTSE All-Share Index total return.
In the first half of the review period, the Company recorded resilient performance, benefiting from the bias towards large-cap companies which characterised the investment environment at the time.
However, as the backdrop became more challenging in the second half of the period, investors chief priority was to raise cash in the market, and in these circumstances investors saw large-cap defensive stocks as a source of liquidity and the ensuing sell-off affected the Companys returns.
In terms of portfolio activity, several new holdings were initiated into the Company over the review period.
These included ITV, whose shares look attractively valued.
With a new management team in place, the company looks set to benefit from a change in strategy and direction.
A new position was also started in UK Coal, whose valuation has retreated to interesting levels in recent months.
The Company is currently benefiting from the high spot price of coal and the renegotiation of coal contracts with electricity generators at higher prices.
Furthermore the Companys land and property business is likely to become more highly valued as planning and development permission is granted over the next few years.
AstraZeneca was also initiated into the Company, as well as media company Informa, whose shares had been quite weak due to concerns over the Companys balance sheet.
Informas current valuation looks attractive given the high level of recurring revenues in the business.
Elsewhere, shares in Balfour Beatty fell heavily in the market turmoil, providing buying opportunities and First Choice was acquired for the Company and was subsequently renamed TUI Travel after it merged with the tourism division of TUI AG.
The Companys holding 08 MANAGERS REPORT continued in ICI was sold following the agreed bid from Akzo Nobel, as well as Xansa which received a bid approach during the year under review.
HSBC was also sold reflecting a growing concern about the outlook for the US economy, and Reed Elsevier following a period of resilient performance.
Outlook The UK is undoubtedly entering a period of economic slowdown as the forces of growth, namely government and consumer spending, make their absence felt in the economy.
It is likely that UK economic growth will remain subdued for the remainder of 2008 and well into 2009.
Against this backdrop, corporate profitability will come under pressure, particularly in cyclical areas of the market and sectors which are exposed to the consumer slowdown.
Despite concerns over the prospects for the UK economy, and the sharp falls in the UK equity market witnessed during the review period, I believe that there are some areas of the market where valuations are very attractive and investment opportunities are interesting.
These typically fall within the more defensive parts of the market, such as the tobacco, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and oil sectors, which all feature prominently in the fund.
I have built up a meaningful exposure to the so-called mega-cap area of the market, which represent the very largest companies of the FTSE 100 index.
These companies currently offer the greatest opportunity because they are typically globally diversified, less dependent on the UK economy to drive earnings, they offer defensive earnings and cash flows and have very strong balance sheets.
By focusing on these characteristics, I remain positive on the outlook for the fund, particularly over the long term.
Mark Barnett Investment Manager 10 June 2008
