PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS Mr Bill Alexander CBE Chairman of the Vivian Bazalgette Vivian Bazalgette is a non-executive director of Main Board and of the Management Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc and Engagement Committee Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is also an Bill Alexander is currently non-executive chairman adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and to the of Clearview Traffic Group Ltd, Wigborough Ltd, Nuffield Foundation and a Trustee of both Kings and The Henley Festival Limited.
He is also a College Hospital Charitable Trust and The member of the Board of the CBI.
He is currently a Governor of previously Chairman of Xansa plc and Chief Dulwich College.
He previously held the position Executive of RWE Thames Water plc, as well as of Chief Investment Officer of M&G between non-executive appointments at RMC plc, and GB 1996 and 2000 and, following the takeover of Airways LTd and Laporte plc.
M&G by Prudential, was appointed Chief Investment Officer of Prudential from 2000 to James DAlbiac 2002.
James DAlbiac is a non-executive director of Jupiter Primadona Growth Trust PLC.
He was Ed Burke previously a director of Jupiter Asset Ed Burke is a Senior Fund Manager in the Invesco Management Limited, Jupiter Tyndall plc and Perpetual UK equity investment team.
Before Mercury Asset Management plc.
From 1968 to joining Invesco Perpetual in May 1999 he was a 1986, he was a partner in Rowe and Pitman.
Director and Head of UK Equities at Robert Fleming Securities, following a number of years Sir Martyn Arbib at James Capel.
Sir Martyn was the founder and Chairman of Perpetual plc which became part of Amvescap All Directors are non-executive.
He is no longer an employee of Invesco Perpetual.
Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit Committee Antony Hardy is a non-executive director of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, Investment Adviser to Essex County Council Pension Fund and South Yorkshire Pension Fund.
He is adviser to a number of endowed charities and trusts, a director of Sableknight Limited and was previously Investment Manager of the Church Commissioners for England.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Management Engagement Committee
