DIRECTORS REMUnERaTIOn REPORT Directors remuneration report continued 64 Executive remuneration Remuneration explained excluding pension 4 InTRODUCTIOn of the Chairman, the executive directors and the 01 Company Secretary, including their service This directors remuneration report complies 04 agreements.
It also monitors the level and with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 structure of the remuneration of the most senior the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of management below board level within the the Financial Services Authority.
No director is involved in determining also followed the requirements of the Combined his her own remuneration.
Code on Corporate Governance 2006 Combined Code.
This report will be subject to an advisory 5.3 The committee keeps itself fully informed of 02 vote at the AGM of the company to be held on developments and best practice in the field of 03 6 May 2009. remuneration and it seeks advice from external advisers when it considers it appropriate.
In Peter Crook 5 ThE REMUnERaTIOn COMMITTEE 2008, the committee appointed Towers Perrin 01 Salary 40% 02 Benefits 5% as remuneration consultant in place of Kepler 5.1 The remuneration committee consists 03 Annual bonus 40% Associates Limited Kepler to advise on of three non-executive directors, each of whom 04 Deferred bonus 15% aspects of executive director and senior is, in the opinion of the board, independent.
The committee considers attendance of each member at meetings of the them both to be independent as they do not remuneration committee is shown below and provide any other services to the group.
Towers 01 the terms of reference of the remuneration Perrin has provided advice to the committee in committee are available on the companys 04 2008, as has Kepler.
The committee has, in website at www.
addition, been advised by Eversheds LLP who Remuneration have advised the company on various committee employment and commercial matters on the meetings operation of the companys share schemes.
In Total number of meetings in 2008 5 all cases the advisers were instructed by the 02 secretary on behalf of the committee.
The John Maxwell Chair 5 5 03 Chairman and Chief Executive of the company Robert Hough 5 5 normally attend and speak at meetings of the Andrew Fisher Manjit Wolstenholme 5 5 committee other than when their own 01 Salary 39% remuneration or any matter relating to them is 02 Benefits 6% being considered.
Ken Mullen, General Counsel 03 Annual bonus 39% 5.2 Pursuant to its terms of reference, the 04 Deferred bonus 16% committee considers the framework of executive and Company Secretary, is secretary to the committee and attended all the meetings of the remuneration and makes recommendations to the board.
It determines the specific committee in 2008.
He also provided legal and technical support to the committee.
remuneration packages and conditions of service 01 04 02 03 Proposed changes to remuneration components in 2009 Chris Gillespie Element Objective Value Performance targets 01 Salary 39% 02 Benefits 6% annual To link total cash Between 125% and 150% Based on 03 Annual bonus 39% bonus reward to of basic salary budgeted EPS 04 Deferred bonus 16% achievement of 80% and personal company and objectives 20% personal objectives Performance To link remuneration Based on up to EPS relative to Shares to the long-term 50% of annual RPI over a interests of bonus, plus up three-year period shareholders to two matching awards Conditional To align management Up to 200% of basic TSR and EPS growth share awards performance with salary over a three-year shareholders interests period Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc DIRECTORS REMUnERaTIOn REPORT Directors remuneration report continued 65 6 REMUnERaTIOn POlICy achievement of personal objectives.
The committee also set the following executive 6.1 The committee considers it very important directors salaries effective from 1January 2009: that there should be an appropriate proportion of fixed and variable pay.
The remuneration Directors name policy operated by the committee during the Peter Crook 610,000 year and, subject to ongoing review by the Andrew Fisher 435,000 remuneration committee, to be applied for the following financial year and for future financial Chris Gillespie 420,000 years, is based on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive directors in In July 2008, the committee, having considered a manner consistent with the long-term market data provided by Kepler, also reviewed accumulation of value for shareholders and the salary of the Chairman and increased it achievement of the companys strategic from 250,000 to 265,000. objectives.
The committee is also conscious 6.4 The fees for the non-executive directors, of the need to avoid paying more than is other than the Chairman, are fixed by the board reasonable for this purpose and therefore the and are designed both to recognise the policy of the committee is to pay remuneration responsibilities of non-executive directors and to at market levels, with a significant proportion attract individuals with the necessary skills and subject to performance.
experience to contribute to the future growth of 6.2 The executive directors remuneration the company.
Their business expenses are also consists of a basic salary, an annual cash bonus reimbursed by the company.
In July 2008 the subject to performance conditions and other board, having reviewed market data, increased benefits including participation in the companys the fees of the non-executive directors to 50,000. pension scheme.
Additionally, they may In addition, the board agreed to pay an annual fee participate in a performance share plan which of 10,000 in respect of chairing a board necessitates the waiver of a minimum of 25% of committee.
Full details of fees for non-executive the annual cash bonus, a long-term incentive directors in 2008, with 2007 comparative figures scheme, both of which are subject to where relevant, are set out in the table of directors performance conditions, and an employee remuneration in paragraph 7.1 on page 69. savings-related share option scheme which Cash bonuses is not subject to performance conditions.
In 6.5 An annual cash bonus is payable, subject to 2009, they will also receive a one-off exceptional the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The bonus which will be deferred and paid in the bonus is calculated as a percentage of salary.
form of shares in recognition of the companys The purpose of the bonus scheme is to provide exceptional performance in 2008.
The a meaningful cash incentive for executive remuneration policy is designed to ensure that directors which is clearly focused on improving a significant proportion of the executive the companys performance and aligns, so far directors remuneration is linked to as is practicable, shareholder and executive performance, through the operation of the director interests.
The committee considers annual cash bonus and the share incentive corporate performance on environmental, social schemes.
For 2008, variable remuneration and governance ESG issues when setting the accounts for over half of the fair value of performance conditions for cash bonuses and executive remuneration excluding pension.
will use its discretion to ensure that where 6.3 The committee normally reviews the appropriate, the management of ESG risks are executive directors remuneration annually.
reflected in the rewards granted to directors This review takes into account individual and senior management.
performance, experience and market 6.6 Executive directors are eligible for annual competitiveness.
In December 2008, the cash bonuses by reference to the companys committee reviewed the salaries and annual audited earnings per share as defined in the cash bonus entitlements of the executive bonus scheme and divisional profits where directors.
Market competitiveness was assessed appropriate which cannot exceed 80% of basic against other UK listed financial services salary, and achievement of specific personal providers and companies of a similar size.
As a objectives, which cannot exceed 20% of basic result of this review, the committee agreed to salary.
The bonus payable in respect of increase the annual cash bonus entitlement of 2008 cannot exceed 100% of salary in total.
Peter Crook to a maximum of 150% of basic In exceptional circumstances, the committee salary for 2009 120% by reference to earnings may make such adjustments to the calculation per share and 30% by reference to achievement of earnings per share as it considers fair and of personal objectives, and to a maximum of reasonable.
The committee carries out a 125% of basic salary for Andrew Fisher and detailed review of the computations involved and Chris Gillespie 100% by reference to earnings ensures that the rules are applied consistently.
per share and divisional performance, where Furthermore, the independent auditors are appropriate, and 25% by reference to the Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc DIRECTORS REMUnERaTIOn REPORT Directors remuneration report continued 66 asked to perform agreed-upon procedures on as it recognised the high dividend yield and rating behalf of the committee on the calculations.
attributed by the market to the companys earnings.
For awards made in 2008, there will be 6.7 Bonuses do not form part of pensionable no vesting if the companys annualised TSR over earnings.
a three-year performance period, is less than the Share Incentive schemes annualised TSR of the FTSE 250 Index: 25% of an award will vest if the companys annualised TSR 6.8 The grant of awards under share incentive schemes to executive directors and senior is in line with that of the FTSE 250 Index, rising to full vesting if the companys annualised TSR management is normally considered once in each year after the announcement of the companys exceeds the annualised TSR of the FTSE 250 Index by 8.5%, measured on a multiplicative results in accordance with a formula determined by reference to salary.
The company has three basis.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these two levels.
Participation is currently schemes: the Provident Financial Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 the ESOS, the limited to executive directors, certain members of senior management and other employees by Provident Financial Long Term Incentive Scheme 2006 the LTIS and the Provident Financial invitation.
Annual awards are normally subject to a maximum of 150% of basic salary 200% of Performance Share Plan the PSP.
No further options can be granted under the Provident basic salary in exceptional circumstances.
The committee intends to use its discretion, Financial plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 the 1995 scheme or the granted pursuant to the rules of the LTIS, to set an appropriate performance target under the Provident Financial plc Unapproved Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 the 1996 LTIS for 2009 and in the future based on absolute TSR and real earnings per share growth.
The committee reviewed the long-term incentives for the executive directors and senior The committee, therefore, intends to set a performance target for 2009 and future awards management, and as a consequence, decided to simplify the share incentive schemes by ceasing whereby 50% of the award vests if the companys average annual growth in earnings per share is to grant options and making conditional share awards to executive directors and senior equal to or greater than average annual growth in RPI plus 8% over a period of three consecutive management under the LTIS, in line with prevailing market practice and in recognition years 12.5% of the award will vest if the companys average annual growth in earnings that conditional share awards provide greater alignment with shareholders interests.
per share over a period of three consecutive years is equal to average annual growth in RPI lTIS plus 3% with vesting on a straight-line basis in 6.9 For conditional share awards made in 2008, between these levels and the remaining 50% of the committee set a performance target based the award vests if the companys absolute TSR is on the companys annualised TSR when at least 15% on an annualised average basis over measured against the annualised TSR of the a period of three consecutive years 12.5% of the FTSE 250 Index.
The committee considered this award will vest if the companys absolute TSR is to be an appropriate comparator group for at least 10% on an annualised average basis over Provident Financial given the companys position a period of three consecutive years, with vesting in the FTSE 250 Index and its focus on the UK on a straight-line basis in between these two market.
The index is market cap weighted which levels.
In respect of conditional share awards to the committee felt was appropriate as vesting be granted pursuant to the LTIS in the future, the of awards will only occur if the company committee also intends, subject to shareholder outperforms the broader stock market as a approval at the AGM on 6 May 2009, to remove whole.
In assessing whether the performance the discretion of the committee to grant condition has been met the committee will rely conditional share awards pursuant to the LTIS in on calculations of the companys TSR and that exceptional circumstances up to a maximum of of the FTSE 250 Index carried out on their behalf 200% of a participants basic salary and simply by Towers Perrin.
In addition, for any shares to increase the normal limit from a maximum of vest, the committee must satisfy itself that the 150% to a maximum of 200% of a participants companys TSR performance was a genuine basic salary irrespective of whether there are reflection of the underlying business exceptional circumstances.
The committee believed that the use of relative TSR as the sole measure was appropriate as it was an objective measure of the companys success, provided for a fair measure of management performance and was strongly aligned with shareholders interests Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc DIRECTORS REMUnERaTIOn REPORT Directors remuneration report continued 67 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Provident Financial FTSE 250 The graph above shows the total shareholder the starting point to avoid participants benefiting return for Provident Financial plc against the from a low start point due to the impact of the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index.
This closure of the Yes Car Credit business.
Earnings index was chosen for comparison because the per share was considered to be an appropriate company has been a member of this index for measure of the companys financial performance, the five-year period.
aligned the interests of the participants with shareholders and complemented the use of TSR Offshore employee benefit trust in the LTIS.
Maximum awards will normally be 6.10 The rules of the LTIS, approved by limited to 100% of salary.
No executive options shareholders previously, allows the LTIS to be have been granted at a discount and no options operated in conjunction with any employee trust were granted in 2008. established by the company.
Accordingly, the company established the Provident Financial plc PSP 2007 Employee Benefit Trust EBT in Jersey on 6.12 Participation in the PSP includes executive 11September 2007 with Kleinwort Benson directors who waive up to 50% with a minimum Jersey Trustees Limited acting as the first of 25% of their annual cash bonus, and other trustee of the trust.
Paragraph 9.7 on page 71 eligible employees who waive up to 50% or 30%, gives details of share acquisitions and depending on their level of seniority, of their subscriptions made by the trust for the purposes annual cash bonus.
In return, participants of satisfying awards made under the LTIS during receive a basic award of shares equal to the the course of the year.
value of their waived bonus, together with an equivalent matching award on the basis of one ESOS share for each share acquired by a participant 6.11 The ESOS contains both an HMRC approved pursuant to their basic award which is subject and unapproved section.
All options are subject to to a performance condition.
For options granted in 2006 matching award will vest only if the companys the target requires the companys average annual average growth in earnings per share is equal to growth in earnings per share to be equal to or or greater than RPI plus 3% over a period of greater than RPI plus 3% over a period of three three consecutive financial years, the first of consecutive years, the first of which is the financial which is the financial year starting immediately year starting immediately before the grant date.
before the grant date of the matching award.
At that level 25% of the shares under option would The performance conditions were selected by be exercisable with the option becoming fully the committee after consideration of other exercisable at average annual growth in earnings possible types of condition.
The committee took per share in excess of RPI plus 6% over the threethe view that the use of this earnings per share year period.
A sliding scale for vesting will apply target aligned, so far as is practicable, the between these levels.
Although basic earnings interests of the directors and senior per share is generally used for the performance calculation, for 2006 awards earnings per share before Yes Car Credit closure costs was used as Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc Value of hypothetical 100 holding DIRECTORS REMUnERaTIOn REPORT Directors remuneration report continued 68 management with those of the shareholders.
Service agreements 6.16 The current policy is for executive directors The committee intends, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 6 May 2009, to amend service agreements to provide for both the company and the director to give one years the rules of the PSP to allow the grant of matching awards on the basis of two shares for notice.
No director has a service agreement containing a liquidated damages clause on each share acquired by a participant pursuant to their basic award.
Such awards will be subject termination.
In the event of the termination of an agreement, it is the current policy to seek to more stretching performance targets and will only vest in full if the companys average annual mitigation of loss by the director concerned and to aim to ensure that any payment made is the growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than RPI plus 7% over a period of three minimum which is commensurate with the companys legal obligations.
If the companys average annual growth in earnings per share is Other directorships equal to RPI plus 3% over a period of three 6.17 The company will normally permit an consecutive financial years, then a matching executive director to hold one non-executive award granted on a two-for-one basis as directorship and to retain the fee from that described above will only vest as to 50% of the appointment.
However, any proposed shares subject to the award which will be appointment will require the approval of the the equivalent of receiving a matching award board.
In accordance with the Combined Code, on a one-for-one basis as described above.
the board would not permit an executive A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line director to take on the chairmanship of a basis will apply between these lower and FTSE 100 company.
Senior management remuneration Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 6.18 The committee considers the structure 6.13 The executive directors together with other and level of pay for the most senior level eligible group employees may participate in of management within the group.
the Provident Financial plc Employee SavingsRelated Share Option Scheme 2003.
Participants Detailed information save a fixed sum each month for three or five 6.19 Full details of salaries, bonus earnings and years and may use these funds to purchase other benefits for 2008 with 2007 comparative shares after three, five or seven years.
The figures for the executive directors and full exercise price is fixed at up to 20% below the details of the fees paid to non-executive market value of the shares at the date directors directors are set out in the table of directors and employees are invited to participate in the remuneration in paragraph 7.1 on page 69. scheme.
Up to 250 can be saved each month.
Full details of share options are set out in the This scheme does not contain performance tables on page 70 in paragraphs 8.1 and 9.1. conditions as it is an HMRC approved scheme Full details of conditional share awards under designed for employees at all levels.
the LTIS are set out in the table on page 70 in paragraph 9.2.
Full details of awards under Other benefits the PSP are set out in the table on page 71 6.14 The executive directors are provided in paragraph 10.1. with company-owned cars and fuel or a cash alternative, long-term disability cover under the companys permanent health insurance policy and medical cover for them and their immediate families.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Share ownership policy 6.15 The company has a share ownership policy for executive directors which requires them to retain half of vested shares, net of tax and exercise costs, until a beneficial shareholding equivalent to one times annual salary has been met: in performing the calculation, post-tax embedded gains on vested unexercised share options may be included.
The committee reviews the shareholdings of the executive directors in the light of this policy once a year.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
