: DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 04 Market Home credit customer satisfaction rate 95% Percentage of home credit customers who would recommend Provident to a friend 83% Year home credit business established 1880 I see all of my customers every week so I know what their circumstances are.
This means that I can lend the amount thats right for them.
Debra Carter Home credit agent, Birmingham Knowing our market and adopting the right strategy Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 05 With over two million customers, Provident Financial already has more non-standard customers in the UK than any other lender.
We have designed products to meet the particular needs of non-standard customers, with high levels of customer service and affordable repayments.
We have been doing this since 1880 and have earned high levels of customer satisfaction.
We aim to grow from this strong position by building on our existing businesses and strengths, and by taking full advantage of changes in the market and competitive environment.
And we will extend what we do to meet the needs of more of the people in our target market.
Make clear strategic choices Since the demerger of our international business, we have focused solely on the UK non-standard credit market which comprises over ten million customers.
Know your market The agents we engage live in the communities we serve and see our customers every week.
We have conducted market research with our customers over many years to make sure we understand their needs and can react quickly when those needs change or new opportunities arise.
Tailor your offer Our products are specifically designed to meet closely the needs of non-standard customers, with high levels of flexibility and personal service delivered at prices that offer good value for money and produce high levels of customer satisfaction.
Adapt to changes in your environment We continue to modernise our business and take the opportunities presented by the current environment to serve more customers in our target market and to recruit the very best management talent.
Use what you have learned Having operated in our market for 129 years, we have accumulated knowledge of a depth and clarity that has served us well under a wide range of changing conditions.
Michael Hutko Dan Lockwood Job title: Commercial Director, Job title: Senior Marketing Analyst, Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division expert in: planning and strategy expert in: generating customer growth With over 15 years experience in the Dan uses detailed analysis of the industry, Michael is responsible for customer base to develop strategic identifying strategies for growth.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 06 Funding Headroom on committed funding facilities 251m Average length of home credit loan 61 weeks Amount of surplus capital 55m A prudent approach to funding and a flexible lending model ensure we are well placed to endure economic storms.
A funding model that makes sense through good times and bad Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 07 In the current, volatile economic environment, how businesses fund themselves has proved to be one of the greatest discriminators between success and failure.
Our prudent and straightforward approach to treasury management has meant that we have been able to continue to pursue our strategy and planned growth despite the crisis in global credit markets.
Devise a robust funding model Our funding model has been designed to meet the needs of the particular type of business we are in and to provide us with secure, well-priced funding without undue fluctuation in supply or price.
Borrow long, lend short Our funding model is an exercise in prudence.
We borrow money from banks over periods of around three years on average, and lend money to customers over around a year on average.
This means we can adapt our lending to customers in good time to meet any changed circumstances in the external funding environment.
Arrange headroom to cover opportunity or risk At any time, we have arranged funds far in excess of those we require to meet our planned growth.
This means we are more likely to be able to continue growing if funds become restricted for any reason or if demand for our products rises faster than we had expected.
At the end of 2008, we had 251m of funds arranged in excess of our requirements.
Carry appropriate levels of capital Provident Financial is carrying surplus capital of approximately 55m at present which provides both a margin of safety in the current difficult times and an in-built ability to expand the business at a faster rate than currently planned if the right opportunity presented itself.
Have a wide range of funding options In normal times, the wider the range of sources of finance available to a company the better.
In the current troubled times this is especially true.
Within the Provident Financial group, Vanquis Bank has a banking licence and although we currently have no plans to raise funding through retail deposits, this is an additional option open to us.
If we were to consider this option, we would analyse the costs, terms and other issues with this type of funding before deciding whether to include it within our funding mix and at what level.
Stuart Caldwell Job title: group Treasurer and Head of Investor Relations expert in: funding Stuart secures the debt capital which funds the business and manages the associated market risks.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 08 Lending Typical home credit loan amount 400 Average Real Personal Finance loan amount 1,800 Percentage of women agents 71% I know every one of my customers personally, as did my father and grandfather who both acted as agents for Provident.
Lorraine Reilly Home credit agent, Glasgow A personal approach to lending based on one-to-one relationships Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 09 No other lender takes the personal approach to lending as seriously as Provident Financial.
In these days of impersonal, remote contact often internet-based both the group and our customers benefit from more personal, face-to-face or telephone interaction.
Decide who you are going to lend to Through 129 years of experience of home credit customers and over five years of data on Vanquis Bank customers, we are well placed to decide to whom we will lend and to whom we will not lend in our target market.
We currently turn down around 60% of home credit applicants and around 80% of Vanquis Bank applicants.
Small loans over a short term Each of the groups businesses grants small loans to customers over relatively short terms.
Our home credit business grants loans of typically 400 over about a year.
Real Personal Finances average loan is around 1,800 over an average of between two and three years.
And Vanquis Banks average credit card balance is around 540.
Face-to-face interviews with customers Home credit customers have their loans arranged with an agent in their home and they are also visited each week by an agent.
A Personal Finance Manager arranges a Real Personal Finance loan with the customer, in the customers home.
This provides us with a much higher level of confidence than the remote loan arrangement procedures used by most other lenders.
Telephone interviews with customers We aim to speak on the telephone with every new Vanquis Bank customer prior to activating their credit card account.
This provides us with a final check against fraud before authorising use of the card and lets us see if the customer would like any other service right at the beginning of our relationship with them.
We also keep up regular telephone contact with customers to make sure any issues are resolved quickly.
Backed up by credit bureau data All new Real Personal Finance and Vanquis Bank customers undergo a credit bureau check prior to being taken on.
We then use this credit bureau data to create credit scores for customers that effectively differentiate between them, allowing us to accept or reject them and decide how much to advance at any particular time.
Our home credit agents get to know each of their customers well during their weekly home visits.
Steve Higgins Job title: Personal Finance Manager, Real Personal Finance expert in: developing customer relationships Steve visits his customers at home to discuss and underwrite their loans.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 10 Repayments Total number of agent visits per year 90m Typical Vanquis Bank repayment level 4.5% Vanquis Bank maximum credit limit 2,500 My customers know that Im there to help if they have any difficulties with their repayments.
Rachel Simms Home credit agent, Doncaster The weekly payment routine helps me to budget and manage my finances.
Nicola Harris Home credit customer, Doncaster Helping customers make repayments by understanding their needs Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT : OVERVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT OVERVIEW 11 Our approach to getting loans repaid is designed to minimise impairment and help customers at the same time.
From our long experience of lending to customers in the non-standard credit market, we know that those on modest incomes have particular needs.
They will want to make small, manageable repayments.
They may wish to make payments weekly, fortnightly or monthly.
They may find it helpful to have someone call at their home to collect their repayments.
And they may occasionally want to miss repayments or make reduced repayments at no extra cost to them whatsoever.
As much as we are able, we design our products to address these needs.
Weekly home visits The home credit service includes a weekly visit from a local agent to customers homes to collect repayments.
This routine helps customers to keep their account in order and means they do not need to worry about not having the money in their bank account on a particular date with the consequent danger of incurring default charges.
Missing occasional repayments Home credit customers who are experiencing financial difficulties can miss repayments or make reduced repayments for a while at no extra cost whatsoever to them.
Vanquis Bank and Real Personal Finance customers who sign up for our Repayment Option Plan can miss one repayment every six months.
Allowing customers to miss occasional repayments within the terms and conditions of their credit agreement helps retain them as customers in the longer term.
Repayments tailored to customers circumstances Vanquis Bank sets a higher minimum repayment level of 4.5% on its standard credit card compared with most other credit card providers who set minimum repayments of 2% to 3%.
This enables customers to pay off their balance more quickly than they otherwise would have done.
Flexibility of payment frequency and method Vanquis Bank customers can choose to make payments fortnightly or monthly and can pay by a variety of means: by direct debit, by cash, by cheque over the counter at a bank or post office, or by debit card over the phone or by post.
High levels of personal contact Home credit customers see their agent every week and Vanquis Bank keeps an ongoing dialogue with its customers by telephone so that any difficulties can be identified early, discussed with the customer and actions agreed.
Anna Epps Job title: Projects & IT Coordinator, Vanquis Bank expert in: managing IT facilities Anna is responsible for maintaining the IT systems at our Chatham call centre that enable our customers to keep in regular contact with us.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
