: DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Vanquis Bank 26 Vanquis Bank management team, a significant proportion It is increasingly difficult to operate of which has a background in serving in the modern world without a non-standard credit customers.
Credit cards allow Vanquis Bank is willing to lend in this market people to shop conveniently in the sector but does so with the risks in mind.
We operate a low and grow strategy.
We are high street, by telephone or on the willing to take a sensible risk with people but we internet, to manage emergencies, want to limit our exposure at the beginning of and are useful when travelling the relationship, so we set a much lower credit limit than mainstream card issuers.
However, many people of our accounts start with a credit limit of 250 including those with little or no and 1,000 is the initial maximum credit limit.
Credit lines for mainstream card issuers would credit history, those who have had be much higher than this.
We then look at the credit problems in the past but are payment performance on the account with a now over them, and those on lower view to giving controlled increases in credit limit when it is appropriate to do so.
incomes can find themselves excluded from this valuable facility.
Percentage of customers who Vanquis Bank is bringing the benefits of credit Vanquis Bank use the internet at home cards, in a responsible way, to people who can overview find themselves excluded by mainstream card issuers.
Credit card limits are significantly Managing Director lower than those of mainstream lenders and a Michael Lenora high level of contact with customers helps them 42% stay in control.
Brand Vanquis Bank was established in 2003.
After Vanquis Bank a period of market testing, full product launch in the UK commenced in January 2005.
Divisional strategy The number of cardholders at the end of Bring business up to full operational scale 2008 was 404,000.
Produce significant profitability Vanquis Bank operates in the non-standard Increase the number of sector of the UK credit card market.
Our customers Increase receivables customers are on average to below average Move towards ROE of 30% incomes: typically earning between 12,000 and 25,000 per year.
They use our card for Highlights from 2008 the same kinds of things that mainstream card Maiden full year profit before users use their cards for such as the major tax of 8.0m supermarkets and internet shopping sites.
Stable impairment at 40.4% of revenue We are different from other issuers in that our Customer numbers up 27.8% products are designed for people that most other credit card providers see as being too much of a credit risk.
We are more comfortable with this market because of Provident Financials long experience of home credit, and the experience and skills of the Vanquis Bank Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Vanquis Bank continued 27 emma and James use their Vanquis Bank credit card on the internet to buy furniture for their new flat Vanquis Bank is different from other lenders The low credit limit on my in that it maintains a high level of customer Vanquis Bank credit card contact throughout the life of the account.
suits me because it means During the application process, a customer I never have to worry about will have a telephone interview with one of our spending more than I can customer support staff at our call centre in afford to repay.
They will also be contacted before their first payment is due, before we offer a James Wigglesworth credit limit increase, and at any time they Vanquis Bank customer appear to be struggling to make payments.
Our customers also choose to contact us frequently to help keep in control of their account.
Two-thirds of our customers are taken on at our typical APR of 39.9%.
We have higher default rates than the norm in the UK credit card market but our revenues are higher because our interest rates reflect that risk.
Our default fees are in line with those of the mainstream credit card providers.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Vanquis Bank continued 28 Vanquis Bank profit The market Key activities in 2008 before tax There are over ten million people in the UK in the Vanquis Bank continues to perform well and non-standard credit market.
Within that market made significant strides towards its growth and we think somewhere between four and five profitability targets in 2008.
8.0m million people are suited to our credit card Significant investment was made in our product.
Some of those customers are already infrastructure in 2008.
In August, the business with our direct competitors and some are with moved to new, larger premises in Chatham Increase in Vanquis Bank the mainstream credit card providers.
With which gives the business the operating capacity average receivables around 404,000 customers at present, we have to support significant further growth.
At the well below 10% of the non-standard market.
The year end, Vanquis Bank had 340 staff at nature of the credit market at present means that Chatham and a further 60 in London.
The new 4 7.5% mainstream credit card providers may not feel premises are capable of servicing 750,000 able to continue serving some of their customers customers.
who may have been better suited to our type of credit card in any case.
In parallel with the move to new premises, the business took the opportunity to refresh the core Vanquis Banks strategy technology that runs the business by installing Vanquis Banks strategy is to bring the business new hardware and new, leading-edge software.
up to an operational scale that will produce This has allowed the business to manage all significant profitability.
The businesss mediumaspects of its system more efficiently and make term target is 500,000 customers, net even better credit decisions, while delivering receivables of 300m and a return on equity of better customer service.
At the year end, Vanquis Bank had 404,000 improvement is the ability to derive better credit customers and receivables of 205.4m.
scores, effectively in real time, rather than on a historical basis as before.
The Vanquis Bank credit card enables customers to shop online or over the phone.
Amazon is one of the most popular retailers amongst our customers.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Vanquis Bank continued 29 The level of demand for a Vanquis Bank like to buy any of our ancillary products or credit card remains high although we turn services on the day their account is activated.
Customer There are two main products available recruitment channels continued to evolve in at present.
2008 with 60% of customers coming from the One is our Repayment Option Plan which internet, even with an 84% decline rate in this safeguards customers if they are made particular channel.
In addition to direct mail redundant and allows them to miss one payment activity, which is still a major source of business in every six month period.
From our experience for us, we also formed a number of card-issuing in the home credit market we know that the partnerships with other organisations to flexibility to miss occasional repayments is generate new customers.
These partnerships particularly valued by customers in the nonaccounted for approximately 10% of our new standard market.
accounts in 2008 compared with a negligible percentage in 2007.
We also have a number of The other product is the offer to have some of arrangements to consider applicants who have their credit limit transferred to their bank been declined by some of the mainstream credit account immediately.
Some customers like this card issuers which is another important source because they are able to buy goods effectively of business for us.
on day one of their relationship with us rather than having to wait until the process of providing The Chatham call centre takes 160,000 calls a cards and establishing security data is month and the aim is to talk to every customer complete.
The transfer to the customers bank as part of the application process we are the account is free but interest is charged from the only credit card company to do this.
These initial date of the bank transfer so we start earning calls do two things.
They allow us to speak revenue from the account at an earlier date.
to the customer as part of the underwriting process which includes checking security details this helps to reduce fraud.
And it gives us the opportunity to see if the customer would Ive never had a credit card before so I tend to speak to an adviser at Vanquis Bank most months.
It helps me keep on top of things and make sure I dont go over my balance.
Janine Pickering Vanquis Bank customer Avas mum, Janine, makes a repayment over the telephone Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Vanquis Bank continued 30 Vanquis Bank customers Maintaining the quality of its loan book is consider applicants who have been declined extremely important to any credit card lender.
Our partnerships have With our business model, which serves the helped us to achieve a record level of new 4 04,000 non-standard market, and the current economic accounts in 2008 and we expect this channel environment, this is doubly important for us.
to continue to grow in importance in 2009.
We placed a greater emphasis in 2008 on We will seek to develop new products in order Vanquis Bank revenue ensuring that both new and existing customers to add yet more new income streams and we will cards were priced at a level that made an examine the acquisition of suitable credit card appropriate return for the risks being taken.
books in order to take advantage of our 94.6m This shift in focus, while subtle, has resulted in operational capacity headroom.
This would material changes to the proportion of applicants result in the business achieving its full-scale we are prepared to accept as customers, to the operation sooner.
With our banking licence, we initial credit lines we are prepared to grant to also have the potential of deposit taking to fund new customers, and to the increases in credit further expansion.
lines we are prepared to grant to existing customers.
These actions mean we are well Results positioned for the challenging trading Vanquis Bank has made strong progress in 2008 environment in the months ahead.
The segment of the non-standard lending market in which the We have made significant cost savings by business operates has become increasingly renegotiating contracts with key suppliers of under-served at a time of rising demand.
credit bureau data, account processing, internet Consequently, Vanquis Bank received nearly sourcing, and direct mail print.
a million new credit applications during 2008.
Looking ahead However, less than 20% of these were accepted, Our two main tasks in 2009 are to manage reflecting the groups cautious approach to impairment and to continue to grow the business.
The underwriting criteria for accepting new customers and the rate at which credit lines The systems we have in place provide us with are increased to existing customers have been good quality, timely management information tightened progressively since the middle of 2007. which allows us to make any necessary changes to our loan book to keep impairment at New customers continue to start on relatively acceptable levels.
Without wishing to minimise low credit lines of typically 250, which increase the importance of this task, it is what our gradually over time if the customer exhibits systems have been set up to do and it is what appropriate behaviours.
This low and grow we have been doing on a continual basis since approach resulted in customer receivables the businesss foundation.
increasing at a faster rate than customer number growth, with average receivables rising Our other main task is to continue to grow the by 47.5% to 177.5m 2007: 120.3m.
We will establish new card issuing grew at a similar rate as the yield on the loan partnerships and enter into new agreements to book was maintained.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Vanquis Bank continued 31 The profile of customer arrears has remained During 2008, new agreements were negotiated stable.
The impairment charge, measured as a with two of Vanquis Banks key operational percentage of revenue, ended the year at 40.4% partners which have reduced unit costs.
The enhancements made to the gains reflect the banks status as a profitable collection processes within the contact centre and growing business.
introduced during 2008, combined with a Overall, the business reported its first full year cautious approach to growing the business have profit of 8.0m in 2008 2007: loss of 0.9m.
This represents a total improvement of 26.3m The business continues to benefit from in its profitability over the last two years.
increased scale and operational leverage, with Vanquis Bank remains on track to deliver a postcosts rising at a significantly lower rate than tax return on equity of 30% in the medium-term revenue.
The full year cost increase of 18.7% in line with previously issued guidance.
comprised 15.7% in the first half increasing to 21.7% in the second half following the move to a larger contact centre in August 2008 and a major upgrade of the IT infrastructure.
Year ended 31 December 2008 2007 Change Vanquis Bank m m % Customer numbers 000 404 316 27.8 Average customer receivables 177.5 120.3 47.5 Revenue 94.6 63.5 49.0 Impairment 38.2 25.2 51.6 Revenue less impairment 56.4 38.3 47.3 Impairment % revenue 40.4% 39.7% Costs 39.4 33.2 18.7 Interest 9.0 6.0 50.0 Profit loss before tax 8.0 0.9 n a Impairment as a proportion of revenue for the 12 months ended 31 December.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
