: DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Our strategy and KPIs 12 Our strategy and KPIs The groups objective is to be the leading non-standard in measuring the groups performance, it should be lender of choice in the UK and Ireland and it has developed stressed that they are not exhaustive and that many additional performance measures are also used to a clear strategy to achieve this.
monitor performance and progress against objectives.
In order to assess performance against its strategic The groups strategic aims, together with the KPIs objectives, the group uses a number of key performance used to assess performance, are set out below: indicators KPIs.
These comprise both financial and non-financial measures.
Whilst these KPIs are helpful Strategic aim Our strategy KPI and description Performance in 2008 Plans for 2009 Grow and modernise our Customer numbers Customer numbers up 10.2% to 2.17m 2007: 1.97m.
Continue to grow customers in home Growth of higher home credit business.
The number of customers that each division has a current credit at a rate consistent with maintaining an return businesses in ROE increased to 46% in 2008 2007: 41%.
appropriate balance between growth, credit Bring Vanquis Bank up to full the UK and Ireland Consumer Credit Division customer growth of 6.8% in 2008, continuing quality and operational capacity.
operational scale, generating Return on equity turnaround established during 2006. non-standard market significant returns.
Complete market test of Real Personal Finance Profit after tax divided by average equity.
Equity is stated after deducting Roll-out of the Focus field system and the new commission scheme in home in mid-2009 and determine scale and pace of Extend our product offerings the groups pension asset net of deferred tax, the fair value of derivative credit during 2008. further roll-out.
to cover more of our chosen financial instruments net of deferred tax and the proposed final dividend.
Increased investment in Real Personal Finance with the market test rolled out market.
Continue to grow Vanquis Bank towards its to 50 locations.
medium-term objective of 500,000 customers, Vanquis Bank achieved a planned profit of 8.0m in 2008 2007: loss of 0.9m receivables of 300m and a post-tax ROE of and grew receivables to 205.4m 2007: 143.1m.
30% whilst maintaining a cautious approach to granting credit.
Relocation of Vanquis Banks call centre to a new state of the art facility in Chatham which will accommodate a doubling of the size of the business.
Generate sustainable growth Total Shareholder Return TSR TSR of 0.7% since demerger compared with -44.1% for the FTSE 250 over Continue the commitment made at the time of Generating in profits and dividends The increase in the value of the groups shares together with the same period.
demerger to at least maintain the dividend per shareholder generating returns in excess any dividend returns made to shareholders.
TSR is measured share at 63.5p.
returns of the groups weighted over a cumulative period since demerger to a maximum cumulative Dividend per share maintained at 63.5p 2007: 63.5p.
Earnings per share Profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding own shares held.
Dividend per share Total dividends for the year, including the interim dividend paid and the proposed final dividend, divided by the number of shares in issue, excluding own shares held.
Maintain sufficient equity and Gearing Gearing of 3.2 times 2007: 2.7 times compared to the banking covenant Aim to maintain committed borrowing Secure funding and borrowing facilities to sustain Borrowings based on contracted rates of exchange divided by equity.
facilities which provide funding headroom capital structure the groups operations and Equity is stated after deducting the groups pension asset net of deferred for at least the following 12 months.
Headroom on borrowing facilities of 251.2m as at 31 December 2008. fund growth over at least the tax and the fair value of derivative financial instruments net of deferred Maintain capital and gearing at prudent levels.
Regulatory capital comfortably in excess of the FSAs interim capital guidance.
tax in line with the groups banking covenants.
Maintained a Fitch rating of BBB.
Borrowings headroom Surplus capital of approximately 55m.
Total committed borrowing facilities less actual borrowings.
Acting responsibly Earn high levels of customer Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction of 95% for home credit 2007: 94% and 86% for Maintain or improve customer satisfaction.
The percentage of customers surveyed who are satisfied with the service Vanquis Bank 2007: 84%.
in our relationships they have been offered.
Invest in the communities in Invested 797,000 in various programmes during 2008 to benefit the Increase the groups investment in with customers and which our customers and communities we serve 2007: 854,000. the communities we serve.
making a positive Investment in the community agents live and in which our The amount of money invested in support of community programmes Developed CR governance and management processes to manage group-wide Fully embed the groups core values into the contribution to staff work.
based on the London Benchmarking Groups LBG guidelines and CR performance.
behaviour of the organisation and our people.
the communities Put in place a system to donated for charitable purposes.
Established a responsible lending group to ensure that the Consumer Credit served by the manage corporate Division and Vanquis Bank operate at, or above, the standards expected by groups businesses responsibility CR.
the regulatory frameworks which relate to the responsible lending agenda.
Meet or exceed regulatory Following consultation with our people, finalised and articulated the core values requirements on fairness and that underpin the Provident Financial group.
Restated to exclude 126,000 of items no longer included within LBG criteria.
Follow our values in the treatment of our stakeholders.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Our strategy and KPIs continued 13 Strategic aim Our strategy KPI and description Performance in 2008 Plans for 2009 Grow and modernise our Customer numbers Customer numbers up 10.2% to 2.17m 2007: 1.97m.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
