Governance Governance Additional disclosures The following additional disclosures are made in compliance Post-balance sheet events with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Important events affecting the Company after the end of the Transparency Rules and the Combined Code.
financial year are detailed in Note I10.
Financial reporting Significant agreements that take effect, alter or The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the terminate upon a change of control of the Company performance and financial position of the Group and are following a takeover bid responsible for preparing the financial statements on pages Under the agreements governing Prudential Corporation 131 to 315 and the supplementary information on pages 318 to Holdings Limiteds life insurance and fund management 356.
It is the responsibility of the auditor to form independent joint ventures with China International Trust & Investment opinions, based on its audit of the financial statements and its Corporation CITIC, if there is a change of control of the review of the EEV basis supplementary information: and to Company, CITIC may terminate the agreements and either report its opinions to the Companys shareholders and to the i purchase the Companys entire interest in the joint venture Company.
Its opinions are given on pages 317 and 358. or require the Company to sell its interest to a third-party designated by CITIC or ii require the Company to purchase Company law requires the directors to prepare financial all of CITICs interest in the joint venture.
The price of such statements for each financial year which give a true and fair purchase or sale is to be the fair value of the shares to be view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
transferred, as determined by the auditor.
The criteria applied in the preparation of the financial statements are set out in the statement of directors Essential contracts or arrangements responsibilities on page 316.
There are a number of significant relationships with thirdThe directors are further required to confirm that the parties, which have value to the business.
No single directors report includes a fair review of the development relationship, however, is considered to be essential to the and performance of the business, with a description of the Group as a whole.
Such confirmation is included in the statement of directors responsibilities Compensation for loss of office on page 316.
None of the terms of employment of the Companys directors includes provisions for payment of compensation for loss The Business Review includes, on pages 34 to 41, a description of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover.
of the Groups risk and capital management, which includes a Terms applying on a termination of their office are set out in the description of the Groups liquidity position.
These risks are Directors Remuneration Report.
In the US, senior executives also discussed in Note C to the financial statements.
The Group participate on a discretionary basis in a plan which entitles has considerable internal and external financial resources and them to compensation, in the event that their employment the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage is terminated or adversely affected as a result of a takeover.
its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain In addition, one employee in our Asian business participates economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
The directors therefore have continued to use the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
