Board of directors Harvey McGrath Mark Tucker Tidjane Thiam Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Clark Manning Michael McLintock Nick Prettejohn Barry Stowe Executive director Executive director Executive director Executive director Sir Winfried Bischoff Keki Dadiseth Michael Garrett Ann Godbehere Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Bridget Macaskill Kathleen ODonovan James Ross Lord Turnbull Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director 80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Michael McLintock Chairman Executive director Michael McLintock has been an executive director of Prudential since Harvey McGrath September 2000.
He is also Chief Executive of M&G, a position he held at Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee the time of M&G's acquisition by Prudential in 1999.
Michael joined M&G Harvey McGrath has been an independent non-executive director in 1992.
He previously also served on the board of Close Brothers Group of Prudential since 1 September 2008, and became Chairman and plc as a non-executive director 2001-2008.
Since October 2008 he has Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 January 2009.
Harvey has been a Trustee of the Grosvenor Estate.
a long and distinguished career in the international financial services industry.
He started his career at Chase Manhattan Bank in London Nick Prettejohn and New York.
From 1980 to 2007 he worked for Man Group plc starting Executive director as Treasurer, then Finance Director, then President of Man Inc. in Nick Prettejohn has been an executive director of Prudential and Chief New York, before being appointed as Chief Executive of Man Group Executive, Prudential UK & Europe since January 2006.
He is also a board in London in 1990, and then Chairman in 2000.
He left Man Group in member of the ABI, Chairman of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel 2007.
Harvey is also Chairman of the London Development Agency, which having previously been Deputy Chairman, and a board member of the works for the Mayor of London, coordinating economic development Royal Opera House.
Previously, he was Chief Executive of Lloyd's of and regeneration across the capital, and Vice Chairman of the London London from 1999 until 2005.
Nick joined the Corporation of Lloyd's in Skills and Employment Board, which is tasked with developing a strategy 1995 as Head of Strategy, and played a key role in the Reconstruction for adult skills in London.
He is the former Chairman of both London and Renewal process, which reorganised Lloyd's after the losses of the First and the East London Business Alliance, and a Member of the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Following the successful completion of the International Advisory Board of the School of Oriental and African reorganisation in 1996, he became Managing Director of Lloyd's Business Studies.
Harvey is a trustee of a number of charities including New Development Unit and in 1998, he also assumed responsibility for Lloyd's Philanthropy Capital, a research based charity which gives advice and North America business unit.
Prior to his appointment to Lloyd's, Nick was guidance to donors and charities: the Royal Anniversary Trust which responsible for corporate strategy at National Freight Corporation plc, and operates the Queens Anniversary Prizes for Higher and Further Education: prior to that he was a partner at management consultants Bain and Co and ISS, which protects the rights and welfare of children and vulnerable a director of private equity company Apax Partners.
adults across borders: icould, an online careers resource: and the Princes Teaching Institute, which promotes subject based professional Barry Stowe development for teachers.
Executive director Barry Stowe has been an executive director of Prudential since Executive directors November 2006, and Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia since October 2006.
Since October 2008 he has also been a director Mark Tucker ACA of the Life Insurance Marketing Research Association and the Life Office Group Chief Executive until 30 September 2009 Management Association.
Previously, he was President, Accident & Health Mark Tucker was re-appointed as an executive director of Prudential in Worldwide for AIG Life Companies.
He joined AIG in 1995, and prior to May 2005, when he also became Group Chief Executive.
From May 2004 that was President and CEO of Nisus, a subsidiary of Pan-American Life, to March 2005, he was Group Finance Director, HBOS plc and a director of from 1992-1995.
Prior to Nisus, Barry spent 12 years at Willis Corroon Halifax plc.
Previously, Mark was an executive director of Prudential from in the US.
1999 to 2003, and from 1993 to 2003 he was Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, and also held senior positions in Prudential's businesses Non-executive directors in the UK and US.
Mark first joined Prudential in 1986, having previously been a tax consultant at PriceWaterhouse UK in London.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Independent non-executive director Tidjane Thiam Sir Winfried Bischoff has been an independent non-executive director Chief Financial Officer until 30 September 2009 of Prudential since August 2007.
Sir Win has been Chairman of Citi Europe Group Chief Executive from 1 October 2009 and a Member of The Management, Operating and Business Heads Tidjane Thiam has been an executive director of Prudential and Chief Committees of Citigroup Inc. since May 2000.
He is also a director of Financial Officer since 25 March 2008, and will succeed Mark Tucker as Citigroup Inc. and was Acting Chief Executive Officer from November Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 October 2009.
He was previously to December 2007, and Chairman from December 2007 until 23 February Chief Executive Officer, Europe at Aviva, where he also held successively 2009.
In addition, Sir Win is Chairman of the European Advisory Board of the positions of Group Strategy and Development Director and Managing Citigroup Inc. and has been a non-executive director of The McGraw-Hill Director, Aviva International.
Prior to that, Tidjane was a partner with Companies, New York since October 1999 and of Eli Lilly and Company, McKinsey & Company in France and one of the leaders of their Financial Indianapolis since June 2000.
Prior to that, Sir Win joined the Company Institutions practice, focusing on insurance companies and banks.
Earlier Finance Division of J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited, London, in 1966 in his career, he spent a number of years in Africa where he was Chief and in 1971, he was appointed as Managing Director of Schroders Asia Executive and then Chairman of the National Bureau for Technical Studies Limited, Hong Kong.
He returned to London in January 1983, and was and Development in Cote d'Ivoire and a cabinet member as Minister of appointed Chairman of J. Henry Schroder & Co. in October 1983.
Sir Win Planning and Development.
He is a non-executive director of Arkema in was appointed Group Chief Executive of Schroders plc in December 1984 France, a member of the Council of the Overseas Development Institute and as Chairman of Schroders plc in May 1995, until the acquisition of the ODI in London and a sponsor of Opportunity International, a charity investment banking business of Schroders by Citigroup Inc. in May 2000. focusing on microfinance in developing countries.
In addition, Sir Win was a non-executive director of Cable and Wireless plc from 1991 and Deputy Chairman from 1995 to 2003.
His other nonClark Manning FSA MAAA executive directorships included: IFIL Finanziaria di Partecipazioni SpA, Executive director Italy 1999-2004, Siemens Holdings Plc 2001-2003, Land Securities Plc Clark Manning has been an executive director of Prudential since January 1999-2008 and Akbank T. A. S. 2007-2008.
He is also President and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson National Life.
He was previously Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary of Jackson National Life, which he joined in 1995.
Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary for SunAmerica Inc, and prior to that Consulting Actuary at Milliman & Robertson Inc. Clark has more than 25 years' experience in the life insurance industry, and holds both a bachelor's degree in actuarial science and an MBA from the University of Texas.
He also holds professional designations of Fellow of the Society of Actuaries FSA and Member of the American Academy of Actuaries MAAA.
81 Board of directors continued Keki Dadiseth FCA Bridget Macaskill Independent non-executive director and member Independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Nomination Committee of the Remuneration Committee Keki Dadiseth has been an independent non-executive director of Bridget Macaskill has been an independent non-executive director of Prudential since September 2003.
Bridget rejoined the Board of Prudential Prudential since April 2005.
During 2006, he was appointed as a nonexecutive director of ICICI Prudential Life Assurance Company Limited and having previously resigned due to a potential conflict of interest in 2001.
She has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since 2003 and ICICI Prudential Trust Limited.
He is also a member of the Advisory Board of Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc. and an International Advisor to became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May 2006.
Bridget joined Arnhold and S. Bleichroeder Advisers, LLC, a US based investment Goldman Sachs.
In addition, Keki is a director of Nicholas Piramal Limited, Siemens Limited, Britannia Industries Limited and The Indian Hotels management firm, as President and Chief Operating Officer in February 2009.
She is also a trustee of the TIAA-CREF funds and was previously a Company Limited, all quoted on the Bombay Stock Exchange.
He is also a director of the Indian School of Business and acts as a trustee of a number non-executive director of Fannie Mae 2005-2008, Scottish & Newcastle PLC 2004-2008 and J Sainsbury Plc 2002-2006.
Prior to that she of Indian charities.
Before he retired from Unilever in 2005, Keki was Director, Home and Personal Care, responsible for the HPC business of spent 18 years at OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major New York based investment management company, the final 10 years of which she Unilever worldwide, a Board member of Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. and a member of Unilever's Executive Committee.
He joined Hindustan was Chief Executive Officer.
Kathleen ODonovan ACA Independent non-executive director and Chairman Michael Garrett Independent non-executive director and member of the Audit Committee Kathleen O'Donovan has been an independent non-executive director of the Remuneration Committee Michael Garrett has been an independent non-executive director of of Prudential since May 2003.
She has been a member of the Audit Committee since 2003 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee in Prudential since September 2004.
He worked for Nestl from 1961, becoming Head of Japan 1990 1993, and then Zone Director and May 2006.
Kathleen is a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Great Portland Estates PLC and Trinity Mirror plc, and a Member of the Executive Board, responsible for Asia and Oceania, and in 1996 his responsibilities were expanded to include Africa and the Middle non-executive director of ARM Holdings plc.
She is also Chairman of the Invensys Pension Scheme.
Previously, she was a non-executive director East.
Michael retired as Executive Vice President of Nestl in 2005.
He served the Government of Australia as Chairman of the Food Industry and Chairman of the Audit Committees of the EMI Group plc and the Court of the Bank of England, and a non-executive director of O Council and as a Member of the Industry Council of Australia, and was also plc.
Prior to 2 a member of the Advisory Committee for an APEC Asia-Pacific Economic that, Kathleen was Chief Financial Officer of BTR and Invensys, and before Cooperation Food System, a Member of The Turkish Prime Minister's that she was a partner at Ernst & Young.
Advisory Group and the WTO World Trade Organization Business Advisory Council in Switzerland.
Michael remains a director of Nestl in James Ross India, and was appointed Chairman of the Evian Group in 2001, a think Senior Independent non-executive Director and member tank and forum for dialogue promoting free trade.
He also serves as a of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees non-executive director on the Boards of the Bobst Group in Switzerland, James Ross has been an independent non-executive director since May Hasbro Inc. in the USA, and Gottex Fund Management Holdings Limited 2004 and the Senior Independent Director since May 2006.
In addition, he is a member of the Finance and Performance non-executive directorships with McGraw Hill in the United States and Review Committee of The Prince of Wales International Business Leaders Schneider Electric in France.
He is also Chairman of the Leadership Forum IBLF, as well as a Member of the Swaziland International Business Foundation for Higher Education and of the Liverpool School of Tropical Advisory Panel under the auspices of the Global Leadership Foundation Medicine.
James was previously a non-executive director of Datacard Inc GLF London.
in the United States, and prior to that Chairman of National Grid plc and Littlewoods plc.
He was also Chief Executive of Cable and Wireless plc Ann Godbehere FCGA and Chairman and Chief Executive of BP America Inc. and a Managing Independent non-executive director and member Director of the British Petroleum Company plc.
of the Audit Committee Ann Godbehere has been an independent non-executive director of Lord Turnbull KCB CVO Prudential since August 2007, and has been a member of the Audit Independent non-executive director and member Committee since October 2007.
She began her career in 1976 with of the Audit Committee Sun Life of Canada, joining Mercantile & General Reinsurance Group Lord Turnbull has been an independent non-executive director of in 1981, where she held a number of management roles rising to Senior Prudential since May 2006, and a member of the Audit Committee since Vice President and Controller for life and health and property casualty January 2007.
He entered the House of Lords as a Life Peer in 2005.
In businesses in North America in 1995.
In 1996, Swiss Re acquired 2002, he became Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Mercantile & General Reinsurance Group, and Ann became Chief Financial Service until he retired in 2005.
Prior to that, he held a number of positions Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health, North America.
In 1997, she was made in the civil service, including Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury: Chief Executive Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health, Canada.
She moved to Permanent Secretary at the Department of the Environment later London as Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health Division in 1998 Environment, Transport and the Regions : Private Secretary Economics and joined the Property & Casualty Business Group, based out of Zurich, to the Prime Minister: and Principal Private Secretary to Margaret Thatcher as Chief Financial Officer on its establishment in 2001.
From 2003 until and then John Major.
Lord Turnbull is February 2007 Ann was Chief Financial Officer of the Swiss Re Group.
Chairman of BH Global Limited and a non-executive director of Frontier Ann is also a non-executive director of Ariel Holdings Limited, Atrium Economics Limited and The British Land Company PLC, and was formerly Underwriting Group Limited and Atrium Underwriting Limited.
In 2008 a non-executive director of the Arup Group 2006-2007.
He also works and until January 2009 Ann was Chief Financial Officer and Executive part-time as a Senior Adviser to the London partners of Booz and Co UK.
82 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Governance report The Board is responsible to shareholders for Group governance framework: Documents the Groups creating and delivering sustainable shareholder internal control policies and processes in an online manual, value through the management of the Groups including the Groups risk framework, code of business business.
This report explains Prudentials conduct and detailed policies on certain operational and approach to governance, including how the financial risks.
Business units are also required to follow any Board manages the business for the benefit additional processes necessary to comply with local statutory of shareholders, promoting long-term and regulatory requirements.
Group risk framework: Provides an overview of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to risk management, As a UK company listed on the Main Market of the London and sets out the key processes for risk management that Stock Exchange, Prudential is subject to the governance rules support the Groups compliance with internal, statutory set out in the Combined Code.
The Board has approved a and regulatory requirements.
governance framework which maps out the internal approvals Corporate responsibility framework: Provides an overview processes and those matters which may be delegated.
These of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to corporate principally relate to the operational management of the responsibility: supports the Groups commercial focus and Groups businesses and include pre-determined authority the increasing challenges we face including changes in limits delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive stakeholder expectations.
A key element is the Group Code for further delegation by him in respect of matters which are of Business Conduct which sets out the ethical standards necessary for the effective day-to-day running and the Board requires of itself, employees, agents and others management of the business.
The chief executive of each working on behalf of the Group, in their dealings with business unit has authority for the management of that employees, customers, shareholders, suppliers, and business unit and has established a management board competitors, in the wider community and in respect of comprising its most senior executives.
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of The Business Review provides further detail on Prudentials internal control and risk management and for reviewing risk appetite and exposures pages 34 to 41 and corporate its effectiveness.
The framework setting out the Groups responsibility activities pages 74 to 78. approach to internal control, risk management and corporate responsibility comprises the following: 83 Governance report Corporate governance Corporate governance and the role of the board The Board is actively engaged in succession planning for both Combined Code compliance executive and non-executive roles to ensure that composition The corporate governance rules applicable to all UK is periodically renewed, and that the Board retains its companies admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing effectiveness at all times.
This is delivered through an Authority are set out in the Combined Code, published by established review process that is applied across all businesses the Financial Reporting Council in June 2003, and revised in and covers both director and senior management succession 2006.
The directors believe that good corporate governance and development, and through the work of the Nomination is central to achieving the Groups objectives and maximising Committee, as described more fully on pages 92 and 93.
The shareholder value, and are committed to high standards of Board considers the outcome of the review annually and corporate governance.
The Board supports the Combined actions arising from the review are implemented as part of the Code, and confirms that it has complied with all of the management development agenda.
We believe that our nonprovisions set out in Section 1 throughout the financial executive directors bring a wide range of business, financial year ended 31 December 2008. and international experience to the Board and its committees.
Our executive directors, who head up the main businesses of The principles of the Combined Code have been applied as the Group, each bring an in-depth understanding to the Board set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
of their particular business, its markets and its challenges, ensuring coverage of the breadth and depth of the Groups Board composition, appointments principal activities.
and election re-election As at 31 December 2008, the Board comprised the Chairman, Role of the Board six executive directors and nine independent non-executive The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate directors.
During the year, Tidjane Thiam was appointed as and clearly defined, and the scope of these roles has been an executive director and Chief Financial Officer, with effect approved by the Board so that no individual has unfettered from 25 March 2008, and Harvey McGrath was appointed powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the as an independent non-executive director with effect from leadership and governance of the Board as a whole, and the 1 September 2008.
On 15 May 2008 Philip Broadley ceased to Group Chief Executive for the management of the Group and be a director with effect from the close of the Annual General the implementation of Board strategy and policy on the Boards Meeting, and on 31 December 2008 Sir David Clementi behalf.
In discharging his responsibilities, the Group Chief ceased to be a director and Chairman of the Board.
He was Executive is advised and assisted by the Group Executive succeeded as Chairman by Harvey McGrath with effect from Committee, comprising all the business unit heads and a 1 January 2009.
The biographies of all current directors are set Group Head Office team of functional specialists.
James Ross is the Companys Senior Independent Director, to The Board may appoint directors, up to a maximum whom concerns may be conveyed by shareholders if they are total number of 20 as set out in the Companys Articles of unable to resolve them through the existing mechanisms for Association, and any director appointed by the Board will investor communications, or where such channels are retire at the first Annual General Meeting following his or inappropriate.
her appointment and offer himself or herself for election by shareholders.
Accordingly, Harvey McGrath will retire and The Boards terms of reference, which are regularly reviewed, offer himself for election at the Annual General Meeting on set out those matters specifically reserved to it for decision, 14 May 2009. in order to ensure that it exercises control over the Groups affairs.
These include approval of the annual and interim Under the current Articles of Association of the Company, results, strategy and corporate objectives, operating plans, all directors must retire as directors at least every three years, significant transactions and matters affecting the Companys and accordingly Mark Tucker, Michael McLintock and Nick share capital.
Prettejohn will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2009.
Powers of directors Non-executive directors are usually appointed for an The management and control of the business and affairs of the initial three-year term, commencing with their election by Company are vested in the Board.
The Board may exercise all shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following powers conferred on it by the Memorandum of Association, their appointment.
Each appointment is reviewed towards the the Articles of Association, and the Companies Acts.
This end of this period against performance and the requirements includes the powers of the Company to borrow money and to of the Groups businesses.
Non-executive directors are typically mortgage or charge any of its assets subject to limitations in expected to serve for two three-year terms from their initial the Companies Acts and the Articles and to give a guarantee, election by shareholders, although the Board may invite them security or indemnity in respect of a debt or other obligation to serve for an additional period.
The terms and conditions of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers and do of non-executive directors appointments are available for everything within the powers of the Company, other than inspection at the Companys registered office during normal matters required by the Companies Acts to be dealt with in business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
84 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Board and committee meetings and attendance The majority of directors attended all 7 scheduled Board During 2008, the Board met 8 times and held a separate meetings occurring during the period.
There was 1 additional strategy meeting.
A detailed forward agenda has been in Board meeting, and the majority of the directors attended that operation for a number of years, which is continually updated meeting.
Where directors were not able to attend a meeting, to reflect not only scheduled regular items of business but also their views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the any topical matters that have arisen.
Each year, at least one of meeting.
The table on page 85 details the number of Board the Board meetings is held at one of the Groups business and Committee meetings attended by each director operations to facilitate a fuller understanding of the business.
A further 10 ad hoc Board Committee In June 2008, a Board meeting was held at Jacksons offices meetings took place during the year, which had been in the US, where the Board met with senior members of the convened to finalise arrangements for matters discussed by US management team and attended a series of presentations the Board, such as final approvals of periodic financial reports on the US distribution model and the challenges and or finalising transactions.
The Chairman usually meets formally, opportunities facing the US business.
In September 2008, at least annually, with the non-executive directors without the the Board met at the UK business offices in London, meeting executive directors being present.
During 2008, the Chairman senior members of the UK management team and receiving held a number of meetings with non-executives individually or a presentation on the UK business.
In November 2008, the in groups without the executives being present.
It was decided Board held its annual strategy meeting in Hong Kong.
Whilst in the light of these meetings that no additional formal meeting they were there, the directors met senior members of the Asian would be required.
The Chairman Designate also had a management team, attended part of the Asian Leadership number of meetings with non-executive directors without Meeting and received presentations on the Asian business.
The Board also visited the Hong Kong offices.
Full Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Number of meetings in year 86 8 3 note 1 Sir David Clementi 8 8 n a n a n a note 2 Sir Winfried Bischoff 7 8 n a n a n a note 3 Philip Broadley 3 3 n a n a n a note 4 Keki Dadiseth 6 8 n a 6 8 n a note 5 Michael Garrett 8 8 n a 7 8 n a Ann Godbehere 8 8 6 6 n a n a note 6 Bridget Macaskill 6 8 n a 8 8 3 3 Clark Manning 8 8 n a n a n a note 7 Harvey McGrath 2 2 n a n a n a Michael McLintock 8 8 n a n a n a note 8 Kathleen ODonovan 8 8 6 6 n a 3 3 Nick Prettejohn 8 8 n a n a n a James Ross 8 8 n a 8 8 3 3 note 9 Barry Stowe 7 8 n a n a n a note 10 Tidjane Thiam 6 6 n a n a n a Mark Tucker 8 8 n a n a n a note 11 Lord Turnbull 7 8 6 6 n a n a Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which the individual could have attended in the period in which they were a Board or Committee member.
During 2008 there were 7 scheduled Board meetings and 1 additional Board meeting.
In addition, there was a strategy event attended by all directors.
During 2008 there were 6 scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
During 2008 there were 4 scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings and 4 additional meetings.
Notes 1 Not required to attend Nomination Committee meetings in 2008 as meetings were held to determine his successor.
2 Attended all meetings except one Board meeting due to a commitment agreed prior to appointment to the Board.
3 Ceased to be a director with effect from 15 May 2008.
4 Attended all meetings except two Board meetings and two Remuneration Committee meetings due to prior commitments and the terrorist activities in Mumbai.
5 Attended all meetings except one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
6 Attended all meetings except one scheduled Board meeting and the unscheduled Board meeting, due to prior commitments.
7 Appointed as a director on 1 September 2008.
8 Temporary member of the Nomination Committee during 2008.
9 Attended all scheduled meetings but was unable to attend the unscheduled Board meeting because of travel commitments.
10 Appointed as a director on 25 March 2008.
11 Attended all meetings except the unscheduled Board meeting due to a prior commitment.
85 Governance report Corporate governance continued Board independence Other commitments and conflicts of interest The Company follows the Combined Code when Other commitments determining the independence of its non-executive directors, The Board was satisfied during 2008 that the Chairmans and in addition to that guidance Prudential is required to affirm other commitments did not interfere with the day-to-day annually the independence of its Audit Committee members performance of his duties for the Group, and that he had the under Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
Where necessary, the Board commitment and capability to make himself available under ensures that appropriate processes are in place to manage any unforeseen circumstances, should the need arise.
The Board possible conflict of interest.
remains satisfied in this respect as regards his successor.
The major commitments of the current Chairman, including In line with the principles of the Combined Code, both the changes during the year where applicable are detailed in Chairman in office during the year and his successor from his biography on page 81.
1 January 2009 were independent on appointment.
Throughout the year all non-executive directors were considered by the Our directors may, from time to time, hold directorships or Board to be independent in character and judgement, and other significant interests with companies outside of the independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
Prudential Group, which may have business relationships with the Group.
Keki Dadiseth and Barry Stowe also serve as non-executive directors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, Our executive directors may accept external directorships an Indian company which is owned 26% by Prudential, and in and retain any fees earned from those directorships, subject addition Keki serves at Prudentials request as a non-executive to prior discussion with the Group Chief Executive, and always director of ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, an Indian company provided this does not lead to any conflicts of interest.
In line which is owned 49% by Prudential.
The Board does not with the Combined Code, executive directors would be consider that these appointments in any way affect Kekis expected to hold no more than one non-executive directorship status as an independent director of Prudential.
Some of our executive directors hold directorships of companies in the arts and educational sectors, Sir Winfried Bischoff has been Chairman of Citi Europe and a for which they do not receive any fees.
One of our executive Member of The Management, Operating and Business Heads directors, Michael McLintock, served on the board of Close Committees of Citigroup Inc. since May 2000.
He is also Brothers Group plc during part of the year and as trustee of the Chairman of the European Advisory Board of Citigroup Inc. Grosvenor Estate during the latter part of the year.
Our Chief He was the acting Chief Executive Officer of Citigroup Inc. Financial Officer, Tidjane Thiam, serves on the board of from November 2007 to December 2007 when he was Arkema S. A. a position he held on appointment to Prudential.
appointed Chairman of Citigroup Inc. Sir Win relinquished Details of any fees retained are included in the Directors his chairmanship of Citigroup Inc. on 23 February 2009, Remuneration Report on page 118, and major commitments but remains a director.
Prudential has a number of business of our executive directors are detailed in their biographies relationships with Citi.
The Board believes that, in respect on page 81. of the Combined Code, these business relationships are not sufficiently material to compromise his independence Our non-executive directors may serve on a number of other in matters relating to Prudential.
boards, provided that they are able to demonstrate satisfactory time commitment to their role at Prudential, and that they Both Sir Winfried Bischoff and James Ross are on the board discuss any new appointment with the Chairman prior to of The McGraw-Hill Companies, however, the Board does accepting.
This ensures that they do not compromise their not consider that this relationship in any way affects the independence and that any potential conflicts of interest independence of either Sir Win or James Ross in matters and any possible issues arising out of the time commitments relating to Prudential.
required by the new role can be identified and addressed Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and appropriately.
The major commitments of our non-executive the Board does not believe that this situation compromises the directors are detailed in their biographies set out on independence of those non-executive directors who are also pages 81 and 82. on the boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude the Company from having the most appropriate and highest calibre non-executive directors.
86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Conflicts of interest A new statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest Performance evaluation with the Company came into force in October 2008.
The Prudential continued its programme of annual evaluations Companys Articles of Association, adopted in May 2008, allow of the performance of the Board and its committees in respect the directors to authorise conflicts of interest, and the Board of 2008, in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
has adopted a policy and effective procedures for managing The aim was to improve the effectiveness of the Board and and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential its committees, and enhance the Groups performance.
Under those procedures, directors are In 2008, the evaluation of the Board as a whole was carried required to declare all directorships or other appointments out by an independent consultant, following a briefing by to companies which are not part of the Prudential Group, the Chairman, the Chairman Designate and the Senior and which could result in conflicts or potential conflicts of Independent Director.
Each director and the members of interest, as well as other situations which could give rise to the Group Executive Committee completed a questionnaire a potential conflict.
and were interviewed by the independent consultant.
The questions asked were based on the Combined Code and Induction, development and performance evaluation on previously identified matters, and sought views on the Induction effectiveness of the Board as a whole.
The review was carried The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in providing out at the end of 2008, during the last month of Sir David tailored induction programmes for new directors and on-going Clementis chairmanship of the Board.
Ordinarily, the training for all directors.
Upon appointment, all directors effectiveness of the Chairman would also be reviewed as embark upon a wide-ranging induction programme covering, part of this process, however, given that a new Chairman amongst other things, the principal bases of accounting for the was appointed with effect from 1 January 2009, it was not Groups results, the role of the Board and its key committees, considered necessary to carry out a review of the performance and the ambit of the internal audit and risk management of the outgoing Chairman for 2008. functions.
In addition, they receive detailed briefings on the Groups principal businesses, its product range, the markets The independent consultant prepared a report based on in which it operates and the overall competitive environment.
the various discussions held and presented and discussed Other areas addressed include legal issues affecting directors the overall results of the evaluation with the Board in March of financial services companies, the Groups governance 2009.
The use of external providers for this purpose is kept arrangements, its investor relations programme, as well under review.
In addition, the performance of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive was evaluated by the Chairman Ongoing development in individual meetings.
The Group Chief Executive individually Throughout their period in office, directors are continually appraised the performance of each of the executive directors.
updated on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and industry-specific environments in which it operates, Internal and external support as well as on their legal and other duties and obligations as All directors have direct access to the services of the Company directors where appropriate.
These updates can be in the Secretary who advises them on all corporate governance form of written reports to the Board, or presentations by matters, on Board procedures, and on compliance with senior executives or external sources where appropriate.
In order to ensure good Non-executive directors serving on key committees are information flows, full Board and Committee papers are also updated regularly on matters specific to the relevant provided to the directors by the Company Secretary in the committee in order to enhance their knowledge and ordinary course approximately one week before each Board effectiveness throughout their term in office, and receive or Committee meeting.
presentations from senior executives on topics of interest to them.
The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors have the right to seek independent professional advice at the A programme of on-going professional development Companys expense where this is appropriate to enable the was undertaken for all directors in 2008, which covered a directors, either individually or as a group, to properly fulfil number of sector-specific and business issues as well as legal, their obligations.
accounting and regulatory changes and developments.
Each business unit head, accompanied by relevant senior managers, Copies of any instructions and advice given by an independent gave a presentation to the Board during the course of the year professional adviser to a director are supplied by the director to on the challenges and opportunities currently faced by their the Company Secretary who will, where appropriate, circulate business unit.
In addition, senior managers within certain to other directors sufficient information to ensure that other head office functions presented to the Board on the key issues members of the Board are kept informed on issues arising currently being handled by the function.
During the year, two which affect the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
teach-ins were held for non-executive directors covering FSA related topics and accounting disclosures.
In addition, members of the Audit Committee attended some meetings of the Group Operational Risk Management Committee and the Group Asset and Liability Committee, as well as some meetings of business unit audit committees, to aid their understanding of topical matters of interest to them and how they are handled by the Group.
87 Governance report Corporate governance continued Directors interests The system is regularly reviewed and complies with the revised Details of each directors interests in shares of the guidance on the Combined Code issued in October 2005 the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Turnbull guidance.
The Board last reviewed the effectiveness on page 116. of the system of internal control in 2009, covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance Directors indemnities and protections controls, and risk management systems.
The Board confirms The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and respect of legal action against directors and senior managers managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has of companies within the Prudential Group.
In addition, the been in place throughout the period covered by this report Articles of Association of the Company permit the directors and up to 18 March 2009. and officers of the Company to be indemnified in respect of The chief executive and chief financial officer of each business liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
Prudential also unit certified compliance with the Groups governance, provides protections for directors and senior managers of internal control and risk management requirements.
The risk companies within the Group against personal financial management function reviewed any matters identified by exposure they may incur in their capacity as such.
These business units in their certification, and also assessed the risk include qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as and control issues that arose and were reported during the defined by the relevant Companies Act for the benefit of year.
This included: routine and exception-based risk directors of Prudential, including, where applicable, in their reporting: matters identified and reported by other Group capacity as directors of other companies within the Group.
Head Office oversight functions and the findings from the These indemnities were in force during 2008 and remain work of the internal audit function, who execute risk-based in force.
audit plans throughout the Group.
The results were reported to and reviewed by the Group Audit Committee, Governance, internal control and risk management whose role is described on pages 89 to 91 and by the Board The Board is responsible for establishing a system of internal where appropriate.
control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To achieve this, the Board has established frameworks for internal governance, In line with the Turnbull guidance, the certification provided risk and corporate responsibility.
This system is designed to above does not apply to certain material joint ventures where manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group does not exercise full management control.
In these business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and cases, the Group satisfies itself that suitable governance and risk not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
management arrangements are in place to protect the Groups interests.
In addition, the relevant Group company which is Further details on the procedures for the management of party to the joint venture must, in respect of any services it risk and the systems of internal control operated by the provides in support of the joint venture, comply with the Group are given in the section on Risk Governance on pages requirements of the Groups internal governance framework.
The governance framework principally relates to the operational management of the Groups businesses Disclosure of information to auditor and includes pre-determined authority limits delegated The directors who held office at the date of approval of this by the Board in respect of matters which are necessary for Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, the effective day-to-day running and management of the there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys business.
The Group Chief Executive has been delegated auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps management authority by the Board, and in turn grants that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make authority to the executive, including the chief executive himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information officers of each business unit, who report to him for the and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of management of that business unit.
In addition, each of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be those chief executives has established a management interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA board comprising the business units most senior executives.
88 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Board Committees Meetings The Board has established audit, remuneration and nomination The Committee met six times during the year.
By invitation, committees as standing committees of the Board with written the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer, the terms of reference, which are kept under regular review.
Company Secretary and Group Legal Services Director, the These committees are key elements of the Groups corporate Group-wide Internal Audit Director, and other senior staff governance framework, and reports on each are included below: from the internal audit, risk, compliance and security functions where appropriate, as well as the lead partner of the external Audit Committee Report auditor attended meetings.
Other audit partners also attended This report sets out the responsibilities of the Group Audit some of the meetings to contribute to the discussions relating Committee the Committee and the activities carried out to their area of expertise.
by the Committee during the year to meet its objectives.
A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for a number of years which is continually updated to ensure all matters for Role of the Committee which the Committee is responsible are addressed at the The Committees principal responsibilities consist of oversight appropriate time of year.
The Committees principal business over financial reporting, internal control and risk management, during the year consisted of the following: and monitoring auditor independence.
Its duties include gaining assurance on the control over financial processes and Review of half-year and full-year results, the annual report the integrity of the Groups financial reports, monitoring the and accounts, and other significant announcements where performance, objectivity and independence of the external appropriate: auditor, and reviewing the work of the internal auditor.
examination of critical accounting policies and key judgmental areas: In performing its duties the Committee has access to review of changes in and implementation of Group employees and their financial or other relevant expertise Accounting Policies in compliance with International across the Group, and to the services of the Group-wide Accounting Standards and practices: Internal Audit Director and the Company Secretary.
The approval of external auditors management representation Committee may also seek external professional advice at the letter, review of external auditors full-year memorandum, Groups expense.
external audit opinion and final management letter: The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the review of US filings and related external audit opinion: Board and kept under regular review, are available on our monitoring of auditor independence and the external website at http: www.
co. uk prudentialauditors plans and audit strategy, the effectiveness of the plc aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies external audit process, the external auditors qualifications, may be obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, expertise and resources, and making recommendations for at the Companys registered office.
the re-appointment of the external auditor: monitoring of the framework and effectiveness of the Membership Groups systems of internal control, including the Turnbull The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent compliance statement and Sarbanes-Oxley procedures: non-executive directors of the Company, as set out below: monitoring the effectiveness of both the Groups risk framework and the management of key financial and Kathleen ODonovan ACA Chairman operational risks: Ann Godbehere FCGA review of the internal audit plan and resources, and Lord Turnbull KCB CVO monitoring of the audit framework and internal audit Membership is selected to provide a broad set of financial, effectiveness: commercial and other relevant experience to meet the monitoring the effectiveness of compliance processes Committees objectives.
and controls, and performance against the Group Compliance Plan: The Board has designated Kathleen ODonovan as its audit review of anti-money laundering procedures, and allegations committee financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes, received via the employee confidential reporting lines: and and has determined that she also has recent and relevant review of its own effectiveness and its terms of reference.
financial experience for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The Board has further determined that Ann Godbehere, In addition, the Committee received in-depth presentations who held senior financial positions in the insurance sector, on a range of topics.
brings additional recent and relevant financial experience The Chairman reported to the Board on matters of particular to the Committee.
significance after each Committee meeting, and the minutes Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, of Committee meetings were circulated to all Board members.
including their relevant experience are set out in their biographies on page 82.
89 Governance report Corporate governance continued The Committee recognises the need to meet without the Internal control and risk management presence of executive management.
Such sessions were held The Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal in March 2008 with the external and internal auditors, and in control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
It also July 2008 with the external and internal auditors and the head reviewed the policies and processes for identifying, assessing of the security function.
At all other times, management and and managing business risks.
Throughout the year, the auditors have open access to the Chairman.
Committee received the minutes of the Disclosure Committee and the Group Operational Risk Committee and noted their Financial reporting activities.
Further information on the Disclosure Committee As part of its review of financial statements prior to and on risk governance appears on pages 94 to 95 and pages recommending their publication to the Board, the Committee 96 to 97 respectively.
focused on: critical accounting policies and practices and any Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbaneschanges: decisions requiring a major element of judgement: Oxley Act, the Group must undertake an annual assessment unusual transactions: clarity of disclosures: significant audit of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
adjustments: the going concern assumption: compliance with Further details are provided on page 95. accounting standards: and compliance with obligations under the Combined Code and other applicable laws and regulations.
Internal audit In addition, the Committee is regularly briefed by senior The Committee regards its relationship with the internal audit management on developments in international accounting function as pivotal to the effectiveness of its own activities.
Group-wide Internal Audit plays an important role in supporting the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities under the Combined Confidential reporting Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and provides independent At each meeting, the Committee received and reviewed a assurance on the Companys processes of identification and report on calls to the confidential reporting line, which is control of risk.
The Committee agreed the work programme made available to employees to enable them to communicate of the internal audit function to be undertaken during 2008. confidentially on matters of concern, and actions taken in Each of the Groups business units has an internal audit team, response to these calls.
The Committee also considered the heads of which report to the Group-wide Internal Audit whether any internal control implications arose from Director.
Internal audit resources, plans and work are overseen communications received.
No internal control implications by the Committee and by business unit audit committees.
were raised from calls to the confidential helpline.
During the Across the Group, total internal audit headcount stands at 120. year, the Chairman reviewed the procedures adopted by the The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports functionally to Company on the methods of handling calls to the confidential the Committee and for management purposes to the Chief reporting line across the Group with the Group-wide Internal Financial Officer.
Audit Director and the head of the security function.
Formal reports are submitted to Committee meetings, with interim updates where appropriate, and views are also sought Business unit audit committees at the private meetings between the Committee and the Each business unit has its own audit committee whose internal auditors, as well as during regular private meetings members and chairmen are independent of the respective between the Chairman of the Committee and the Group-wide business unit.
The chairmen of these committees report Internal Audit Director.
regularly to the Committee, and their meetings are attended by senior management of the respective business unit, including The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit the business units heads of finance, risk, compliance and function by means of regular reviews, some of them carried internal audit.
Business unit audit committees have adopted out by external advisers, and through ongoing dialogue with standard terms of reference across the Group, with only minor the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
External reviews of variations to address overseas requirements or particular internal audit arrangements and standards were conducted requirements of the business.
The terms of reference of those in 2006 and 2007 to ensure that the activities and resources committees were reviewed during the year, and all include of internal audit are most effectively organised to support the escalation of significant matters to the Committee, approval oversight responsibilities of the Committee.
These reviews, of the business unit internal audit plans and overseeing the performed by Deloitte, confirmed that the internal audit adequacy of internal audit resources.
Also included are function complies with the Institute of Internal Auditors presentations from external auditors.
During the year, the international standards for the professional practice of internal business unit audit committees reviewed and approved their auditing and was operating effectively.
An internal assessment respective internal audit plans, resources and the results of of the internal audit function was performed by the Groupinternal audit work, and met privately with both external and wide Internal Audit Director in 2008, based on the internal internal auditors.
audit functions ongoing self-assessment processes and using a maturity model derived from the review criteria used by Deloitte.
The assessment confirmed that the internal audit function conforms to the Institute of Internal Auditors international standards and continues to operate effectively in all areas of professional practice.
The results of the assessment were reported in detail to the Committee in February 2009.
90 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance External audit Re-appointment of auditor The Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the The Group operates a policy under which at least once every external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship five years a formal review is undertaken by the Committee to is with the Committee.
The Groups Auditor Independence assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
The Policy ensures that the independence and objectivity of the external audit was last put out to competitive tender in 1999 external auditor is not impaired.
The policy sets out four key when the present auditor was appointed.
In 2005, 2006, 2007 principles which underpin the provision of non-audit services and 2008 the Committee formally considered the need to by the external auditor, namely that the auditor should not: re-tender the external audit service and concluded that, given the significant changes in accounting, audit and regulatory Audit its own firms work: requirements, the interests of the Company were better served make management decisions for the Group: by retaining the existing auditor through a period of continuing have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or change.
In addition, the Committee concluded that there was be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
nothing in the performance of the auditor requiring a change.
All services provided by the auditor in accordance with this In 2007, a new lead audit partner was appointed by KPMG policy are pre-approved by the Committee.
The Committee Audit Plc, in line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical regularly reviews and updates the policy to ensure alignment Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
with the latest standards and best practice in establishing, Following its review of the external auditors effectiveness maintaining and monitoring auditor independence and and independence, the Committee has recommended to the objectivity.
Board that KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as auditor of the Company, and a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit fees Audit Plc as auditor of the Company to hold office until the end For the year ended 31 December 2008, the Committee of the 2010 Annual General Meeting will be put to a shareholder approved fees of 9.0 million to its auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, vote at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2009. for audit services and other services supplied pursuant to relevant legislation.
In addition, the Committee approved fees Review of Committee effectiveness of 1.8 million to KPMG for services not related to audit work, During the year, the Committee undertook an in-depth which accounted for 17 per cent of total fees paid to the performance assessment in-house by way of a detailed external auditor in the year.
Non-audit services primarily questionnaire, administered by Group Secretariat, addressing related to actuarial services and basic tax compliance work.
both compliance with various regulations and codes In accordance with the Groups Auditor Independence Policy, of conduct, and qualitative aspects of the Committees all services were approved prior to work commencing, and performance during the year.
The results were discussed each of the non-audit services was confirmed to be permissible at a Committee meeting in January 2009 and reported for the external auditor to undertake, as defined by the to the Board in February 2009.
Recommendations to improve Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee reviewed the non-audit processes identified by the review are being implemented, services being provided to the Group by KPMG at regular and the Committee is satisfied, based on the findings of intervals during 2008.
A summary of audit fees is provided this review, that it had been operating as an effective audit in Note I4 of the Group Financial Statements.
committee throughout the year, meeting all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Further reviews of Auditor performance and independence the effectiveness of the Committee will be undertaken As part of its work during 2008, the Committee assessed the regularly, and will from time to time be conducted by performance of the external auditor, its independence and external consultants.
objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In addition to questioning the external auditor and the Chief Financial Officer, which is a regular feature of meetings, the review of the effectiveness of the external audit process was conducted through a questionnaire-based exercise administered by Group-wide Internal Audit, supplemented by interviews with senior finance staff and Committee members.
In addition, the Committee received the results of an internal review carried out by the external auditor in respect of its services to the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the external audit strategy and received reports from the auditor on its own policies and procedures regarding independence and quality control, including an annual confirmation of its independence in line with industry standards.
91 Governance report Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Report Meetings Role of the Committee The Committee normally has scheduled meetings at least four The Remuneration Committee the Committee determines times a year and a number of additional meetings, as required, the remuneration packages of the Chairman and executive to review remuneration policy and the application of that directors.
It also agrees the principles and monitors the level policy.
While the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not and structure of remuneration for a defined population of members, they attend meetings unless they have a conflict of senior management as determined by the Board.
During 2008, a total of eight Committee meetings its remuneration policy, the Committee has given full were held.
consideration to the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined Code.
The Directors Remuneration Report prepared by the Nomination Committee Report Board is set out in full on pages 102 to 127.
In preparing the Role of the Committee report, the Board has followed the provisions of the Combined The Nomination Committee the Committee, in consultation Code, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and with the Board, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and the Companies Acts.
experience on the Board and identifies the roles and capabilities required at any given time, taking into account the Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief Groups business.
Candidates are considered on merit against Executive, when only the Chairman is consulted, the those criteria, and the Committee makes recommendations Committee consults the Chairman and the Group Chief to the Board regarding suitable candidates for appointments.
Executive about the Committees proposals relating to the In appropriate cases, search consultants are used to identify remuneration of all executive directors.
The Committee also reviews conflicts of interest access to professional advice inside and outside the Company.
or potential conflicts of interest raised by directors between The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the Board meetings or for prospective new Board members.
In Board and kept under regular review, are available on our cases where there might be an actual or potential conflict of website at http: www.
co. uk prudentialinterest, the Committee has powers to authorise any such plc aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies actual or potential conflict situation on behalf of the Board, may be obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, imposing any terms and conditions it deems appropriate, or to at the Companys registered office.
make recommendations to the Board as to whether the conflict or potential conflict should be authorised, and on what terms.
The terms of reference comply with all significant aspects of relevant investor guidelines, and are benchmarked against The Committees terms of reference, which are set by others in similar industries.
The terms require the Committee the Board and kept under regular review, are available on to ensure that when setting remuneration policy, the Company our website at http: www.
co. uk prudentialprovides reward for enhancing shareholder value responsibly plc aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies in relation to executive directors individual contributions, may be obtained upon request from the Company Secretary, which we believe is the appropriate policy to support at the Companys registered office.
Membership Membership The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent directors and the Chairman, as set out below: non-executive directors of the Company, as set out below: Sir David Clementi FCA MBA Bridget Macaskill Chairman Chairman until 31 December 2008 Keki Dadiseth FCA Harvey McGrath Chairman from 1 January 2009 Michael Garrett Bridget Macaskill James Ross James Ross Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, including their relevant experience are set out in their biographies on page 82.
92 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Meetings Annual General Meeting The Committee meets as required to consider candidates for The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill appointment to the Board and to make recommendations to Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, the Board in respect of those candidates.
The Group Chief Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 14 May 2009 at 11.00am.
Executive is closely involved in the work of the Committee The Company believes the Annual General Meeting is an and is invited to attend and contribute to meetings.
important forum for both institutional and private shareholders and encourages all its shareholders to vote.
Shareholders are During 2008, the Committee, with the approval of the given the opportunity during annual general meetings to put Board, established a sub-committee chaired by the Senior questions to the Board on matters relating to the Groups Independent Director and including Bridget Macaskill and operations and performance.
Kathleen ODonovan, to manage the search for a successor to the Chairman.
The sub-committee formally met three times At its Annual General Meeting in 2008, the Company during the year and maintained regular contact throughout continued its practice of calling a poll on all resolutions.
External advice was also received.
The Chairman voting results, which included all votes cast for and against did not attend any of these meetings.
The sub-committee each resolution at the meeting, and all proxies lodged prior recommended to the Board the appointment of Harvey to the meeting, were indicated at the meeting and published McGrath as a non-executive director and Chairman Designate.
on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the Harvey McGrath was appointed by the Board as a nonmeeting.
The Company also disclosed the number of votes executive director on 1 September 2008 and succeeded Sir withheld at the meeting and on its website.
This practice David Clementi as Chairman of the Board on 1 January 2009. provides shareholders present with sufficient information Full biographical details of Harvey are set out on page 81. regarding the level of support and opposition to each resolution, and ensures all votes cast either at the meeting The process of evaluating the skills and composition of the or through proxies are included in the result.
Board is ongoing, and is kept under regular review in order to ensure appropriate plans for succession to the Board are Company constitution in place.
The Company is governed by the Companies Acts and other applicable legislation, and by its Memorandum and Articles Relations with shareholders of Association.
The Memorandum and Articles of Association Communication with shareholders are available on our website at http: www.
co. uk As a major institutional investor, the Company is very aware prudential-plc aboutpru memorandum of the importance of maintaining good relations with its shareholders.
We regularly hold discussions with major Any change to the Memorandum or the Articles must be shareholders and a programme of meetings took place during approved by special resolution of the shareholders in 2008.
A perception survey into the views of the Companys accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts.
major investors is undertaken on an annual basis by an Changes to the Articles of Association will be proposed at independent firm, and the results of this survey are presented this years Annual General Meeting.
Details of the proposed to the Board.
Board members also regularly receive copies changes are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting of the latest analysts and brokers reports on the Company 2009 and Explanation of Business, which is sent to and the sector, to further develop their knowledge and shareholders and is also available on the Companys understanding of external views about the Company.
co. uk prudentialChairman and the non-executive directors provided feedback plc investors agminfo 2009 to the Board on topics raised with them by major shareholders.
Should major shareholders wish to meet newly appointed Share capital directors, or any of the directors generally, they are welcome On 31 December 2008, the Companys issued share capital, to do so.
which is set out in Note H11, consisted of 2,496,947,688 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all fully paid up and listed on The Group maintains a corporate website the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
co. uk containing a wide range of of accounts on the share register at 31 December 2008 was information of interest to private and institutional investors, 75,438 2007: 75,948.
The Company is listed on the New York including the Groups financial calendar.
The shareholder Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, information section on pages 364 and 365 contains further referenced to its ordinary shares, under a depositary details which may be of interest to shareholders.
93 Governance report Corporate governance continued Rights and obligations Significant shareholdings The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares As at 18 March 2009, the Company had received notification are set out in full in the Companys Articles of Association.
2 R of the Disclosure and There are no voting restrictions on the ordinary shares, and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority each share carries one vote on a poll.
If votes are cast on a from Legal & General Group Plc and Capital Research and show of hands, each shareholder present in person or by Management Company that they held 4.96 per cent and proxy has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, 5.005 per cent respectively of the Companys issued ordinary in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Where, under an share capital at the time of notification.
employee share plan operated by the Company, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered Powers of directors to issue shares owners, the voting rights are normally exercisable by the The directors require authority from shareholders in relation registered owner, in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
to the issue of shares by the Company.
Whenever shares Trustees may vote at their discretion, but do not vote on any are issued, the Company has to offer the shares to existing unawarded shares held as surplus assets.
shareholders pro rata to their holdings, unless it has been given authority by shareholders to issue shares without offering them As at 18 March 2008, trustees held 0.227 per cent of the first to existing shareholders.
The Company seeks authority issued share capital of the Company under the various plans from its shareholders on an annual basis to issue shares, up to a in operation.
maximum amount, and to issue up to five per cent of its issued Rights to dividends under the various schemes are set out in share capital without observing pre-emption rights, in line with Note I2.
relevant regulations and best practice.
Details of shares issued during 2007 and 2008 are given Restrictions on transfer in Note H11.
No shares were issued in 2006 disapplying In accordance with English company law, shares may be pre-emption rights, and the total number of shares issued transferred by an instrument of transfer or through an electronic disapplying pre-emption rights over the last three years system currently CREST, and transfer is not restricted except amounted to less than 7.5 per cent.
that the directors may in certain circumstances refuse to register transfers of shares, but only if such refusal does not Powers of directors to buy back shares prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open The directors also require authority from shareholders in and proper basis.
If the directors make use of that power, relation to the buying back of shares by the Company.
The they must send the transferee notice of the refusal within Company seeks authority by special resolution on an annual two months.
basis for the buyback of its own shares in accordance with the Certain restrictions may be imposed from time to time by relevant provisions of the Companies Acts and other related laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws, and guidance.
The Company has not made use of that authority pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority since it was last granted at its Annual General Meeting in 2008. and Prudentials own share dealing rules whereby certain This existing authority is due to expire at the end of this years employees of the Company require the approval of the Annual General Meeting.
A special resolution to approve the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
renewal of this authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2009.
Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to US corporate governance and regulations the plan.
As described in the Directors Remuneration Report, As a result of the listing of its securities on the New York Stock non-executive directors use a proportion of their fees to Exchange, the Company is required to comply with the purchase shares in the Company which may not normally be relevant provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as they transferred during a directors period of office.
In addition, all apply to foreign private issuers, and has adopted procedures directors hold a number of qualification shares, which they to ensure this is the case.
would also be expected to retain during their tenure of office.
94 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance In particular in relation to the provisions of Section 302 of that Act, which covers disclosure controls and procedures, a Disclosure Committee has been established reporting to the Group Chief Executive, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and comprising members of senior management.
The objectives of this Committee are to: Assist the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in designing, implementing and periodically evaluating the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer with regard to the scope and content of all public disclosures made by the Company which are of material significance to the market or investors: and review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, matters raised by other components of the disclosure process.
These may include, to the extent they are relevant to the disclosure process, any matters to be raised with the Group Audit Committee, the internal auditors or the external auditor of the Companys internal controls.
In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to support the certifications by the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer of the effectiveness of disclosure procedures and controls required by Section 302.
The provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require the Companys management to report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20-F, which is filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
To comply with this requirement to report on the effectiveness of internal control, the Group has undertaken a significant project to document and test its internal controls over financial reporting in the format required by that Act.
The annual assessment and related report from the external auditor will be included in the Groups annual report on Form 20-F, which will be published in the coming months.
In addition, the Disclosure Committee has regard to the UK Listing Regime, and evaluates whether or not a particular matter requires disclosure to the market.
95 Governance report Risk governance Organisation The committees oversight is supported by the Group Chief Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of Risk Officer, with functional oversight provided by: the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for Group Security: Develop and deliver appropriate security identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the measures to protect the Groups staff, physical assets and Group.
The framework is based on the concept of three lines intellectual property.
of defence: risk management: risk oversight: and independent Group Compliance: Verify compliance with regulatory assurance.
standards and inform the Groups senior management The diagram below outlines the Group-level framework.
and the Board on key regulatory issues affecting the Group.
Group Risk: Establish and embed a capital management Risk management: As described in the corporate governance and risk oversight framework and culture consistent with report above, primary responsibility for strategy, performance Prudentials risk appetite that protects and enhances the management and risk control lies with the Board, Group Chief Groups embedded and franchise value.
Executive and the chief executives of each business unit.
Independent assurance: As described in the corporate Risk oversight: Risk exposures are monitored and reviewed governance report above, the Group Audit Committee, by Group-level risk committees, chaired by the Chief Financial supported by Group-wide Internal Audit, provides Officer, with representation from business unit and Group independent assurance and oversight of the effectiveness of Head Office oversight functions: the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
Group Asset Liability Committee: Meets monthly to oversee the Groups financial risk market, credit, liquidity and insurance risks exposures.
Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee: Meets monthly to manage the Groups balance sheets and to oversee the activities of the Prudential Capital business unit.
Group Operational Risk Committee: Meets quarterly to oversee the Groups non-financial risk operational, business environment and strategic risks exposures.
Risk governance framework Risk management Risk oversight Independent assurance Prudential plc Board Group Asset Liability Committee Group Chief Executive Balance Sheet and Group Audit Capital Management Group Executive Committee Committee Committee Group Operational Risk Committee Chief Financial Group Chief Officer Risk Officer Group risk, compliance and Group-wide security functions Internal Audit Business unit Business unit risk and Business unit chief executives audit committees oversight functions Board Board committees Direct reporting line Management committees Provides support to committees Personnel Regular dialogue and reporting Functions Regular communication and escalation 96 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Governance Principles and objectives Reporting Risk is defined as the uncertainty that Prudential faces in The Group Executive Committee and the Board are provided successfully implementing its strategies and objectives.
with regular updates on the Groups economic capital position, This includes all internal or external events, acts or omissions overall position against risk limits and RAP.
They also receive that have the potential to threaten the success and survival the annual financial condition reports prepared by the Groups of Prudential.
The control procedures and systems established within the The Group Audit Committee is provided with minutes of the Group are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk Group Operational Risk Committee, and regular updates on of failure to meet business objectives.
They can only provide financial and operational risk exposures.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Group Head Office oversight functions have clear escalation misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels of criteria and processes for the timely reporting of risks and risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
As appropriate, these risks and Material risks will only be retained where this is consistent incidents are escalated to the various Group-level risk with Prudentials risk appetite framework, ie: committees and the Board.
The retention of the risk contributes to value creation: Internal business unit routine reporting requirements vary the Group is able to withstand the impact of an adverse according to the nature of the business.
Each business unit outcome: and is responsible for ensuring that its risk reporting framework the Group has the necessary capabilities, expertise, meets both the needs of the business unit for example processes and controls to manage the risk.
reporting to the business unit risk and audit committees and the minimum standards set by the Group for example, The Group has five objectives for risk and capital management: to meet Group-level reporting requirements.
a Framework: Design, implement and maintain a capital Business units review their risks as part of the annual management and risk oversight framework consistent with preparation of their business plans, and review opportunities the Groups risk appetite and Risk-Adjusted Profitability and risks against business objectives regularly with Group RAP model.
Group Risk reviews, and reports b Monitoring: Establish a no surprises risk management to Group executive management, on the impact of large culture by identifying the risk landscape, assessing and transactions or divergences from business plans.
monitoring risk exposures and understanding change drivers.
c Control: Implement risk mitigation strategies and remedial actions where exposures are deemed inappropriate and manage the response to extreme events.
d Communication: Communicate the Group risk, capital and profitability position to internal and external stakeholders and rating agencies.
e Culture: Foster a risk management culture, providing quality assurance and facilitating the sharing of best practice risk measurement and management across the Group and industry.
97 Governance report Corporate responsibility governance The Board is committed to achieving the highest standards of Corporate Responsibility CR in directing and controlling the business.
In terms of the governance of our CR strategy, Nick Prettejohn, Chief Executive Prudential UK and Europe, has Board level responsibility for social, environmental and ethical risk management.
The Board discusses Prudentials performance on these areas at least once a year and also reviews and approves Prudentials CR report and strategy on an annual basis.
Below Board level, the Responsibility Committee is a specialist Group-wide committee chaired by Stephen Whitehead, Group Communications Director.
This committee is responsible for reviewing Prudentials business conduct and social and environmental policy, and ensures consistency of approach across the Groups international businesses.
Consideration of environmental, social and community matters is embedded in our Code of Business Conduct and supported by our CR philosophy and programme, which takes into account local cultures and requirements across our businesses.
The Corporate Responsibility team, which is located in Group Head Office, develops Prudentials CR strategy and works closely with individual business units to provide advice.
The team also assists with the development and adaptation of Group-wide initiatives so that they not only fit with our overall Group principles but are also adapted to meet local needs.
