Business review Other corporate information Financial instruments Unallocated surplus of with-profits Our Group is exposed to financial risk through our financial During 2008, the unallocated surplus, which represents the assets, financial liabilities, and policyholder liabilities.
The key excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups financial risk factors that affect us include market risk, credit with-profits funds on a statutory basis, decreased from risk and liquidity risk.
Information on our Groups exposure 14.0 billion at 1 January to 8.4 billion at 31 December.
to financial risk factors, and our financial risk management objectives and policies, is provided both in the Risk and Inherited estate of Prudential Assurance Capital Management section of this Business Review and The assets of the with-profits sub-fund WPSF within the in Section C of the financial statements on pages 177 to 180. long-term fund of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited PAC are comprised of the amounts that it expects to pay Further information on the sensitivity of our Groups financial out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and an instruments to market risk and our use of derivatives is also additional amount used as working capital.
The amount provided in notes D1 to D4 and G2 and G3 of the financial payable over time to policyholders from the WPSF is equal statements, which are on pages 181 to 230 and pages 256 to to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus any 261 respectively.
additional payments that may be required by way of smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets of the WPSF Treasury policy is called the inherited estate and has accumulated over many The Group operates a central treasury function, which years from various sources.
has overall responsibility for managing our capital funding programme as well as our central cash and liquidity positions.
The inherited estate, as working capital, enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing the benefits The aim of our capital funding programme, which includes the associated with smoothing and guarantees, by providing 5,000 million MTN programme together with the unlimited investment flexibility for the funds assets, by meeting the commercial paper programme, is to maintain a strong and regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate solvency flexible funding capacity.
and by absorbing the costs of significant events or fundamental Prudential UK and Prudential Corporation Asia use derivatives changes in its long-term business without affecting the bonus to reduce equity risk, interest rate and currency exposures, and investment policies.
The size of the inherited estate and to facilitate efficient investment management.
In the US, fluctuates from year to year depending on the investment Jackson uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, to facilitate return and the extent to which it has been required to meet efficient portfolio management and to match liabilities under smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
Our overriding priority is to maintain the long-term financial It is Prudentials policy that derivatives are only used to hedge security of the WPSF and to continue delivering strong exposures or facilitate efficient portfolio management.
performance for the benefit of its policyholders.
Amounts at risk are covered by cash or by corresponding assets.
Defined benefit pension schemes Due to the geographical diversity of our businesses, we The Group operates four defined benefit schemes, three are subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Our in the UK, of which by far the largest is the Prudential Staff international operations in the US and Asia generally write Pension Scheme PSPS, and a small scheme in Taiwan.
policies and invest in assets denominated in local currency.
The level of surplus or deficit of assets over liabilities for Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate defined benefit schemes is currently measured in three fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant ways: the actuarial valuation, FRS 17 for parent company fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements and subsidiary accounting in the UK, and IAS 19 for the upon conversion of results into pounds sterling.
The currency Group financial statements.
exposure relating to the conversion of reported earnings is not separately managed, as it is not in the economic interests of the Group to do so.
The impact of gains or losses on currency conversions is recorded as a component of shareholders funds within the statement of recognised income and expense.
The impact of exchange rate fluctuations in 2008 is discussed elsewhere in this financial review.
69 Other corporate information continued Defined benefit schemes in the UK are generally required to Products and drivers of insurance operations profits be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years to assess Asia the appropriate level of funding for schemes having regard to The life insurance products offered by Prudential Corporation their commitments.
These valuations include assessments of Asia include with-profits participating and non-participating the likely rate of return on the assets held within the separate term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked policies.
PSPS was last actuarially valued To supplement our core life products we also offer health, as at 5 April 2005 and this valuation demonstrated PSPS to be disablement, critical illness and accident cover.
94 per cent funded, with a shortfall of actuarially determined The primary focus in Asia is regular premium products that assets to liabilities of six per cent, representing a deficit of provide both savings and protection benefits.
In 2008, the new business profit mix in our Asian insurance As a result, changes were made to the basis of funding for business was derived 50 per cent from accident and health PSPS with effect from that date.
Deficit funding amounts products, 40 per cent from unit-linked and 10 per cent from designed to eliminate the actuarial deficit over a 10-year period non-linked.
have been and are being made.
Following these changes, total contributions to PSPS for deficit funding and employers Unit-linked products combine savings with protection, with contributions for ongoing service for current employees were the cash value of the policy depending on the value of the expected to be of the order of 70-75 million per annum, underlying unitised funds.
Participating products provide subject to a reassessment when the subsequent valuation is savings with protection where the basic sum assured can be completed.
enhanced by a profit share or bonus from the underlying fund as determined at the discretion of the insurer.
NonIn 2008 our total contributions for the year including participating products offer savings with protection where expenses and augmentations were 79 million.
Deficit funding the benefits are guaranteed or determined by a set of defined for PSPS is apportioned in the ratio of 70 30 between the market-related parameters.
Accident and health products PAC life fund and shareholder-backed operations following provide mortality or morbidity benefits and include health, detailed consideration in 2005 of the sourcing of previous disablement, critical illness and accident cover.
Employer contributions for the ongoing service are commonly offered as supplements to main life policies, of current employees are apportioned in the ratio relevant to but can also be sold separately.
The PSPS valuation as at 5 April 2008 is currently being finalised.
Policyholder and insurer share the profits from participating policies typically in a 90:10 ratio in the same way as with-profits In 2008, the Group adopted IFRIC 14, IAS 19 The Limit on business in the UK.
With unit-linked products, shareholders a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and receive the profits arising from managing the policy, its their Interaction IFRIC 14.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on the investments and the insurance risk.
Policyholders within the recognition of IAS 19 surpluses in, and funding obligations for, underlying unitised fund receive investment gains.
The profits defined benefit pension schemes.
As a result of the adoption from accident and health and non-participating products come of IFRIC 14, in respect of the position at 31 December 2008, from any surplus remaining after paying policy benefits.
the Group has not recognised its interest in the underlying PSPS pension surplus of 615 million net of related tax relief, Unit-linked products tend to have higher profits on the EEV reflecting the difference between the market value of the basis of reporting than traditional non-linked products, as scheme assets and the discounted value of the liabilities, expenses and charges are better matched and solvency capital which would have otherwise been recognised as an asset requirements are lower.
At the end of 2008, we were offering on its balance sheet under the previous policy.
In addition, unit-linked products in 11 of the 12 countries in Asia in which the Group has recognised a provision for deficit funding to we operate, with the only exception being Thailand.
5 April 2010 of 55 million net of related tax relief in respect In addition to the life products described above, we offer of PSPS.
The underlying assets and liabilities of PSPS are mutual fund investment products in India, Taiwan, Japan, unaffected by the adoption of IFRIC 14.
Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Vietnam and China, As at 31 December 2008, after the effect of the adoption of thus enabling customers to participate in debt, equity and IFRIC 14, the shareholders share of the pension liability for money market investments.
We are also licensed in the United PSPS deficit funding obligation and the other schemes deficits Arab Emirates.
Prudential Corporation Asia earns a fee based amounted to a 61 million liability net of related tax relief.
The on assets under management.
total share attributable to the PAC with-profits fund amounted to a liability of 60 million net of related tax relief in respect of the PAC with-profits funds share of the liability for deficit funding to 5 April 2010 on PSPS and the deficit on the smaller Scottish Amicable scheme.
70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Business review United States contract holder may cancel the contract for the surrender Jacksons product offerings include variable, fixed and fixed value.
Fixed index annuities continue to be a profitable index annuities, as well as life insurance, retail mutual funds product, benefiting from favourable spread and the effective and institutional products.
The fixed index book provides natural offsetting equity exposure to the guarantees issued in Annuities conjunction with our variable annuity products, which allows Annuity products are long-term individual retirement for efficient hedging of the net equity exposure.
products, which offer tax-deferred accumulation on the Variable annuities are tax-advantaged, deferred annuities funds invested until proceeds are withdrawn from the policy.
where the rate of return depends upon the performance of Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are used for asset the underlying portfolio, similar in principle to UK unit-linked accumulation in retirement planning and for providing income products.
They are also used for asset accumulation in in retirement and offer flexible payout options.
The contract retirement planning and to provide income in retirement.
The holder pays us a premium, which is credited to the contract contract holder can allocate the premiums between a variety of holders account.
Periodically, interest is credited to the variable sub-accounts with a choice of fund managers and or contract holders account and administrative charges are guaranteed fixed-rate options.
As with a unit-linked fund, the deducted.
We may reset the interest rate on each contract contract holders premiums allocated to the variable accounts anniversary, subject to a guaranteed minimum, in line with are held separately from Jacksons general account assets.
When the annuity matures, we either pay The value of the portion of the separate account allocated the contract holder the amount in the contract holder account, to variable sub-accounts fluctuates with the underlying or begin making payments to the contract holder in the form investments.
Variable annuity policies are subject to early of an immediate annuity product similar to a UK annuity surrender charges for the first four to seven years of the in payment.
During the surrender charge period, the contract holder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
We Fixed annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges offer one variable annuity that has no surrender charges and for the first six to nine years of the contract.
In addition, the we also offer a choice of guaranteed benefit options within our contract may be subject to a market value adjustment at the variable annuity product portfolio, which customers can elect time of surrender.
During the surrender charge period, the and pay for.
These options include the guaranteed minimum contract holder may cancel the contract for the surrender death benefit GMDB, which guarantees that, upon death value.
Our profits on fixed annuities come primarily from the of the annuitant, the contract holder or beneficiary receives a spread between the return we earn on investments and the minimum value regardless of past market performance.
These interest credited to the contract holders account net of any guaranteed death benefits might be expressed as the return surrender charges or market value adjustment less expenses.
of original premium, the highest past anniversary value of the Our fixed annuities continue to be a profitable book of contract, or as the original premium accumulated at a fixed business, benefiting from favourable spread income in recent rate of interest.
In addition, there are three other types of years.
However, the continued low interest rate environment guarantee: guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits could have an impact on the fixed annuity portfolio as lower GMWB, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits crediting rates could result in increased surrenders and lower GMAB and guaranteed minimum income benefits GMIB.
sales as customers seek alternative investment opportunities.
That said, if the recent equity market volatility has the effect GMWBs provide a guaranteed return of the principal of making customers more risk averse, they may view fixed invested by allowing for periodic withdrawals that are limited annuities as an attractive alternative to variable annuities.
to a maximum percentage of the initial premium.
One version of the GMWBs provides for a minimum annual withdrawal Fixed index annuities formerly referred to as equity-indexed amount that is guaranteed for the contract holders life without annuities are similar to fixed annuities, in that the contract annuitisation.
GMABs generally provide a guarantee for a holder pays us a premium that is credited to the contract return of a certain amount of principal after a specified period.
holders account, and also in that interest is periodically GMIBs provide for a minimum level of benefits upon credited to the contract holders account and administrative annuitisation regardless of the value of the investments charges deducted, as appropriate.
We guarantee an annual underlying the contract at the time of annuitisation.
minimum interest rate, although actual interest credited may The GMIB is reinsured.
be higher and is linked to an equity index over its indexed option period.
Our profit comes from the investment income we earn and the fees charged on the contract, less the expenses incurred, which include the costs of the guarantees, and the interest credited to the contract.
Fixed index annuities are subject to early surrender charges for the first five to twelve years of the contract.
During the surrender charge period, the 71 Other corporate information continued As the investment return on the separate account assets United Kingdom is attributed directly to the contract holders, Jacksons In common with other UK long-term insurance companies, profit arises from the fees charged on the contracts, less Prudential UKs products are structured as either with-profits the expenses incurred, which include the costs of guarantees.
or participating products, or non-participating products In addition to being a profitable book of business in its own including annuities in payment and unit-linked products.
right, the variable annuity book also provides an opportunity Depending on the structure, the level of shareholders interest to utilise the offsetting equity risk among various lines of in the value of policies and the related profit or loss varies.
business cost effectively to manage our equity exposure.
With-profits policies are supported by a with-profits We believe that the internal management of equity risk, sub-fund and can be single premium for example, Prudence coupled with the use of external derivative instruments where Bond or regular premium for example, certain corporate necessary, continues to provide a cost-effective method of pension products.
Profits in the variable annuity book of business will continue to be subject to the impact of Our primary with-profits sub-fund is part of PACs market movements both on sales and allocations to the variable long-term fund.
The return to shareholders on virtually all our accounts and the effects of the economic hedging programme.
with-profits products is in the form of a statutory transfer to While we hedge our risk on an economic basis, the nature and PAC shareholders funds.
This is analogous to a dividend from duration of the hedging instruments, which are recorded at PACs long-term fund, and is dependent upon the bonuses fair value through the income statement, will fluctuate and credited or declared on policies in that year.
In this context, produce some accounting volatility.
We continue to believe there are two types of bonuses annual and final.
Annual that, on a long-term economic basis, the equity exposure bonuses are declared once a year, and are determined as remains well managed.
a prudent proportion of the long-term expected future investment return on the underlying assets.
Once credited, Life insurance annual bonuses are guaranteed in accordance with the terms Jackson also sells several types of life insurance including term of the particular product.
In contrast, final bonuses are only life, universal life and variable universal life.
Term life provides guaranteed until the next bonus declaration, and are primarily protection for a defined period of time and a benefit that is determined on the actual smoothed investment return payable to a designated beneficiary upon the insureds death.
achieved over the life of the policy.
Prudentials with-profits Universal life provides permanent individual life insurance for policyholders currently receive 90 per cent of the distribution the life of the insured and includes a savings element.
Variable from the main with-profits sub-fund as bonus additions to their universal life is a life insurance policy that combines death policies, while our shareholders receive 10 per cent as a benefit protection and the important tax advantages of life statutory transfer.
insurance with the long-term growth potential of professionally The defined charge participating sub-fund DCPSF forms part managed investments.
Our life insurance book has also of the PAC long-term fund.
It is comprised of the accumulated delivered consistent profitability, driven primarily by positive investment content of premiums paid in respect of the defined mortality and persistency experience.
charge participating with-profits business issued in France, the defined charge participating with-profits business reassured Institutional products into PAC from Prudential International Assurance plc and Our institutional products division markets institutional Canada Life Europe Assurance Ltd and includes the portfolio products such as traditional Guaranteed Investment Contracts of with-profit annuity policies acquired from Equitable Life GICs, Funding Agreements and Medium Term Note MTN in 2007.
All profits in this fund accrue to policyholders in funding agreements.
The institutional product offerings also the DCPSF.
include Jacksons funding agreements issued to the Federal Home Loan Bank.
We distribute our institutional products The profits from almost all of our new non-participating directly to investors, through investment banks, or through business accrue solely to shareholders.
Such business is funding agreement brokers.
written in the non-profit sub-fund within PACs long-term fund, or in various shareholder-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries.
Mutual funds The most significant of these is Prudential Retirement Income During 2007, we launched a line of retail mutual funds Limited PRIL, which also writes all new immediate annuities as a complement to the broad product offering.
In January arising from vesting deferred annuity policies in the with- 2008, we added two new portfolios to our existing line-up profits sub-fund of PAC.
The Jackson Funds now offer seven distinct There is a substantial volume of in-force non-participating strategies, each designed to address the diversification and business in PACs with-profits sub-fund and that funds wholly asset growth potential of investors as they navigate the owned subsidiary Prudential Annuities Limited PAL, which is retirement planning process.
Profits from this business accrue to the with-profits sub-fund.
72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Business review Description of EEV basis reporting The change in value is typically analysed into the following Prudentials results are prepared on two accounting bases the components: supplementary EEV basis, and the IFRS basis for the financial The value added from new business sold during the year: statements.
Over the life of any given product, the total profit the change in value from existing business already in place recognised will be the same under either the IFRS or the EEV at the start of the year: basis.
However, the two methods recognise the emergence of short-term fluctuations in investment returns: that profit in different ways, with profits emerging earlier under change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees the EEV basis than under IFRS.
This section explains how EEV and economic assumption changes: differs from IFRS and why it is used.
other items for example, profit from other Group operations, In broad terms, IFRS profits for long-term business reflect the tax, foreign exchange, exceptional items : and aggregate of statutory transfers from UK-style with-profits dividends.
funds and profit on a traditional accounting basis for other The value added from new business defined as the present long-term business.
By their nature, the products sold by the value of the future profits arising from new business written life insurance industry are long-term, as insurance companies in the year is a key metric that we use in the management of commit to service these products for many years into the our business.
The change in value of business in force at the future.
The profit on these insurance sales is generated over start of the year demonstrates how the existing book is being this long-term period.
In our view, the result under IFRS does managed.
Together, these metrics provide our management not properly reflect the inherent value of these future profits, and shareholders with valuable information about the as it focuses instead on the amounts accruing to shareholders underlying development of our business and the success in the current year.
or otherwise of management actions.
In May 2004 the CFO Forum, representing the Chief Financial EEV basis results are prepared by first of all setting best Officers of 19 European insurers, published the European estimate assumptions, by product, for all relevant factors Embedded Value Principles, which were designed to promote including expenses, surrender levels and mortality.
Economic transparent and consistent embedded value reporting.
Key assumptions as to future investment returns and inflation are features of the principles are: generally based on market data.
These assumptions are used Inclusion of an explicit allowance for the impact of to project future cash flows.
The present value of the future options and guarantees.
This typically requires stochastic cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which calculations, under which a large number of simulations are reflects both the time value of money and the risks associated performed that provide a representation of the future with the cash flows.
The risk discount rate is determined by behaviour of financial markets: adding a risk margin to the appropriate risk free rate of return.
an active allowance for the combined impact of risk profile The actual outcome may differ from that projected, in which and encumbered capital in the selection of discount rates.
case the effect will be reflected in the experience variances This ensures that the risks to the emergence of shareholder for that year.
cash flows are properly accounted for: and The assumptions used for the EEV basis of accounting are sufficient disclosure to enable informed investors to set out on pages 326 to 330 in the notes that accompany the understand the key risks within the business and the basis supplementary EEV basis information.
An indication of the of preparation of the results.
sensitivity of the results to changes in key assumptions is The EEV basis not only provides a good indication of the value provided on pages 352 to 354. being added by management in a given accounting period, The publication of the EEV Principles represented a significant but also demonstrates whether shareholder capital is being step towards the harmonisation of embedded value reporting deployed to best effect.
Indeed insurance companies in in Europe.
However, even with these principles and the many countries use comparable bases of accounting for accompanying guidance, a divergence of approaches between management purposes.
companies has emerged in practice.
In June 2008, in an effort The EEV basis is a value-based method of reporting in to improve still further the consistency and transparency of that it reflects the change in value of the business over the embedded value reporting, the CFO Forum published the accounting period.
This value is called the shareholders funds Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV Principles.
on the EEV basis which, at a given point in time, is the value of However, the MCEV Principles were designed during a period future profits expected to arise from the current book of longof relatively stable market conditions and their application term insurance business plus the net worth of the company.
could, in the current turbulent markets, lead to misleading In determining these expected profits, we make full allowance results.
The CFO Forum is therefore currently conducting a for the risks attached to their emergence and the associated review of the impact of turbulent market conditions on the cost of capital, and take into account recent experience in MCEV Principles, and the results of this review may lead to assessing likely future persistency, mortality and expenses.
changes to the published MCEV Principles or the issuance of new guidance.
