United Kingdom Asia United States United Kingdom and Europe The Group is structured around four main business Theres more to Prudential units: Prudential Corporation Asia, Jackson National Life Insurance Company, Prudential UK and M&G.
Prudential plc is an international Our operating model enables each of our retail financial services group with businesses to stay close to their customers within significant operations in Asia, the US the framework of a consistent, Group-wide global approach to managing risk, capital, cash, reputation and the UK.
Our strategy is to focus and leadership development and succession.
on the retirement opportunity in our chosen markets, enabling us to deliver profitable growth.
At a glance Prudential Corporation Asia is the leading European-based life insurer in Asia by market coverage and number of top five market positions.
We have life and asset management operations in 13 markets covering China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam and the United Arab Emirates.
Having entered Asia in the 1920s, we have built a unique position from which to realise the unrivalled opportunities in the most dynamic and populous economies in the region.
11.5m life business customers Over 20,000 employees Our US business Jackson is one of the most respected life insurance companies in the US, the worlds biggest retirement savings market.
Jacksons success continues to be driven by its industry-leading distribution model, product innovation and speed to market providing retirement solutions to customers in the mass and mass-affluent segments.
2.8m customers Over 3,000 employees including affiliates Prudential UK is a leading provider of retirement solutions and life assurance focusing on products where we can best capitalise on our longevity experience, trusted brand and financial strength.
These include products and services such as annuities, pensions, bonds, as well as protection, equity release and health insurance products.
These products are distributed through direct sales, financial advisers and partnerships.
We remain the largest annuity provider in the UK, with approximately 1.5 million annuities in payment and one of the market leaders in with-profits products, the corporate pensions market and the emerging equity release market.
Over 7m customers Approximately 3,000 employees M&G is our UK and European fund management business, responsible for 141 billion of investments as at 31 December 2008 on behalf of both internal life and pension funds and external clients.
We aim to maximise profitable growth by operating in markets where we have a leading position and competitive advantage including retail fund management, institutional fixed income, pooled life and pension funds, and private finance.
Through M&G we add value to our Group by generating attractive returns on internal funds as well as growing profits from the management of third-party assets.
These external funds now represent 47 billion of M&Gs total funds under management.
Approximately 500,000 customers through M&G Investments Approximately 1,000 employees 2 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Life assurance Asset management % of Group APE new % of Group new % of Group external funds business premiums business profit under management FUM UK Asia UK 21 25 31 Asia 45 22 57 75 Asia 24 US M&G US % of Group EEV long- % of Group IFRS Performance highlights term operating profits operating profits Over 11 million life customers in 12 markets One of the largest regional networks of agents, 44% 21% numbering 425,000 Expanded and extended bank distribution agreement with Standard Chartered Bank Brand recognition consistently high outperforming other financial services companies Award-winning customer service in China, India, Indonesia and Korea Voted most trusted brand in Malaysia, Singapore and Hong Kong Readers Digest Trusted Brands Awards, 2008 IRR over 20 per cent in 2008 Ranked top insurance company for sales support satisfaction in the Financial Research Corporate 20% 25% Adviser Insight Series on Marketing Effectiveness Rated as a World Class service provider for four successive years by Service Quality Management Record total APE retail sales of 596 million highest level in Jacksons history IRR of 18 per cent in 2008 Retail sales up 10 per cent against an overall Retail market that declined by 10 per cent Source: ABI 36% 36% Rated first amongst Life and Pension providers for professional authority, trustworthiness and customers choice for retirement needs among 45 age group Source: HPI Brand Tracking Research, 2008 IRR of 14 per cent in 2008 35 per cent of retail funds delivered top-quartile investment performance over three years 18% Record profits in 2008 of 228 million, up from 203 million in 2007 Record gross inflows of 16.2 billion, an increase of 10 per cent on the previous year Ranked first for net and gross UK retail sales in the fourth quarter of 2008 Ranked third for net UK retail sales for the whole of 2008 Named Global Group of the Year by Investment Week and by TrustNet in 2008, as well as winning the IFRS operating profits based on longer-term Lipper Large Group of the Year 2009 investment returns before restructuring costs and other income and expenditure 3 more: heritage 4 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Ov Overvie erview w Successive generations have looked to Prudential to safeguard their financial security from industrial workers and their families in Victorian Britain to over 21 million customers worldwide today.
During our 160-year history, we have protected the interests of our policyholders and shareholders through a series of external crises, from the sudden downturn in 1857, through two World Wars, to todays global financial volatility.
Our financial strength, heritage, prudence, and relentless focus on our customers long-term needs ensure that people continue to turn to our trusted brands to help them plan for today and tomorrow.
