indemnification of directors On 6 April 2005 changes to company law came into effect which allowed companies to indemnify its directors and ofcers against any liability incurred by them to any person other than the company or associated company in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust but not criminal fines or regulatory penalties in respect of that company, associated company, pension fund or share scheme.
The legislation also permitted the funding of defence costs which are repayable if the case is lost.
At the AGM on 2 May 2007, shareholders approved changes to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association to reect these provisions.
Specic indemnities, which are uncapped, have been granted to all directors and the company secretary by way of deed.
Share price The mid market price of the Companys shares at 31 December 2008 was 8.335 2007: 10.50 and the range during the year was 6.965 to 11.34 2007: 10.29 to 14.20.
Auditors The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external auditors and their relationship with the Group, including monitoring the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services.
Note 9 to the financial statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors,  LLP, be reappointed.
 LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
The directors in ofce at the date of signing of this report confirm that there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The 2009 Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 7 May 2009 at 12.00 noon at 159 New Bond Street, London, W1S 2UD.
The notice of the meeting is on pages 124 to 129 with details of the resolutions proposed and explanatory notes.
Special business The resolutions proposed include an ordinary resolution classied by the Articles of Association as non-routine special business to renew the existing authority to the directors to allot up to 14 million shares with an aggregate nominal amount of up to 700,000.
As explained earlier, this authority is being extended, giving the directors the authority to allot up to a further 14 million shares for fully pre-emptive rights issues of shares.
The Board are also seeking to renew, by special resolution, the existing authorities to waive pre-emption rights and to make market purchases of ordinary shares under certain stringent conditions both subject to limits.
It is anticipated that all directors, including the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will be at the AGM and available to answer questions.
By Order of the Board Richard Loader Company secretary 3 March 2009 Registered Ofce: 159 New Bond Street London W1S 2UD Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 31 Directors report Corporate governance report Corporate governance report In relation to compliance with the Combined Code this report together with the Directors report states the position at 3 March 2009.
The Combined Code compliance statement The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code was issued in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and applies for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
Explanations of how the Code principles and supporting principles have been applied are set out in the Governance sections of the report and accounts.
The directors believe the Company was in compliance with Section 1 of the Code throughout the year with the following two exceptions: Independence of the chairman on appointment The chairman did not, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in the Code since he had been an employee and executive director of the Company since 1995.
Composition of the Board There are currently 15 directors, of which five 33% are independent non-executive directors.
The Code requires that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should be independent non-executive directors.
The number of senior practitioners from within the operating subsidiaries on the Board does result in a sizeable number of executive directors, making the achievement of the Code target difficult.
Board meetings The Board meets a minimum of seven times per annum with one meeting devoted entirely to strategic issues.
In months where no formal Board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the non-executive directors and the chairman and chief executive is held.
The non-executive directors have informal meetings without the chairman or chief executive present.
Board membership The Board currently consists of a non-executive chairman, eight executive directors and six other non-executive directors.
The roles of chairman, Mark Powell, and chief executive, Andy Pomfret, are separated and are clearly dened in writing and agreed by the Board.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and the chief executive for the running of the business and implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Board considers that five of the seven non-executive directors are independent, the exceptions being Mark Powell as explained above and John May, who is a director of a major shareholder, Caledonia Investments plc.
The non-executive directors participate fully with their executive colleagues in Board meetings and have access to any information they need to perform their duties.
They bring an independent judgement to bear on Group policies and strategies as well as management actions and performance, including resourcing and standards of conduct.
The senior independent non-executive director is now David Harrel following the retirement from the board of Giles Coode-Adams on 22 December 2008.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that they would rather not address to the chairman or executive directors or which remain unresolved after an approach through the normal channels.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention, which covers key areas of the Groups business.
These include determination of the Groups aims and the strategy to be adopted in achieving those aims, reviews of budgets and financial statements, company acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure and the review of decisions taken by the boards of subsidiary companies.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 32 Corporate governance report Board performance The Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees carry out appraisals of their operation and performance on an annual basis.
In 2008, an internal questionnaire was used.
This was developed and executed with assistance from Lintstock Limited, a London based corporate advisory rm.
The results were discussed by the full Board and an action plan agreed.
Areas for Board focus identied included the greater use of short, written executive director reports in Board packs and increased Board exposure to senior staff via a programme of presentations on key business issues.
Individual appraisal of each directors performance is undertaken either by the chief executive for the executive directors or chairman for the non-executive directors each year and involves meetings with each director on a one-to-one basis.
The nonexecutive directors, led by the senior independent director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chairman.
Board training Rathbones is committed to the training and development of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained and enhanced.
All directors are required to dedicate a certain number of hours to their own development internally established standards for this exceed regulatory requirements.
Training and development would include activities to keep up to date with Rathbones specic issues and industry, market and regulatory changes.
New directors are involved in a thorough induction process designed to enable them to become quickly familiar with the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of key business areas, attendance at routine meetings and demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
Board Committees The four principal Board Committees are the Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Committee, subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full Board.
The other Board Committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Companys registered ofce and on the Company website.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the chief executive, Andy Pomfret, and comprises Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse, Richard Lanyon and Paul Stockton who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 24 September 2008.
The purpose of the Executive Committee is to monitor every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing basis and to analyse and plan all business proposals in detail for submission to and consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Audit Committee Current members of the Audit Committee are Oliver Corbett chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, David Harrel and Mark Robertshaw.
Details of its work are set out in the Audit Committee report.
Remuneration Committee Current members of the Remuneration Committee are Caroline Burton chairman, James Barclay, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel and Mark Robertshaw.
Full details of its role are set out in the Remuneration report.
Nomination Committee Current members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, James Barclay, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Andy Pomfret and Mark Robertshaw.
Full details of its role are set out in the Nomination Committee report.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 33 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Conicts of interest With effect from 1 October 2008, a director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts or possibly may conict with the Companys interests.
The Act allows the Board to authorise a directors conict or potential conict of interest where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect and also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
Shareholders approved the necessary changes to the Companys Articles of Association with effect from 1 October 2008 at the AGM on 7 May 2008.
There are safeguards which apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conict or potential conict.
Only independent directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors are also able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation.
A register of actual or potential conicts notied and authorised is maintained and reviewed regularly by the Board.
Other Board issues The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of legal action against its directors.
Any director has access to the advice and services of the company secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed and compliance with rules and regulations applicable to the Company.
Any removal or appointment of the company secretary is decided by the Board.
Board meeting and committee attendance in 2008 Plc Board Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee J C Barclay 7 7 5 6 4 4 1 2 I M Buckley 7 7 11 12 C M Burton 6 7 5 6 4 4 1 2 P D G Chavasse 7 7 11 12 J G S Coode-Adams 6 7 6 6 4 4 2 2 O R P Corbett 6 7 6 6 4 4 1 2 D T D Harrel 6 7 6 6 4 4 1 2 R P Lanyon 6 7 11 12 J M May 7 7 A T Morris 7 7 P G Pearson Lund 7 7 A D Pomfret 7 7 11 12 1 2 G M Powell 7 7 2 2 M Robertshaw 6 7 4 6 3 4 1 2 R I Smeeton 7 7 R P Stockton 3 3 3 3 This table only shows details of attendance at meetings in the pre-arranged annual meeting calender.
Other ad-hoc meetings were held during the year.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 34 Corporate governance report
