62 The Capita Group Plc Board members The Board of Directors Eric Walters To support our growth, we made some changes to the Non-Executive Chairman, Age 64 Board in 2008.
In March 2008, Martin Bolland joined Capita Joined the Board in January 2001 and became as a Non-Executive Director and is now Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 August 2006.
He has already made an excellent contribution to Chair of the Nomination Committee and Member of the the business.
He has held senior positions with Alchemy Partners LLP, Englefield Capital, SchroderVentures, At the end of September 2008, Peter Cawdron stepped down Grand Metropolitan plc and Lex Service plc.
as Non-Executive Director, after serving 11 years on the Board.
We thank him for his valuable contribution and wish him well.
Paul Pindar In August 2008, Simon Pilling, who previously shared the role Chief Executive, Age 49 of Joint Chief Operating Officer with Paddy Doyle, took on Responsible for managing and developing Capitas this role exclusively and became Capitas Chief Operating operations to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
Paddy Doyle decided to move to a part-time role and Joined the Group in 1987 from 3i, after advising Capita on its from 1 January 2009, he is working 2 days a week for Capita management buy-out.
A chartered accountant since 1984, and remains an active Executive Board member.
Paul is also Chair of the Great Ormond Street Hospitals Corporate Partnerships Board and Non-Executive Director Also in August 2008, Maggi Bell joined the Board as Business of Debenhams Plc.
Paul has overall responsibility for the Development Director.
She adds significant value to our Board Groups charitable and community approach.
as we continue to broaden and strengthen our Boards skills.
Gordon Hurst Group Finance Director, Age 47 Joined the Group in 1988 from Sun MicroSystems Ltd. First appointed to the Board as Commercial Director in February 1995 and then as Group Finance Director in 1996.
A chartered accountant since 1986, he is also Company Secretary.
He has Board responsibility for the Groups overall corporate social responsibility policy and specific responsibility for our environment, health and safety approach and supplier relationships.
Paddy Doyle, Eric Walters Simon Pilling, Gordon Hurst Governance The Capita Group Plc 63 Simon Pilling Martin Bolland Chief Operating officer, Age 46 Senior Independent Director, Age 52 Joined the Board on 1 August 2006 serving as Joint Chief Joined the Board on 1 March 2008.
Chair of the Audit Operating Officer alongside Paddy Doyle until August 2008.
Committee and member of the Remuneration and He is now Chief Operating Officer with overall responsibility Nomination Committees.
Martin is a Chartered Accountant for the management of the Groups operations.
Simon has a and is currently Chairman of QHotels, a privately owned UK strong background in managing major programme hotel company.
He previously held a number of positions developments.
He joined Capita in 1999 from Sema now including Chief Executive andVice President Finance within Atos Origin and, prior to joining the Board, held various senior Lonrho Hotels and was a founding partner of Alchemy management positions across the Group.
He has Board Partners LLP.
He was also Non-Executive Director at Jacques responsibility for client service quality and for our employee Vert plc from 2003 to 2004. and human resources policies.
Martina King Maggi Bell Non-Executive Director, Age 47 Business Development Director, Age 53 Joined the Board on 1 January 2005.
Chair of the Joined the Board on 1 August 2008.
Moved to Capita in Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit and January 1999 from Manpower where she was UK Operations Nomination Committees.
She ran Capitas recruitment businesses until she was for Europe, and the first Managing Director of Yahoo!
UK and promoted to lead the Business Services Division in June 2001.
A Non-Executive Director of Johnston Press plc and In 2002, she moved to head the Corporate Services Division, IMD PLC.
Martina is alsoTreasurer of the Marketing Group of which included responsibility for business development Great Britain, aTrustee of Coram, aTrustee of the Ahoy Centre activity across the Group.
Since January 2005, she has been and a Governor at Woodbridge School.
head of the Group Sales & Marketing Division and continues to drive forward Capitas sales activity.
Bill Grimsey Non-Executive Director, Age 57 Paddy Doyle Joined the Board on 9 October 2006.
Member of Executive Director, Age 58 the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Joined the Group in 1992 and was appointed to the Board in Bill has held a number of senior positions across the retail 1994.
His background is in IT and outsourcing, previously with sector over the past 20 years, including Chief Executive of Cap Gemini UK formerly Hoskyns.
As Group Operations The Big Food Group and Wickes Plc.
Bill is currently Director he was responsible for the ongoing operational Chief Executive of Focus DIY Limited.
He does not hold management of the Groups business units.
From 1 August any other Non-Executive positions.
2006 to the end of August 2008 he was Joint Chief Operating Officer alongside Simon Pilling.
With effect from 1 January 2009 Paddy has moved to a part-time role, spending 2 days per week continuing with his client facing activities and remaining an active member of the Board.
Martin Bolland, Martina King Bill Grimsey, Maggi Bell Paul Pindar
