PLEASE SEE Directors report The Directors present the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2008 which includes the business review, governance and audited Group accounts for the year.
Pages 01 to 76, inclusive, of this Annual Report comprise a Report of the Directors that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with English company law PAGE 133 OF and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
In particular, Directors would be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Directors report contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
ACCOUNTS PDF To view this report online, go to www.
co. uk Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements TO BE PLACED This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company and no one else.
The Company, its Directors, employees or agents do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person in connection with this document and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
HERE Business review A robust business 02-11 Our straightforward goal 12-14 A clear business strategy 15-59 02 Operating in a growing marketplace 12 Achieving our straightforward goal 15 A clear business strategy: 04 Applying a consistent business model 13 Our performance in 2008 1.
Generating profitable growth 16 06 Sharing benefits of scale 14 Our principal key performance 2.
Controlling and 26 indicators KPIs measuring growth 08 Creating long term partnerships 3.
Managing our business 34 10 Consistently delivering added value responsibly 4.
Maintaining performance 54 across our divisions Governance 62 Board members 64 Corporate governance 71 Directors remuneration report Accounts 78 Consolidated income statement 82 Notes to the consolidated 119 Company balance sheet financial statements 79 Consolidated statement of recognised 120 Notes to the accounts income and expense 116 Statement of Directors responsibilities 131 Principal Group investments 80 Consolidated balance sheet 117 Independent auditors report to the 132 Independent auditors report to the members ofThe Capita Group Plc 81 Consolidated cash flow statement members ofThe Capita Group Plc 118 Five year summary 133 Useful information for shareholders Business review The Capita Group Plc 01... thats what wedoforour clients, andfortheir customers.
We help organisations tofunction more efficiently and cost effectively.
The result: our clients gain more flexible waysofdoing business, and their customers receive better service.
Weve consistently grown our business, both organically and through acquisitions, steadily increasing our scale and breadth of operations.
This strong performance record has enabled us to deliver realvalue to all our stakeholders and has created a stable, robust business.
