212016 RIT R&A pp01-pp19 29 5 08 19:16 Page 18 RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 18 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Lord Rothschild, OM GBE Aged 72, he is Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors and the Nominations Committee.
He is also the Deputy Chairman of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, and a non-executive director of The Blackstone Group and RHJ International.
Jacob Rothschild left N M Rothschild & Sons in 1980 to develop RIT plc, a forerunner of RIT Capital Partners plc, and his interests in the financial sector.
In addition to his career in finance, he has been involved in public service, including the arts and heritage fields, and philanthropy.
Duncan Budge Aged 52, he was appointed an executive Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 1995.
He has been a director of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT Capital Partners plc, since 1988 and has represented the Company on the boards of a number of its investments.
Prior to this, he spent six years with Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd. David Haysey David Haysey, 51, was appointed as Chief Investment Officer in August 2005 and as an executive Director of the Company in December 2005.
Prior to joining RIT Capital Partners plc, he held senior positions at S. G. Warburg Securities and at Deutsche Asset Management.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-INDEPENDENT Mikael Breuer-Weil Aged 44, he was appointed a non-executive Director in 1998.
Since 1994 he has been the principal investment adviser to philanthropic foundations connected with Lord Rothschilds family interests.
Prior to this, he spent eight years at Mercury Asset Management Group plc as an investment manager, including a period of secondment to Odyssey Partners L. P. in New York.
Nathaniel Rothschild Aged 36, Mr Rothschild was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2004.
He is the Co-chairman of Atticus Management Limited, a US based investment manager.
Mr Rothschild joined Atticus in 1996.
Prior to that he was an analyst in the mergers and acquisitions department at Gleacher & Co, a New York based investment bank.
Mr Rothschild is a member of the International Advisory Board of the Barrick Gold Corporation.
He is also a member of the Belfer Centers International Council at Harvards John F. Kennedy School of Government and the International Advisory Council of the Brookings Institute.
He was nominated as a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum in 2005.
Michael Sofaer Aged 50, he was appointed a non-executive Director in 1999.
He has been Managing Director and Principal of Sofaer Capital Inc. SCI since its inception in 1986.
He began his investment career as a securities analyst with Schroders in London before establishing the research department for Schroders Asia in Hong Kong, where he also managed two unit trusts.
He founded First Pacific Fund Management in Hong Kong in 1983, where he pioneered hedged investing in Asia.
SCI now manages eight hedge funds and three private equity funds.
212016 RIT R&A pp01-pp19 29 5 08 19:16 Page 19 19 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT Charles Bailey Aged 74, he is a chartered accountant and was appointed a non-executive Director in 1988.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Conflicts, and Valuation Committees, as well as a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is also a director of General Oriental Investments Limited, Antofagasta plc, and Atrium Underwriting plc and is a member of the audit committees of those companies.
John Cornish Aged 64, he was formerly a senior partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP, leading the firms services to the investment trust industry for over 15 years.
He was appointed in January 2008 as a non-executive Director of RIT Capital Partners plc.
He is the Chairman of Framlington Innovative Growth Trust plc and also a director of Henderson Eurotrust plc, RCM Technology Trust plc and Strategic Equity Capital plc.
John Elkann Aged 32, Mr. Elkann was appointed as a non-executive Director in March 2007.
He is Vice Chairman of Fiat Group and Chairman of IFIL Investments Spa and La Stampa, and a director of RCS Mediagroup and Banca Leonardo.
Mr. Elkann is a graduate of the Engineering University of Turin.
Andrew Knight Aged 68, he was appointed a non-executive Director in 1996 and is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
He is a non-executive director of News Corporation.
He is a former Editor of The Economist and served as Chief Executive of the Telegraph group, Chairman of News International and Deputy Chairman of Home Counties Newspapers Holdings plc until its acquisition by Eastern Counties Newspapers.
He is a past Chairman of the Shipston Home Nursing and Jerwood charities, and founder of the SMA Trust to further research into spinal muscular atrophy.
James Leigh-Pemberton Aged 51, Mr Leigh-Pemberton was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2004.
He has worked at Credit Suisse since 1994, holding positions as Head of Equity Syndicate, Head of Equity Capital Markets and from 2001 to 2004, Head of European Investment Banking.
He is currently Chairman of European Investment Banking.
Mr Leigh-Pemberton began his career at S. G. Warburg & Co, where he worked for fifteen years.
Michael Marks CBE Aged 66, he is the Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he founded in 2003.
He was formerly co-Head of the Global Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995, and where he subsequently held positions as Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa and was subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. Mr Marks began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith New Court in 1987.
He was, until 2004, a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc.
He was appointed as a non-executive Director of RIT Capital Partners plc in 2004.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit Committee Nominations Committee Charles Bailey Chairman Lord Rothschild Chairman John Cornish Charles Bailey Andrew Knight Andrew Knight James Leigh-Pemberton James Leigh-Pemberton Remuneration and Conflicts Committee Valuation Committee Charles Bailey Chairman Charles Bailey Chairman Andrew Knight Duncan Budge James Leigh-Pemberton John Cornish
