In Ireland, Ulster Bank has been pro-active in responding to the The E&ME Retail and Commercial franchises outside of Ireland challenging local and global market conditions through a lack scale and breadth.
They would require a very significant programme of initiatives, which includes the move to a single investment of capital and management resource to be able to brand strategy under the Ulster Bank brand.
This will see the achieve levels of shareholder return equivalent to those possible merger of the operations of Ulster Bank and First Active in the from more established core franchises in the Group.
We have Republic of Ireland RI by the end of 2009.
A series of cost commenced a review to consider future options for these management initiatives has also commenced across the business.
businesses, including options for sale.
Steps to support customers through this difficult economic period have also been initiated in Ireland.
Ulster Bank Asia Retail & Commercial Banking announced in February 2009 that it will be making available Asia Retail & Commercial Banking is present in significant funds for the Northern Ireland NI SME sector, with markets including India, Pakistan, China, Taiwan, a similar support initiative soon to launch in RI.
Ulster Bank has Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore.
also adopted the Groups pledge regarding certainty of overdraft limits for this segment.
To support personal customers, the Groups MoneySense It provides financial services across four segments: affluent financial education programme is being rolled out across the banking, cards and consumer finance, business banking and island of Ireland with trained advisors being introduced to all international wealth management, which offers private banking Ulster Bank branches.
The Momentum and Secure Step and investment services to clients in selected markets through mortgages have been launched in NI and RI respectively to the RBS Coutts brand.
Asias economies slowed sharply in 2008 and especially the Strategic review second half, ending a decade of consistent, widespread and often Ulster Bank remains a core part of the Groups global banking rapid growth in the region.
This was reflected in the performance operations.
It has a strong franchise in Ireland and has the of Asia Retail & Commercial Banking, although comparisons with product and distribution capability to grow profitably and well in the prior year are affected by the marked depreciation of sterling normal market conditions.
The business plans to manage its during the year.
While income increased by 12% to 781 million, balance sheet over the medium term, with particular focus on an operating loss after manufacturing costs of 113 million was reducing risk concentrations as market conditions allow, whilst incurred, compared with a loss of 20 million in 2007. increasing and diversifying its customer deposit base.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
