Risk control unaudited Reserving risk management: is the risk that the technical reserves The prime risk control mechanism for non-traded market risk exposures are assessed incorrectly such that insufficient funds have been is the completion of monthly IRRBB and quarterly FXRBB returns by the retained to handle and pay claims as the amounts fall due, both in Groups business units, collated as part of month-end reporting by relation to those claims which have already occurred or will occur in Group Treasury to GALCO.
In relation to equity risk, risk is mitigated by future periods of insurance.
Claims development data provides proper controls in relation to identification of risk prior to investing.
information on the historical pattern of reserving risk.
Financial control functions are required to confirm to Group Treasury Reinsurance risk management: is used to protect against adverse that returns materially capture all balance sheet items and thus claims experience on business within normal risk appetite e. g. reconcile to core source systems.
catastrophic events, adverse frequency of large claims and to provide protection on business not within its risk appetite e. g. quota Monthly returns by the Groups business units, collated as part of share reinsurance on certain classes of business.
month-end reporting by Group Treasury to GALCO, are used to build a Group IRRBB VaR position and to ensure businesses comply with The aggregate amount of business by product and entity is determined materiality limits on a pre and post hedge basis for interest rates, as through the business plans.
Overall, insurance risk is predictable over time, given the large volumes For FXRBB, the Group policy states that any foreign currency exposure of data.
Uncertainty does exist, especially around predictions such as is managed to fide-minimus limits.
Group Treasury monitors adherence to the variations in weather.
Risk is minimised through the application of this policy via a quarterly return.
documented risk policies, coupled with governance frameworks.
For both IRRBB and FXRBB information is included in regulatory and General insurance business statutory returns.
The Group`s focus in its general insurance operation is on high volume, relatively straightforward products.
The key insurance risks are as Group Market Risk exercise independent oversight and governance of follows: the interest rate and foreign exchange exposures managed in Group Treasury by granting market risk limits in addition to authorising Group Motor insurance contracts private and commercial : claims Treasury to deal in specific instruments for the purpose of managing the experience varies due to a range of factors, including age, gender Group's non-trading interest rate and foreign exchange exposures.
All and driving experience together with the type of vehicle and location.
market risk methodologies that relate to limits specified under this delegated authority are applied under the direction of Group Market Property insurance contracts residential and commercial : the Risk.
major causes of claims for property insurance are weather flood, storm, theft, fire, subsidence and various types of accidental Insurance risk unaudited damage.
The Group is exposed to insurance risk directly through its general and life insurance businesses.
Other commercial insurance contracts: risk arises from business interruption and loss arising from the negligence of the insured Insurance risk arises through fluctuations in the timing, frequency and or liability insurance.
Business interruption claims arise from the losses severity of insured events, relative to the expectations at the time of of income, revenue and or profit as a result of property damage underwriting.
Insurance risk is managed in four distinct ways: claims.
Liability insurance includes employers liability and public products liability.
Underwriting and pricing risk management: is managed through the use of underwriting guidelines which detail the class, nature and type Most general insurance contracts are written on an annual basis, which of business that may be accepted, pricing policies by product line means that the Groups liability extends for a 12 month period, after and brand and centralised control of wordings and any subsequent which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal changes.
terms by amending the premium, terms and conditions.
Claims risk management: is handled using a range of automated An analysis of gross and net insurance claims can be found in Note 24 controls and manual processes.
on the report and accounts see page 231.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 115 Business review continued Life insurance business guaranteed death benefits that expose it to the risk that declines in the The Groups three regulated life companies, National Westminster Life value of underlying investments may increase the Groups net exposure Assurance Limited, Royal Scottish Assurance plc RSA and Direct Line to mortality risk.
Life Insurance Company Limited, are required to meet minimum capital requirements at all times under the FSA Prudential Sourcebook.
The Groups long-term assurance contracts include whole-life, term assurance, endowment assurance, flexible whole life, pension and The capital resources covering the regulatory requirement are not annuity contracts that are expected to remain in force for an extended transferable to other areas of the Group.
To ensure that the capital period of time.
Contracts under which the Group does not accept requirement is satisfied at all times, each company holds a voluntary significant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts.
Long buffer above the regulatory minimum.
Reserving risk is managed for life term business provisions are calculated in accordance with the UK businesses through detailed analysis of historical and industry claims accounting standard FRS 27 Life Assurance.
data and robust control procedures around reserving models.
The Group uses exclusively proportional reinsurance, quota share and Estimations assumptions including future mortality, morbidity, surplus, for its life insurance entities.
persistency and levels of expenses are made in calculating actuarial reserves.
Key metrics include: The Group is not exposed to price, currency, credit, or interest risk on unit linked life contracts but it is exposed to variation in management fees.
In the UK, the Group also writes insurance contracts with minimum Assumptions 2008 2007 2006 Valuation interest rate Term assurance 2.50% 3.00% 3.00% Interest 2.50% 3.00% 3.00% Unit growth 3.70% 3.50% 3.50% Expense inflation 3.00% 4.00% 4.00% Sample mortality rates, expressed as deaths per million per annum, for term assurance products age 40.
2008 2007 2006 Mortality per annum per annum per annum Male non-smoker 723 810 517 Male smoker 1,590 1,830 983 Female non-smoker 568 460 278 Female smoker 1,277 1,310 618 Expenses: 2008 2007 2006 Pre-2000 products RSA per annum per annum per annum Lifestyle protection plan 29.30 25.18 28.96 Mortgage savings plan 65.92 56.67 65.15 Pre-2000 products NatWest Life Term assurances 26.01 26.01 26.01 Linked life bonds 26.01 26.01 26.01 Post-2000 products Term assurances 23.17 23.16 23.16 Guaranteed bonds 25.71 25.71 25.71 116 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The key factors that increase the frequency of claims include epidemics or widespread changes in lifestyle.
The Group uses base tables of standard mortality appropriate to the type of contract being written and the territory in which the insured person resides.
These are adjusted to reflect the Groups experience and expectations for future mortality improvements as appropriate.
Sensitivity factor Description of sensitivity factor applied Interest rate and investment return Change in market interest rates of 1% The test allows consistently for similar changes to investment returns and movements in the market value of backing fixed interest securities Expenses Increase in maintenance expenses of 10% Assurance mortality morbidity Increase in mortality morbidity rates for assurance contracts of 5% Annuitant mortality Reduction in mortality rates for annuity contracts of 5% The above UK sensitivity factors are applied through actuarial and statistical models, with the following impact on the financial statements.
Impact on profit and equity 2008 2007 Risk factor Variability m m Interest rates 1% 11 18 Interest rates 1% 11 15 Expenses 10% 7 5 Assurance mortality morbidity 5% 9 8 Annuitant mortality 5% Reinsurance The Group uses various types of reinsurance to transfer risk that is outside the Group`s risk appetite, including: Per individual risk excess of loss reinsurance.
Catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance.
Quota share and surplus reinsurance.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 117
