Liquidity risk audited Potential sources include cash inflows from maturing assets, new The Groups liquidity policy is designed to ensure that the Group can at borrowings or the sale of various debt securities held after allowing for all times meet its obligations as they fall due.
Short-term liquidity risk is generally managed on a consolidated basis with liquidity mismatch limits in place for Liquidity management within the Group addresses the overall balance subsidiaries and non-UK branches which have material local treasury sheet structure and the control, within prudent limits, of risk arising from activities, thereby assuring that the daily maintenance of the Groups the mismatch of maturities across the balance sheet and from exposure overall liquidity risk position is not compromised.
ABN AMRO, Citizens to undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations.
Financial Group and RBS Insurance manage liquidity locally, given different regulatory regimes, subject to review by Group Treasury.
As The management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within a integration of ABN AMROs businesses within the Group proceeds, the formal governance structure.
The Group Board of Directors oversees liquidity risk policies, parameters and metrics used will be progressively the liquidity risk appetite and strategy of the Group: the Group aligned within a single framework.
Executive Management Committee reviews the key liquidity metrics and trends in the context of the Groups overall risk profile: the Group Asset Stress testing and Liability Management Committee GALCO, chaired by the Group The Group performs stress tests to simulate how events may impact its Finance Director and including the chief executives of the business funding and liquidity capabilities.
Such tests inform the overall balance divisions as well as the Group Treasurer, Group Chief Risk Officer and sheet structure and help define suitable limits for control of the risk heads of other relevant Group functions, sets explicit metrics across a arising from the mismatch of maturities across the balance sheet and number of asset and liability targets and these are cascaded to the from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations.
The form business and monitored by the Group Treasury and risk functions.
and content of stress tests are updated where required as market conditions evolve.
Group Treasury has overall responsibility for the daily monitoring and control of the Groups liquidity and funding positions.
The Liquidity Contingency planning Managers Forum is chaired and directed by the Group Treasurer with Contingency funding plans have been developed to anticipate and membership including the Head of Short Term Markets and Financing, respond to approaching or actual material deterioration in market GBM.
The forum typically meets weekly with more frequent, ad hoc, conditions.
The Group reviews its contingency plans in the light of meetings as necessary.
There are Regional and Country ALCOs that evolving market conditions.
The contingency funding plan covers: the oversee Group policy in our business in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
available sources of contingent funding to supplement cash flow The Group is divided into Liquidity Reporting Units each of which is shortages: the lead times to obtain such funding: the roles and required to have its own liquidity limits and contingency funding plan.
In responsibilities of those involved in the contingency plans, including the addition, all subsidiaries and branches outside the UK are required to communication lines for escalation of events which give rise to liquidity comply with local regulatory liquidity requirements and are subject to stress: assumptions, including the expected change impact of market Group Treasury oversight.
conditions: and the ability and circumstances within which the Group accesses central bank liquidity.
Management of term structure The Group evaluates on a regular basis its structural liquidity risk and Global developments unaudited applies a variety of balance sheet management and term funding The global financial system has experienced its greatest crisis in the strategies to maintain this risk within its normal policy parameters.
The post war period and the dislocation became most acute in the second degree of maturity mismatch within the overall long-term structure of the half of 2008.
This loss of confidence in the worlds banking system led Groups assets and liabilities is managed within internal policy to massive dislocation in the capital markets and resulted in the guidelines, aimed at ensuring term asset commitments may be funded effective closure of the term debt and securitisation markets and money on an economic basis over their life.
In managing its overall term markets.
Government intervention in, and support for, the international structure, the Group analyses and takes into account the effect of retail financial system has increased to unprecedented levels taking the form and corporate customer behaviour on actual asset and liability of capital injections, guaranteed funding, asset insurance schemes and maturities where they differ materially from the underlying contractual expanded facilities from a number of central banks: maturities.
In September 2007, the Bank of England announced that to alleviate Daily management strains in longer-maturity money markets, it would conduct auctions to The primary focus of the daily management activity is to ensure access provide funds at three month maturity against a wider range of to sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow obligations within key time collateral, including mortgage collateral, than in its weekly open horizons, in particular out to one month ahead.
The short-term maturity market operations.
structure of the Groups liabilities and assets is managed daily to ensure that all material or potential cash flow obligations, arising from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations can be met.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 103
