Business review continued Investment funds set up and managed by the Group unaudited 4.9 billion 2007 5.5 billion in multi-manager money market funds The Groups investment funds are managed by RBS Asset Management denominated in sterling, US dollars and euro, which invest in short RBSAM, which is an integrated asset management business, which dated, highly rated securities.
manages investments on behalf of third-party institutional and high net worth investors, as well as for the Group.
RBSAM is active in most 0.7 billion 2007 0.6 billion in Money Funds Plus denominated in traditional asset classes and employs both fund of funds structures and sterling, US dollars and euro, which invest in longer-dated, highly multi-manager strategies.
Its offering includes money market funds, long rated securities with the objective of providing security, enhanced only funds and alternative investment funds.
Money market funds Non-money market funds The Group has established and manages a number of money market RBSAM has also established a number of non-money market funds to funds for its customers.
When a new fund is launched, RBSAM as fund enable investors to invest in a range of assets including bonds, equities, manager typically provides a limited amount of seed capital to the hedge funds, private equity and real estate.
The Group does not have funds.
RBSAM does not have investments in these funds greater than investments in these funds greater than 200 million.
As RBSAM does not have holdings in these funds of not have holdings in these funds of significant size and as the risks and significant size and as the risks and rewards of ownership are not with rewards of ownership are not with the Group, these funds are not the Group, these funds are not consolidated by the Group.
The funds have been authorised by the Irish Financial Services The non-money market funds had total assets of 18.7 billion at 31 Regulatory Authority as UCITS pursuant to the UCITS Regulations December 2008 31 December 2007 19.4 billion.
The sub UCITS Regulations refer to the European Communities Undertakings categories of non-money market funds are: for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Regulations and are therefore restricted in the types of investments and borrowings they can 16.0 billion 2007 17.0 billion in multi-manager funds, which offer make.
The structure of the assets within the funds is designed to meet fund of funds products across bond, equity, hedge fund, private the liabilities of the funds to their investors who have no recourse other equity and real estate asset classes.
than to the assets of the funds.
The risks to the Group as a result are restricted to reputational damage if the funds were unable to meet 1.6 billion 2007 1.3 billion in committed capital to private equity withdrawals when requested on a timely basis or in full.
investments, which invests primarily in equity and debt securities of private companies.
Money market funds had total assets of 13.6 billion at 31 December 2008 2007 11.2 billion.
The sub categories of money market 1.1 billion 2007 1.1 billion in credit investments, which invests in funds are: various financial instruments.
8.0 billion 2007 5.1 billion in Money Funds denominated in The structure of the assets within the funds is designed to meet the sterling, US dollars and euro, which invest in short-dated, highly rated liabilities of the funds to their investors who have no recourse other than money market securities with the objective of providing security, to the assets of the funds.
The risks to the Group as a result are performance and liquidity.
restricted to reputational damage if the funds were unable to meet withdrawals when requested on a timely basis or in full, and the Groups own investment in the funds.
The Groups maximum exposure to non-money market funds is represented by the investment in the shares of each fund and was 200 million at 31 December 2008 2007 171 million.
144 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
