Divisional review Global Banking & Markets Global Banking & Markets is a leading banking partner to major corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and investment services to its customers.
In 2008 the division was organised along four principal business lines: rates, currencies, and commodities, including RBS Sempra Commodities LLP, the  joint venture between RBS and Sempra Energy which was formed on 1 April 2008: equities: credit markets: and asset and portfolio management.
The poor results recorded by GBM in 2008 should not be allowed to disguise the fact that many businesses produced good performances, most notably rates and currencies, and that the activities which directly support our relationships with customers provide the platform for a return to sustainable profitability.
Total income before credit market write-downs and unusual items was 10,214 million, down 6% from 2007.
In addition to losses on previously identified credit market exposures of 7,781 million, GBM incurred 5,776 million in trading asset write-downs.
Although direct expenses were cut by 18% as we addressed the challenges facing the business, credit impairments rose sharply.
The operating loss for the year was 10,994 million.
On an indicative basis, the return on equity ROE of GBM was -35%.
These losses occurred in relatively narrow parts of the business, focused on proprietary trading, structured credit and counterparty exposure.
More than 50% of losses pertained to Divisionalreview ABN AMRO-originated portfolios.
Despite the disappointing headlines and the difficulties encountered by individual business lines, market volatility provided opportunities.
The rates and currencies business RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 Divisional review continued achieved a particularly strong performance, with high volumes RBS is renewing its commitment to product areas where GBM of customer activity and flow trading resulting in a 40% increase has market-leading competitive positions across its customer in income from rates trading to 3,543 million and 55% growth centric origination, advisory and trading activities.
It has strong in currencies income to 1,697 million.
The Sempra Commodities market positions in loans, bonds, foreign exchange, rates, joint venture performed well in the nine months after its formation, commodities and equities and will drive these businesses, with GBMs commodities income reaching 778 million for the year.
restructured where necessary, in a focused manner around customers needs.
GBM will discontinue all illiquid proprietary Equities saw reduced customer flow and write-downs on trading trading activities and correlation trading in equity and credit positions as markets deteriorated rapidly.
It will drastically scale back activity in structured real some successes in arranging debt financing for its customers estate, leveraged and project finance, and exit lending in these but remained severely affected by market dislocation.
All businesses, and notably GBMs asset finance businesses, will be managed within strict capital guidelines.
The task that GBM faces is to rebuild a business in which profit is sustainable.
We start from a very solid foundation of strong Globally, the intention is for GBM to move increasingly towards underlying revenues.
In addition, we enjoy global top five rankings a hub-and-spoke model.
Risk will be managed from regional in corporate lending, foreign exchange rates, commodities and hubs.
It is intended that distribution and coverage will be interest rates and options.
Our problems have largely arisen in delivered from a mix of hub countries and a scaled-back trading structured credit products and taking significant longer presence in some local offices.
The aim, over time, will be to term underwriting risk.
In doing so, we strayed from the model reduce much of the on-shore trading activity outside the key which had originally brought us success: of focusing on the financial centres.
needs of our customers and trading in markets only in order to support them.
As a result, our balance sheet has grown in ways Assets, products and geographies that fit GBMs new clientthat added risk without corresponding returns.
focused proposition will be defined as core and will remain within the division.
Assets, business lines and some geographies Strategic review that are non-core will be transferred to the new Non-Core Following the review, GBM intends to focus its business around Division.
These non-core activities accounted for approximately its core corporate and institutional customer set across the 205 billion of third party assets at end 2008. world.
These clients are global in nature and are multi-product users.
GBM will deploy capital and resources in support of this None of this will be easy.
The difficult economic environment customer base and will continue to arrange and distribute credit around the world will make 2009 another challenging year.
We loans and bonds and build sustained competitive advantage are confident, however, that at the core of GBM lies an excellent in its core financing, risk management and investment products, franchise which can deliver enduring profitability to the Group.
8 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
