Other risks unaudited reputation of the Group are identified, assessed, managed, monitored Regulatory risk and reported.
The Group pays particular attention to the reputation risks Regulatory risk is managed by designing, maintaining and associated with the introduction of new products or customer implementing policies and systems in order to ensure effective relationships.
compliance with all regulatory and legal requirements in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Groups approach to regulatory risk It is the responsibility of the management of all Group companies, has three distinct elements: acting through individual business units, to ensure that appropriate controls and procedures are in place to identify and manage the risks to The review of potential changes in regulation to ensure that the Group the reputation of the Group arising from their activity.
addresses the risks arising from such changes and responds appropriately: The Board has ultimate responsibility for managing any impact on the reputation of the Group arising from its operations.
However all parts of The monitoring of compliance with existing rules and regulations and the Group take responsibility for reputation management.
the mitigation of the consequences of any inadvertent non compliance: and Pension risk The Group is exposed to risk to its defined benefit pension schemes as The management of effective relationships with regulators to ensure assets comprise investment portfolios which are held to meet projected constructive engagement.
Risk arises because returns from these investments may be less than expected or there may be greater than Under a Group-wide framework of high-level policies, the Group and its expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes liabilities.
In subsidiaries engage co-operatively with all regulatory authorities in all such circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to the relevant jurisdictions, whether in response to regulatory change, onmake additional contributions to the schemes.
going supervisory requirements or regulatory investigations.
The largest of the schemes, and the main source of pension obligation During the course of 2008, responsibility for policy and oversight of risk, is the RBS Group Pension Fund.
In October 2006, this scheme was anti-money laundering, sanctions and counter-terrorist financing moved closed to new employees.
to the Group Head of Regulatory Risk & Compliance.
Risk appetite and investment policy are agreed by the Board of Reputation risk Trustees with quantitative and qualitative input from the scheme Reputation is the body of perceptions and opinions held by the actuaries and investment advisers.
The Board of Trustees also consults stakeholders of an organisation: customers, suppliers, employees, with the Group to obtain its view on the appropriate level of risk within investors, interest groups, regulators and government.
determines how stakeholders are likely to behave towards an organisation.
Reputation risk arises from any activity that could have an The Group maintains an independent review of risk within the Pension adverse impact on the reputation of the Group.
important drivers of the reputation of a company and reputation risk including: financial performance: corporate governance and quality of GALCO monitors pension obligation risk which is assessed by management: ethical, social and environmental performance: marketing, estimating the potential funding deficit of the scheme with a twelve innovation and customer relationships: and regulatory compliance and month risk horizon, and with a number of different confidence levels.
Monte Carlo simulations are used, based on assumptions of statistical distribution of future equity returns, future real and nominal interest The Group protects its reputation by understanding and managing rates, sensitivity of asset and liability values to changes in equity returns reputation risks, including failure to meet the expectations of and real and nominal interest rates, the impact of an adverse change in stakeholders.
longevity assumptions and mitigation available to the Group.
The Group will only enter into a commercial transaction or customer The most recent funding valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2007. relationship which is legal and complies with regulatory requirements, This showed the fund to be in surplus, and therefore there was no need has economic substance or business purpose and is not designed or in 2008 for additional payments over and above the regular contributions.
used for inappropriate accounting or tax purposes.
The Group takes The next funding valuation is scheduled to be carried out as at 31 care to understand the issues that matter most to stakeholders, balance March 2010. the views of all stakeholders and address them coherently.
Risks to the RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 121
