Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group the year ended 31 December 2008. comprises the company and all its subsidiary and associated undertakings, including the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Details of the Capital restructuring principal subsidiary undertakings of the company are shown in Note 16 In November 2008, HM Treasury announced the establishment of UK on the accounts.
Financial Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK Government which will manage, on an arms-length basis, the UK The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking, Governments shareholding in the company and other banks that insurance and other financial services.
Further details of the subscribed to the governments recapitalisation fund.
organisational structure and business overview of the Group, including the products and services provided by each of its divisions and the Following a placing and open offer in December 2008, HM Treasury competitive markets in which they operate, is contained in the Business now holds approximately 58% of the enlarged issued ordinary share review on pages 26 and 27. capital of the company.
In addition, HM Treasury holds 5 billion noncumulative sterling preference shares in the company.
The Group is currently undertaking a strategic review that is expected to re-focus the Group on those businesses with clear competitive Subsequently, on 19 January 2009, the company announced in advantages and attractive marketing positions, primarily in stable, lowconjunction with HM Treasury and UK Financial Investments Limited, to-medium risk sectors.
that the preference shares held by HM Treasury will be replaced with new ordinary shares.
Eligible shareholders will be able to apply to Risk factors subscribe for approximately 5 billion of new ordinary shares pro rata to The Groups future performance and results could be materially different their existing shareholdings at a fixed price of 31.75 pence per share by from expected results depending on the outcome of certain potential way of an open offer.
Any shares not taken up by shareholders in the risks and uncertainties.
Details of the principal risk factors the Group open offer or otherwise placed on behalf of the company will be faces are given in the Business review on pages 27 to 34. subscribed for by HM Treasury at a fixed price of 31.75 pence per share and the aggregate proceeds of the open offer will be used to The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the accounting fund the redemption of the preference shares held by HM Treasury, policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its together with the redemption premium on the preference shares, financial statements.
Details of the Groups critical accounting policies accrued dividend, and commissions payable to HM Treasury on the and key sources of accounting judgements are included in the offer.
The preference shares will be redeemed at 101 per cent of their Accounting policies on pages 178 to 188. issue price.
Dividends will continue to accrue on the preference shares until redemption.
This may result in HM Treasurys shareholding The Groups approach to risk management, including its financial risk increasing to approximately 70% of the enlarged ordinary share capital management objectives and policies and information on the Groups of the company.
exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the Risk, capital and liquidity management section of the Business review Results and dividends on pages 78 to 144.
The loss attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the company for the year ended 31 December 2008 amounted to 24,137 million compared Financial performance with a profit of 7,303 million for the year ended 31 December 2007, as A review of the Groups performance during the year ended 31 set out in the consolidated income statement on page 174.
December 2008, including details of each division, and the Groups financial position as at that date is contained in the Business review on The company did not pay an interim dividend in 2008.
2008, shareholders received one new ordinary share for every 40 shares held on the record date of 12 September 2008 by way of a capitalisation Business developments issue.
In October 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. RFS Holdings, a company jointly owned by the company, Fortis N. V. Fortis SA NV and Banco Santander As part of an agreement with HM Treasury, the company undertook not to S. A. and controlled by the company, completed the acquisition of ABN pay any dividends on the ordinary shares until such time as the 5 billion AMRO Holding N. V. ABN AMRO.
non-cumulative sterling preference shares issued to HM Treasury in December 2008 were repaid.
On 3 October 2008, the State of the Netherlands acquired Fortis Bank Nederland Holding N. V. including the Fortis interest in RFS Holdings Upon redemption of the preference shares as noted above, the restriction that represents the remaining Fortis-acquired businesses of ABN on payment of ordinary dividends will be removed.
However, it is not the AMRO as well as Fortis participation in certain Dutch insurance Boards intention to pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2009. activities.
On 24 December 2008, the Fortis interest in RFS Holdings was transferred from Fortis Bank Nederland Holding N. V. into the Business review direct ownership of the State of the Netherlands, subject to completion Activities of certain formalities.
On the same date, the State of the Netherlands The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary executed a Deed of Accession with the company, Banco Santander share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct S. A. and RFS Holdings pursuant to which it acceded to the Consortium and Shareholders Agreement dated 28 May 2007 as subsequently amended from time to time.
148 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RFS Holdings is implementing an orderly separation of the business In 2008, the response rate was 88%, the second highest response rate units of ABN AMRO with the company retaining the following ABN since the survey began.
This represents over 156,000 employees AMRO business units: participating in the survey, from more than 50 countries and in 20 languages.
For the first time, this survey was extended to former ABN Continuing businesses of Business Unit North America: AMRO employees.
Business Unit Global Clients excluding the Brazil Global Clients The Group recognises employee representative organisations such as Business and wholesale clients in the Netherlands including former trade unions and work councils in a number of businesses and Dutch wholesale clients and Latin America excluding Brazil : countries.
The Group has a European Employee Communication Council that provides elected representatives with an opportunity to understand Business Unit Asia including Private Clients India and Indonesia: and better the impact on its European operations.
Interest in Prime Bank, Pakistan excluding the interest in Saudi Hollandi : Diversity The Group's Diversity policy and associated policy standards set a Business Unit Europe excluding Antonveneta : framework for broadening the Groups talent base, achieving the highest levels of performance and enabling all employees to reach their full Employees potential irrespective of age, disability, gender, marital status, political As at 31 December 2008, the Group employed over 199,000 employees opinion, race, religion or belief or sexual orientation.
full-time equivalent basis throughout the world.
Details of employee related costs are included in Note 3 on the accounts on page 190.
The Group is also committed to ensuring that all prospective applicants for employment are treated fairly and equitably throughout the The Group utilises a wide range of recruitment channels to ensure that recruitment process and its comprehensive resourcing standards cover the recruitment and development of its employees are fully aligned to its the attraction and retention of individuals with disabilities.
adjustments are provided to support applicants in the recruitment process where these are required.
The Group provides reasonable The Group offers a competitive remuneration and benefits package to workplace adjustments for new entrants into the Group and for existing all employees.
employees who become disabled during their employment.
Employees are able to participate in incentive plans specific to their Safety, health and wellbeing business, and the Buy As You Earn and Sharesave schemes align the Protecting its employees and customers from harm is a fundamental interests of employees with those of shareholders.
principle of the way the Group operates and its goal is to minimise work related injuries and ill health.
The Group also recognises that the Employee learning and development general health and wellbeing of its employees impacts on their The Group maintains a strong commitment to creating and providing engagement and productivity.
Promoting good health, and providing learning opportunities for all its employees through a variety of personal support to its employees when they need it, is therefore also core to its development and training programmes and learning networks.
Employees are encouraged to do voluntary work with community partners.
During 2008, the Group focused on the core themes of globalisation of safety, health and wellbeing, improving health and raising awareness, Employee communication while continuing to manage safety and health risks.
Employee engagement is encouraged through a range of communication channels, at both a divisional and Group level.
These Pre-employment screening channels provide access to news and information in a number of ways, The Group has a comprehensive pre-employment screening policy to including the intranet, magazines, video, team meetings led by line guard against possible infiltration and employee-related fraud.
In managers, briefings held by senior managers and regular dialogue with addition to existing workplace security measures, all people engaged employees and employee representatives.
on Group business are now being screened prior to commencing employment.
The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives regularly communicate with employees across a range of channels.
Code of conduct The Code of Conduct and related policies forms part of the terms and Employee consultation conditions of employment for all those employed by the Group and sets Each year, all employees are invited to complete the global employee standards for those not directly employed such as contractors and opinion survey.
The survey is confidential and independently managed agency workers.
The survey provides a channel for employees to express their views and opinions about the Group on a range of key The code supports the Groups aim to operate in a similar way across issues.
the many countries in which it operates and is therefore applicable to employees in all locations.
The code is a high level collection of key policies to inform employees of the Groups expectations of their behaviour and practices.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 149 Report of the directors continued Corporate responsibility Ordinary share capital The Group believes that meeting high standards of environmental, In June 2008, the company issued 6,123 million ordinary shares of 25p social and ethical responsibility is key to the way it does business.
each through a rights issue on the basis of 11 new ordinary shares for every 18 existing shares held, at an issue price of 2 per share, raising The Groups business is managed in a way that takes account of the 12 billion.
social and environmental impact of its activities.
In order to identify the issues that matter most to its stakeholders, an annual research project is In September 2008, the company issued 403 million ordinary shares of conducted.
This work provides the foundation of the corporate 25p to existing shareholders by way of a capitalisation issue on the responsibility strategy.
It enables all parts of the Group to focus their basis of one new ordinary share for every 40 shares held.
efforts and resources on the most important issues.
Having the right management structures in place and clear leadership helps set the In December 2008, the company issued 22,910 million ordinary shares framework against which this happens.
There are issue-specific steering of 25p each by way of a Placing and Open Offer on the basis of 18 groups that feed into the Corporate Responsibility Forum, which new ordinary shares for every 13 existing shares held, at an issue price considers the Groups current performance and proposes new of 65.5 pence per share, raising 14.7 billion.
The Groups governance structure for corporate responsibility 22,854 million of these shares and now holds 57.9% of the enlarged extends throughout the organisation.
ordinary share capital of the company.
Further details of the Groups corporate responsibility policies will be During the year, the ordinary share capital was also increased by 13.5 contained in the 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report.
million ordinary shares allotted as a result of awards and the exercise of options under the companys share schemes.
Going concern The Groups business activities and financial position: the factors likely Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital at 31 to affect its future development and performance: and its objectives and December 2008 are shown in Note 27 on the accounts.
policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are discussed in the Business review.
Preference share capital In December 2008, the company issued 5 million non-cumulative As set out in the Business review, recent economic conditions have sterling preference shares to HM Treasury at 1,000 per preference seen severe dislocation in many financial markets and an share, raising 5 billion.
unprecedented reduction in liquidity globally.
Liquidity risk describes the measures governments and central banks in the UK and around the As discussed on page 148, the company, subject to shareholder world have taken to provide capital and liquidity to banks.
The Group approval, intends to issue new ordinary shares by way of an open offer, used a number of these funding facilities during 2008 and its funding the proceeds from which will be used to redeem the preference shares and capital plans for the next twelve months from the date of approval issued to HM Treasury, together with the accrued dividend.
of these accounts assume continuing reliance on and the continuation of these measures.
These plans have been shared with the Tripartite Details of the authorised and issued preference share capital at Authorities in the UK.
31 December 2008 are shown in Note 27 on the accounts.
Following the rights issue in June 2008 and the open offer in December Authority to repurchase shares 2008, the Groups capital ratios are at historically high levels and will be At the Annual General Meeting in 2008, shareholders renewed the further strengthened by the restructuring of the UK Governments authority for the company to make market purchases of up to preference shares.
The UK Government owns 57.9% of the ordinary 1,000,710,085 ordinary shares.
The directors have not used this share capital of the Group.
This could increase to 70.4% following the authority to date and there is no current intention that the authority will fully underwritten open offer announced in January 2009 and provides be exercised.
This authority will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM of tangible evidence of the UK Governments support for the Group the company in 2009 and no renewal will be sought.
reflecting its importance to the UK economy and financial system.
Additional information The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts, projections and Where not provided previously in the Report of the directors, the other relevant evidence including the ongoing measures from following provides the additional information required to be disclosed by governments and central banks in the UK and around the world to Part 7 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
Whilst the Group has received no guarantees, the directors have a reasonable expectation, based on The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares experience to date, of continued and sufficient access to the funding and preference shares are set out in the companys Articles of facilities referred to above and, accordingly, that the Group and the Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable in the UK or at www.
The financial statements of the Group and of the company have, therefore, been prepared on a going concern basis.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company every holder of ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares present in person Corporate governance or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to Details are given on pages 153 to 158. vote shall have one vote for every share held.
On a poll, holders of 150 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 cumulative preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled Directors to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
The Notice of the The names and brief biographical details of the directors are shown on Annual General Meeting specifies the deadlines for exercising voting pages 146 and 147. rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the meeting.
Gordon Pell, Guy Whittaker, Colin Buchan, Archie Hunter and Joe MacHale served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.01% of the total financial statements.
voting rights of the company, the remainder being represented by the ordinary shares.
Stephen Hester, John McFarlane and Arthur 'Art' Ryan were appointed as directors on 1 October 2008.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be Johnny Cameron ceased to be a director on 13 October 2008. imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain Sir Fred Goodwin and Mark Fisher ceased to be directors on 21 employees of the company require the approval of the company to deal November 2008. in the companys shares.
Larry Fish ceased to be a director on 31 December 2008.
A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on transfers of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in particular the Sir Tom McKillop ceased to be Chairman on 3 February 2009.
Philip Hampton was appointed as a director and Chairman-designate The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference on 19 January 2009 and as Chairman on 3 February 2009. shares are set out in Note 27 on the accounts on pages 242 to 244.
Jim Currie, Bill Friedrich, Bud Koch, Janis Kong, Sir Steve Robson, Bob The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Scott and Peter Sutherland ceased to be directors on 6 February 2009. that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no persons holding securities carrying special rights Philip Hampton, Stephen Hester, John McFarlane and Arthur Art Ryan with regard to control of the company.
will retire and offer themselves for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of the service agreement for Stephen Hester Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible employees are are set out on page 161.
No other director seeking election has a entitled to acquire shares in the company, and shares are held in trust service agreement.
for participants by The Royal Bank and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company as Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on Directors interests receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
December 2008 are shown on page 169.
None of the directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company or in the shares or loan The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Trust, The capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company, during Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2007 US Employee Share Trust and the period from 1 January 2008 to 25 February 2009.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee Share Trust hold shares on behalf of the Groups employee share plans.
The voting rights are Directors' indemnities exercisable by the Trustees, however, in accordance with investor In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors of the protection guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees company, members of the Group Executive Management Committee would take independent advice before accepting any offer in respect of and Approved Persons of the Group under the Financial Services and their shareholdings for the company in a takeover bid situation.
Markets Act 2000 have been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions by the company.
The rules governing the appointment of directors are set out in Corporate governance on page 153.
The companys Articles of Directors' disclosure to auditors: Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms meeting of shareholders.
that: A change of control of the company following a takeover bid may cause a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information a number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, of which the companys auditors are unaware: and alter or terminate.
In addition, a number of executive directors' service agreements may be affected on a change of control.
All of the b the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that become exercisable on change of control, subject where appropriate to information.
the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and prorating of awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with agreements are not considered to be significant.
the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 151 Report of the directors continued Shareholdings The table below shows the shareholders that have notified the Group that they hold more than 3% of the voting rights in the undernoted classes of shares as at 31 December 2008.
Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares: 5 2% cumulative preference shares: Solicitor For The Affairs of Mr P S and Mrs J M Allen: Her Majestys Treasury Miss C L Allen, and Miss J C Allen 112,949 28.23 As Nominee for Commercial Union Assurance plc 91,429 22.86 Her Majestys Treasury 22,853,798,818 57.92 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 1 46,255 11.56 11% cumulative preference shares: E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 Guardian Royal Exchange Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Windsor Life Assurance Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 Mr S J and Mrs J A Cockburn 15,520 3.10 Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 Mr Stephen J Cockburn 15,290 3.06 Mr W T Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Note: 1 1 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A W R Medlock and Mrs H M Medlock that they each have an interest in the holding of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
Charitable contributions Auditors In 2008 the contribution to the Groups Community Investment The auditors, Deloitte LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in programmes was 66.3 million 2007 57.7 million.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditor given for charitable purposes by the company and its subsidiary will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
undertakings during the year ended 31 December 2008 was 24.8 million 2007 32.1 million.
By order of the Board The companys community investment is focused on the issues most Miller McLean relevant to it as a financial institution, including preventing exclusion Secretary from banking services, promoting financial understanding and 25 February 2009 supporting small businesses and entrepreneurs.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Political donations is registered in Scotland No.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2006, shareholders gave authority for the company to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 500,000 as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, for a period of four years.
These authorities have not been used.
No political donations were made during the year and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial relationship with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups policy to negotiate and agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which includes the giving of an undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of the contract or such other payment period as may be agreed.
At 31 December 2008, the Groups trade creditors represented 30 days 2007 30 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
152 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
