Divisional review continued Direct expenses increased by 30% to 483 million.
This Total assets under management for the Division at 31 December reflected higher collection costs and continued investment in 2008 were 7% higher than a year earlier at 21.2 billion, while the Groups infrastructure in the region, including the customer deposits were 40% higher, partly reflecting exchange recruitment of additional experienced private bankers in RBS rate movements.
Impairment losses increased by 44% to 171 million, largely as a result of pressures on the Indian consumer Strategic review finance book.
The indicative ROE of Asia Retail & Commercial Asia Retail & Commercial Banking has established operations Banking was -16%.
in a number of fast growing and attractive markets.
However, the franchise is thinly spread and in general has not yet Volatile market conditions reduced demand among clients for achieved significant scale.
The Group intends to exit its retail structured and equity fund products and led to a slowing in and commercial activities in these areas.
RBS Coutts will affluent banking income.
Despite this, Royal Preferred Banking, remain a core business.
which was launched in a number of countries during the year, saw client numbers increase by 13% and assets under management in the affluent segment grew by 3%.
Royal Wealth RBS Insurance Management was launched in India, emphasising our RBS Insurance is the UKs second largest general commitment to that market.
insurer and the largest personal lines insurer by Credit cards and consumer finance metrics have continually gross written premiums.
It sells and underwrites been reviewed over the period resulting in further tightening of personal lines and SME insurance over the consumer lending policies.
This has led to lower levels of card telephone and internet, as well as through brokers, and loan acquisition.
There has also been a slowdown in the RBS Group bank branches and partnerships.
Despite this, the cards and consumer finance business reported income growth of 20%.
Business banking saw strong growth across most regions with revenue increasing by 28%, having performed particularly well Its brands include Direct Line, which sells general insurance in India, Pakistan and China.
products direct to the customer, while the Churchill and Privilege brands sell both directly to the customer and via RBS Coutts, our wealth management business, continued to selected price comparison websites.
In addition, NIG sells deliver good income growth of 19% and strong levels of client general insurance products through independent brokers and acquisition, up 5% in the year.
Despite adverse financial Green Flag is RBS Insurances provider of the rescue product.
markets and significant levels of client fide-leveraging, assets Internationally, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, mainly under management in the international wealth business grew by motor, in Spain, Germany and Italy under the Direct Line brand.
We continued to rebrand Coutts businesses outside the UK to RBS Coutts.
16 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RBS remains the UKs largest motor insurer and its second The international businesses performed well, with income largest home insurer.
This is supported by the strength of the up 24% and contribution up 37%.
These businesses now have Direct Line and Churchill brands which maintained their more than 2.5 million customers.
RBS Insurance, under the positions as the two leading motor insurance brands.
The total Direct Line brand, is the largest direct motor insurer in Spain, number of in-force policies was 7% higher in December 2008 the second largest in Italy and the third largest in Germany.
The success of RBS Insurance in 2008 was delivered by RBS Insurance made strong progress in 2008.
Operating profit another strong performance from our people.
This was after manufacturing costs rose by 99 million to a record 780 illustrated by the Group-wide Your Feedback survey, which million, an increase of 15%.
Excluding the impact of the 2007 showed that RBS Insurance improved its position in 11 out of floods and prior year reserve releases, operating profit grew by 15 categories compared with 2007 and exceeded the global 6%.
Direct expenses grew by 4% to 771 million.
Net claims fell financial services norm in 12 of the 15 categories.
by 7% to 3,733 million and by 3% if the effects of the 2007 floods and reserving review are excluded.
The indicative ROE of Throughout 2008, RBS Insurance continued to develop and RBS Insurance was 38%.
This involved a focus on low-cost customer acquisition through multiple distribution channels, During 2008, RBS Insurance continued its strategy of growing efficiency enhancements to our low-cost operations, and own brand business, with income increasing 7%.
Within the improved underwriting risk selection and claims handling.
This partnership market, RBS Insurance continued to focus on the has given the company a strong foundation and leaves it well more profitable opportunities which resulted in discontinuing placed for future profitable growth despite the ongoing impacts some of the less profitable partnership contracts.
Consequently, of the current economic market conditions.
the number of partnership and broker policies in-force at December 2008 was down 9% compared with a year earlier Strategic review although contribution increased by 27%.
The Group has decided to retain RBS Insurance, reflecting the strength of its franchise as the leading UK personal lines insurer.
In 2008, RBS Insurance continued to develop its synergies with It provides high quality earnings, which are differentiated from the wider Group.
Excellent sales growth was achieved through the Groups banking businesses, providing valuable diversity and the RBS and NatWest brands, where home insurance new strong returns.
The business plans to pursue additional growth business sales increased by 289%, the equivalent of one policy through building its position in the online insurance aggregator every minute during branch opening hours.
channel, through the bank channels and in the commercial market.
The business retains competitive advantage through its market leading brands, low cost operating model and the benefits of scale on its claims costs.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17
