Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, the term Acquisition of ABN AMRO company means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, RBS or the On 17 October 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. RFS Holdings, a company Group means the company and its subsidiaries, the Royal Bank jointly owned by RBS, Fortis Bank Nederland Holding N. V. Fortis means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and NatWest means National and Banco Santander S. A. Santander together the consortium Westminster Bank Plc.
members and controlled by RBS, completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. ABN AMRO.
The company publishes its financial statements in pounds sterling or sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions and On 3 October 2008, the State of the Netherlands acquired Fortis Bank thousands of millions of pounds sterling, respectively, and references to Nederland Holding N. V. including the Fortis participation in RFS pence represent pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to Holdings that represents the acquired activities of ABN AMRO and their dollars or $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The participation in Dutch insurance activities.
abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands of millions of dollars, respectively, and references to cents represent RFS Holdings is implementing an orderly separation of the business cents in the US.
The abbreviation represents the euro, the European units of ABN AMRO with RBS retaining the following ABN AMRO single currency, and the abbreviations m and bn represent millions business units: and thousands of millions of euros, respectively.
Continuing businesses of Business Unit North America: Certain information in this report is presented separately for domestic and foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily consist of the UK Business Unit Global Clients and wholesale clients in the Netherlands domestic transactions of the Group.
Foreign activities comprise the including former Dutch wholesale clients and Latin America Groups transactions conducted through those offices in the UK excluding Brazil : specifically organised to service international banking transactions and transactions conducted through offices outside the UK.
Business Unit Asia excluding Saudi Hollandi : and The geographic analysis in the average balance sheet and interest Business Unit Europe excluding Antonveneta.
rates, changes in net interest income and average interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have been compiled on the basis of Certain other assets will continue to be shared by the consortium location of office UK and overseas.
Management believes that this members.
presentation provides more useful information on the Groups yields, spreads and margins of the Groups activities than would be provided Pro forma results by presentation on the basis of the domestic and foreign activities Pro forma results have been prepared that include only those business analysis used elsewhere in this report as it more closely reflects the units of ABN AMRO that will be retained by RBS and assuming that the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this context includes acquisition of ABN AMRO was completed on 1 January 2007.
No domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices adjustments have been made for the placing and open offer in in the UK which service international banking transactions.
The per share data have been calculated on the assumption that the rights issue of 11 shares for 18 held for 200 pence The results, assets and liabilities of individual business units are per share and the capitalisation issue of 1 share for every 40 held classified as trading or non-trading based on their predominant activity.
The financial review and divisional Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being performance in the Business review include the pro forma results.
The classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any basis of preparation of the pro forma results are detailed on page 74. resulting misclassification is not material.
Given the significant write-downs on the Groups credit market International Financial Reporting Standards exposures, and in order to provide a basis for comparison of underlying As required by the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the European performance, these write-downs and other one-off items including writeUnion IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements of the down of goodwill and other intangible assets are shown separately in Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial the pro forma income statement.
Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Statutory results Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS as RFS Holdings is jointly owned by the consortium members.
It is adopted by the European Union.
It also complies with IFRS as issued by controlled by the company and is therefore fully consolidated in its the IASB.
On implementation of IFRS on 1 January 2005, the Group financial statements.
Consequently, the statutory results of the Group for took advantage of the option in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of the year ended 31 December 2007 and 2008 include the results of ABN International Financial Reporting Standards to implement IAS 39 AMRO for 76 days and the full year respectively.
The interests of Fortis, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, IAS 32 Financial and its successor the State of the Netherlands, and Santander, in RFS Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IFRS 4 Insurance Holdings are included in minority interests.
Contracts from 1 January 2005 without restating its 2004 income statement and balance sheet.
The date of transition to IFRS for the Group and the company and the date of their opening IFRS balance sheets was 1 January 2004.
24 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
