Business review continued Credit risk Specialist credit risk teams oversee the credit process independently, Principles for credit risk management audited making credit decisions within their discretion, or recommending The key principles for credit risk management in the Group are as decisions to the appropriate credit committee.
follows: Assessments of corporate borrower and transaction risk are undertaken A credit risk assessment of the customer and credit facilities is using fundamental credit analysis and the application of general undertaken prior to approval of credit exposure.
Typically, this corporate and certain specialist counterparty credit risk models.
includes both quantitative and qualitative elements including, the Financial markets counterparties are approved by a dedicated credit purpose of the credit and sources of repayment: compliance with function which specialises in traded market product risk.
Specialist affordability tests: repayment history: ability to repay: sensitivity to credit grading models exist for certain bank and non-bank financial economic and market developments: and risk-adjusted return based institutions.
on credit risk measures appropriate to the customer and facility type.
Different approaches are used for the management of wholesale and Credit risk authority is specifically granted in writing to individuals retail businesses: involved in the granting of credit approval, whether this is individually or collectively as part of a credit committee.
In exercising credit Wholesale businesses: exposures are aggregated to determine the authority, individuals are required to act independently of business appropriate level of credit approval required and to facilitate considerations and must declare any conflicts of interest.
Credit applications for corporate customers are prepared by relationship managers RMs in Credit exposures, once approved, are monitored, managed and the units originating the credit exposures, or by the RM team with reviewed periodically against approved limits.
Lower quality lead responsibility for a counterparty where a customer has exposures are subject to more frequent analysis and assessment.
relationships with different divisions and business units across the Group.
This includes the assignment of counterparty credit grades Credit risk management works with business functions on the ongoing and LGD estimates using approved models, which are also management of the credit portfolio, including decisions on mitigating independently checked by the credit team.
actions taken against individual exposures or broader portfolios.
Retail businesses: the retail business makes a large volume of small Customers with emerging credit problems are identified early and value credit decisions.
Credit decisions will typically involve an classified accordingly.
Remedial actions are implemented promptly application for a new or additional product or a change in facilities on and are intended to restore the customer to a satisfactory status and an existing product.
The majority of these decisions are based upon minimise any potential loss to the Group.
automated strategies utilising industry standard credit and behaviour scoring techniques.
Stress testing of portfolios is undertaken to assess the potential credit impact of non-systemic scenarios and wider macroeconomic events on the Groups income and capital.
84 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Model validation audited The validation results are a key factor in deciding whether a model is The performance and accuracy of credit models is critical, both in recommended for ongoing use.
The frequency, depth and extent of the terms of effective risk management and also the calculation of risk validation are consistent with the materiality and complexity of the risk parameters PD, LGD and EAD used by the Group to calculate being managed.
The Groups validation processes include: RWAs.
The models are subject to frequent validation internally and, if used as part of the AIRB Basel II framework see page 82, have Developmental evidence: to ensure that the credit risk model been reviewed and approved for use by the FSA.
adequately discriminates between different levels of risk and delivers accurate risk estimates.
Independent model validation is performed by the Group.
This includes an evaluation of the model development and validation for the data set Process verification: whether the methods used in the credit risk used, logic and assumptions, and performance of the model analysis.
models are being used, monitored and updated in the way intended Where required, the Group has engaged external risk management in the design of the model.
Initial testing and validation is performed consultants to undertake independent reviews and report their findings when the model is developed with the performance of models being to the Wholesale or Retail Credit Model Committee.
This provides a assessed on an ongoing basis.
Group Risk Committee Approve high materiality models Group Models Committee Approve medium materiality models Wholesale Credit Model Retail Credit Model Technical review of all models Approve low materiality models Committee Committee RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 85 Business review continued Credit risk mitigation audited accepted, in accordance with internal requirements, and are included The Group takes a number of steps to mitigate credit risk.
The key risk as appropriate in PD and LGD estimates e. g. small firms loan mitigants are as follows: guarantee schemes, completion guarantees.
Personal guarantees are considered in the normal credit process where there is a charge Real estate: the most common form of security held is real estate over specific assets.
While personal guarantees may be called for within the consumer and wholesale businesses.
and are always accepted, no value is given to unsupported personal guarantees in any credit models.
Financial collateral: is taken to support credit exposures in the nontrading book.
Financial collateral is also taken in Global Markets and Credit derivatives: credit derivative activity is conducted through Regional Markets to support trading book exposures and is designated units within GBM to ensure consistency and appropriate incorporated in E adjustment to the exposure value calculations.
Group policies are designed to ensure that the credit protection is appropriate to support offset for an underlying trading Other physical collateral: the Group takes a wide range of other book asset or improvement to the LGD of a banking book asset.
physical collateral including business assets stock and inventory, Within the banking book, credit derivatives are used as risk and plant and machinery, equipment, project assets, intangible assets capital management tools.
The principal counterparties are banks, which provide a future cashflow and real value, commodities, investment firms and other market participants, with the majority vehicles, rail stock, aircraft, ships and receivables not purchased.
subject to collateralisation under a credit support annex.
In accordance with internal policy, stress testing is conducted on the Guarantees: third party guarantees are taken from banks, counterparty credit risk created by the purchase of credit protection.
government entities, export credit agencies, and corporate entities.
The Groups recovery value estimation methodology is sensitive to the Minimum standards for example loan to value, legal certainty are variations in the credit quality of guarantors.
Standby letters of credit ensured through the policy framework.
are also given value in LGD models.
Conditional guarantees are Credit risk assets audited Credit risk assets consist of loans and advances including overdraft facilities, instalment credit, finance lease receivables and other traded instruments across all customer types.
The Group uses a series of models to measure the size of its exposure to credit risk and to calculate expected EAD in both its trading and banking books.
In so doing, the Group recognises the effects of credit risk mitigation that reduces potential loss.
2008 2007 Credit risk assets unaudited bn bn Global Markets 469.8 307.4 Regional Markets UK Retail & Commercial Banking 223.5 202.1 US Retail & Commercial Banking 82.9 58.1 Europe & Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking 64.7 47.1 Asia Retail & Commercial Banking 7.5 6.8 RBS Insurance 4.6 5.1 Other 2.0 Group before RFS Holdings minority interest 855.0 626.6 RFS Holdings minority interest 176.8 206.0 Group 1,031.8 832.6 Note: 1 Excluding reverse repurchase agreements and issuer risk.
Credit risk assets as at 31 December 2008 were 855.0 billion 2007 626.6 billion, an increase of 228.4 billion during the year.
Pages 86 to 93 include analyses of credit risk assets on a pro forma basis, excluding RFS Holdings minority interests and share of shared assets, in line with managements view of the business.
Facilities included within RFS Holdings minority interests have not been migrated to RBS risk systems, as they will not be part of the Group following separation of the ABN AMRO business.
86 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Credit concentration risk including country risk audited disaster or conflict.
Losses are broadly defined and include credit, The Group defines three key areas of concentration in credit risk that market, liquidity, operational and franchise risk related losses.
The are monitored, reported and managed at Group and divisional levels.
acquisition of ABN AMRO materially increased the Group's country risk These are single name concentration, industry sector and country risk.
profile, therefore significant enhancements to the Groups country risk The Group has a series of quantitative and qualitative controls in place framework have been implemented and continue to be developed.
to limit the amount of concentration risk in credit portfolios.
It is the Groups policy to monitor and control country risk exposures A threshold is set on the aggregate LGD to a single customer group and to avoid excessive concentrations.
The Groups appetite is above which approval is required from the Groups most senior credit expressed by a matrix of limits by country risk grade and is approved committee, the Advances Committee.
The Groups exposure is managed and measured within this appetite by the Group Country Risk Management Committee GCRMC, During the year work progressed on an enhancement of the frameworks that has delegated authority from the GRC to manage country risk and for managing single name and sector concentrations.
Membership of GCRMC comprises the Group enhancements are planned to be fully implemented in 2009 to improve Chief Credit Officer, Heads of Credit and business representatives from the identification and management of concentrations in the portfolio those divisions with material country risk exposures.
GCRMC sets limits through the introduction of additional parameters and increased for each country based on a risk assessment taking into account the scrutiny of concentration limit excesses.
Groups franchise and business mix in that country.
Additional limitations on product types with higher loss potential and longer tenor A stress testing framework, Correlated Exposure Loss Testing, assesses transactions, for example may be established depending on the the impact on the Groups impairment charge of non-systemic events country outlook and business strategy.
A country watch list framework is that affect groups of inter-related sectors in order to limit the impact of in place to proactively monitor emerging issues and facilitates the these scenarios to within defined tolerances.
Country risk arises from sovereign events e. g. default or restructuring : The country risk table below shows credit risk assets exceeding 1 billion economic events e. g. contagion of sovereign default to other parts of by borrower domicile and is stated gross of mitigating action which may the economy, cyclical economic shock : political events e. g. have been taken to reduce or eliminate exposure to country risk events.
In addition, United Arab Emirates is included which has a rating of AA.
unaudited but certain high growth countries, such as UAE, will face challenges.
The outlook for developing markets in 2009 is very challenging, as Eastern Europe faces a deep correction as large economic imbalances developed economy demand is weak, liquidity conditions are tight and unwind.
Falling commodity prices and US weakness will also affect risk appetite is yet to return.
Asian growth is slowing sharply as trade Latin America, but the region is more resilient than during previous contracts, but generally, both sovereign and private sector leverage is downturns due to reform progress and policy orthodoxy in its largest lower than during the 1998 crisis, providing scope for recovery.
Middle East is more insulated from the effects of economic disruption RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 87
