Business review continued Credit market and related exposures 0.8 ABX.
AA These disclosures provide information for certain of the Groups 0.7 ABX.
AAA business activities affected by the unprecedented market events of 2008, the majority of which arose within Global Banking and Markets ABX.
The disclosures are focused around GBMs credit markets ABX.
BBBactivities, including the conduit business, which have been particularly 0.5 affected by the widespread market disruptions, as well as similar exposures in US Retail & Commercial Citizens and Group Treasury.
0.4 0.3 In preparing these disclosures, the Group took into consideration the leading practice disclosure recommendations of the Financial Stability 0.2 Forum issued in April 2008.
0.1 Market background unaudited Overall, 2008 has been characterised by rapid dislocation in financial markets.
In many cases, the dramatic liquidity squeeze and rise in 14 Nov 07 22 Feb 08 01 June 08 09 Sep 08 18 Dec 08 28 Mar 08 funding costs for financial institutions has resulted in reluctance or inability of market participants to transact, and has adversely affected the performance of most financial institutions globally, including the Group.
Stock markets have experienced extraordinary falls, and levels of The graph below provides an indication of the change in credit volatility have been at record highs.
Commodity prices have reduced worthiness of corporate entities to which the Group has significant sharply in the second half of the year, and credit spreads continued to exposure through its credit products in the form of credit derivatives widen.
Market perception of counterparty risk increased and the failure and bonds.
The MarkiT iTraxx Europe graph demonstrates the impact of of major credit protection providers caused fair value losses for the the movement of credit spreads in price terms for a basket of European Group and other market participants and further increased the costs of corporate entities prices rebased to 100 at the beginning of the year.
Sustained falls globally in both residential and commercial real estate prices, fund valuations and worsening loan Price estimate performance combined with a sustained lack of liquidity in the market, 101 resulted in a greater amount of assets being valued at significantly 100 lower prices.
99 An indication of the continued decline in the price of asset backed 98 securities ABS, in particular those collateralised with sub-prime assets, 97 is shown in the following graph.
While not fully representative of the Groups ABS exposures or pricing basis, the ABX series of indices 96 charted in the graph show, in bond price terms, how differently rated 95 ABS referencing US sub-prime mortgages securitised in 2007 have 94 performed during the year.
