Business review continued In April 2008, the Bank of England launched a special liquidity In January 2009, the Government announced that the Bank of scheme allowing banks to swap temporarily illiquid mortgage and England had been authorised to purchase up to 50 billion of highother assets for Treasury Bills.
The scheme closed to new issuances quality private sector assets under an asset purchase facility.
However, it will provide liquidity support for a following sterling assets are initially eligible for purchase: commercial further three years.
paper, corporate bonds, paper issued under the Credit Guarantee Scheme CGS, syndicated loans and asset-backed securities In September 2008, the major central banks announced coordinated created in viable securitisation structures.
action to improve US$ liquidity.
As part of this action, the Bank of England and ECB commenced US dollar repo operations.
Eligible In January 2009, the Government announced an asset protection collateral consists of securities routinely eligible in the Bank of scheme.
The Government will insure, for a commercial fee, certain Englands and ECBs short-term repo open market operations bank assets against losses.
It is anticipated that the scheme will together with conventional US Treasuries.
The Bank of England commence in April 2009.
The UK banks, including the Group, have concluded a reciprocal swap agreement swap line with the US been in discussions with the Tripartite Authorities about the schemes Federal Reserve.
On 3 February 2009, the Bank of England terms.
announced the extension of this facility until 30 October 2009.
In January 2009, the FSA has announced that it will ensure that the In October 2008, the pool of eligible collateral securities for its open application of the current International Basel Accord does not create market operations was extended to include bank debt guaranteed any unnecessary or unintended pro-cyclical effects.
under the Governments bank debt guarantee scheme.
On 3 February 2009 the Federal Reserve Bank announced an In October 2008, the Government announced a credit guarantee extension to a number of its liquidity facilities until 30 October 2009. scheme.
It will guarantee new unsecured borrowing in return for a These included the Term Securities Lending Facility TSLF, originally fee.
Initially the guarantee period ended on 9 April 2009 but on 19 announced in March 2008.
Under the TSLF, the Federal Reserve Bank January 2009 the Government announced an extension to 31 of New York auctions 28-day term loans of Treasury securities to December 2009.
It also announced new arrangements, expected to primary dealers in exchange for other program eligible collateral.
start in April 2009, to guarantee asset-backed securities issued by banks.
Liquidity management in 2008 audited The exposure of the Group to wholesale market funding increased In October 2008 the European Central Bank expanded its list of markedly in 2008 following the acquisition of the wholesale banking eligible collateral to include marketable debt instruments business of ABN AMRO in the latter half of 2007.
The amount of denominated in non-euro currencies and issued in the euro area unsecured wholesale funding represented by bank funding and debt among others.
This is to remain in force until the end of 2009. securities increased from 154 billion in June 2007 to 362 billion in Enhancements were also made to the provision of longer-term December 2007.
The gap between customer loans and customer refinancing operations including conducting them through a fixed rate deposits increased over this period from 86 billion to 121 billion.
tender procedure with full allotment.
This is to stay in place for as long as needed and at least until 31 March 2009.
The market disruption during 2008 had a marked effect on the Groups liquidity and funding which was at its most acute in the autumn of 2008 On 27 October 2008 the Federal Reserve Bank commenced the following the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
During that period, the Commercial Paper Funding Facility to provide a liquidity backstop to Groups credit ratings were downgraded constraining both access to issuers of commercial paper.
A special purpose vehicle SPV funded and tenor of wholesale funding and there was an outflow of customer by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York will purchase eligible threedeposits.
The effective closure of the term funding markets and sharp month unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper from eligible reduction in the quantity and maturity of short term bank funding had issuers.
In February 2009 the FED announced an extension to this profound consequences for the Group.
Whilst the Groups customer funding sources remain well diversified and In October 2008 the UK Government announced recapitalisation its retail franchise proved resilient, the availability of longer term funding plans for a number of UK banks including RBS.
The Group therefore increased its shorter term wholesale funding exposure, increased its access to central bank funding and In January 2009, it was announced that the Bank of England will issued government guaranteed debt to fund the balance sheet.
The permit drawings from the discount window facility with a term of 364 government schemes have enabled the mitigation of the financial crisis days, in addition to the standard option to draw for 30 days.
as the Group rebalances its asset and liability structure.
104 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 An analysis of the Groups funding is set out below.
The maturity profile of debt core customer deposits gathered by its retail banking, private client, securities is predominantly concentrated under one year and this is a corporate and SME franchises.
The underlying strength of the franchise source of refinancing risk in the coming twelve months.
is demonstrated by the performance of the Group in these markets as The Group raised 27 billion of equity capital during the course of 2008 customer deposits increased from 437 billion in December 2007 to from a rights issue of 12 billion in June 2008 and a placing and open 460 billion at the end of December 2008.
There was a fluctuation in offer in December 2008 which provided a further 15 billion of equity balances at the height of the market disruption in October 2008 but this capital.
In December 2008 a further 5 billion was raised from a was recovered by the year end.
The Groups multi-brand offering and preference share issue.
strong client focus is a key part of the funding strategy and continues to benefit the Groups funding position.
Short term debt and bank deposits the Group saw considerable pressure and risk aversion in the short term debt and bank deposit Repo agreements are borrowings collateralised by a range of debt markets.
In order to relieve funding shortages in the market, central securities and other assets undertaken with a range of corporate and banks across the world allowed banks to pledge assets to access institutional customers and banks.
These reduced significantly in the funding.
The Group has used central bank schemes to support its course of 2008 as the Group took strategic actions and wholesale funding and pledged assets into several of these schemes in a number markets retrenched.
of countries in which it operates.
The Group has set up a series of initiatives to improve the liquidity value of its assets to assist in relieving Short positions in various securities are held primarily by GBM including funding pressures.
RBS Greenwich Capital in the US.
Undrawn commitments the Group provides undrawn commitments to Debt securities in issue over one year, subordinated liabilities and both its corporate and personal customers in the form of products such equity during 2008, the debt markets saw reduced activity, in both the as overdrafts and credit card facilities.
The commitments portfolio is well term and the securitisation markets: as a result the maturity profile of diversified in terms of customers, geography and business type.
The the Groups wholesale funding has become shorter in duration over the total amount of the Groups undrawn commitments at the end of 2008 course of the year.
This was partly offset by issues of government was 352 billion.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 105
