Business review continued Global Restructuring Group GRG audited At the start of 2008, the volume and value of cases managed by GRG GRG was formed in 2008, tasked with managing the Groups problem was low relative to historic levels.
During the year, the rate of transfer of and potential problem exposures to help rejuvenate and restore cases to GRG accelerated sharply.
Cases originated from all divisions customers to profitable business.
This may include assisting with the and across most sectors although the rate of value growth was sharply restructuring of their businesses and or renegotiation.
higher due to the transfer of a number of high value cases from GBM.
Commercial property cases made up a significant proportion of GRG brings together previously disparate functions across the Group.
Its primary function is to work closely with the Groups customer facing businesses to support the proactive management of any problem Retail collections and recoveries audited lending.
This is based on a clear process watch listing which requires There are collections and recoveries functions in each of the four the transfer of problem credits to GRG.
GRG reports to the Group Chief regional markets.
Their role is to provide support and assistance to Risk Officer.
customers who are currently experiencing difficulties meeting their financial obligations.
Given the current economic outlook, it is particularly important that potential problems are identified early and referred to GRG as the Where possible, the aim of collections and recoveries teams is to return Groups past experience has shown that the sooner specialists in the customer to a satisfactory position, by working with them to restructuring are engaged, the greater the likelihood of a successful restructure their finances and or business.
If this is not possible, the outcome.
Early identification of potential problems therefore has a team has the objective of reducing the loss to the Group.
benefit to the borrower as well as to the Group.
There have been material increases in staffing levels in all collections GRG is structured with specialist teams focused on: large corporate functions to manage the increase in the number of customers in cases higher value, multiple lenders : small mid size business cases financial difficulty.
In the UK and Ireland, there is a common collection lower value, bilateral relationships : and recovery litigations.
Given the and recovery operational model managed by Group Manufacturing.
negative trends in the portfolio in 2008, the size of GRG has grown During 2008, there was significant investment in systems development substantially and further investment in staffing is expected in 2009. and staff training to make collections activity more efficient and effective.
Originating business units liaise with GRG upon the emergence of a potentially negative event or trend that may impact a borrowers ability In the UK there have been several initiatives to ensure fair and to service its debt.
This may be a significant deterioration in some appropriate treatment of customers experiencing difficulties.
For aspect of the borrowers activity, such as trading, where a breach of mortgage customers the Group will not initiate repossession covenant is likely or where a borrower has missed or is expected to proceedings for at least six months after arrears are evident.
miss a material contractual payment to the Group or another creditor.
Preventative measures have also been a key focus throughout 2008, On transfer of a relationship to GRG a strategy is devised to: and as a result, the Group has announced the introduction of over 1,000 dedicated Money Sense advisers in its branch network who will Work with the borrower to facilitate changes that will maximise the provide free financial counselling to both customers and non-customers.
potential for turnaround of their situation and return them to The Group has also implemented a programme to proactively contact profitability.
customers who exhibit early signs of financial stress but are not yet in Collections to offer them assistance in managing their finances more Define the Groups role in the turnaround situation and assess the effectively.
risk return dimension of the Groups participation.
Return customers to the originating business unit in a sound and stable condition or, if such recovery can not be achieved, avoid additional losses and maximise recoveries.
Ensure key lessons learned are fed back into origination policies and procedures.
94 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
