Board of directors and secretary Chairman Executive directors Philip Hampton age 55 Stephen Hester age 48 Chairman Group Chief Executive N Chairman, R Appointed to the Board on 19 January 2009, Philip Hampton is currently Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008 and as Group Chief chairman of J Sainsbury plc.
Previously, he was group finance director Executive on 21 November 2008, Stephen Hester was chief executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and of The British Land Company PLC.
He was previously chief operating British Steel plc, an executive director of Lazards and a non-executive officer of Abbey National plc and prior to that he held positions with director of RMC Group plc.
He is also former chairman of UK Financial Credit Suisse First Boston including Chief Financial Officer, Head of Investments Limited, the company established to manage the UK Fixed Income and co-Head of European Investment Banking.
In Government's shareholding in banks subscribing to its recapitalisation February 2008, he was appointed non-executive deputy chairman of fund, and is a non-executive director of Belgacom SA.
Northern Rock plc, a position he relinquished on 1 October 2008.
He is also a trustee of The Foundation and Friends of the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew.
Gordon Pell age 59 FCIBS, FCIB Chairman, Regional Markets Appointed to the Board in March 2000, Gordon Pell was formerly group director of Lloyds TSB UK Retail Banking before joining National Westminster Bank Plc as a director in February 2000 and then becoming Chief Executive, Retail Banking.
He is also a director of Race for Opportunity and a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel.
He was appointed chairman of the Business Commission on Racial Equality in the Workplace in July 2006 and deputy chairman of the Board of the British Bankers Association in September 2007.
Guy Whittaker age 52 Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board in February 2006, Guy Whittaker joined RBS after spending 25 years with Citigroup where he was the group treasurer based in New York and prior to that had held a number of management positions within the financial markets business based in London.
Key to abbreviations A member of the Audit Committee N member of the Nominations Committee R member of the Remuneration Committee independent non-executive director 146 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Non-executive directors Colin Buchan age 54 John McFarlane age 61 A, N, R Chairman N, R Appointed to the Board in June 2002, Colin Buchan was educated in Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008, John McFarlane is former chief South Africa and spent the early part of his career in South Africa and executive officer of Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited.
He has considerable international investment banking Previously he was a group executive director of Standard Chartered experience, as well as experience in very large risk management in the and was head of Citicorp Citibank in the UK and Ireland.
He is currently equities business.
He was formerly a member of the group management a non-executive director of Westfield Holdings Limited and a director of board of UBS AG and head of equities of UBS Warburg, and was the Old Oak Holdings Limited.
He is a former president of the International former chairman of UBS Securities Canada Inc.
He is chairman of Monetary Conference and a former chairman of the Australian Bankers Standard Life Investments Limited and a director of Standard Life plc Association.
He has previously served as a director of the London Stock and Black Rock World Mining Trust Plc.
Exchange and a member of the Auditing Practices Board.
Archie Hunter age 65 Arthur Art Ryan age 66 A Chairman, N N Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Archie Hunter is a Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2008, Arthur Ryan is the former chartered accountant.
He was Scottish senior partner of KPMG chairman, chief executive officer and president of Prudential Financial between 1992 and 1999 and president of The Institute of Chartered Inc.
Previously he held senior positions with Prudential Insurance and Accountants of Scotland in 1997 1998.
He has extensive professional the former Chase Manhattan Bank NA.
He is currently a non-executive experience in the UK and North and South America.
He is currently director of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. and an active member of chairman of Macfarlane Group plc, a director of Edinburgh US Tracker numerous community boards.
He was a founding member of the Trust plc and a governor of the Beatson Institute for Cancer Research.
Joe MacHale age 57 Group General Counsel and Group Secretary A, N Miller McLean age 59 FCIBS, FIB Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Joe MacHale is currently a non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee of Brit Insurance Holdings plc, and a trustee and treasurer of MacMillan Miller McLean was appointed Group Secretary in August 1994.
He held a number of senior executive positions with trustee of the Industry and Parliament Trust, non-executive chairman of J P Morgan between 1979 and 2001 and was latterly chief executive The Whitehall and Industry Group, and president of the Chartered of J P Morgan Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.
He is a fellow of Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 147
