Asset-backed collateralised debt and loan obligations audited but may also include other classes of assets.
Collateralised loan Collateralised debt obligations are securities whose performance is obligations represent securities in special purpose entities, the assets dependant on a portfolio of referenced underlying securitised assets.
of which are primarily cash flows from underlying leveraged loans.
The referenced assets generally consist of ABS, The Groups ABS CDO and CLO net exposures comprised: 2008 2007 m m Super senior CDOs 1,375 3,834 Other CDOs 1,465 1,569 CLOs 3,443 4,082 6,283 9,485 The Groups CDO exposures comprise CDOs structured by the Group from 2003 to 2007 that were unable to be sold to third parties due to prevailing illiquid markets with net exposures of 1.4 billion 2007 3.8 billion, as well as other CDO net exposures of 1.5 billion 2007 1.6 billion purchased from third parties some of which are fully hedged through CDSs with other banks or monoline insurers.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 131 Business review continued Super senior CDOs result, the super senior tranches of the CDOs have a higher probability Super senior CDOs represent the most senior positions in a CDO, of suffering losses than at origination.
The ratings of the majority of the having subordination instruments usually represented by a combination underlying collateral are now below investment grade.
of equity, mezzanine and senior notes which absorb losses before the super senior note is affected.
Losses will only be suffered by the super Depending on the quality of the underlying reference assets at issuance, senior note holders after a certain threshold of defaults of the the super senior tranches will be either classified as high grade or underlying reference assets has been reached.
The threshold is usually mezzanine.
The majority of the Groups total exposure relates to high referred to in percentage terms of defaults of the remaining pool, and grade super senior tranches of ABS CDOs.
This is based upon the known as the attachment point.
These super senior instruments carry original classification of the deals derived from the underlying reference an AAA rating at point of origination, or are senior to other AAA rated asset rating quality.
The table below summarises the carrying amounts notes in the same structure.
The level of defaults occurring on recent and net exposures after hedge protection of the Groups super senior vintage sub-prime mortgages and other asset classes has been higher CDOs as at 31 December 2008.
The collateral rating is determined with than originally expected.
This has meant that the subordinate positions reference to S&P ratings where available.
Where S&P ratings are not have diminished significantly in value, credit quality and rating and, as a available the lower of Moodys and Fitch ratings have been used.
2 Credit ratings are based on those from rating agencies Standard & Poors S&P, Moodys and Fitch and have been mapped onto S&P scale.
3 Attachment point is the minimum level of losses in a portfolio which a tranche is exposed to, as a percentage of the total notional size of the portfolio.
For example, a 5 10% tranche has an attachment point of 5% and a detachment point of 10%.
When the accumulated loss of the reference pool is less than 5% of the total initial notional of the pool, the tranche will not be affected.
However, when the loss has exceeded 5%, any further losses will be deducted from the tranches notional principal until detachment point, 10%, is reached.
The change in net exposure during the year is analysed below.
High grade Mezzanine Total m m m Net exposure at 1 January 2008 2,581 1,253 3,834 Net income statement effect 1,836 1,140 2,976 Foreign exchange and other movements 486 31 517 Net exposure at 31 December 2008 1,231 144 1,375 132 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 High grade super senior exposures As shown in the table below, the majority of the Groups high grade super senior exposures, represent securities retained in CDO structures originated by the Group.
Gross exposure m Group originated deals 6,776 Third party structures 897 7,673 At origination, the reference assets of the high grade structures assets and the lack of an active market for the securities.
Some of predominantly comprised investment grade tranches of sub-prime the Groups holdings 3.4 billion have been hedged with monoline residential mortgage securitisations along with other senior tranches of counterparties see page 135. some combination of ABS assets, including prime and Alt-A RMBS, CMBS, trust preferred ABS, student loan backed ABS and CDO assets.
Mezzanine super senior CDOs The underlying assets referenced by these super senior securities are The tranches of CDOs have suffered a greater level of price decline primarily more recent vintages the year the underlying loan was than high grade tranches due to the relative credit quality of the originated, with 48% being 2007.
Generally, loans with more recent underlying assets.
As shown in the table below, the majority of the vintages carry greater discounts, reflecting the market perception of Groups mezzanine super senior net exposures represent securities greater default levels than on earlier loan vintages.
retained in CDO structures originated by the Group.
The fair value of these assets has fallen significantly during the period, representing the decline in performance in the underlying reference Gross exposure m Group originated deals 3,565 Third party structures 155 3,720 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 133 Business review continued Other CDOs CLOs The net exposure of the Groups other senior CDOs was 1.5 billion Collateralised loan obligations represent securities in special purpose after hedge protection with bank or monoline counterparties.
The entities SPEs, the assets of which are primarily cash flows from unhedged exposures comprise CDOs representing smaller positions underlying leveraged loans.
with various types of underlying collateral, rating and vintage characteristics.
The positions hedged with derivative protection from The Group has CLO exposures resulting from a number of trading banks include a number of positions referencing early vintages of activities.
They consist of exposures retained by the Group and from RMBS and other ABS assets.
The Group therefore has no net exposure notes purchased from third-party structures.
The Group holds super to certain CDOs before credit valuation adjustment.
Due to the early senior securities in two CLO structures which were originated by the vintage, the assets underlying these structures have not deteriorated to Group in 2005 and 2007.
The underlying collateral of these structures the same degree as the more recently issued securities.
The protection predominantly references leveraged loans.
purchased is from banks as opposed to monoline insurers and the credit valuation adjustment on banks is less than on monoline insurers.
2.3 billion of these assets were reclassified from the held-for-trading category to the loans and receivables 0.8 billion and , the Group has one exposure that, while not structured as a sale 1.5 billion categories during the year.
super senior security, incorporates similar risk characteristics.
The exposure results from options sold to a third-party conduit structure on Other asset backed securities audited a portfolio of ABS.
The Group assumed the risk of these securities only Other assets backed securities are securities issued from securitisation after the first loss protection of had been eroded.
The Group also has vehicles, similar to those in RMBS and CMBS structures, which protection purchased against the remainder of this exposure through a reference cashflow generating assets other than mortgages.
The wide CDS purchased from a monoline insurer.
variety of referenced underlying assets result in diverse asset performance levels.
The Group holds other subordinated note positions in CDO vehicles which have experienced significant reductions in value since inception.
The Group has accumulated these assets from a range of trading and The majority of these positions are junior notes that have been fully funding activities.
The carrying value of the Groups other asset-backed written down by the Group with no ongoing exposure remaining at the securities by underlying asset type and geographical region are shown balance sheet date.
The Groups other asset-backed securities carrying value by underlying asset type and geographical region are shown below.
