The Division will pursue above market growth in customer widened and household wealth contracted.
Impairment losses deposits to improve its funding contribution to the Group, and increased by 184% to $1,929 million, compared with 2007. will diversify its customer lending, reducing its exposure to In the externally sourced home equity portfolio, impairments commercial property.
rose by 80% to $592 million, although the second half figure of $268 million was lower than the first halfs $324 million.
In the core US Retail & Commercial portfolio, impairments were 281% US Retail & Commercial Banking higher than in 2007 at $1,337 million, with a marked deterioration in the second half of the year.
Stress was evident in all sectors.
US Retail & Commercial Banking provides financial Citizens loss rates were low relative to its peers.
services primarily through the Citizens and Charter One brands.
Average core customer deposits declined by 5% and the division further reduced its reliance on brokered deposits by 80%, leading to an overall decline of 11% in average customer Citizens is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities deposits.
Net interest margin was held steady, reflecting through its branch network in 13 states in the United States and widening asset margins and careful management of savings through non-branch offices in other states.
Citizens was ranked rates in a competitive deposit market.
the tenth-largest commercial banking organisation in the United States based on deposits as at 30 September 2008 and is a top The Division continued to evaluate opportunities to optimise tier bank in its New England and Mid Atlantic regional markets.
capital allocation by exiting or reducing exposure to lower growth or sub-scale segments.
In the fourth quarter of 2008, In a year of continued, acute market turbulence and a sharp 18 rural branches in the Adirondack region of New York were slowdown in economic activity, the Divisions total income was sold to Community Bank System.
An agreement has also been essentially unchanged at $5,578 million, a rise of 8% in sterling reached to sell the Indiana retail branch network, consisting of terms to 3,010 million.
Operating profit fell by 57% to $972 65 branches, and the Indiana business banking and regional million and by 54% in sterling terms to 524 million.
Direct banking activities, to Old National Bank.
These and other expenses rose by 5% to $2,012 million, reflecting both the measures will also assist in containing costs in future.
continued expansion of commercial banking relationship management teams and write-downs on mortgage servicing One benefit of increased volatility in the economy was that the rights and other costs related to loan workout and collection Commercial Markets business generated strong revenues as activity.
The indicative ROE of US Retail & Commercial customers sought to manage risks.
Revenues from interest rate Banking was 8%.
and foreign exchange products increased significantly on 2007 figures, with foreign exchange particularly strong.
The Division Rising impairments were the main cause of the decline in continued to innovate to enhance customer service.
Citizens operating profit and reflected an environment in which house upgraded its Online Banking and Bill Pay system, giving prices continued to fall and unemployment to rise, credit spreads customers the ability to pay bills more quickly and to track and RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13
