Corporate Responsibility continued in branches, through published guides and leaflets, and over offering accounts for first time homebuyers and young people the internet.
Each month, more than 10,000 copies of the saving for higher education.
Financial education and asset MoneySense guide are distributed to customers and the specific training are required and participants are matched MoneySense website receives an average of 60,000 visitors.
$2 for every $1 saved up to a total of $2,000.
Plans are currently in progress to introduce MoneySense across the US Recognising the impact that worsening economic conditions through Citizens, with additional programmes launching in 2009. would have on household budgets, RBS expanded MoneySense for Adults in December 2008.
Following a successful pilot Ulster Bank is introducing MoneySense to both RI and NI.
exercise which had already taken place earlier in the year in MoneySense for Schools modules have been made available NatWest branches in London, the Group significantly increased online and plans are in development to broaden the schools its investment in the provision of financial advice.
An additional programme and launch MoneySense services for adults during 1,000 MoneySense Advisers were introduced to RBS and 2009.
Ulster Bank in NI also provides financial support for the NatWest branches.
This made RBS the first bank to offer free, provision of independent debt advice by sponsoring the impartial financial guidance to everyone, including customers Citizens Advice Debt Advice handbook.
This is a reference of other banks and people without bank accounts.
The Group book for face-to-face debt advisers working in NI.
worked with the Consumer Credit Counselling Service a charity which offers free and confidential advice and support Supporting business customers to anyone worried about debt to train retail customer service RBS has implemented a range of measures designed to assist officers for this role.
These new MoneySense Advisers were both businesses and households in the current difficult nominated for the positions based on their exceptional economic climate.
Their job is to focus on helpful guidance, not selling products.
In November, the Group made a series of promises to small business customers of RBS and NatWest.
Under the Committed MoneySense is also being expanded to other countries in which Overdraft promise, customers committed facilities remain in the Group operates.
In the United States of America, Citizens place for 12 months from the date they are agreed, rather than Financial Group is involved in a number of financial inclusion being repayable on demand.
The Price Promise means that and capability initiatives.
In Vermont, Citizens runs a Federal committed overdraft pricing is guaranteed usually for 12 months Deposit Insurance Corporation Money Smart Series through the from the date it is agreed.
At renewal, the price will not increase branch network.
The Money Smart curriculum helps individuals unless there has been a rise in the risk associated with lending build financial knowledge, develop financial confidence, and to the customer.
Citizens Bank Connecticut is a lead partner with Empower New Havens Financial Literacy As well as this financial support, RBS also extended the face-toprogramme New Haven $AVE$.
This initiative promotes face advice and support that is already available to customers economic security for low income families in New Haven, through their relationship managers.
A team of 500 highly experienced managers was selected to provide business customers with hands on support to manage their businesses through the downturn.
This was followed in December 2008 by the launch of Business Lifeline, a specialist helpline which RBS has established to provide advice and support to small business customers.
20 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
