Business review Description of business UK Retail & Commercial Banking RBS UK comprises retail, corporate Introduction and commercial banking and wealth management services.
It operates The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company of a through a range of channels including on-line and fixed and mobile large global banking and financial services group.
Headquartered in telephony, and through two of the largest networks of branches and Edinburgh, the Group operates in the United Kingdom, the United States ATMs in the UK.
and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest are major UK clearing In the Retail market, RBS UK serves over 15 million personal customers banks whose origins go back over 275 years.
In the United States, the through the RBS and NatWest brands.
It offers a full range of banking Groups subsidiary Citizens is a large commercial banking organisation.
products and related financial services including mortgages, The Group has a large and diversified customer base and provides a bancassurance products, deposit accounts, and credit and charge wide range of products and services to personal, commercial and large cards.
corporate and institutional customers in over 50 countries.
RBS UK holds a leading market share across all of the Business & Following a placing and open offer in December 2008, HM Treasury Commercial and Corporate sectors.
Through its network of relationship currently own approximately 58% of the enlarged ordinary share capital managers it distributes a full range of banking, finance and risk of the company and 5 billion of preference shares.
The company, management services, including market-leading Invoice Finance and subject to shareholder approval, intends to issue new ordinary shares Asset Finance offerings.
by way of an open offer, the proceeds from which will be used to repay the 5 billion non-cumulative sterling preference shares issued to HM The UK wealth management arm offers high quality private banking and Treasury, together with the accrued dividend.
The open offer will be investment services through the Coutts, Adam & Company, RBS underwritten by HM Treasury and this may result in their shareholding International and NatWest Offshore brands.
increasing to approximately 70% of the enlarged ordinary share capital of the company.
US Retail & Commercial Banking provides financial services primarily through the Citizens and Charter One brands.
The Group had total assets of 2,401.7 billion and owners equity of 58.9 billion at 31 December 2008.
The Groups capital ratios, which Citizens is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities through its include the equity minority interest of Fortis Bank Nederland and branch network in 13 states in the United States and through nonSantander in ABN AMRO, were a total capital ratio of 14.1 per cent.
branch offices in other states.
Citizens was ranked the tenth-largest a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.8 per cent.
and a Tier 1 capital ratio of commercial banking organisation in the United States based on 10.0 per cent.
as at 31 December 2008. deposits as at 30 September 2008.
Organisational structure and business overview Europe & Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking comprises Ulster The Groups activities are organised in the following business divisions: Bank and the Groups combined retail and commercial businesses in Global Markets comprising Global Banking & Markets and Global Europe and the Middle East.
Transaction Services, Regional Markets comprising UK Retail & Commercial Banking, US Retail & Commercial Banking, Europe & Ulster Bank provides a comprehensive range of financial services Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking and Asia Retail & Commercial across the island of Ireland.
Its retail banking arm has a network of Banking, RBS Insurance and Group Manufacturing.
A description of branches and operates in the personal, commercial and wealth each of the divisions is given below.
management sectors, while its corporate markets operations provides services in the corporate and institutional markets.
Global Banking & Markets is a leading banking partner to major corporations and financial institutions around the world, providing an Asia Retail & Commercial Banking is present in markets including extensive range of debt and equity financing, risk management and India, Pakistan, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and investment services to its customers.
In 2008 the division was organised Singapore.
It provides financial services across four segments: affluent along four principal business lines: rates, currencies, and commodities, banking, cards and consumer finance, business banking and including RBS Sempra Commodities LLP the  international wealth management, which offers private banking and joint venture between RBS and Sempra Energy which was formed on 1 investment services to clients in selected markets through the RBS April 2008 : equities: credit markets: and asset and portfolio Coutts brand.
RBS Insurance sells and underwrites retail and SME insurance over the Global Transaction Services ranks among the top five global telephone and internet, as well as through brokers and partnerships.
Its transaction services providers, offering global payments, cash and brands include Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege, which sell general liquidity management, as well as trade finance, United Kingdom and insurance products direct to the customer, as well as Green Flag and international merchant acquiring and commercial card products and NIG.
Through its international division, RBS Insurance sells general services.
It includes the Groups corporate money transmission activities insurance, mainly motor, in Spain, Germany and Italy.
The Intermediary in the United Kingdom and the United States.
and Broker division sells general insurance products through independent brokers.
26 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
