Business review continued Credit market and related exposures 0.8 ABX.
AA These disclosures provide information for certain of the Groups 0.7 ABX.
AAA business activities affected by the unprecedented market events of 2008, the majority of which arose within Global Banking and Markets ABX.
The disclosures are focused around GBMs credit markets ABX.
BBBactivities, including the conduit business, which have been particularly 0.5 affected by the widespread market disruptions, as well as similar exposures in US Retail & Commercial Citizens and Group Treasury.
0.4 0.3 In preparing these disclosures, the Group took into consideration the leading practice disclosure recommendations of the Financial Stability 0.2 Forum issued in April 2008.
0.1 Market background unaudited Overall, 2008 has been characterised by rapid dislocation in financial markets.
In many cases, the dramatic liquidity squeeze and rise in 14 Nov 07 22 Feb 08 01 June 08 09 Sep 08 18 Dec 08 28 Mar 08 funding costs for financial institutions has resulted in reluctance or inability of market participants to transact, and has adversely affected the performance of most financial institutions globally, including the Group.
Stock markets have experienced extraordinary falls, and levels of The graph below provides an indication of the change in credit volatility have been at record highs.
Commodity prices have reduced worthiness of corporate entities to which the Group has significant sharply in the second half of the year, and credit spreads continued to exposure through its credit products in the form of credit derivatives widen.
Market perception of counterparty risk increased and the failure and bonds.
The MarkiT iTraxx Europe graph demonstrates the impact of of major credit protection providers caused fair value losses for the the movement of credit spreads in price terms for a basket of European Group and other market participants and further increased the costs of corporate entities prices rebased to 100 at the beginning of the year.
Sustained falls globally in both residential and commercial real estate prices, fund valuations and worsening loan Price estimate performance combined with a sustained lack of liquidity in the market, 101 resulted in a greater amount of assets being valued at significantly 100 lower prices.
99 An indication of the continued decline in the price of asset backed 98 securities ABS, in particular those collateralised with sub-prime assets, 97 is shown in the following graph.
While not fully representative of the Groups ABS exposures or pricing basis, the ABX series of indices 96 charted in the graph show, in bond price terms, how differently rated 95 ABS referencing US sub-prime mortgages securitised in 2007 have 94 performed during the year.
93 92 122 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14 Nov 07 03 Jan 08 22 Feb 08 12 Apr 08 01 Jun 08 21 Jul 08 09 Sep 08 29 Oct 08 18 Dec 08 06 Feb 09 The first quarter of 2008 saw a further credit and liquidity shortages During the fourth quarter there was a continued lack of confidence in experienced during 2007, culminating in the collapse of Bear Stearns in the inter-bank market, with demand for stable investments resulting in March.
The centre of the credit issues remained the ABS market with US treasuries reaching negative spreads.
Corporate and ABS prices fell worsening US economic data supporting higher levels of default further particularly in the last two months of the year increasing expectation in the property market.
However, these default expectations pressure on banks capital positions.
The Group moved to strengthen its started to go beyond the sub-prime market with Alt A and other noncapital position through an open offer to raise 15 billion, underwritten conforming classes of loans particularly seeing significant price by the UK government.
The year concluded with S&P downgrading the deterioration.
In addition, wider economic concerns led to heavy fair credit ratings of eleven global banks, including the Group.
value losses in the commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS market, in corporate debt and in leveraged loan exposures.
Following Asset-backed exposures this tightening of conditions, the Group incurred significant losses in Significant risk concentrations audited March and took steps in April to materially strengthen its capital base The Groups credit markets activities gives rise to risk concentrations through a 12 billion rights issue which was completed in June.
that have been particularly affected by the market turmoil experienced since the second half of 2007.
The Group structures, originates, During the second quarter ABS prices initially rallied and steadied, distributes and trades debt in the form of loan, bond and derivative however towards the end of the quarter a negative house price trend in instruments in all major currencies and debt capital markets in North the UK became clear, and in the US, market reaction to sub-prime America, Western Europe, Asia and major emerging markets.
mortgages extended to prime and near prime lending.
Corporate credit spreads followed a similar pattern reacting to rising oil prices, During 2008, certain assets identified as being high risk were also inflationary pressures and continuing high LIBOR despite base rate cuts transferred to a centrally managed asset unit, set up to provide specific to 5% in April.
management of this portfolio of higher risk assets.
Transferred assets are predominantly ABS and associated protection purchased from Credit spreads continued to widen across the market through the third monoline insurers and other counterparties.
quarter and liquidity levels reduced further, resulting in pressure on banks and economies worldwide.
This culminated in the demise of The tables below summarise the net exposures and balance sheet Lehman Brothers in September and further market consolidation and carrying values of these securities by measurement classification and global state intervention to provide support to the banking sector.
references to sections with further information on specific products.
The protection provides credit protection against the notional and interest cash flows due to the holders of debt instruments in the event of default by the debt security counterparty.
The value of the protection is based on the underlying instrument being protected.
2 Carrying value is the amount recorded on the balance sheet.
3 Certain instruments have been reclassified from the held-for-trading category to loans and receivables or available-for-sale categories, as permitted by the amendment to IAS 39 issued in October 2008, therefore affecting comparability by measurement classification.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 123 Business review continued Asset backed securities ABS are securities that represent an interest The net exposure of the Groups holdings of ABS increased from in an underlying pool of referenced assets.
The referenced pool can 86.3 billion at 31 December 2007 to 91.9 billion by 31 December comprise any assets which attract a set of associated cash flows but 2008, where underlying reductions have been more than offset by the are commonly pools of residential or commercial mortgages and, in the effect of exchange rates.
The net exposure incorporates hedge case of Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs, the referenced pool protection but excludes counterparty credit valuation adjustments.
All may be ABS or other classes of assets.
The process by which the risks hedge protection referred to in the credit market and related exposures and rewards of the pool are passed on to investors via the issuance of section relates to economic hedges that do not qualify for hedge securities with varying seniority is commonly referred to as accounting.
Through a sustained fide-risking exercise the Group made reductions to During 2008, as the problems in the sub-prime sector spread to other the overall risk through a combination of direct asset sales and asset classes on a global basis and credit spreads widened due to switching to lower risk assets through trading activities.
As a large concerns over creditworthiness of underlying assets, securitisation proportion of the ABS are denominated in US dollars, these reductions volumes continued to be thin.
Over the preceding years GBM had in exposure were partially offset due to the movement in the exchange established itself as an active arranger of third-party securitisations and rate against sterling.
a secondary dealer in these securities, and GBM had therefore accumulated assets that became difficult to sell given market The majority of the Groups RMBS portfolio at 31 December 2008, in conditions.
terms of net exposure, was AAA rated guaranteed or effectively guaranteed securities of 51.1 billion, comprising: The Group has exposures to ABS which are predominantly debt securities but can be held in derivative form.
These positions had been 33.5 billion of US agency securities acquired primarily through the Groups activities in the US leveraged finance market which were expanded during 2007.
These include 7.6 billion of Dutch government guaranteed RMBS residential mortgage backed securities RMBS, commercial mortgage backed securities CMBS, ABS CDOs and other ABS.
In many cases 10.0 billion of European mortgage covered bonds issued by the risk on these assets is hedged via credit derivative protection financial institutions purchased over the specific asset or relevant ABS indices.
The counterparty to some of these hedge transactions are monoline insurers see Monoline insurers on page 135.
124 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The tables below analyse carrying values of these debt securities by measurement classification and rating and fair value hierarchy level.
2 Valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data.
Instruments in this level are valued using: a quoted prices for similar instruments in markets which are not considered to be active: or b valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
3 Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
2 Credit ratings are based on those from rating agencies Standard & Poors S&P, Moodys and Fitch and have been mapped onto S&P scale 3 Valuation is based significantly on observable market data.
Instruments in this category are valued using: quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which are not considered to be active: or valuation techniques where all the inputs that have a significant effect on the valuation are directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
4 Instruments in this category have been valued using a valuation technique where at least one input which could have a significant effect on the instruments valuation is not based on observable market data.
126 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Residential mortgage-backed securities audited Non-conforming mortgages or Alt-A used for US exposure have a Residential mortgage backed securities RMBS are securities that higher credit quality than sub-prime mortgages, but lower than those represent an interest in a portfolio of residential mortgages.
Within the US mortgage industry, non-conforming Repayments made on the underlying mortgages are used to make mortgages are those that do not meet the lending criteria for US agency payments to holders of the RMBS.
The risk of the RMBS will vary mortgages described below.
For non-US mortgages, judgement is primarily depending on the quality and geographic region of the applied in identifying loans with similar characteristics to US nonunderlying mortgage assets and the credit enhancement of the conforming loans and also include self-certified loans.
category of mortgages in which lenders consider the risk to be greater than prime mortgages though less than sub-prime.
The offered interest Several tranches of notes are issued, each secured against the same rate is usually representative of the associated risk level.
portfolio of mortgages, but providing differing levels of seniority to match the risk appetite of investors.
The most junior or equity notes will Guaranteed mortgages are mortgages that form part of a mortgage suffer early capital and interest losses experienced by the referenced backed security issuance by a government agency, or in the US an mortgage collateral, with each more senior note benefiting from the entity that benefits from a guarantee direct or indirect provided by the protection provided by the subordinated notes below.
For US RMBS, this category includes, amongst others, enhancements may be provided to the holder of senior RMBS notes, RMBS issued by Ginnie Mae, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae.
For including guarantees over the value of the exposures, often provided by European RMBS, this includes mortgages guaranteed by the Dutch monoline insurers.
The main categories of mortgages that serve as collateral to RMBS held Other prime mortgages are those of a higher credit quality than nonby the Group are described below.
As can be seen from the table conforming and sub-prime mortgages, and exclude guaranteed below, the Groups RMBS portfolio covers a range of geographic mortgages.
locations and different categories are used to classify the exposures depending on the geographical region of the underlying mortgage.
Covered mortgage bonds are debt instruments that have recourse to a These categories are described below.
The US market has more pool of mortgage assets, where investors have a preferred claim if a established definitions of differing underlying mortgage quality and default occurs.
These underlying assets are segregated from the other these are used as the basis for the Groups RMBS categorisation.
assets held by the issuing entity.
These underlying assets are segregated from other assets held by the issuing entity.
Sub-prime mortgages: are loans to sub-prime borrowers typically having weakened credit histories that include payment delinquencies, The tables below show the Groups RMBS net exposures and carrying and potentially more severe problems such as court judgements and values by measurement classification, underlying asset type, the main bankruptcies.
They may also display reduced repayment capacity as geographical locations of the property that the mortgage is secured measured by credit scores, high debt-to-income ratios, or other criteria against, and the year in which the underlying mortgage was originated.
indicating heightened risk of default.
Carrying value is the amount recorded on the balance sheet.
2 Prime guaranteed exposures and carrying values include: 7.6 billion 2007 6.0 billion available-for-sale exposures guaranteed by the Dutch government 5.7 billion 2007 5.0 billion guaranteed by US government via Ginnie Mae of which 0.5 billion 2007 0.3 billion are held-for-trading 27.8 billion 2007 21.0 million effectively guaranteed by the US government via its support for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae of which 18.1 billon 2007 15.2 billion are held-for-trading 3 Other prime mortgage exposures include 10.0 billion 2007 7.8 billion covered European mortgage bonds.
held-for-trading nil 2007 73 million : available-for-sale 308 million 2007 132 million and loans and receivables 6 million 2007 nil.
RMBS non-conforming available-for-sale net exposures and carry values of nil 2007 68 million.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 129 Business review continued The Groups largest concentration of RMBS assets relate to a portfolio The Group has other portfolios of RMBS from secondary trading of US agency asset backed securities comprising mainly current year activities, warehoused positions previously acquired with the intention of vintage positions of 33.5 billion at 31 December 2008 2007: 26.0 further securitisation and a portfolio of assets from the unwinding of a billion.
Due to the US government backing explicit or implicit in these securities arbitrage conduit.
This conduit was established to benefit securities, the counterparty credit risk exposure is low.
The losses from the margin between the assets purchased and the notes issued.
arising from the movements in fair value recorded for these assets were The majority of these held-for-trading RMBS have been grouped comparatively lower than other RMBS.
Financial markets and economic together for management purposes.
conditions have been extremely difficult in the US throughout 2008, particularly in the last quarter.
Credit conditions have deteriorated and Some of these assets 7.0 billion were reclassified from held-forfinancial markets have experienced widespread illiquidity and elevated trading category to the loans and receivables 1.8 billion and levels of volatility due to forced fide-leveraging.
Transaction activity in the available-for-sale categories during the year 5.2 billion.
securities portfolio has been reduced due to general market illiquidity.
Residential mortgages have been affected by the stress that consumers Overall, the Group has recognised significant fair value losses on RMBS experienced from depreciating house prices, rising unemployment and assets during the year due to reduced market liquidity and deteriorating tighter credit conditions, resulting in higher levels of delinquencies and credit ratings of these assets.
The Group has reduced its exposure to foreclosures.
In particular, the deteriorating economy and financial RMBS predominantly through fair value hedges and asset sales during markets have negatively impacted the valuation, liquidity, and credit the year.
These decreases were partially offset by the weakening of quality of private-label securities.
sterling relative to the US dollar and euro.
Citizens maintains an available-for-sale investment securities portfolio to Commercial mortgage-backed securities audited provide high-quality collateral to provide a liquidity buffer and to Commercial mortgages backed securities CMBS are securities that enhance earnings.
The size of the portfolio has been relatively stable are secured by mortgage loans on commercial land and buildings.
The through 2008, but both the absolute and relative size % of earning securities are structured in the same way as an RMBS but typically the assets declined in 2006-2007.
The portfolio comprises high credit underlying assets referenced will be of greater individual value.
The quality mortgage-backed securities, to ensure both pledgeability and performance of the securities are highly dependent upon the sector of liquidity.
The U. S. Government guarantees on MBS, whether explicit or commercial property referenced and the geographical region.
implicit, put most of the portfolio in a secure credit position.
The nonagency MBS holdings derive credit support in two ways.
Firstly, there is The Group accumulated CMBS for the purpose of securitisation and senior and subordinated structuring, and Citizens hold only the most secondary trading.
The largest holding of CMBS arose as a result of the senior tranches.
Secondly, there is high quality supporting loan Groups purchase of senior tranches in mezzanine and high grade collateral.
The collateral quality is evidenced a by the vintages, with CMBS structures from third parties.
These securities are predominantly 82% issued in 2005 and earlier, b by the borrowers weighted loan to hedged with monoline insurers.
As a result, the Groups risk is limited to value LTV ratio of 65%, and c by the borrowers weighted-average the counterparty credit risk exposure to the hedge.
The Group also FICO score of 734. holds CMBS arising from securitisations of European commercial mortgages originated by the Group.
7.6 billion 2007 6.0 billion of the RMBS exposure consists of available-for-sale portfolio of European RMBS in Group Treasury, referencing primarily Dutch and Spanish government-backed loans, and accordingly the quality of these assets has held up relative to other RMBS types.
A further 10.0 billion 2007 7.8 billion European RMBS comprised covered mortgage bonds.
The following table shows the composition of the Groups holdings of CMBS portfolios.
130 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
