continued to offer customers the additional security for online and financial services, and is the largest financial education transactions afforded by two factor authentication, with over programme of its kind.
MoneySense aims to ensure that an three million customers now registered to use it: ever-increasing number of people whether or not they choose to bank with the Group are able to make informed decisions increased the use of online customer identification and based on a solid understanding of their money and how address verification systems.
financial products and services work.
Given the importance to stakeholders and to RBS of customer MoneySense for Schools is accredited by the Personal Finance service, it was encouraging that, according to leading Education Group, an independent charity that helps schools to independent research RBS retained top position and NatWest plan and teach personal finance education.
was again joint second for customer satisfaction among main high street banks.
Saturday opening was extended, so that 40% The core of MoneySense for Schools is lessons delivered to of the RBS NatWest branch network now opens on Saturdays.
young people in their classrooms.
Since 2004 alone, more than We increased the number of Customer Advisers in NatWest two million MoneySense lessons have been delivered to pupils, branches by 200 in 2008. with the figure for 2008 exceeding 700,000.
Some lessons are delivered by RBS and NatWest employees who visit schools in To respond to stakeholders interest in our approach to how their local communities and others by teachers.
Resources have we market and sell our products we: been developed to support teachers and include: increasingly focused our service on customers who get into online tutorials: financial difficulty: and a free telephone helpline which gives teachers the developed our Expert Managed Solutions product opportunity to speak to MoneySense educational experts: and proposition enabling customers to access industry-wide fund management expertise.
Teacher Zone, an area from which registered users can download support materials and resources for the modules.
Investing in financial education Understanding and confidently managing money are crucial life School Money allows young people to practise the skills they skills.
RBS has a long-standing commitment to financial have learned.
It is a school bank, run by pupils and for pupils education, one which was expanded in 2008 to help people and was established in 2006.
Last year saw the opening of the navigate difficult economic times.
100th inner city school bank, with a total of 332 in operation.
The Groups financial education activities are built around the Building financial capability is important for adults as well as MoneySense programme which has been running for more than young people.
That is why the programme was extended to 15 years.
It provides free and impartial guidance about money include MoneySense for Adults.
It offers advice and guidance RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19
