In February 2009, the Group announced additional funding for 2008 highlights small and medium-sized enterprises SME.
This will be delivered through 12 Regional SME Funds in England, Wales and Scotland, with Ulster Bank providing the Fund for businesses in NI.
More than three million customers registered to use Along with providing traditional debt finance, the Funds will two factor authentication which provides additional offer businesses the opportunity to access other avenues to security for online transactions help them manage their capital and cash flow through the economic downturn.
Supporting personal customers Saturday opening extended in NatWest and In December 2008, RBS and NatWest introduced measures to RBS branches help mortgage customers should they face financial difficulties.
First, repossession proceedings will not proceed for a full six months after a customer first falls into arrears.
Secondly, customers in arrears will be given the opportunity to seek MoneySense lessons delivered to more advice from independent money advice organisations before than 700,000 pupils any steps are taken by the Group.
These commitments will remain in place at least until the end of 2009.
Environment 100th inner city school bank opened Through the RBS Group Environment Programme, we have been contributing to the global shift to a more sustainable and efficient use of natural resources.
We have provided a number of financial products and services that support the environmental An additional 1,000 MoneySense Advisers objectives of our customers, such as our Citizens Bank introduced to NatWest and RBS branches Green$ense account which rewards environmental behaviour and our highly successful green savings products.
In 2008 we were one of the worlds leading arrangers of finance to renewable power projects and we continued to procure MoneySense being introduced in the renewable electricity for our UK properties.
We completed island of Ireland by Ulster Bank large-scale energy efficiency upgrades to several of our main buildings around the world and continue to help our employees play their part in protecting the environment.
Additional funding for small and Our efforts in managing environmental risks and opportunities medium-sized enterprises were recognised through our inclusion for the second year running in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Leadership Index and our score in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index increased.
New mortgage repossession policy to help customers who fall into arrears Inclusion in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Leadership Index for the second year running RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
