GTS has substantially improved its penetration into the Asia-Pacific market, increasing trade finance income in the Global Transaction Services GTS ranked among region by 74%, and has expanded its supply chain finance the top five global transaction services providers in activities with an enhanced product suite.
2008, offering global payments, cash and liquidity management, as well as trade finance, United Merchant services and commercial cards offers customers a wide range of card issuing and acquiring solutions, products Kingdom and international merchant acquiring and and services.
It delivered a 6% increase in income to 694 commercial card products and services.
Acquiring volumes were up 23% in the year driven by the Groups corporate money transmission activities good growth in online volumes, although weaker consumer in the United Kingdom and the United States.
confidence in the latter part of the year meant that average transaction values decreased, slowing income growth.
Commercial cards income grew by 16%.
Income grew by 12% to 2,472 million, the growth rate being maintained in the second half of GTS has maintained its market share and is ranked fifth worldwide the year, despite difficult market conditions.
Direct expenses for transaction banking in terms of both revenue, at constant were 9% higher at 594 million, mainly as a result of investment exchange rates and network.
In the UK, it is number one for in the franchise to support growth.
Operating profit increased CHAPS, cheque processing and BACS transmissions.
On an indicative basis, the ROE of merchant services retained its number one position in the UK GTS was 60%.
market, handling more than one in three of all card transactions.
Growth was driven by a strong performance in cash management, The GTS business successfully exploits economies of scale which provides clients with liquidity management, and and scope.
On scale: international and domestic payment services.
Income rose 9% in the year to 1,514 million with good growth in international International Cash Management processes over one billion cash management markets and steadier growth in UK and US payments and collections annually: domestic markets.
The Division was successful throughout the year in winning new international cash management mandates Domestic Cash Management processes three billion BACS from existing RBS Group clients due to the strength of the transactions in the UK each year: international payments platform and network.
Trade Finance processes 1.1 million collections and letters Trade finance executes and advises on customers trade-related of credit annually: and finance and risk requirements.
It made significant progress, with income continuing to grow strongly throughout the year, up 57% our cards businesses process six billion transactions per annum worth 233 trillion, peaking at approximately 500 transactions per second.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9
