Divisional review continued On scope, GTS is an integral part of the offering of GBM, and RBS UK holds a leading market share across all of the business our regional commercial and corporate businesses, which, in & commercial and corporate sectors.
Through its network of turn, introduce customers to GTS.
relationship managers it distributes a full range of banking, finance and risk management services, including market-leading Strategic review invoice finance and asset finance offerings.
GTS remains a strategically attractive business for RBS, providing important working capital and payment solutions to The UK wealth management arm offers high quality private the Groups customers and substantial scope remains to crossbanking and investment services through the Coutts, Adam & sell global transaction services to our corporate and financial Company, RBS International and NatWest Offshore brands.
institutions clients, particularly those in the UK.
GTS plans to right-size its global network consistent with developing Europe The results for the year reflect a weaker second half with rapidly as its core base, it will retain the capability to continue to serve deteriorating economic conditions in the UK.
Total income grew both locally and globally all multi-national customers who are at modestly, up 2% on 2007 to 10,814 million.
A consistent theme the heart of the core GBM proposition, whilst at all times across the businesses was the weakness of non-interest maintaining service levels during the change.
The business also income, which was down 5%, reflecting generally lower demand plans to increase efficiency through development of a lower for a range of products.
Direct expenses increased by 6% to cost front and back-office operating model and explore joint 3,171 million and impairment losses by 44% to 1,964 million, ventures for growth and selective disposals.
with a marked deterioration in the second half of the year.
Operating profit declined by 18% to 3,283 million.
The Although the year ahead will present challenges as slowing indicative ROE of UK Retail & Commercial Banking was 18%.
global growth affects trade flows and transaction volumes, GTS remains an attractive component of the Groups portfolio UK Retail Banking for the future.
Total income was unchanged on the year at 6,794 million.
Direct costs rose modestly, by 1% to 1,832 million.
Impairments increased by 8% to 1,281 million.
Operating profit UK Retail & Commercial Banking declined by 12% to 1,764 million.
UK Retail & Commercial Banking RBS UK In a testing environment, Retail Banking supported customers comprises retail, corporate and commercial banking by maintaining the availability of lending, while managing risk.
It operates through a range of channels including on-line and Business Banking continued to grow, maintaining market fixed and mobile telephony, and through two of the leadership with a share of 26%.
Loans and advances to small business customers were up 7% despite a significant largest networks of branches and ATMs in the UK.
In the retail market, RBS UK serves over 15 million personal customers through the RBS and NatWest brands.
It offers a full range of banking products and related financial services including mortgages, bancassurance products, deposit accounts, and credit and charge cards.
10 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Mortgage balances at 31 December 2008 were 11% higher The Committed Overdraft facility provides customers with rethan a year earlier, in the face of weaker demand in the assurance that their facility will remain in place for the agreed second half of the year.
Market share of net mortgage term, usually 12 months.
lending increased to 19% from 2% at the end of 2007. Business Lifeline is a source of advice and information which A number of specific initiatives were taken to help customers complements the work of relationship managers.
Open from deal with the effects of market turbulence and the recession.
8 to 8, Monday to Friday, the telephone help desk allows customers to speak directly to experienced bankers.
Under the Mortgage Repossession Initiative, RBS has extended the options for customers unable to meet their mortgage Almost 700,000 Business Banking customers have received a payments following a change in circumstances, such as loss guide to support them through the downturn, covering topics of employment, by allowing more flexibility to agree reduced such as managing cash-flow, and spreading risk and a payments for a period or short payment holidays.
directory of sources of advice and information.
As part of our Help Me Programme, we proactively identify The Retail Banking franchise exhibits a number of strengths that customers showing signs of financial stress enabling us to position it well for the long-term.
The RBS and NatWest brands contact customers to offer advice and solutions to help them enjoy a reputation for excellence in customer service.
Last year, manage their money.
We are continually enhancing our systems according to leading independent research, RBS retained top and processes to gain greater insights into our customers position and NatWest was again joint second for customer behaviour and ensure we offer the appropriate solution, at the satisfaction amongst main high street banks.
The Group ranks right time and through the right channel for each customer.
second in terms of market share in the critical current account market and regularly secures the largest share of current Specifically to provide advice to customers and others accounts opened by first year higher education students.
concerned about their personal finances, 2008 saw an Examples for 2008 which illustrate the strength of the franchise extension of our long-standing MoneySense programme.
include: 1,000 MoneySense advisers were introduced to NatWest and RBS branches, all of whom have received training personal savings grew by 9% and business deposits by accredited by the independent charity Consumer Credit 3% despite increased competition and a slowing market Counselling Service.
for deposits: and Steps were also taken to assist Business Banking customers RBS and NatWest attracted more than one million new through the downturn.
current accounts in the year.
Under our Price Promise to small business customers, we have undertaken not to increase: margins on overdrafts for existing customers at facility review where there is no change to their risk profile: and standard fees for arranging an overdraft.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 Divisional review continued UK Corporate & Commercial Banking UK Wealth generates earnings from both private banking and Total income increased by 5% to 3,161 million, with growth investment services.
This balanced income base allowed it to slowing in the second half of the year as the economy maintain robust organic growth, despite market conditions.
Direct expenses increased by 13% to 1,015 Coutts & Co performed particularly well, with contribution up 15%.
million, principally as a result of a 26% rise in operating lease depreciation to 401 million reflecting both higher volumes and Our UK wealth businesses have strong brands and are well lower than expected residual values in the Lombard vehicle positioned in their markets.
Adam & Company is number one in leasing business.
Excluding this item, direct expenses increased Scotland, with RBS International also number one in the Channel by 6% to 614 million as additional relationship managers were Islands and the Isle of Man.
Coutts & Co is number two across recruited.
Impairment losses increased from the historically low the UK.
In addition to their profit contribution, they generate level of 2007, by 273% to 671 million.
Operating profit fell by deposits for the Group.
We believe that attractive opportunities 30% to 1,116 million.
exist for further sustainable, profitable development of our UK wealth businesses, building on these existing strengths.
Support for customers is evident in the 18% growth of average loans and advances.
Average deposit balances increased by Strategic review 3% despite volatility and acute competition in that market.
UK Retail and Commercial Banking retains an extremely strong franchise and represents the core of the RBS Group.
However, RBS enjoys leading positions in the corporate and commercial the external environment over the next few years will present markets.
Customer satisfaction in corporate is strong and significant challenges with pressure on income as a result of increased in 2008 over 2007, both overall and in the key area very low interest rates, lower fee income, and impairment costs, of the quality of relationship managers.
Almost 19 out of 20 which are likely to increase further.
customers surveyed said that they would advocate RBS to other businesses.
These are strong foundations on which to build The business plans to respond to this environment by reducing enduring profitability.
cost and increasing productivity through investment in online service channels, automation of activities and re-design of endUK Wealth to-end processes.
The business will tailor the cost of service for Total income grew robustly, by 9% to 859 million.
Direct different client segments more closely to their value generation.
expenses increased by 13% to 324 million.
This figure included one-off cost provision items resulting from economic Wealth management remains a strong growth opportunity and conditions.
Operating profit increased by 5% to 403 million.
the business plans to pursue a more consolidated approach to the market through more co-ordination across the multiple brands with which it currently faces the market, whilst investing in additional Relationship Managers and platform functionality.
12 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
