Divisional review continued manage payments from a new, user-friendly interface.
Early In weakened economic conditions, operating profit after 2008 saw the launch of E-Z Deposit.
This service enables Manufacturing costs fell by 85% to 70 million.
Total income business owners to scan deposits and to deliver the images reached 1,518 million, an increase of 6% in sterling terms, electronically to the bank via a secure internet connection from although reflecting a drop of 5% when stated on a constant their own premises.
This eliminates the need to visit a branch, currency basis.
Direct expenses rose by 12% in sterling terms, as well as reducing the time before deposits reach accounts.
although were flat when viewed on a constant currency basis, reflecting disciplined management of the cost base, particularly Strategic review in the second half of 2008.
The main impact on performance in Citizens has a high quality retail and commercial banking the division was a significant increase in impairment losses, albeit franchise in the north eastern US.
New England and the Mid from a low base, particularly in Ulster Bank, where impairments Atlantic are attractive banking markets, and Citizens is well rose to 394 million.
This reflects the impact on credit quality of positioned in them in terms of market share and key local the slowdown in the Irish economy and the increased flow of market coverage.
The business intends to invest in this core cases into the problem debt management process.
business through increased marketing activity and targeted technology investments, whilst reducing activity in its out-ofAverage loans and advances to customers increased by footprint national businesses in consumer and commercial 25% versus prior year, or 12% when stated on a constant finance.
This strategy will allow Citizens to be become fully currency basis.
funded from its own customer deposits over time, and will support a low risk profile.
Average deposit balances in the E&ME division were 13% higher in sterling terms and largely flat at constant exchange rates reflecting particularly the highly competitive market for resources Europe & Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking in Ireland in 2008.
Deposit flows in Ulster Bank were strong in the latter part of the year and into the early months of 2009.
Europe & Middle East Retail & Commercial Banking comprises Ulster Bank and the Groups combined Over 119,000 personal current accounts were opened by Ulster retail and commercial businesses in Europe and the Bank across the island of Ireland in 2008, up 17% on 2007.
the UAE, RBS issued 170,000 credit cards in 2008, taking the total number in circulation over 430,000.
Ulster Bank provides a comprehensive range of financial services External recognition of the Divisions achievements in 2008 across the island of Ireland.
Its retail banking arm has a network included Ulster Bank winning the KPMG Business Banking of branches and operates in the personal, commercial and wealth Excellence Award for an unprecedented fourth successive year, management sectors, while its corporate markets operations while RBS UAE won the Best Premium Priority Banking Service provide services in the corporate and institutional markets.
Award at the 2008 Banker Middle East Product Awards.
14 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
