GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 41 Directors report The directors of RSA Insurance Group plc RSA present their report The employee, customer and the environment and community KPIs are and the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended detailed in the regional business reviews on pages 14 to 25, the corporate 31 December 2008. responsibility report on pages 33 to 35 and in this report.
Principal activity Dividends The Company is the holding company of the RSA group of companies The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.98p per ordinary share the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of personal in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008 to be paid on 5 June and commercial general insurance business.
The Group operates in 2009 to holders of ordinary shares on the register at the close of 33 countries and provides general insurance products and services business on 6 March 2009, subject to shareholder approval.
together with the interim dividend of 2.73p per ordinary share, will make a total dividend for the year of 7.71p per ordinary share.
Business review The Companies Act 2006, section 417 requires the directors to The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from present a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils 1 October 2008 to 31 March 2009 will be paid on 1 April 2009 to this requirement can be found in the sections below, which are holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business incorporated by reference into this report: on 6 March 2009. r The Group CEOs review on pages 6 to 10 Employment policy r The Group strategy on pages 11 to 13 The Groups employment policy reflects our belief that motivated and r The regional business reviews on pages 14 to 25 skilled employees are critical to our success.
r The financial review on pages 26 to 29 r The key performance indicators on pages 6 to 25 We encourage equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
r The discussion of future developments of the business in the Group This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and developing CEOs business review on pages 6 to 10 and in the regional business people solely on the grounds of ability to do the job, and establishing reviews on pages 14 to 25 and promoting a working environment which is free from discrimination.
r The discussion of principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group set out in the estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and contingencies The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for all on pages 76 to 78, and in the risk framework on pages 30 to 32 and employees including those with a disability.
In order to do this, we shall r The corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 35. ensure that any reasonable adjustment is made, where it is appropriate to do so, to provide equal opportunities to all in respect of recruitment, The business review has been prepared to the best of the directors terms and conditions of employment, promotions, transfers, grievances, knowledge in order to provide the Companys shareholders with a redundancies and vocational training.
The Group is committed wherever fair review of the development performance of the position of the possible, to supporting the rehabilitation and return to work of Company and the Group as a whole, together with a description of employees who become disabled during their career with us.
the principal risks and uncertainties which may affect the Group.
It may not be relied upon for any other purpose.
The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with recognised independent trade unions, ensuring a regular and open The Group uses Key Performance Indicators KPIs to provide a well dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes affecting balanced and comprehensive review of the Groups overall performance.
In the UK, Unite is formally recognised through a KPIs are monitored in a number of areas including financial, employee, partnership agreement which covers collective consultation and customer, strategic priorities and the environment and community.
bargaining on behalf of non management employees.
The Management Financial KPIs include the Groups combined operating ratio, expense Association TMA represents managerial employees under a separate ratio, operating result and net written premium growth.
The European Consultative Forum ECF include the percentage of staff that have performance related pay, the is a cross European body created to enable information sharing and percentage of staff taking part in the employee survey and the increase consultation on transnational issues with the European workforce.
Since in overall employee engagement levels as measured by the survey.
2005, an amended constitution has been in place for the European Customer KPIs include the levels of customer retention and the Groups workforce which enables streamlined consultation arrangements.
position in the annual benchmarking survey on complaints handling by the Association of British Insurers.
Environment and community KPIs include Our new Brand was launched externally and internally in March 2008 targets on energy, travel, waste and levels of CO and following a successful roll out around the Group, our new Brand emissions and the 2 Beliefs were implemented to replace the people behaviours.
The Beliefs amount of the Groups charitable donations.
Financial KPIs are detailed in were embedded internally into our performance management process the Group CEOs review on pages 6 to 10, the Group strategy on pages from July 2008.
11 to 13 and the regional business reviews on pages 14 to 25.
| | 42 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors report continued The Group continues to focus on the development of employees in Supplier payment policy order to ensure they can deliver high levels of performance.
We believe It is the Companys policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions we can create real competitive advantage by building and maintaining a in advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with high performance culture across the Group.
those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services In 2008, we have continued to deliver our leadership development are made under the Groups standard terms of contract that lay down programmes, integrating the new Brand Beliefs into each one.
In the UK these are available on request from UK continued to accelerate the development of our in house executive talent Procurement, Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
through the Executive Development Programme which enters its fifth year in 2009.
We have also introduced robust strategies to build capability and The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on performance in the areas of sales, underwriting, claims and actuarial.
31 December 2008 amounted to 3.9m corresponding to 19 days payment when averaged over the year.
The Global Technical Graduate Programme continues into its second year, covering business and technical essentials, demonstrating our Share capital commitment to core insurance skills and personal development.
During the year, 24,707,235 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued in satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options for a total Our accelerated career programme, FastTrack, has continued in consideration of 19,436,726, and 51,770,891 ordinary shares of 27.5p all regions.
30 individuals from 16 different countries joined the each were issued under the Companys scrip dividend scheme for a total programme in 2008. consideration of 64,803,178.
We have seen improvements in a number of key result areas in The Company can increase its share capital and authorise the directors our global employee survey.
In 2008 our focus was on employee to allot further securities by ordinary resolution.
Our new survey providers, Gallup, supported us in 2008, the directors had authority to allot securities up to a nominal measuring employee engagement using the Gallup Q12 questions.
With an overall response rate of 86%, our engagement levels represent a better than average result for first time clients.
When comparing this The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any years scores with the equivalent from our previous supplier we have redeemable shares.
An authority from shareholders for the Company made good progress in all areas.
to purchase up to 325,496,475 of its own ordinary shares representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 20 March 2008 remained in force at Our policy is to encourage employee share ownership.
Employees from 31 December 2008. a number of our global businesses are encouraged to participate in Sharesave which is an Employee Sharesave Scheme HM Revenue and Further details on the share capital of the Company are incorporated Customs approved.
This year saw a significant increase in the number into this report and are set out in note 18 on pages 103 to 104. of eligible employees participating in both the UK and overseas schemes.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares We also encourage employees to participate in our employee discount The rights attaching to the ordinary shares and preference shares are schemes.
Our Staff Saver Scheme in the UK currently has approximately set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
Details of the rights 6,000 Staff Saver policies in force, an increase from approximately 500 and obligations attaching to shares as at 31 December 2008 are policies in 2007. incorporated into this report by reference and are set out in note 18 on pages 103 to 104.
Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and objectives of the Group.
Communications are regularly provided by email, The Articles may be amended subject to shareholder approval by special intranet articles and staff publications.
Key messages from our biannual resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
Group Leaders Conferences are fed back to teams by local management.
Employee Benefit Trusts The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in The Company operates the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust, the supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided in the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 2 and the Royal & SunAlliance corporate responsibility report on pages 33 to 35.
In each case, the Trustee is Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Company Limited.
In respect of any shares held in the Environmental programme Trusts, the Trustee may vote in respect of those shares, but is not Details of our environmental programme can be found on our website obliged to.
In respect of the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No 3, at www.
the Trustee may have regard to the financial interests of the beneficiaries in exercising its voting rights over the Companys shares.
GOVERNANCE | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 43 Substantial share interests Significant relationships and essential contracts At the date of this report we have been notified, in accordance with The Company does not consider that it, or any of its subsidiaries, has any the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the key dependency or essential contract that is fundamental to the success of ordinary share capital of the Company: the Company that is required to be disclosed pursuant to section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
However, the Group includes a number of regulated Number of shares Number of shares Interest entities which rely on various licences to carry out their business.
in which there is in which there is in issued Accordingly, maintaining effective relationships with the Groups regulators a direct interest an indirect interest share capital is integral to the success of the Groups strategies and its long term value.
40,988,047 253,703,708 8.85% Goldman Sachs Charitable and political contributions Asset Management 192,491,038 5.78% The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations Standard Life Investments 111,042,332 63,001,930 5.23% of 2,245,273 during the year.
The largest contribution of 330,852 was Legal & General Group plc 137,792,333 15,354,571 4.60% made for the Swedish life buoy programme promoting safety around Schroders plc 134,071,533 4.02% water.
There is a formal Group Policy currently in place which prohibits any donations to political parties.
Directors The names of the directors, together with biographical details are Annual General Meeting set out on pages 38 and 39 and are incorporated into this report The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, by reference.
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, 18 May 2009 at 11.00 am.
Details of the directors service contracts and terms of appointment, together with their interests in the Companys shares are shown in the Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to shareholders.
remuneration report on pages 49 to 61 and are incorporated into this Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the AGM which will report by reference.
include items of ordinary and special business as detailed in the Notice.
Details of directors powers are set out in the corporate governance Auditors report on page 44 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in section 234ZA 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of which Directors indemnity the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all Article 144 of the Companys Articles provides that, among other things steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself and insofar as permitted by law, every director shall be indemnified by the aware of, and to establish that the auditors are aware of, any relevant Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or liabilities incurred audit information.
in the execution and discharge of the directors duties, power or office.
Deloitte LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in office as Since 12 July 2006, the Company has granted an indemnity to each of auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2009. the directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 144.
The A resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
indemnities granted constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board Going concern of Directors the Board believes that it promotes the success of the In considering the appropriateness of the going concern basis, the Board Company to provide this indemnity to its directors in order to ensure has reviewed the Groups ongoing financial commitments for the next that the Group attracts and retains high calibre directors through 12 months and beyond.
The Boards review included consideration of competitive terms of employment in line with market standards.
the Groups underwriting plans, strong regulatory capital surplus, diverse insurance risk profile, considerable undrawn financing facilities and highly Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have the liquid investment portfolio.
As a result of this review the directors have benefit of an insurance policy which provides suitable cover in respect satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these financial of legal actions brought against them.
statements on a going concern basis.
None of the directors had any interest in any other contract with the By order of the Board Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2008.
Mark R Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Related party transactions 25 February 2009 Related party transactions are set out in note 32 on page 121.
