| | 30 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK FRAMEWORK RISK FRAMEWORK Compliance with policy statements is OVERALL RISK FRAMEWORK The Group has continued to adopt the mandatory.
Policies are subject to regular review 3 lines of defence governance model.
in order to reflect changes in circumstances and The Group operates under an enterprise risk The framework for the oversight and the Group risk appetite.
management framework that is designed to management of risk is as follows: identify, assess, measure and manage exposure RISK CATEGORIES to risk.
This process is subject to continuous r Management the first line of defence in Within the Group the risk elements are viewed review and development and further work was setting strategy, performance measurement, under headings that broadly correspond to undertaken in 2008 to enhance the framework.
establishment and maintenance of internal those used in the Financial Services Authoritys control and risk management in the business Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers INSPRU, RISK MANAGEMENT r Risk assessment the second line, operating and Senior Management Arrangements, The Board is responsible for the Groups a formal risk management framework within Systems and Controls SYSC.
Additional systems of risk management.
which the Group policies and minimum information is provided in the Risk Management standards are set and objective oversight section on page 79 to the financial statements.
Executive management has the responsibility and challenge of risk management across the Details of some of the key current practices, for establishing and implementing appropriate Group is achieved.
This includes the Board tools and other arrangements for each risk systems and controls in their own areas of remit.
Risk Committee, supported by the Group category are set out below.
The Group Risk Management Framework Risk functions, and a Group wide network provides the mechanism through which risk of regional risk committees management and control is embedded INSURANCE RISK r Independent assurance the third line throughout the Group.
Each Group business The Groups general insurance activities are of defence, providing independent and is required to follow a consistent process to primarily concerned with the pricing, acceptance objective assurance of the effectiveness identify, assess, manage and monitor their and management of risks arising from our of the Groups systems of internal control key risks.
The management of established by the first and second lines of the underwriting and claims risks uses a number defence.
This is the Group Audit Committee, GROUP RISK APPETITE of key tools, including the review of the supported by Group Internal Audit.
The Group has a process for setting risk performance and management of all the appetite at both Group and regional level and individual insurance portfolios throughout for monitoring compliance with this.
The Group GROUP RISK POLICY STATEMENTS the Group, and the investigation of potential risk appetite sets business volumes for certain Group risk policy statements set out the emerging insurance risks.
higher risk insurance classes, stipulates loss minimum standards to be maintained by the retention limits, reinsurance protection, targets Groups operations in order to manage their Further work has been undertaken in 2008 to for credit rating and solvency margins, and other risks in a way that is consistent with the risk refine and improve the Portfolio Classification appropriate measures.
Business managers are responsible process, designed to provide a more effective for complying with Group and local risk policies method of evaluating portfolio performance.
There is a formal escalation process for and for managing risk by taking mitigating actions We are continuing to improve risk oversight potential or emerging risks that are outside where risks are outside the appetite.
The Board and supporting tools to ensure that we remain the risk appetite.
Risk Committees oversight and challenge role in control of our insurance business and the includes consideration of risk mitigation.
BUSINESS REVIEW | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 31 Claims development and reserving levels are whether certain operational events that have PRINCIPAL RISKS AND closely monitored by Reserve Committees.
occurred elsewhere could manifest themselves UNCERTAINTIES Each regions Reserve Committee determines within the Group.
When taken together, the a recommended level of outstanding claims tools provide a complementary set of indicators In this section we set out the principal risks and of the Groups operational risk profile.
reserves, in accordance with the Group uncertainties to delivering our strategy, together Reserving Policy.
The Group Reserving with the actions we are taking to minimise the Committee considers the reasonableness of CREDIT, MARKET AND LIQUIDITY RISKS likelihood that these will occur and any potential these recommendations.
It then determines the The primary sources of credit risk within the impact on the future performance of the business.
level of aggregate outstanding claims reserves Group are investment and treasury activities to be carried by the Group.
PROLONGED ECONOMIC DOWNTURN investment management and treasury activities, IN OUR KEY MARKETS NEGATIVELY REINSURANCE RISK a range of bank counterparty concentration IMPACTS PREMIUM GROWTH AND The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite and credit quality limits, together with other INCREASES CLAIMS FREQUENCY are set and agreed by the Board Risk controls, are in place to ensure that exposure We will maintain our focus on underwriting Committee and published and disseminated is managed within the Group risk appetite.
discipline and targeted profitable growth.
via the Group reinsurance policy statement.
New reinsurance cover is placed with reinsurers In addition, the Group benefits from the actions The Group Reinsurance Credit Committee that are authorised as Approved Reinsurance taken to fide-risk the underwriting portfolio over oversees the implementation of the Counterparties recommended by the Group the past five years, and as a result, we have very counterparty credit aspects of this strategy.
Reinsurance Credit Committee under criteria limited exposure to economically triggered The reinsurance team monitors and controls approved by the Board Risk Committee.
We have a suite of indicators in place reinsurance activity throughout the Group to monitor for any emerging trends in claims and has responsibility for the purchase of the Market risk arises from the Groups investment frequency, which allow us to take early corrective action.
These include early indicators Groups worldwide programme of treaties.
The Global Asset Management of fraudulent claims and we have also All major treaty purchases are analysed using Committee is the management committee that strengthened resources in this area.
various sophisticated modelling tools to ensure oversees the Groups investment strategy under that the level of cover purchased is capital the oversight of the Investment Committee, and operating within risk limits set by the Board We have seen some impact on premiums efficient and aligned with Group risk appetite Risk Committee.
as a result of lower levels of commercial and and strategy.
personal activity, including lower new car sales Liquidity risk is considered to be a low risk and mortgage originations, and have identified OPERATIONAL RISK category.
Group liquidity is managed by Group a limited number of contracts triggered by Operational risk exists in every facet of the Treasury and each operation is required to economic conditions.
This impact is being organisation, including those areas that are not maintain a minimum level of cash or cash partially offset by rates beginning to harden in viewed as operating units.
As such, all areas of equivalents or highly liquid assets that can be a number of our key markets and an observed the Group and its major outsourcing providers, liquidated within a maximum stated period of decline in claims inflation, for example, are involved in addressing and controlling time.
Contingency funding plans are prepared in rebuilding costs and replacement motor operational risk.
and monitored to ensure that these minimum vehicles.
In addition, we continue to take levels are met even in stress conditions.
action on rate and expenses.
We expect to The Group uses a suite of risk tools to help deliver a combined operating ratio of around manage operational risk using a common 95% in 2009. categorisation of risk.
These tools include REGULATORY RISK Risk and Control Self Assessments, Key Risk The Group operates in a number of 2.
ADVERSE FINANCIAL MARKETS Indicators, Scenario Analyses, Incident geographical locations with diverse regulatory AND LOWER INTEREST RATES IMPACT Management and Loss Reporting.
Internationally, the regulatory THE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND environment has become more complex and INVESTMENT INCOME A series of forward looking key risk indicators demanding.
The Group continues to respond to The Group operates a low risk investment are used to assess potential future trends in these developments through its arrangements policy, with the investment portfolio dominated operational risks, whilst data collected on actual for regulatory compliance and by ensuring that it by short dated, high quality fixed income operational risk incidents and near misses maintains open and cooperative relationships and cash assets.
The prudent nature captures past experiences.
In addition, the use with its regulators.
of the Groups investment strategy has been of scenario analyses enables the Group to assess | | 32 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk framework continued As noted above, the portfolio benefits from Groups risk appetite.
The Groups underwriters evidenced by the resilience of the portfolio being well diversified geographically, with over are licensed to only write risks within specified during 2008, where, in spite of increased market 70% of bonds invested in currencies other than limits, based on the experience of each turbulence, the portfolio increased in value.
While most of these markets are also individual underwriter.
seeing interest rate reductions, this has been 90% of the total investment portfolio is offset by foreign exchange gains.
Quarterly portfolio reviews are carried out invested in high quality fixed income and cash across the business, to assess the performance assets.
The fixed interest portfolio remains In 2009, we will continue to operate a high of each portfolio against key performance concentrated on high quality short dated quality, low risk investment strategy.
Key risk indicators are used to assets, with 99% of the bond portfolio investment result will be impacted by lower monitor emerging trends, opportunities and investment grade, and 83% rated AA or above.
interest rates and continued investment market risks.
Any portfolio that triggers a key risk The bond holdings are well diversified, with volatility, however, we will continue to take indicator is flagged and investigated, with 74% invested in currencies other than Sterling, action to mitigate this impact.
These actions and corrective measures implemented if required.
and 48% invested in non government bonds the geographic diversification of the portfolio and the average duration on the total bond will limit the full impact of falling yields, and in Quarterly audits of business won and lost portfolio is 2.7 years.
2009 we expect investment income to be ensure that risks accepted are priced to around 2007 levels.
Total gains will continue to achieve target returns and that underwriting At the year end, only 5% of the portfolio was be impacted by any further negative market discipline is maintained.
invested in equities excluding preference shares movements in commercial property values as and Collective Investment Vehicles backed by well as financial market volatility, and we are not 5.
ADVERSE LOSS EXPERIENCE fixed income and cash.
The equity exposure has anticipating a positive contribution from total THROUGH CATASTROPHIC LOSSES been hedged for the past 4 years, and currently, gains in 2009.
ARISING FROM AN INSURANCE EVENT around 75% of this exposure is hedged with a rolling programme of put and call options, OR SERIES OF EVENTS, INCREASING providing protection down to a FTSE level of 3.
RATING ENVIRONMENT SOFTENS FREQUENCY AND SEVERITY OF LARGE 2825.
The commercial property portfolio is only SIGNIFICANTLY IN KEY MARKETS LOSSES OR DETERIORATION IN LONG 2% of investment assets and comprises high The Groups overriding objective is to deliver TAIL RESERVES quality commercial properties and does not sustainable profitable performance.
Our strong The Groups underwriting strategy is set include any development properties.
and diverse portfolio provides exposure to centrally using risk aggregation models and limits markets at different stages of development at to ensure that risks written are well diversified The investment portfolio is routinely monitored different points in the insurance cycle.
We and are within the Groups risk appetite.
to ensure compliance with counterparty actively use the portfolio to shift capacity to concentration and credit limits and that all where we see the best returns.
Quarterly portfolio reviews monitor exposures are within the Groups risk appetite.
underwriting performance, ensuring that risks We are committed to underwriting discipline, accepted are within the Groups risk appetite Investment income will be impacted by lower with a relentless focus on profitability over volume and priced to achieve target returns.
In 2008, we took a number of and delivering on our expense savings targets.
trends in large losses, frequency and severity are actions to enhance yield on the bond portfolio, flagged and investigated.
including selling low yielding government bonds We continue to invest in our technical skills and and reinvesting at longer duration to take our sales and marketing capabilities.
We target The Group maintains a conservative advantage of higher yields.
In addition, we growth where it is profitable through specialist reinsurance programme, which limits net losses purchased a net 600m of high quality, well segmentation and focus on expanding in target to a specified amount each year.
The net trades and segments where our technical purchases of non government bonds were at expertise gives us competitive advantage.
In addition, the Group maintains a conservative an average credit rating of AA-, well diversified reserving policy and claims reserves are set with by sector and were spread over more than 100 4.
INSURANCE RISKS ARE ACCEPTED the aim that, over the longer term, they will be names.
These actions are consistent with our OUTSIDE THE GROUPS RISK APPETITE more likely than not to result in positive prior high quality, low risk investment strategy and OR BELOW TECHNICAL PRICE year development.
we have maintained the overall high credit The Group has strict underwriting limits in quality of the portfolio.
place to ensure that risk selection is within the
