2008 has seen unprecedented turbulence in We are well placed to take the worlds financial markets with sharply lower stock markets, particularly in the second half advantage of longer-term of the year.
Movement in recognised stock market indices Percentage movement 12 months to 31 December 2008 % Local stock markets FTSE 100 31.3 S&P 500 38.5 Nikkei 225 42.1 Broad market indices MSCI World 40.1 MSCI Europe ex UK 44.9 MSCI Pacific 43.8 Fixed Income: 10 year benchmark UK Gilts 10.8 US Treasuries 17.0 Japanese Treasuries 4.2 Alternatives UK Property Index, Capital Growth 24.0 Tremont Hedge Fund Index 19.1 In local currency terms Funds under management were increasingly affected during the year by falling equity markets.
Since the second half of 2007, the asset management industry, particularly in Europe, has seen retail investors switch from equity and fixed income mutual funds into the perceived safety of money market funds and bank deposits.
Meanwhile, institutional investors have frequently deferred investment commitments.
This had an increasing impact on flows during the year.
For 2008 as a whole, we saw net outflows of 9.6 billion.
Business review Market trends To address decumulation needs, we expect Market Key global and demographic trends are changing to see increased demand for capital protected review the outlook for savings and we are well placed to and income generating products as clients seek take advantage of these developments.
12 13 The ratio of non-working to working age individuals Pension funds are also increasingly looking in the major western economies will dramatically to match assets and liabilities through the use increase in the next 30-40 years.
This is expected of outcome orientated products.
to have a major impact on the cost of state-provided pensions.
Average life expectancy increased by Investors continue to look to separate sources of over 10 per cent.
in the period 1960 to 2005, alpha excess return relative to market benchmark with further increases likely, and birth rates are and beta market correlation.
Passive products expected to continue to fall.
In the future, individuals have attracted increasing inflows.
In recent will be less able to rely solely on governmentyears, the demand for alpha has also led to provided pension schemes to fund their retirement.
growth in alternative products as savers look to diversify their investment portfolios in pursuit The ageing population is also forcing the closure of higher returns.
As a result of the current financial of defined benefit plans, which fuelled the growth crisis, we expect traditional fixed income and of institutional asset management.
This has driven equity strategies to be in demand.
the move to defined contribution schemes and the growing importance of individual and The majority of new saving flows are expected to instividual savings.
arise from emerging economies, particularly Asia.
This has been driven by the growth of China For the asset management industry, accessing and rapidly increasing wealth accumulation in the the individual retail investor, either directly or via region.
This includes Sovereign Wealth Funds and intermediaries, will remain an important part central banks which are becoming an increasingly of a large, global asset managers strategy.
The retirement of the baby boomer generation, Our competitors include other publicly or that owns approximately 60 per cent.
of global privately owned asset management companies wealth, is also creating a major opportunity as and asset management divisions within larger this generation looks to use its assets to finance financial institutions, such as banks or insurance retirement.
This is known as decumulation.
We look to differentiate ourselves from Currently, banks and insurance companies see our competitors by delivering superior investment the majority of these flows and as a result they performance, excelling in client service and are becoming an increasingly important channel developing partnerships of real value to the client.
to reach a growing customer base.
The European mutual fund industry has suffered severely since the start of the credit crunch.
Investors reacted rapidly to the deterioration in market conditions and withdrew from both equity and bond mutual funds.
