Governance Directors report On 17 July 2008 we announced we had reached Directors The information contained in the statement agreement to acquire E. Sun Securities Investment report from the Chairman and the Chief Executive, Trust Co. Ltd. ESun SITE from E. Sun Financial the business review, the Directors profiles, the Holding Co. Ltd in Taiwan for 9.1 million in cash.
corporate governance report and the Nominations The acquisition enabled the Group to establish 30 31 and Audit Committees reports, the risk an onshore investment capability in Taiwan to management and internal control report and the distribute both domestic and international onshore Directors responsibility statement, forms part of funds.
As at 15 July 2008, E. Sun SITE managed the Directors report.
seven funds and had assets under management of approximately 170 million.
The transaction was Principal activities and business review completed on 30 September 2008.
Schroders plc is the parent company of an international asset management and private Directors banking group.
A review of the Groups business The names and biographical details of the current during 2008 and likely future developments is Directors of the Company are given on pages 28 contained in the statement from the Chairman and 29.
Jonathan Asquith stood down from the and the Chief Executive and in the business review.
Lord Howard of Penrith was appointed as a non-executive Director on Results and dividends 20 November 2008.
Philip Mallinckrodt was The profit for the year attributable to equity appointed as an executive Director with effect holders of the parent company was 76.7 million, from 1 January 2009.
Kevin Parry, who was compared to 299.7 million for 2007.
The Directors already a non-executive Director, was appointed are recommending a final dividend of 21.0p per Chief Financial Officer and became an executive share which, if approved by shareholders at the Director with effect from 1 January 2009.
George Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 30 April W. Mallinckrodt retired from the Board with effect 2009 to shareholders on the register of members from 31 December 2008. at the close of business on 20 February 2009.
Dividends payable in respect of the year and Under the Companys Articles of Association any their total value are set out below: Director appointed by the Board may only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting, when shareholders have the opportunity to vote on his Ordinary shares and 2008 2007 non-voting ordinary shares mn mn election.
Accordingly, Lord Howard and Philip Mallinckrodt will seek election in accordance with Interim dividend 10.0p per share 2007: 9.0p 27.3 25.4 the Articles.
The Articles of Association also Recommended final dividend 21.0p require each Director to retire from office not later per share 2007: 21.0p 57.6 59.4 than the third Annual General Meeting following Total dividend 31.0p per share his or her last election or re-election to the Board, 2007: 30.0p 84.9 84.8 and so Luc Betrand, Alan Brown and Kevin Parry will retire from office in accordance with the Articles and offer themselves for re-election at the The Schroders plc Employee Benefits Trust and Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the the Schroder US Holdings Inc. Grantor Trust have Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines, waived their rights to the dividends paid on both which reflect the provisions of the Combined the ordinary and non-voting ordinary shares in Code on Corporate Governance, Bruno Schroder respect of 2008.
The Schroders plc Employee and Sir Peter Job, who have both served as Benefits Trust has waived dividends due at any Directors for more than nine years, will retire from time in the future in respect of all the Trusts shares.
office at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will also offer themselves for re-election.
Investments and disposals On 29 February 2008 we completed the Details of the service contracts or terms of acquisition of the Singapore-based private appointment are shown in the remuneration client advisory unit of The Commonwealth Bank report.
None of the Directors had an interest in any of Australia for 5.2 million in cash.
At completion contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries the business had more than US$0.7 billion of either during or at the end of the year.
assets under administration and employed 12 staff.
Capital structure and voting rights On 18 March 2008 we announced that we had The Companys share capital is comprised of reached agreement to acquire Swiss Re Asset ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares of Management Funds Switzerland AG, the Swiss 1 each.
As at 31 December 2008, 226,022,400 third party fund management business of Swiss ordinary and 60,690,960 non-voting ordinary Re, for 28.3 million in cash.
The business had shares were in issue, representing 78.83 per cent.
assets under management as at 31 March 2008 and 21.17 per cent.
respectively of the total issued of approximately 0.9 billion split between capital share capital.
protected and balanced funds, European equities and Swiss property.
The acquisition broadened our offering to Swiss institutional clients.
The transaction was completed on 30 May 2008.
The non-voting ordinary share class was Partnership Shares and in return receive awards Directors introduced in 1986 to permit the operation of an of shares called Matching Shares.
To qualify for report employee share option plan without diluting the maximum tax benefits, Partnership Shares and voting rights of ordinary shareholders.
Since then, Matching Shares must be left in the SIP for five non-voting ordinary shares have been used in years.
Participants are free to withdraw their 32 33 connection with subsequent employee share Partnership Shares at any time but if they and share option plans.
The non-voting ordinary do so within three years of the acquisition of the shares carry the same rights as ordinary shares Partnership Shares they forfeit the corresponding except that they do not confer the right to attend Matching Shares, save in certain circumstances and vote at any general meeting of the Company, set out in the rules of the SIP.
Participants are not and that on a capitalisation issue they carry the normally entitled to withdraw the Matching Shares right to receive non-voting ordinary shares rather from the SIP within three years of the shares being than ordinary shares.
During 2008, the Company awarded to them.
issued 752,747 non-voting ordinary shares as a result of awards under share and share options Under the terms of the Schroder plc Employee plans.
Since the end of the year a further 10,000 Benefits Trust the Trustee may vote or abstain non-voting ordinary shares have been issued.
from voting, or accept any offer relating to shares, in any way that it thinks fit.
In so doing, it may take The Directors have the authority to issue noninto account both financial and non-financial voting ordinary shares in relation to awards made interests of the beneficiaries or their dependants.
under the Groups share and share option plans as described in the remuneration report.
Directors share interests The interests of the Directors who were on the Board The Company does not intend that the issued in 2008 in the securities of the Company at the share capital should increase over the medium year end, can be found in the remuneration report.
term as a result of awards under the share and share option plans.
The Company intends to Employees repurchase an equivalent number of non-voting Details of the Companys employment practices ordinary shares to neutralise any dilutive effect including the employment of disabled persons of issues of non-voting ordinary shares made can be found in the corporate responsibility as a result of those plans, as described in the section of the business review.
notice of Annual General Meeting.
Change of control At the last Annual General Meeting on 24 April The provisions of the Companys share schemes 2008, shareholders renewed the Directors and plans may cause options and awards granted general authority to issue non-voting ordinary to employees under such schemes and plans to shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of vest on a takeover.
Renewal of this authority will be sought at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Charitable and political donations The amount paid by Group companies to Also at the last Annual General Meeting, charitable organisations during 2008 was shareholders gave approval for the Company to 1,127,539 2007: 1,252,090.
Further purchase up to 14,650,000 non-voting ordinary information on the Groups charitable activities shares.
During the financial year 8,538,230 noncan be found in the corporate responsibility voting ordinary shares were repurchased at an section of the business review.
No political average price excluding costs of 8.41 per share, donations or contributions were made or representing 14.1 per cent.
of the issued nonexpenditure incurred by the Company or its voting ordinary share capital.
There have been no subsidiaries during the year 2007: nil.
further repurchases since the year end.
All shares repurchased were cancelled.
As at the date of this Substantial shareholdings report there were 60,700,960 non-voting ordinary As at the date of this report, the Company has shares in issue.
Renewal of this general authority received notifications, in accordance with the will be sought at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 R, of the following interests in three per cent.
or more Under the terms of the Schroders Share Incentive of the voting rights attaching to the Companys Plan SIP, participating employees use their own issued share capital, as set out in the table below.
funds to acquire shares in the Company called Voting rights attached to shares No.
of voting rights % of voting rights Class of shares Notifier shares Direct Direct Indirect Direct Indirect Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 Veritas Limited Ordinary 39,218,470 17.35 # Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 # Fervida Limited Ordinary 40,188,706 17.78 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 13,543,841 13,543,841 5.99 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
#The interests of Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are interested as trustees.
Governance Creditor payment policy 2009 Annual General Meeting The Groups policy and practice in the UK The Annual General Meeting will be held at is to agree the terms of payment with suppliers 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA at at the time of contract and to make payment 11.30 a. m. on Thursday, 23 April 2009. in accordance with those terms subject to Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General satisfactory performance.
The Group does not Meeting to reappoint  follow any code or standard on payment practice.
LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to At 31 December 2008 the amount owed to the fix their remuneration.
The notice of meeting Groups trade creditors in the UK represented also contains business in relation to the general approximately 10.2 days average purchases authority for the Directors to allot non-voting from suppliers 2007: 15 days.
ordinary shares or to grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, non-voting ordinary Contractual arrangements shares, a general authority for the Company Contractual and other arrangements that are to purchase its own non-voting ordinary shares essential to the business are referred to in the and an authority for the Company to give 14 days business review.
notice of general meetings other than annual general meetings.
The Board believes that each Going concern of the items of business are in the interests of The Groups business activities, together with shareholders and recommends them to the factors likely to affect its future development, shareholders for approval.
performance and position are set out in the business review which also describes its financial Details of the items of business to be dealt with and capital position.
In addition, notes 26 and 27 at the Annual General Meeting can be found to the financial statements include information on in the notice of meeting on pages 115 to 118, the Groups approach to managing its capital: its which is also available on our website, financial risk management objectives: details of its www.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
By Order of the Board The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range of products and a geographically Graham Staples diversified business.
As a consequence, the Company Secretary Directors believe that the Group is well placed 31 Gresham Street to manage its business risks despite the current London EC2V 7QA uncertain economic outlook.
9 March 2009 Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
