Directors Report The companys investment activities are subject Business Review to the following limitations and restrictions: Investment policy under the companys articles of association, The company carries on its business as a global growth up to 40% of the companys total assets as at investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, the last audited balance sheet may be used to make over the longer term, with above average returns investments of up to a maximum of 8% of the value through a diversified portfolio of international equities of total assets in any one company, at the time the and to achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
Thereafter, individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value of total assets, In order to achieve this objective, the company invests at the time the investment is made in an integrated global portfolio constructed through the levels of effective and potential gearing are an investment process whereby assets are primarily monitored closely by the board and manager.
allocated on the basis of the investment merits of The company applies a ceiling on effective gearing individual stocks rather than that of regions, sectors of 120%.
While effective gearing will be employed or themes.
in a typical range of 100% to 120%, the company retains the ability to lower equity exposure below The companys portfolio is actively managed and 100% if deemed appropriate typically will contain 70 to 120 listed international equity the company has a policy not to invest more than investments.
The portfolio is widely diversified both by 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment industrial sector and geographic location of investments companies in order to spread investment risk.
the company may not make investments in respect of which there is unlimited liability.
Whilst performance is measured against major global and UK indices, the composition of indices has no Investment policy implementation influence on investment decisions or the construction During the year under review, the assets of the company of the portfolio.
As a result, it is expected that the were invested in accordance with the companys companys investment portfolio and performance investment policy.
For details of how the companys should deviate from the comparator indices.
absolute performance and relative performance compared to its comparator indices were achieved, please refer to the Since the companys assets are invested globally and Management Review on pages 8 to 15. without regard to the composition of any index, there are no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures A full list of holdings is disclosed on page 17 and detailed to specific geographic regions, industry sectors or analyses of the spread of investments by industry sector unlisted investments.
However, such exposures are and geographic region are shown on pages 8 and 16. reported in detail to, and monitored by, the board at Further analysis of changes in asset distribution by each board meeting in order to ensure that adequate industry sector over the year and the sources of gain diversification is maintained.
An attribution of NAV relative performance against a global equity index Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with is also shown on page 12. the aim of improving returns to stockholders.
In pursuing its investment objective, from time to time the company At the year end the number of listed holdings was will hold certain financial instruments comprising: equity 118, including one holding which was held within the and non-equity shares: fixed income securities: interests companys unlisted portfolio.
The top ten holdings in limited partnerships: structured products: and cash comprised 20.5% of total assets 2007: 18.0%.
The company may use derivatives for hedging or tactical investment purposes with the Details of the extent to which the companys objective prior authorisation of the board.
However, it is the policy has been achieved and how the investment policy was of the company not to trade in such instruments.
implemented are provided in the Chairmans Statement The company has the ability to enter into contracts on pages 4 to 5 and the Management Review on to hedge against currency risks on both capital pages 8 to 15. and income.
18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued The directors recommend a final dividend of 5.05p Additional limitations on borrowings per ordinary stock unit payable on 5 February 2009.
Under the companys articles of association, the directors With the interim dividend of 4.45p already paid in restrict the companys borrowings and control the July 2008, this makes a total of 9.50p for the year.
borrowings of the companys subsidiaries to secure that The total dividend absorbs 12,351,000. the aggregate amount of all group borrowings excluding intra-group borrowings do not, unless approved by an ordinary resolution of holders of ordinary stock units, Status exceed the aggregate of the issued and fully paid share The company is a self-managed investment trust and capital, share premium account and reserves of the is an investment company within the meaning of the company and its subsidiaries, as published in the latest Companies Act 2006. accounts excluding any part of any reserve arising out of unrealised capital profits.
In addition, the directors HM Revenue and Customs has approved the company are entitled to incur temporary borrowings in the ordinary as an investment trust for the purposes of S842, Income course of business of up to 10% of the companys and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 up to the accounting issued and fully paid share capital.
Such temporary period ended 31 October 2007.
This approval is subject borrowings are to be for no longer than six months.
to any subsequent enquiry by HM Revenue and Customs under Schedule 18 Finance Act 1998.
The company continues to satisfy the conditions for such approval.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business Ordinary Stock are as follows: investment and market price risk General interest rate risk The company had 129,626,218 ordinary stock units liquidity risk in issue at 31 October 2008.
There are no other classes foreign currency risk of ordinary stock in issue.
The rights attaching to ordinary stock units in the company are set out in the companys These and other risks facing the company are reviewed articles of association and they are also supplemented regularly by the audit committee and the board.
Further by and are subject to relevant provisions of the information is given in note 18 to the accounts on pages Companies Act 1985, the Companies Act 2006 and 39 to 43. other legislation applying to the company from time to time the Statutes.
In accordance with the Statutes, Performance the companys articles of association may be amended by the passing of a special resolution of holders of The management provides the board with detailed ordinary stock: that is, by the approval of a majority information on the companys performance at every of not less than 75%.
Performance is measured in comparison with the companys peer group and comparator indices.
Rights to the capital of the company on winding up Key Performance Indicators, including the following, The holders of ordinary stock units would be entitled to are used: the assets of the company in the event that the company NAV total return were to be wound up after the companys other liabilities NAV total return against comparators have been satisfied.
NAV and stock price total return against peers discount with debt at market value Voting dividend growth against RPI On a show of hands, every holder of ordinary stock units total expense ratio present in person or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy has one Dividends vote for each complete 1 nominal of stock held.
The holders of ordinary stock units are entitled to all surplus income or revenue.
The company may declare Deadlines for exercising voting rights dividends, including interim dividends, in general If a holder of ordinary stock wishes to appoint a proxy meetings but no dividend is payable except out of to attend, speak and vote at a meeting on his behalf, the companys profits or in excess of the amount a valid appointment is made if the form of proxy recommended by the directors.
Neither unrealised together, where relevant, with a notarially certified copy appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits of the power of attorney or other authority under which arising from the sale of capital assets are available the form of proxy is signed is received by the company for dividend.
not less than 48 hours before the start of the meeting or Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19 Directors Report continued the adjourned meeting at which the proxy is appointed The performance of each director was appraised by the to vote or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans after it is demanded, no later than 24 hours before the performance was appraised in his absence by the other time appointed for taking the poll.
In the calculation of directors and the results were communicated to him.
these time periods, no account is taken of any part of The board believes that each director is independent of a day that is not a working day.
the management in character and judgement and there are no relationships with the company or its employees which might compromise their independence.
Stock Buybacks Under the companys stock buyback policy, the company Three directors are standing for re-election at the AGM.
actively seeks to buy back stock with the aim, in normal Douglas McDougall and Francis Finlay have served as market conditions, of maintaining a discount to NAV of directors for more than nine years and therefore retire 9% or less.
In calculating NAV for the purposes of the on an annual basis.
James MacLeod is standing for buyback policy, the companys borrowings are taken at re-election because it is three years since he was elected their market value so as to ensure that future repurchases as a director.
After formal performance evaluation, of stock will take into account changes in the value of the the chairman confirms that the directors continue to borrowings brought about by movements in long-term perform effectively and with great commitment and he interest rates.
The company has, during the year ended recommends their re-election.
Sir George Mathewson 31 October 2008, bought back for cancellation a total will be retiring from the board at the AGM and will not of 4,641,297 ordinary stock units representing 3.5% of be standing for re-election.
ordinary stock units in issue at 31 October 2007, at a cost of 22,919,000, utilising 2.22 percentage points of The appointments of Douglas McDougall and Francis the 14.99% authority renewed at the January 2008 AGM.
Finlay as directors run for one year at a time.
Hamish Buchan was appointed in November 2003 and James MacLeod was appointed in September 2005 both Substantial Stockholdings for initial terms of three years.
Hamish Buchans At 5 December 2008 the company had been notified appointment was renewed in November 2006 and of the following holdings in excess of 3% of its James MacLeods appointment was renewed in ordinary stock.
Directors letters of appointment issue will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Ordinary at date of stock units notification The company maintains insurance in respect of directors AXA Group direct 14,887,914 11.0 and officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf indirect 225,000 0.2 of the company.
The companys articles of association Legal & General direct 5,478,401 4.0 provide that any director or other officer of the company D C Thomson direct 5,400,000 3.8 may be indemnified out of the assets of the company against any liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the company to the extent permitted by law.
Directors The directors of the company at 31 October 2008 and their biographical details are shown on page 6.
Directors Interests The interests of the directors and their families in the The following table shows the attendance of directors companys capital are as follows: Ordinary stock units of 25p at board and committee meetings during the year to 31 October 1 November 31 October 2008.
Beneficial interests 2008 2007 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination D C P McDougall 60,000 60,000 Sir George Mathewson 73,983 65,383 Number of meetings 8 3 3 1 D F K Finlay 60,000 60,000 D C P McDougall 8 3 3 1 H N Buchan 22,325 22,325 Sir George Mathewson 7 n a n a 1 J S MacLeod 21,216 21,216 D F K Finlay 7 n a n a 1 H N Buchan 7 3 3 1 Non-beneficial interests J S MacLeod 7 2 3 1 Sir George Mathewson 26,500 26,500 There have been no changes in the directors interests between 31 October 2008 and 5 December 2008.
20 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued The performance of each director will be appraised Corporate Governance by the nomination committee annually and prior to the Compliance renewal of a three-year term.
A more rigorous appraisal The board considered the principles set out in the will take place prior to the second or subsequent renewal Combined Code on Corporate Governance the of a three-year term.
Combined Code and believes that the way the company is governed is consistent with these principles.
The directors recognise that independence is not Throughout the year the company complied with the a function of service or age and that experience is an provisions of the Combined Code except that there is important attribute within the board.
The directors may no senior independent director.
The directors consider decide to recommend a director with more than nine that, where all directors are independent and nonyears service for re-election.
In such a case, shareholder executive, there is no compelling case for having a senior approval will be sought annually.
The Combined Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council www.
Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed Directors information on the companys transactions, financial The board normally meets eight times throughout the position and performance.
There is a procedure for year while the audit and remuneration committees directors to seek independent professional advice at meet three times each.
The nomination committee the expense of the company and training is available meets annually.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board Nomination committee which include: investment strategy: accounting and There is a nomination committee comprising the whole financial controls: dividends and announcements: board.
The committee meets at least annually to review capital structure: gearing and major contracts.
the structure, size and composition of the board and is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates All five members of the board are non-executive and to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
It has are independent of the companys management.
written terms of reference which are shown on the companys website.
Day to day management, including the selection of investments, is delegated to the companys executive Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated management which reports directly to the board.
as a director is not eligible for election at a general meeting unless a shareholder who is entitled to vote All directors have been appointed for fixed terms not at the meeting gives the company secretary at least exceeding three years.
All directors are required to retire six clear days written notice of his intention to propose by rotation at their first AGM and at intervals of not more the relevant nominee for election, along with a notice than three years thereafter.
In addition, the companys in writing signed by the nominee confirming his articles of association provide that a director is to vacate willingness to be elected.
office if he becomes bankrupt, ceases to have legal capacity, is absent from board meetings for a continuous Remuneration committee period of six months without special leave of absence, The board has appointed a remuneration committee resigns or is removed in accordance with applicable to recommend pay and conditions for the board and legislation.
No compensation is payable to a director employees.
It has written terms of reference which are who leaves the board before the expiry of his term shown on the companys website.
No director has a service contract with the company.
No contract or arrangement entered into Directors fees are set with a view to attracting by the company in which any director is interested has individuals of appropriate calibre and experience, subsisted during the year.
taking into account the time commitment required and the level of fees paid by similar investment trusts.
The company has a policy on tenure which is shown on No other benefits are provided to directors.
It states that: All non-executive directors will recommended by the remuneration committee are be appointed for fixed terms of three years.
Each director subject to approval by the board.
The companys shall be subject to re-election by the company in general articles of association provide for a maximum level meeting at least once every three years up to and including of total remuneration payable to directors in any the ninth anniversary of his appointment.
This level is set at 250,000 in aggregate.
Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 21 Directors Report continued With regard to its employees, the company aims The company does not have an internal audit function to provide levels of remuneration in line with similar as the audit committee believes that the companys organisations and to reward responsibility and straightforward structure and small number of employees achievement.
Basic salaries are compared annually do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the with those of equivalent employees in a group of committee annually.
comparable fund management organisations operating in Scotland.
Remuneration consists of basic salary, The board is responsible for ensuring that the company a performance-related bonus and benefits including has in place an effective system of internal controls a contributory pension scheme.
designed to maintain the integrity of accounting records and to safeguard the companys assets.
Relations with stockholders The board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined The company recognises the value of good Code by establishing a continuous process for communication with its stockholders.
The management identifying, evaluating and managing the significant meets regularly with private client stockbrokers and the risks the company faces.
This process, which has been companys major institutional stockholders.
The board in place throughout the year and up to and including receives regular briefings from the companys brokers.
the date of approval of this report, is in accordance Newsletters are sent to stockholders during the year and with Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors are posted on the companys website.
Stockholders are on the Combined Code published in October 2005 encouraged to attend the AGM and ask questions of The Turnbull Guidance.
Any stockholder wishing to raise questions at other times should write to the In compliance with Provision C. 2 of the Combined Code, chairman.
Proxy voting figures for each resolution the board reviews the effectiveness of the companys are announced to the meeting after voting on a show system of internal control at six-monthly intervals.
Separate items of business are proposed The boards monitoring covers all controls, including as separate resolutions including the receipt of the financial, operational, and compliance controls and report and accounts and the approval of the directors risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing remuneration report.
The annual report is sent to reports from management and considering whether stockholders at least 21 clear days before the AGM.
significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, and whether any significant weaknesses are Accountability and audit promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive The respective responsibilities of the directors and monitoring.
During the course of its review of the system auditors in respect of the financial statements are given of internal control, the board has not identified nor been below and on page 44. advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation The audit committee has written terms of reference in respect of necessary actions has not been considered which are shown on the companys website.
The audit committee assists the board in include risk assessment, reviewing internal controls, discharging its review responsibilities.
the companys accounting policies, financial statements prior to their release and the companys procedures on Detailed procedures are in place to ensure that: whistleblowing.
The committee is also responsible all transactions are accounted for accurately and for all aspects of the companys relationship with reported fully to the board its external auditors including: reviewing the scope the management observes the authorisation limits and effectiveness of the annual audit: the auditors set by the board remuneration: the terms of engagement and the level there is clear segregation of duties so that no of non-audit work, if any, carried out by the auditors.
investment transaction can be completed by one The committee will also ensure that the level of non-audit person work does not compromise the auditors independence.
control activities are regularly checked compliance procedures are in place for legal and The directors continue to believe that the financial regulatory obligations.
statements should be prepared on a going concern basis as the assets of the company consist mainly of readily The board recognises that such systems can only realisable securities.
provide reasonable, not guaranteed, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
22 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008 Directors Report continued the net asset value of the ordinary stock by repurchasing Directors responsibilities ordinary stock units for cancellation at prices which, after United Kingdom company law requires the directors to allowing for costs, represent a discount to the prevailing prepare financial statements for the year to 31 October net asset value and to allow implementation of the 2008 which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs companys stock buyback policy.
of the company and of the revenue and cash flows for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, directors are required to: the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise select suitable accounting policies and then apply of the authority must not exceed the highest of i 105% them consistently of the average of the middle market quotations for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the ordinary stock units over the five business days and prudent immediately preceding the date of purchase, ii the price state whether applicable accounting standards have of the last independent trade and iii the highest current been followed subject to any material departures independent bid.
The minimum price which may be paid disclosed and explained in the financial statements is 25p per ordinary stock unit.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the company will continue in business.
Voting Policy The management reviews the business to be conducted The directors are responsible for keeping proper at general meetings of the companies in which it invests accounting records which disclose with reasonable and, wherever practicable, will cast its vote, usually accuracy at any time the financial position of the by proxy.
company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Acts 1985 and Socially Responsible Investing 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such When investments are made, the primary objective is steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the to achieve the best investment return while allowing for assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud an acceptable degree of risk.
In pursuing this objective, and other irregularities.
various factors that may impact on the performance are considered and these will include socially responsible The audit committee has reviewed the matters within investment issues.
If it is considered that a companys its terms of reference and reports as follows: social, environmental or ethical record will adversely it has approved the financial statements for the year affect financial performance and result in poor returns, to 31 October 2008 then an investment will not be made in the company.
it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys internal controls and risk management Auditors it has reviewed the need for a separate internal audit Re-appointment of auditors function On 1 December 2008 Deloitte & Touche LLP changed it has recommended to the board that a resolution its name to Deloitte LLP.
Accordingly, a resolution to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of the re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the companys auditors, external auditors and it has considered the proposed and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, terms of their engagement will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the meeting.
external auditors it has satisfied itself that the terms of the business Disclosure of information to auditors review are consistent with the accounts.
It is the companys policy to allow the auditors unlimited access to its records.
The directors confirm Annual General Meeting that, so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant The directors consider that the resolutions, each of which audit information of which the companys auditors constitutes ordinary business, are all in the best interests are unaware and they have taken all the steps which of the company and of stockholders as a whole, and they should have taken as directors in order to make recommend that stockholders vote in favour of them.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of Resolution 8 set out in the notice of the annual general that information.
This confirmation is given and should meeting on page 48 seeks to renew the authority to be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of repurchase ordinary stock units until 30 April 2010.
The s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. principal reasons for such repurchases are to enhance Report & Accounts 2008 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued Payment of Creditors It is the companys policy to agree in advance the terms of business with suppliers and then to abide by those terms.
As the company has no trade creditors, no disclosure can be made of creditor days at the year end.
Donations No charitable or political donations were made during the year.
By order of the board Steven Hay Company Secretary 8 December 2008 24 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008
