DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The number of equity holdings will typically invested in equities may be invested in fixed The Directors have pleasure in submitting their range between 50 and 100 and are interest securities.
Apart from in exceptional Annual Report together with the results of the Company for the year to 31 March 2008. chosen from around the world.
circumstances the Board will not take out additional borrowings if, at the time of A long term investment horizon is observed borrowing, this takes the level of effective Business Review and little attention is paid to short term gearing beyond 130% with net asset value Objective market trends when deciding policy.
This calculated with borrowings at par value.
Scottish Mortgage carries on business patient approach allows market volatility as an Investment Trust.
The investment to be exploited to shareholders long term The benchmark is a reference point for objective is to maximise total return, whilst advantage.
An average holding period for judging performance and emphatically is also generating real dividend growth, from investments of five years or more is targeted.
The portfolio a focused and actively managed global does not set out to reproduce the index and Investment may be made in fixed interest portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively there will be periods when performance securities, convertible securities funds, concentrated and investments are chosen diverges significantly from the benchmark.
unquoted entities and other assets based on on their long term merits rather than with Performance against the benchmark is the individual investment cases.
With prior reference to geographical asset allocation assessed over a five year rolling term.
approval of the Board, the Company may use or the composition of an index.
The derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio Details of investment strategy and activity Company aims to achieve a greater return management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, this year can be found in the Chairmans than the FTSE All World Index in sterling transferring or eliminating investment risk in Statement on page 4 and the Managers terms over a five year rolling period.
its investment, including protection against Review on pages 8 to 10.
Investment Policy currency risk and for investment purposes.
Discount Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and The primary investment focus is on equity The Board recognises that it is in the long does not attempt to track its benchmark investments predominantly with good liquidity.
term interests of shareholders to manage index.
Its objective is to maximise total Exposures to any one entity are monitored discount volatility and believes that the prime return, whilst also generating real dividend regularly by the Board.
At the time of driver of discounts over the longer term is growth, from a focused and actively investment the maximum exposure to any performance.
The Board does not have managed global portfolio.
Investments one holding is limited to 8% of total assets.
a precise discount target at which shares are chosen for inclusion within the equity A maximum of 40% of total assets may be will be bought back as it believes that the portfolio by looking closely at the merits of invested in holdings exceeding 3% of total announcement of specific targets is likely individual companies in a structured and assets.
These two restrictions do not apply to to hinder rather than help the successful rational fashion.
investment in unit trusts or OEICs, investments execution of a buyback policy.
Future A global perspective is taken.
Asset by way of rights issues or certain government buybacks will be considered primarily by allocation is the outcome of stock bonds.
The maximum permitted investment reference to the Companys discount relative selection and not arrived at by making in other UK listed investment companies in to its peers.
specific weightings to regions, industries aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
During the year the Company bought back or sectors.
Achieving diversification is a Borrowings are invested in equity markets a total of 7,471,279 shares, all of which requirement when selecting investments but when it is believed that investment are held in treasury, increasing net asset an unconstrained approach is adopted considerations merit the Company taking value per share by 0.3%.
and there are no fixed limits set as to a geared position to equities.
Gearing geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Performance levels, and the extent of equity gearing, Levels of diversity achieved are monitored At each Board meeting, the Directors both in absolute terms and relative to the by the Board on a regular basis.
consider a number of performance measures peer group, are discussed by the Board to assess the Companys success in and Managers at every Board meeting.
The portion of borrowings which is not 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT The key performance indicators KPIs used An explanation of these risks and how they The Company carries on business as an to measure the progress and performance are managed is contained in note 23 to the investment trust.
In the opinion of the Directors, of the Company over time are established accounts on pages 43 to 47. the Company conducts its affairs so as to industry measures and are as follows: enable it to obtain approval by HM Revenue In addition, breach of section 842 of the and Customs as an investment trust under The movement in net asset value Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 section 842 of the Income and Corporation per ordinary share after deducting could lead to the Company being subject Taxes Act 1988.
The Company was borrowings at fair value : to capital gains tax.
The Managers monitor approved as an investment trust for the year investment movements, the level of forecast The movement in the share price: ended 31 March 2007, subject to matters income and expenditure to ensure the that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by The movement of net asset value and provisions of the Act are not breached.
HM Revenue and Customs into the Companys share price performance compared to Financials tax return.
The Company will continue to seek the Benchmark: There are four debentures in issue, all of approval under section 842 of the Income The discount after deducting borrowings which are listed and quoted on the London and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
at fair value : Stock Exchange and details of which are given on pages 40, 46 and 47.
In Corporate Governance The total expense ratio: addition, term bank borrowings and loan The Board is committed to achieving and Earnings per share: and facilities are in place which are also shown demonstrating high standards of Corporate on page 40.
The financial highlights for the Governance.
This statement outlines how Dividend per share.
year under review are as follows: the net the principles of the Combined Code on asset value per share increased by 7.3% The one and five year records of the KPIs Corporate Governance published in 2006, during the year, compared to a decrease are shown on pages 2, 3 and 17. the Combined Code were applied in the benchmark of 3.7%: dividends throughout the financial year.
In addition to the above, the Board increased by 8.4% to 10.30p per share: considers peer group comparative Compliance and the discount has fallen to 7.9%.
A range of comparator groups The Company has complied throughout are used including: a selected grouping of The Company has an Aaa Issuer Rating by the year under review with the provisions Moodys.
five best of breed trusts: a group of the five of the Combined Code except that no limit large AIC Global Growth investment trusts has been imposed on the overall length of Large Trust Peer Group : a universe of global Dividends service of Directors.
growth trusts as defined by Winterflood The Board recommends a final dividend of The Directors recognise the value of Securities: the AIC Global Growth Sector: 5.30p per ordinary share which, together progressive refreshing of, and succession and the larger Standard and Poors universe with the interim of 5.00p already paid, planning for, company boards and the of Global Growth Trusts.
The Board also makes a total of 10.30p for the year Boards composition is reviewed annually.
reviews the absolute and relative discount compared with 9.50p for the previous year.
However, the Board is of the view that length which can be found on pages 2 and 3.
If approved, the recommended final of service will not necessarily compromise Review the independence or contribution of directors dividend on the ordinary shares will be A review of the main features of the year paid on 2 July 2008 to shareholders on the of an investment trust company, where and the investment outlook is contained register at the close of business on 6 June continuity and experience can be a benefit in the Chairmans Statement and the 2008.
The ex-dividend date is 4 June 2008. to the board.
Consequently, no limit has Managers Review on pages 4, 5 and 8 to been imposed on the overall length of 10 respectively.
All Directors are, however, required Status to retire and, if appropriate, seek re-election Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Company is an investment company at least every three years.
Directors who The principal risks facing the Company within the meaning of section 266 of the relate to the Companys investment activities.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 2 1 Sir Donald MacKay 6 2 1 GA Ball 5 1 1 MM Gray 6 2 1 WG McQueen 6 2 1 JPHS Scott 6 2 1 Lord Strathclyde 4 2 have more than nine years service submit and free of any business or other Nomination Committee taking into account themselves for re-election annually.
relationship that could interfere with the the need to maintain a balanced Board.
exercise of their independent judgement.
The terms of reference are available on The Board is also adhering to the principles request from the Company and on the of the AIC Code in all material respects.
Mr GA Ball, who has served on the Companys page on the Managers Board for more than nine years, offers The Board website: www.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the subscribes to the view expressed in the AIC Performance Evaluation Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters Code that long-serving Directors should The Nomination Committee met to assess reserved for its approval including strategy, not be prevented from being considered the performance of the Chairman, each investment policy, currency hedging, gearing, as independent.
Following a formal Director, the Board as a whole and its treasury matters, dividend and corporate performance evaluation, the Board has committees, after inviting each Director and governance policy.
A separate meeting concluded that, notwithstanding his length the Chairman to consider and respond to devoted to strategy is held each year.
The of service, Mr Ball retains independence of a set of questions.
The appraisal of the Board also reviews the financial statements, character and judgement and his skills and Chairman was led by Mr GA Ball.
investment transactions, revenue budgets and experience add to the strength of the Board.
Full and timely information is The appraisals considered, amongst other provided to the Board to enable the Board to Meetings criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, function effectively and to allow Directors to There is an annual cycle of Board meetings the contribution of individual Directors and discharge their responsibilities.
which is designed to address, in a systematic the overall effectiveness of the Board and its way, overall strategy, review of investment Committees.
Following this process it was The Board currently comprises six Directors, policy, investment performance, marketing, concluded that the performance of each all of whom are non-executive.
The executive revenue budgets, dividend policy and Director, the Chairman, the Board and its responsibility for investment management has communication with shareholders.
The Board Committees continues to be effective and been delegated to the Companys Managers considers that it meets sufficiently regularly each Director and the Chairman remains and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, and, to discharge its duties effectively.
The table committed to the Company.
in the context of a Board comprising only above shows the attendance record for the non-executive Directors, there is no chief A review of the Chairmans and other Board and Committee Meetings held during executive officer.
The Senior Independent Directors commitments was carried out the year.
All of the Directors attended the Director is Mr GA Ball.
and the Nomination Committee is satisfied Annual General Meeting.
that they are capable of devoting sufficient The Directors believe that the Board has a Nomination Committee time to the Company.
There were no balance of skills and experience that enables The Nomination Committee consists of the significant changes to the Chairmans other it to provide effective strategic leadership independent non-executive Directors and commitments during the year.
and proper governance of the Company.
the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of Information about the Directors, including their Terms of Appointment and Re-elections the Committee.
The Committee meets on an relevant experience, can be found on page 6. Letters which specify the terms of annual basis and at such other times as may appointment are issued to new Directors.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors be required.
The Committee has written The letters of appointment are available for to seek independent professional advice, if terms of reference which include reviewing inspection on request.
necessary, at the Companys expense.
the Board, identifying and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, Under the provisions of the Companys The Company also maintains Directors and Board appraisal, succession planning and Articles of Association, a Director appointed Officers Liability insurance.
The Committee also considers during the year is required to retire and seek Independence of Directors whether Directors should be recommended election by shareholders at the next Annual for re-election by shareholders.
Directors are required All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Managers of new Directors is considered by the to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years and Directors who 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Name of interest 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Sir Donald MacKay Beneficial 2,469 2,469 GA Ball Beneficial 10,000 10,000 MM Gray Beneficial 272,900 272,900 Non-beneficial 12,500 12,500 WG McQueen Beneficial 1,500 1,500 Non-beneficial 3,000 JPHS Scott Beneficial 30,396 30,402 Lord Strathclyde Beneficial 3,142 3,142 The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 13 May 2008. have served for more than nine years offer The Directors confirm that they have Company and the key controls employed to themselves for re-election annually.
reviewed the effectiveness of the system and minimise these risks.
they have procedures in place to review its The names of Directors retiring and offering These procedures ensure that consideration effectiveness on a regular basis.
themselves for re-election together with the is given regularly to the nature and extent reasons why the Board supports the reThe practical measures to ensure compliance of the risks facing the Company and that elections are set out on pages 22 and 23. with regulation and company law, and to they are being actively monitored.
Where provide effective and efficient operations changes in risk have been identified during Induction and Training and investment management, have been the year they also provide a mechanism New Directors are provided with an delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, to assess whether further action is required induction programme which is tailored to the Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of to manage the risks identified.
The Board particular circumstances of the appointee.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in Regular briefings are provided on changes acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise place throughout the Companys financial in regulatory requirements that could affect and control the discharge by the Managers year and continue to be in place up to the the Company and Directors.
The Directors and Secretaries of their obligations.
date of approval of this Report.
receive other training as necessary.
Baillie Gifford & Co have been delegated Internal Audit Remuneration responsibility for the design, implementation The Audit Committee carries out an annual As all the Directors are non-executive, the and maintenance of control policies and review of the need for an internal audit provisions of the Combined Code in respect procedures to safeguard the assets of function.
The Committee continues to believe of Directors remuneration are not relevant to the Company and to manage its affairs that the compliance and internal control the Company except to the extent that they properly.
This responsibility also extends systems and the internal audit function in relate specifically to non-executive directors.
to maintaining effective operational and place within the Managers and Secretaries Consequently there is no requirement compliance controls and risk management.
provide sufficient assurance that a sound for a separate remuneration committee.
system of internal control, which safeguards Directors fees are considered by the Board The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business shareholders investment and the Companys as a whole within the limits approved by Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk assets, is maintained.
The Companys policy on provide the Board with regular reports function, specific to the trust, is therefore remuneration is set out in the Directors on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring considered unnecessary.
Remuneration Report on pages 26 and 27. programmes.
The reporting procedures for these departments are defined and Accountability and Audit Internal Controls and Risk Management formalised within a service level agreement.
The respective responsibilities of the The Directors acknowledge their Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual Directors and the Auditors in connection responsibility for the Companys system review of their system of internal controls with the Financial Statements are set out on of internal controls and for reviewing its which is documented within an internal pages 28 to 30. effectiveness.
The system of internal controls controls report.
This report is independently is designed to manage rather than eliminate The accounts have been prepared on the reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors risk and can only provide reasonable but going concern basis as it is the Directors and a copy is submitted to the Board.
not absolute assurance against material opinion that the Company will continue in misstatement or loss.
The Companys investments are segregated operational existence for the foreseeable from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their future.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing other clients through the appointment of The process for identifying, evaluating and Audit Committee Bank of New York Mellon as independent managing the significant risks faced by the An Audit Committee has been established, custodian of the Companys investments.
Company in accordance with the guidance in compliance with the Combined Code, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for A detailed risk map is prepared which consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and Directors on the Combined Code.
identifies the significant risks faced by the duties are clearly defined within its written SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Major Interests in Shares No.
of ordinary Name 25p shares held % of issue D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 14,300,000 5.2 Barclays PLC Indirect 13,980,283 5.1 BlackRock Inc Indirect 13,949,207 5.1 Prudential plc group of companies Direct 10,477,844 3.8 Legal & General Group Plc Direct 9,858,900 3.6 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 13 May 2008. terms of reference, which are available Committee does not believe that this has relevant policies and management systems.
on request from the Company and on the impaired the auditors independence.
The Managers policy has been reviewed Managers website.
Mr WG McQueen and endorsed by the Board.
Relations with Shareholders is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The The Board places great importance on As signatories of the Carbon Disclosure Committees responsibilities which were communication with shareholders.
The Project, the Managers consider the business discharged during the year include: Companys Managers meet regularly implications of carbon emissions when monitoring and reviewing the integrity of with institutional shareholders and report making investment decisions and routinely the interim and annual financial statements shareholders views to the Board.
The engage with companies on their management and the internal financial controls: Chairman is available to meet with of climate change risks and opportunities.
Shareholders making recommendations to the Board in wishing to communicate with any members Investment Managers relation to the appointment of the external of the Board may do so by writing to them An Investment Management Agreement auditors and approving the remuneration at the address on the back cover.
between the Company and Baillie Gifford and terms of their engagement: & Co sets out the matters over which the The Companys Annual General Meeting developing and implementing policy on Managers have authority in accordance provides a forum for communication with all the engagement of the external auditors with the policies and directions of, and shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for to supply non-audit services: subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
each resolution is announced at the Meeting The Management Agreement is terminable reviewing and monitoring the and is published on the Managers website.
on not less than 12 months notice.
Details independence, objectivity and The notice period for the Annual General of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford effectiveness of the external auditors: Meeting is at least twenty working days.
& Co are shown on page 36. reviewing the arrangements in place Shareholders and potential investors The Board considers the Companys within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby its may obtain up-to-date information on the investment management and secretarial staff may, in confidence, raise concerns Company from the Managers website.
arrangements on an ongoing basis and about possible improprieties in matters Voting Policy and Socially Responsible a formal review is conducted annually.
of financial reporting or other matters Investment The Board considers, amongst others, the insofar as they may affect the Company: The Company has given discretionary following topics in its review: the quality reviewing the terms of the Investment voting powers to the Investment Managers, of the personnel assigned to handle Management Agreement: and Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote the Companys affairs: the investment against resolutions they consider may process and the results achieved to date: considering annually whether there is a damage shareholders rights or economic the administrative services provided by need for the Company to have its own interests.
The Company believes that it is the Secretaries and the marketing efforts internal audit function.
in the shareholders interests to consider undertaken by the Managers.
Following The Audit Committee considers the environmental, social and governance factors the most recent review, given the excellent when selecting and retaining investments experience and tenure of the audit director performance, it is the opinion of the and staff and the nature of services provided.
and have asked the Managers to take these Directors that the continuing appointment The Committee receives confirmation from issues into account as long as the investment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, the auditors that they have complied with objectives are not compromised.
The on the terms agreed, is in the interests of the relevant UK professional and regulatory Managers do not exclude companies from shareholders as a whole.
their investment universe purely on the grounds requirements on independence.
Non audit fees for the year to 31 March 2008 of environmental, social and governance Directors were 540 and related to the certification issues but adopt a positive engagement Dr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen retire of results for the debenture trustees.
The approach whereby matters are discussed with by rotation at the Annual General Meeting management with the aim of improving the and will offer themselves for re-election.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT Mr GA Ball, having served for more than these shares was 45,539,000.
Between Treasury shares do not receive distributions nine years, offers himself for re-election.
1 April 2008 and the date of this report and the Company will not be entitled to no further shares have been bought back.
exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
Following formal performance evaluation, At 31 March 2008 the Company held their performance continues to be effective The Directors are seeking shareholders 10,356,279 treasury shares.
and each remains committed to the approval at the Annual General Meeting Company.
Their contribution to the Board is The principal reasons for such share buy to renew the authority to purchase up to greatly valued and the Board recommends backs are: 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares their re-election to shareholders.
in issue at the date of the passing of the i to manage imbalances between the resolution, such authority to expire at the supply of and the demand for the Share Capital Annual General Meeting of the Company to Companys shares which exacerbate any be held in respect of the year ending 2009.
Capital structure discount of the quoted market price to the Any such shares purchased shall either be The Companys capital structure consists of published net asset value per share: and cancelled or held in treasury.
Under the 273,989,897 ordinary shares of 25p each Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the ii to enhance net asset value for continuing 2007 281,461,176 ordinary shares, shareholders by purchasing shares at a Financial Services Authority, the maximum 284,346,176 including treasury shares at discount to the prevailing net asset value.
price exclusive of expenses that may be 31 March 2007 and 2008. paid on the exercise of the authority shall The shares in question were purchased at a Dividends be an amount equal to the higher of a price after allowing for costs below the net The ordinary shares carry a right to receive 105% of the average of the middle market asset value.
As a result of such purchases dividends.
Interim dividends are determined quotations as derived from the Daily the net asset value of the Company has by the Directors, whereas the proposed final Official List of the London Stock Exchange increased by approximately 0.3%.
dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
for the shares over the 5 business days The current authority of the Company to immediately preceding the date of purchase Capital entitlement and b the higher of the price of the last make market purchases of up to 14.99% of On a winding up, after meeting the the issued ordinary shares expires at the end independent trade and the highest current liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets of the Annual General Meeting.
independent bid as stipulated by Article will be paid to ordinary shareholders in 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 proportion to their shareholdings.
Resolution 9, which is being proposed December 2003 implementing the Market as a special resolution, seeks to renew Voting Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for the Companys authority to make market On a show of hands, every ordinary buy back programmes and stabilisation of purchases of its own ordinary shares for shareholder present in person or by proxy financial instruments No.
The cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The has one vote and on a poll every ordinary minimum price again exclusive of expenses Company may hold bought-back shares in shareholder present in person has one vote that may be paid will be 25p per share.
treasury and then: for every share he she holds and a proxy Purchases of shares will be made within has one vote for every share in respect of a sell such shares or any of them for cash guidelines established, from time to time, by which he she is appointed.
The Company does not have any or its equivalent under the Treasury warrants or options in issue.
Your attention Shares Regulations : or Information on the deadlines for proxy is drawn to Special Resolution No.
9, in the appointments can be found on page 52. b cancel such shares or any of them.
Notice of Annual General Meeting.
All buy backs up to the 10% issued share Purchase of Shares This authority, if conferred, will be exercised capital limit imposed by the Treasury Share only if to do so would result in an increase During the year to 31 March 2008 the Regulations will initially be held in treasury Company bought back 7,471,279 ordinary in net asset value per ordinary share for the while shares bought back in excess of that limit shares nominal value 1,868,000, on the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best will be cancelled as before.
Shares will only interests of shareholders generally.
London Stock Exchange, all of which are be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to held in treasury.
The total consideration for SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 the net asset value per ordinary share.
DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors believe that granting the disclosed, if he has attained the age of 70 Authority to Allot Shares and power to sell treasury shares in the above years or more, in the notice convening a Disapply Pre-emption Rights Directors Remuneration Report circumstances is in the best interests of meeting at which the Director is proposed Resolution 10, which is being proposed shareholders as a whole and recommend that to be elected or re-elected.
Such provision as a special resolution, seeks to give the shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
could now fall foul of the Employment Directors power to sell ordinary shares held Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so it is in treasury see above for cash up to a proposed that it be deleted.
Changes to the Companys Articles maximum of 6,849,747 in aggregate of Association representing 10% of the issued ordinary 2.
Conflicts of interest Resolution 11, which is being proposed share capital of the Company as at 13 May The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors as a special resolution, will be put to the 2008 without first being required to offer general duties which largely codify the AGM to amend certain of the provisions such shares to existing shareholders pro rata existing law but with some changes.
Under of the Companys Articles of Association in to their existing holdings.
the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October the light of certain of the provisions of the 2008 a director must avoid a situation where This power will last until the Annual General Companies Act 2006.
An explanation of he has, or can have, a direct or indirect Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009. the principal proposed changes is set out interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict in paragraphs 1 to 4 below.
In addition, The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares with the companys interests.
The requirement it is proposed to remove the requirement Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as is very broad and could apply, for example, that share certificates and, subject to the amended Treasury Shares Regulations if a director becomes a director of another terms of any debenture stock issued by the came into force on 1 December 2003.
The company or a trustee of another organisation.
Company, other certificates of title have the Treasury Shares Regulations give flexibility The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of Company seal affixed to them.
concerning what the Company can do with public companies to authorise conflicts and any of its ordinary shares which it may buy potential conflicts, where appropriate, where The proposed changes to the Companys back.
The Company may hold such shares the articles of association contain a provision Articles of Association are set out in the in treasury and then sell them at a later date to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also copy of the Articles of Association marked for cash rather than simply cancelling them.
allows the articles of association to contain A which will be available for inspection The Treasury Shares Regulations require such other provisions for dealing with directors at the Companys registered office, Calton sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 to existing shareholders unless shareholders 3AN and at the offices of the Companys The proposed changes to the Companys agree by special resolution to disapply their legal advisers, Shepherd and Wedderburn Articles of Association empower Directors pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, Special LLP, at Condor House, 10 St. Pauls to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts Resolution 10 will give the Directors power Churchyard, London EC4M 8AL during subject to such terms as the Directors may to sell ordinary shares held in treasury on a normal business hours on any week day determine at their absolute discretion.
non pre-emptive basis, subject always to the Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays limitations noted above.
Treasury shares are There are safeguards which will apply excepted from the date of this annual report explained in more detail under the heading when Directors decide whether to authorise until the close of the AGM and at the place Purchase of Shares above.
The Directors a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to and consider that the power proposed to be Directors who have no interest in the matter during the continuance of the meeting.
granted by Resolution 10 is advantageous being considered will be able to take the should the shares trade at a premium to net Explanation of principal changes to the relevant decision and, secondly, in taking asset value and natural liquidity is unable to Companys Articles of Association the decision the Directors must act in a way meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to 1.
Directors age limit they consider, in good faith, will be most use this power to sell shares on a non preThe Companys current Articles of likely to promote the Companys success.
emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
Association contain a provision, regarding The Directors will be able to impose limits or an age limit for Directors which, amongst conditions when giving authorisation.
other things, requires a Directors age to be 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT It is also proposed that the Companys incurred or to be incurred by him in certain 4.
Directors indemnities and loans to Articles of Association should contain investigations, actions or proceedings where fund expenditure provisions relating to confidential information, he would otherwise not be entitled to be The Directors have the benefit of the attendance at Board meetings and counted in the quorum and vote.
indemnity provision set out in the Companys availability of Board papers to protect a Articles of Association which is a qualifying Director being in breach of duty if a conflict Recommendation third party indemnity provision as defined by of interest or potential conflict of interest the Companies Acts and which was in force The Board unanimously recommends you arises.
These provisions will only apply throughout the year and is currently in force.
to vote in favour of the resolutions to be where the position giving rise to the potential proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companies Act 2006 has in some conflict has previously been authorised by the areas widened the scope of the powers of Directors and will take effect from 1 October Creditor Payment Policy a company to indemnify directors and to 2008.
It is the Boards intention to report It is the Companys payment policy for the fund expenditure incurred in connection with annually on the Companys procedures for forthcoming financial year to obtain the certain actions against directors.
In addition, ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise best terms for all business.
In general, the the existing exemption allowing a company conflicts are operated effectively.
Company agrees with its suppliers the terms to provide money for the purpose of funding on which business will take place and it 3.
Electronic and web communications a directors defence in court proceedings now is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 expressly covers regulatory proceedings.
Company had no trade creditors at 31 which came into force in January 2007 The proposed amendments to the enable companies to communicate with March 2008 or 31 March 2007.
Companys Articles of Association reflect members by electronic and or website these provisions of the Companies Act Disclosure of Information to Auditors communications.
The proposed changes 2006 and extend the indemnity currently to the Companys Articles of Association The Directors who held office at the date permitted under the Companys articles of would allow communications to members of approval of this Directors Report confirm association to cover the liability of a Director in electronic form and, in addition, that, so far as they are each aware, there but not another officer of the Company or permit the Company to take advantage is no relevant audit information of which the the Companys auditors to a third party, of the new provisions relating to website Companys auditors are unaware and the other than the Company for breach of trust communications.
Before the Company can Directors have taken all the steps that they or duty.
It would not permit the Director to communicate with a member by means ought to have taken as Directors in order to be indemnified in respect of such liabilities of website communication, the relevant make themselves aware of any relevant audit to the Company itself or cover any liability member must be asked individually by the information and to establish that the Company to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
Company to agree that the Company may auditors are aware of that information.
It would not cover any liability incurred send or supply documents or information by the Director in defending any criminal to him by means of a website, and the Auditors proceedings in which he is convicted or civil Company must either have received a proceedings brought by the Company in The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing positive response or have received no to continue in office and, in accordance which judgement is given against him.
response within the period of 28 days with section 385 and section 390A of the beginning with the date on which the There are also proposed amendments to Companies Act 1985, resolutions concerning request was sent.
The Company will notify the Articles of Association inserting new their reappointment and remuneration will be the member either in writing, or by other provisions in the Articles to allow Directors submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
permitted means when a relevant document to be counted in the quorum and vote at By order of the Board or information is placed on the website and a meeting of the Directors in respect of a a member can always request a hard copy resolution relating to the entry into of any BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co version of the document or information.
Managers and Secretaries indemnity in favour of him or any provision 14 May 2008 to him of funds to meet expenditure SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25
