MANAGERS REVIEW Managers Review Managers Overview Over the last five years this review has a system of annual price negotiations with formidable strength in its core compressor charted Scottish Mortgages evolution from a major steel manufacturers.
This translated business which has shown impressive levels collection of index aware regional portfolios into an industry with better and more of profitability and market share.
More with a heavy bias to UK listed companies stable returns than was the case for most recently it has also built a powerful mining into a single focussed, stock-driven global commodities.
We have some concerns that equipment division that was assembled at a entity investing for the long term.
We have these features are starting to break down time when the industry was in the doldrums.
commented on our suspicions of excessive under the pressure of the extraordinary With over 40% of orders now derived from diversification and the exaggerated fears boom induced by Chinese infrastructure emerging markets the obsessive desire of of temporary share price volatility based on demands.
New competitors are gradually the market to see the ghosts of past US dubious correlations and near meaningless entering the market whilst a spot market has recessions as a harbinger of doom for Atlas quarterly earnings releases.
We have now appeared and as the cost of shipping from seems miscalculated.
We have steadily been reached a point where the structure of the now strong currency Brazil has soared.
At adding to our stake and regard the stock as portfolio is as we would wish it after a final the same time Vale has been tempted to use highly attractive at current share prices.
re-balancing away from British equities.
its substantial cash flows to diversify away Petrobras Brazil Therefore this review will discuss a selection from the very assets that have made it great.
Since the end of March Petrobras has of the individual investments that have been In fairness we found the deal to buy Inco critical to our performance and some that appealing as it brought the prospect of a become our largest holding by dint of renewed excitement over the prospects for may be vital in the future.
genuine franchise in the concentrating nickel market but we have been unsure that talks its drilling success in deep offshore Brazilian waters.
It appears probable that its finds The Current Top Five with Xstrata are likely to be as beneficial.
We were therefore glad that they have been may be amongst the largest discoveries CVRD Brazil ever made if also being amongst the broken off.
However we have trimmed our CVRD or Vale as it is now to be called is holding and remain wary of such ambitions most technically demanding.
None of the the worlds largest iron ore company.
Its traditional Western oil majors has remotely undermining a superb and still lowly valued reserves are the most productive to be found core business.
Production capacity has risen Petrobras captures core aspects of our Atlas Copco Sweden sharply at comparatively low cost.
We have been owned the shares since 2004 since when This Swedish engineering company has fortunate enough to have seen the market they have risen 475%.
been owned by Scottish Mortgage for value of the shares rise tenfold over the last well over a decade.
The move to a global Plainly this return has been gratifying but five years but this outcome could only have approach has led to a significant increase it raises the question as to whether the been of significant benefit to us because in the scale of our holding.
Previously the virtues of Vale are now fully recognised of our willingness to invest in the most exposure has been limited by concerns and discounted by the markets.
One of the attractive stocks without constraint by index over its size relative to European or even features of the iron ore market that attracted weights and geographical preconceptions.
Scandinavian assets whilst its outstanding us was that world class capacity was Equally we have owned it because of its business prospects may have been concentrated in just three hands Vale, Rio great potential not simply to have a set underestimated.
Atlas continues to boast Tinto and BHP and pricing was settled by 08 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 CVRD or Vale 2 Petrobras The worlds largest iron ore producer Brazilian oil company low.
major new discoveries this year.
production capacity has risen and costs are 2 1 percentage of assets in the oil industry.
BP would also like to point to several areas Gazprom Russia has risen only 28% in the last five years by which we have been adding to in recent Our stake in Gazprom has been comparison.
In recent weeks Petrobras has months and about which we have great controversial.
There is no stock about which even exceeded BP in market capitalisation.
If the flavour of the we receive more sceptical questioning and Inevitably the valuation of Petrobras now top five holdings encapsulates the powerful there are few stocks that have been more includes some acknowledgement of its trends of globalisation and industrialisation of rewarding for our shareholders with a gain dramatic reserve potential.
Our future emerging markets then we would emphasise of over 750% in the last five years.
Whilst holding size will depend principally on how that we see technological innovation as we cannot guarantee that there will not be far the scale of the discoveries outweighs the almost as critical a force in shaping the adverse political developments in Russia development costs in the years ahead.
global economy in the years ahead.
we think that the odds are significantly in our favour in investing in Gazprom.
Investing in technology companies involves Porsche Preference shares Germany We own the same shares as the Russian a willingness to accept both volatility and We consider Porsche to be a thoroughly government and regard its continued support diverse returns in the search for the select misunderstood company.
Its share price as both beneficial to the company and band of companies that will prove to be oscillates violently according to the mood economically justifiable.
It is reasonable to persistent winners in their sectors but the of the markets about US economic activity expect Ukraine to pay market prices for gas rewards for doing so can be dramatic.
In and the dollar combined with screaming and to anticipate liberalisation of domestic the last year this battle has been exemplified newspaper headlines pointing at the prices.
It is surely more rational to be worried by the success of Amazon and the struggles supposedly vainglorious ambitions of the about foreign resource holders in Russia of eBay but the net effects have been Porsche and Piech families.
the valuation of Gazprom shares suggests We see Porsche in a very different light.
As might be imagined anxieties over the US that the opportunity remains very significant.
Its Chief Executive, Wendelin Wiedeking, consumer have badly hurt the share prices Reserves are still valued at little more than has been one of the outstanding global of many companies in this area in recent a tenth the level per barrel as for Western corporate leaders of the last twenty years.
We think this is giving us significant companies.
For the greatest reserve base We believe Porsches growing control of opportunities if we can retain our patience.
in the world this seems an exaggerated Volkswagen is driven by shrewd economic In particular we have started buying Google discount.
We think the risks associated with assessment rather than dynastic pride.
and Nintendo which seem to us to be investing in Gazprom are far more likely to Porsche is rapidly moving its original brand extraordinarily strong businesses whose be rewarded than those of allocating our towards leading positions in emerging growth and value will endure well beyond assets to Western majors with stagnant or markets to replace reliance on the whims current market nerves.
Googles ability to declining reserves.
and bonuses of bankers in London and New revolutionise the advertising industry and to York.
Given that the valuation of Porsche still disrupt traditional software markets seems Potentially Important Holdings reflects a more pessimistic and to our mind to be accelerating rather than fading.
We pass view we remain enthusiastic owners All these five stocks have helped our intend to continue buying the shares even if of the shares.
We believe they the period of greatest opportunity may now will continue to do so in the future but we be past.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Porsche 2 China Mobile Strong brand, first class leadership and China Mobile is Chinas dominant mobile telecoms shrewd strategy.
company with over 350m mobile subscribers.
1 2 In the case of Nintendo we are thrilled that where we feel the dynamism of technical These cautions aside we feel optimistic after almost twenty years of decline we have progress and business execution has begun about the future of the Trust.
Tactically we now found at least one additional Japanese to translate into structural advantages.
One, are finding many opportunities.
As indicated stock that excites us both in its business First Solar, is the clear leader in thin film above several of these are now to be found model and by its low valuation relative to technology and the closest to grid parity.
in the angst ridden markets of the West its foreseeable returns.
Nintendos success Its early backing by the Walton family of as well as in the structural growth areas of in attracting a far wider set of participants Walmart fame is now set to pay off in initial Asia and Emerging Markets.
There are even to its Wii and DS platforms than traditional US utility contracts.
The second is Q-cells some banks that we have been tempted to gaming companies seems to us to be which has turned a favourable research and start buying if prematurely at the date of emblematic of a distinctive and thoughtful subsidy environment in Germany into scale record.
For these reasons we have been approach that is curiously simple yet hard and technology leadership.
The potential happy to see gearing levels edge higher.
That both Google and Nintendo scope and profitability of these companies our minds a world economy less dominated relish competing with Microsoft is perhaps reconciles us to their ratings within the by Anglo-American consumers and bankers non-coincidental.
As we also and more exposed to the march of China, have holdings in two Danish companies India and Brazil away from poverty is Finally we would highlight our exposure in the form of Vestas wind power and a more appealing and better balanced to alternative energy companies.
This is Novozymes enzymes our investments environment for equity investors rather than a a difficult, volatile and complex field and in alternative energy have significantly cause for panic.
some of our most thoughtful shareholders contributed to a stock driven rise in our have expressed doubts about prevailing In strategic terms we feel that the advantages European assets.
valuations but on balance we consider that of a genuinely global approach run with this remains an intriguing area for future the discipline to endeavour to distinguish Future Policy expansion.
In particular we think that the underlying change from the cacophony of Our policy will remain set on the course progress being made in solar power is noise that preoccupies markets and offering we have pursued over the last five years.
We estimate this ought the flexibility offered by the combination of It would be a pleasant surprise if this were to translate into parity of cost with traditional the ability to borrow with a strong foundation to prove quite as dramatically successful in energy sources within 35 years or well of permanent capital is becoming ever more the years ahead.
In particular it would be within our investment horizon.
It is these advantages that we strange if the experience of the last year in to use the excessive volatility of these stocks constantly need to try to exploit rather than which only two of our top twenty holdings to add to our holdings in a disciplined falling into the trap of behaving as a lightly held throughout the period deducted from manner.
We see little sensible reason for disguised index fund or an extravagantly absolute or relative performance were to be the collapse of this sub-sector in the market remunerated hedge fund.
If we can achieve easily repeated.
Indeed we cannot hope to nerves of the last three months especially this then the prospects are good given generate good overall returns unless we are since energy prices have remained so reasonable good fortune.
prepared to accept the near inevitability of disconcertingly buoyant.
We have therefore several holdings disappointing.
added to our holdings in two companies 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2008
