DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
3 MM Gray 5 JPHS Scott Directors Michael Gray joined the Board in 2004 John Scott is a former international 1 Sir Donald MacKay after a successful career in printing and investment banker who maintains a Sir Donald MacKay, the Chairman, is an technology industries where he gained number of interests in the investment trust economist with an extensive record in valuable global business experience.
John was appointed a Director in advising governments, organisations and chairman and chief executive he led the 2001.
He is a former executive director of companies.
Sir Donald was appointed a growth of McQueen International over a Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his Director in 1999 and became Chairman 17 year period as it evolved from being a twenty years with Lazard, he was involved in 2003.
He is also Chairman of the printing company into a global enterprise with the merchant banks corporate advisory Nomination Committee.
He was Professor providing a range of support services to activities and its Asian businesses.
He is of Political Economy at Aberdeen University technology companies.
On McQueens currently a director of various companies, and Professor of Economics at Heriot-Watt acquisition, he became senior vice president including Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc, University.
He is a former chairman of The of Sykes Enterprises Inc. a global NASDAQ JP Morgan Claverhouse Investment Trust Malcolm Group PLC and Scottish Enterprise quoted outsourcing services company.
He plc, Xaar plc, Miller Insurance Services and is currently a director of Edinburgh New retired from Sykes in 1999 and currently and Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc.
has many business, community, charity addition, he is chairman of Dunedin Income 2 GA Ball and sporting interests and responsibilities Growth Investment Trust PLC and deputy Geoffrey Ball, the Senior Independent including being a member of the Advisory chairman of Endace Limited.
Director, is a long-standing Director Board of the Scottish Institute of Sport 6 Lord Strathclyde who also has considerable industrial Foundation.
He is a former director Thomas Strathclyde, currently Leader of experience in the house building sector.
of Scottish Enterprise and the Scottish the Opposition in the House of Lords, Geoffrey was appointed a Director in Community Foundation.
He is executive chairman of Cala 4 WG McQueen Tom was appointed a Director in Group Ltd, having led the management buy Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the 2004.
His parliamentary career to date out in 1999, and chairman of McCarthey Audit Committee, brings to the Board first includes extensive ministerial experience and Stone.
He was president of the House class financial and banking expertise.
at the Departments of Employment, the Builders Federation of England and Wales Gordon was appointed a Director in 2001.
Environment, Trade and Industry and the from 2001 to 2003 and he was a director He was an executive director of HBOS plc, Scottish Office.
Prior to entering politics of The Standard Life Assurance Company for Bank of Scotland and Halifax plc, where in 1988 as a Government Whip, Lord 13 years until 2001. his main role was chief executive, Treasury.
Strathclyde worked in the City for the He is a director of JP Morgan Mid Cap insurance brokers, Bain Dawes.
Lord Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
Strathclyde is also chairman of London based hedge fund manager Trafalgar Capital Management, a director of Galena Capital Management Limited and Marketform Limited and the president of the Quoted Companies Alliance.
06 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS 1 2 3 4 5 6 Gifford total over 51 billion at 31 March Managers and Secretaries Management Details 2008.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as the leading privately owned investment Gifford & Co, an investment management investment managers and secretaries to the management firms in the UK, with 33 firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Company.
The management contract can partners and a staff of around 500.
Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been be terminated at 12 months notice.
Managers and Secretaries to the Company The manager of Scottish Mortgages since its formation in 1909.
Management Fee portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of Baillie Gifford where he is Chief Investment Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration Baillie Gifford & Co are one of the largest Officer and Head of the Global Team.
He is is 0.32% of total assets less current investment trust managers in the UK and ultimately responsible for stock selection and liabilities excluding short term borrowings currently manage eight investment trusts.
works closely with the other Heads of the for investment purposes, calculated and Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Investment Departments.
open ended investment companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co are pension funds, charities and other institutional authorised and regulated by the Financial clients, both in the UK and overseas.
under the management or advice of Baillie SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07
