06 Carillion plc What we do Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Public Private Partnership projects Carillion has been at the forefront of the Private Finance Initiative and Public Private Partnership PPP projects since their inception in the early 1990s.
To date we have financially closed 47 projects in the UK and Canada, with a total capital value of over 3.6 billion.
We continue to use the strong positions we have established in our chosen sectors of the UK and Canada PPP markets to win and deliver projects in which our equity investments create significant value for the Group.
Our forward order book for PPP projects at 31 December 2008 was worth 5.3 billion 2007: 5.1 billion and we had a pipeline of probable new orders worth approximately 0.1billion 2007: 0.2 billion.
178.4m 2007: 154.1m Revenue 29.8m 2007: 25.4m Underlying operating profit The new 254 million Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, is a Public Private Partnership project being delivered by a Carillion joint venture for the Portsmouth Hospital NHS Trust under a 35-year contract, which includes the provision of project finance, design, construction, maintenance and facilities management.
Section 02 What we do 07 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Market sectors UK health UK transport Carillion has delivered a total of 10 PPP hospitals and other healthcare In the transport sector, we have delivered six major PPP highway projects, facilities and has a further three under construction.
Our projects included including one of the first in the UK, namely the widening of the M40 the first PPP hospitals in the UK and in Canada, the Darent Valley Hospital, between Junctions 1A and 3.
Carillion also delivered the first PPP rail project Kent, and the Royal Ottawa Hospital.
Carillion has since sold its equity in the UK, which involved upgrading sections of the Chiltern Line Railway, investments in a number of projects, generating substantial value for together with Londons Marylebone Station.
The sale of equity investments the Group.
At 31 December 2008, our PPP portfolio included three UK in transport projects has also created substantial value for the Group.
In addition, we are currently the preferred bidder At 31 December 2008 our portfolio of PPP investments included three for two Independent Sector Treatment Centres and Carillion has been major highway projects.
announced as the frontrunner to become the preferred bidder for a major new PPP hospital in Bristol.. UK defence UK education Our projects in this sector include the Government Communications To date, Carillion has built over 50 schools under the PPP and Building Headquarters in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, which has won a number Schools for the Future BSF programmes.
We currently have 18 schools of awards as one of the UKs outstanding PPP projects.
We also have under construction and we are shortlisted for a further 200 schools, under three projects under construction for the Ministry of Defence, Allenby the UK Governments 45 billion BSF programme to replace or upgrade all Connaught, one of the largest PPP projects in the UK to date, to provide secondary schools in England.
We were also recently awarded one of the new accommodation and other facilities for the Army across the South first contracts to provide a new primary school under the UK Governments of England, the new Permanent Joint Headquarters, Northwood, and 7 billion Primary Capital Programme to replace or upgrade Primary Schools.
the Royal School of Military Engineering in Chatham, Kent.
Canada health Canada has a substantial PPP investment programme, currently estimated to be worth in the region of 10 billion.
Carillion has established a leading position in the health sector, delivering two of the first PPP hospitals in Canada, the new William Osler Hospital in Toronto and the Royal Ottawa Hospital, both of which have moved successfully into the operational phase.
We are currently building our third PPP hospital, the Sault Area Hospital in Ontario, and early in 2009 we were awarded the contract to finance and build a major extension to the Royal Victoria Hospital in Barrie, Ontario.
