04 Carillion plc What we do Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Support services As the UKs largest support services business, we provide facilities management and services for large, complex property estates, infrastructure services for roads and railways, utility services and consultancy services, for a wide range of public and private sector customers.
Around 80 per cent of our revenue in this sector is generated from customers in the public and regulated sectors.
Our support services activities continue to be a major driver of earnings growth as we continue to grow revenue at margins of between four and five per cent.
Our forward order book for support services at 31 December 2008 was worth 10.8 billion 2007: 8.4 billion and we had a pipeline of probable new orders worth approximately 0.6 billion 2007: 0.6 billion.
2,463.5m 2007: 1,793.6m Revenue 113.5m 2007: 73.9m Underlying operating profit In 2008, Carillion renewed its contract to provide integrated facilities management services for all BTs UK properties, which will generate over 500 million of revenue for the Group over five years.
Section 02 What we do 05 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Market sectors UK facilities management and services UK infrastructure services Carillion provides public and private sector customers with a wide range Carillion has long-term contracts for the Highways Agency and for Local of facilities management and other support services for buildings and Authorities for the management and maintenance of around 20,000 infrastructure, from fully integrated property management solutions for kilometres of the UK road network.
We also provide a wide range of large, complex estates, to single services in selected markets, such as rail services, including project and consultancy services for Network Rail, mechanical and electrical engineering maintenance.
For example, we Transport for London and Passenger Transport Executives, and we maintain provide integrated property management services for HSBCs UK network the Channel Tunnel Rail Link.
We are also one of the UKs leading suppliers of retail banks, BT, Virgin Media and for Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
of infrastructure services for the installation, repair and maintenance of We also manage Norwich Unions domestic and commercial property utility services, including water, gas, electricity and telecommunications.
insurance claims, from customer call centres to the completion of repairs.
UK Government services Middle East facilities management and services In this sector our services are primarily focused on defence, health and In the Middle East, our Joint Venture business, Emrill, provides facilities education.
We use our wide range of capabilities, including project finance, management services for a growing portfolio of properties, including design, construction, maintenance and facilities management, to deliver those we are building for our Joint Venture partners, Al Futtaim and services through Public Private Partnerships PPP and non-PPP contracts.
Emaar Properties, for whom Emrill is the preferred supplier of facilities We are the largest private sector supplier of support services to Defence management services.
Emrill therefore complements our construction Estates, the largest private sector supplier of non-clinical support services to activities in the Middle East and we expect it to grow steadily as new Al the NHS and a leading supplier for the UK Governments Building Schools Futtaim and Emaar properties are completed and added to Emrills portfolio.
for the Future BSF programme.
In each of these sectors we provide project finance, design and construction services, as well as facilities management.
Canada and the Caribbean road maintenance and facilities management and services Carillion is the leading private sector supplier of road management and maintenance services in Ontario and Alberta, where we maintain the equivalent of some 16,000 kilometres of two-lane highway.
Our facilities management business in Canada is also growing, driven by our market leadership in Public Private Partnership PPP projects in the health sector.
We have completed two of the first PPP hospitals to be built in Canada in which we provide non-clinical services, we have our third major PPP hospital under construction and a good pipeline of further opportunities in this sector.
