42 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, Profits and dividends together with the audited financial statements for the year The consolidated income statement is shown on page 64. ended 31 December 2008.
Profit before tax was 115.9 million 2007: 94.4 million.
The Directors of the Company at the date of the approval of A 2008 interim dividend of 4.1 pence per ordinary share this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are individually 2007: 3.5 pence was paid in November 2008.
It is proposed aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the to pay a final dividend of 8.9 pence per ordinary share Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken 2007: 7.5 pence on 19 June 2009 to shareholders on all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to the register at the close of business on 24 April 2009.
The make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information payment of these 2008 interim and final dividends will amount and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that to 51.4 million 2007: 39.4 million.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
Principal activities and business review Carillion is the UKs leading support services company delivering Directors integrated solutions for infrastructure, buildings and services both The Directors of the Company who served during 2008 are in the UK and in a number of overseas regional markets.
shown on page 53 of the Remuneration report.
Biographical details for each Director at 31 December 2008 are given on A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance page 41. and future developments is contained in the Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review and the Operating In accordance with the Articles of Association, David Maloney and financial review.
and Vanda Murray retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on The following specific issues are discussed in the sections 6 May 2009. shown in brackets The interests of the Directors and their families in the share key objectives and performance in 2008 and objectives for capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration report 2009 Group Chief Executives review on page 58. performance in the financial year Operating and financial review Employees treasury policy and risk management Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is Operating and financial review given in Note 7 on page 79. social, community and environmental issues Sustainability review Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group the Group is committed to improving their skills through training Group Chief Executives review and development and nurturing a culture in which employees employees Group Chief Executives review feel valued for their contribution and are motivated to achieve and Report of the Directors their full potential.
financial risk Operating and financial review.
Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual Analysis of revenue and net assets by business segment dependency, sustainable profitable growth, professional delivery and geographical location are given in Note 2 on page 72. and innovation have been developed to emphasise the changing working practices required to succeed in an environment where Share capital partnership and integrated solutions are becoming the norm.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 14 January 2008 to approve the Alfred McAlpine acquisition, It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which the authorised share capital of the Company was increased to all employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
At 4 March 2009, Carillion strives continually to eliminate all bias and unlawful the issued ordinary share capital of the Company was discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business 395,714,176 shares.
Carillion has only one class of shares, partners and members of the public.
Employees who become with one vote for every share.
disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment so that they can continue their employment.
Section 04 Governance 43 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunities and Diversity Additionally, Team Talk which is held monthly provides Carillion Policy are employees with face-to-face communication with their line managers and facilitates two-way communication, discussion to have a workforce that represents and responds to the and feedback.
It focuses on local issues and key corporate diversity of customers and todays society messages and information.
improved safety and quality provided by a balanced and productive workforce One-to-one meetings between individual employees and their lower staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels leading line managers are also held to discuss performance and progress.
to cost savings to provide a fair working environment in which discrimination Employees can also exchange best practice information via a will not be tolerated Knowledge Management Forum on the Group intranet.
to create a working environment free from discrimination, harassment, victimisation and bullying Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge to work towards finding ways for under-represented groups programmes to integrate safety into everything it does and to fully realise their potential within the Carillion organisation to improve its environmental performance, including the and to take reasonable steps to help such groups understanding and application of the principles of sustainability.
to ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal Further information on Health and Safety is given in the Group Opportunities and Diversity Policy and to provide any Chief Executives review on page 19 and on Sustainability in necessary ongoing training to enable them to meet their the Sustainability review on pages 35 to 37. responsibilities under it Carillion also recognises the merit of developing a workforce Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees that incorporates the many diverse skills and backgrounds through People Forums across the Group which give employees available from within the total population and accordingly, the opportunity to express their views on business issues.
will strive to become an organisation that will recognise, Specifically, the objectives of the People Forums are to value and understand diversity and to provide its employees with genuine opportunities to improve and reach their improve employee information and consultation full potential help employees feel more involved and valued to ensure that all applicants are treated fairly during support the continued education and development of recruitment processes and in accordance with legislation and employees The Codes of Practice covering all grounds for discrimination improve business performance by enabling employees to be to regulate review procedures and selection criteria for better aware of the business climate in which they operate promotion to ensure that individuals are selected and treated help employees to be responsive to and better prepared according to their relevant individual abilities and merits.
Carillion places great importance on open and regular Substantial share interests communication with employees through both formal and At 4 March 2009, the Company had received formal notification informal processes.
As part of this commitment, a Group of the following persons interested directly or indirectly in three newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on a regular basis for per cent or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the all employees.
Company being the threshold for notifications of interests in shares in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA : The views of employees on matters affecting their interests are also sought through The Great Debate.
This is a major exercise Number of shares held Percentage which was undertaken by the Group in each of the last five Schroders plc 66,778,379 16.9 years to capture the feelings and views of as wide a range of Standard Life Investments Ltd 39,218,124 9.9 employees as possible.
These views are then taken into account F&C Asset Mangement plc 19,246,558 4.9 in the development of work-related initiatives as part of Legal & General Group Plc 15,787,739 4.0 Carillions strategy to become an employer of choice.
In 2008, around 2,800 UK employees attended The Great Debate HBOS plc 14,036,048 3.6 sessions.
UBS Investment Bank 13,424,716 3.4 Carillion stages The Great Debate as part of the ongoing quest for cultural change and to produce step changes which raise understanding of what drives motivation, morale, engagement and performance allows employees to take ownership and be empowered to build and implement solutions demonstrates Carillions desire to change attitudes and behaviours based on listening to the views of its employees.
44 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors continued Policy for payment of suppliers It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole does not apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of all suppliers.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 65 days at 31 December 2008 59 days at 31 December 2007.
Charitable and political contributions Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2008 amounted to 129,000 2007: 150,000.
The primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Wildlife Trust, the British Occupational Health Research Foundation, the Beacon Centre for the Blind and The Princes Trust.
The Carillion Group also contributes in the region of one per cent of profits per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to community activities.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review.
Financial instruments Information on the Carillion Groups use of financial instruments, financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is given in Note 29 on page 96 of the consolidated financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 6 May 2009 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
Amongst the business to be transacted are proposals to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2008, the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of 39,419,196 of its own shares.
Auditor Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board.
