40 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Board of Directors 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Section 04 Governance 41 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 01.
David Maloney Chairman Non-Executive Director Age 64.
Philip was appointed to the Board in October 2004 Age 53.
David was appointed to the Board in November 2005 becoming Chairman in May 2005.
He is Chairman of the and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee.
Philip is also Chairman of Aggreko plc Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
David is Chairman and Northgate plc and a Non-Executive Director of The Davis of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of Service Group plc.
He was an Executive Director of BG plc from Micro Focus International plc, Ludorum plc, Cineworld Group 1992 to 1998, latterly as Deputy Chairman.
plc and Enterprise Inns plc.
He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees for Make a Wish Foundation UK.
John McDonough these appointments, David held senior positions in a number of Group Chief Executive services sector companies, including Chief Financial Officer for Age 57.
John was appointed Group Chief Executive in Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts Limited, Chief Financial Officer January 2001 having formerly been Vice President, Integrated for Thomson Travel Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Facilities Management, Europe, the Middle East and Africa of Director of Avis Europe plc.
He is Chairman of the CBIs Construction Council, Vice-Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Strategy 08.
Steve Mogford Board and a member of the CBIs Presidents Committee.
He is Non-Executive Director also a Non-Executive Director of Tomkins plc.
Steve was appointed to the Board in September 2006 of the Nominations Committee.
and is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Steve is Chief Executive of Selex Sensors and 03.
Richard Adam Airborne Systems SpA, a Finmeccanica company, which he Group Finance Director joined in May 2007.
Richard was appointed Group Finance Director in Director of BAE Systems plc with responsibility latterly for UK April 2007.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG naval sector consolidation.
in 1982 and gained broad experience in a number of public and private company finance director roles from the age of 30.
Vanda Murray OBE Immediately prior to joining Carillion, Richard was Group Finance Non-Executive Director Director of Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
Vanda was appointed to the Board in June 2005 and Non-Executive Director and the chairman of the Audit is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committee of SSL International plc.
Vanda is Non-Executive Chairman of Eazyfone Limited, Deputy Chairman of the North West Development 04.
David Garman Agency and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Vanda was a Director of Ultraframe plc prior to its takeover in Age 57.
Appointed to the Board in September 2004, David 2006 and was previously Chief Executive of Blick plc and until is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member April 2007, was a trustee and Non-Executive Director of The of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
David was Group Manufacturing Institute.
She was appointed OBE in 2002 for Chief Executive of TDG plc until its takeover in 2008.
Prior Services to Industry and to Export.
to TDG plc, David was an Executive Director of Associated British Foods plc, having previously held senior positions in 10.
Roger Robinson a number of leading UK food companies.
He is also a NonExecutive Director Executive Director of Phoenix IT Group plc, and a Director Age 57.
Roger joined Tarmac Construction as Contracts Director of the Oakwood Partnership Ltd, which offers management in 1989 subsequently becoming Managing Director of Tarmac services to operational businesses.
Civil Engineering, International and Rail.
Roger was appointed to the Board of Carillion plc in May 1999 and has Groupwide 05.
David Hurcomb responsibility for infrastructure, international, commercial and Executive Director health and safety matters.
He is a Fellow of the Institution of Age 45.
David was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2008.
Civil Engineers and was a member of the Government Taskforce David has responsibility for Carillions Building and PFI businesses.
He also has Groupwide responsibility for sustainablility and sits on the board of Business Action on Homelessness.
A graduate engineer and chartered accountant, he joined Carillion in March 2005 from Balfour Beatty Plc.
From 1990 to 2003, David was employed in a number of senior positions by Mansell plc, latterly as an Executive Director.
Prior to 1990, David worked for KPMG.
Don Kenny Executive Director Age 54.
Don was appointed to the Board in September 2006 and is responsible for Carillions Business Services businesses.
He joined Carillion from Johnson Controls Inc in 2002, having held a number of senior positions in Johnson Controls and prior to that in Mowlem plc.
Don is a chartered certified accountant.
