214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 42 Directors Report continued Share Capital Structure of the Companys capital The Companys issued and fully paid up share capital at 31 December 2008 was 479,552,860 ordinary shares of 15p each.
All ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the movement in the issued share capital during the year are provided in Note 29 to the financial statements on page 122.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles can be amended by a special resolution of the members of the Company and copies can be obtained from Companies House.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys reports and accounts: attend, speak and exercise voting rights and appoint proxies to attend general meetings.
Restrictions on share transfers There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out in the Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers made in favour of more than four joint holders and transfers held in certificated form.
Directors may decline to recognise a transfer, unless it is in respect of only one class of share and lodged and duly stamped with the Transfer Office.
The Directors may also refuse to register any transfer of shares held in certificated form which are not fully paid.
Directors may also choose to decline requests for share transfers from a US Person as defined under Regulation S of the United States Securities Act 1933 that would cause the aggregate number of beneficial owners of issued shares who are US Persons to exceed 70.
The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors may from time to time determine in respect of any class of shares.
Restrictions on voting rights Proxy forms sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Also, if any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder shall not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders' meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders' meetings.
If those default shares represent at least 0.25 per cent of their class any dividend payable in respect of the shares shall be withheld by the Company and subject to certain limited exceptions no transfer, other than an excepted transfer, of any shares held by the member in certificated form shall be registered.
Power of the Directors The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and their powers are subject to any regulations of the Articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations as may be prescribed by special resolution of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have the power to allot unissued shares, up to predetermined levels set and approved by shareholders in general meeting.
This also applies to the Directors allotting equity securities otherwise than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rules.
42 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
