214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 44 Directors Report continued Employees The Company is committed to providing equal opportunities for all people in recruitment, training and career development and has regard for peoples aptitudes and abilities.
The Company will not tolerate discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability.
The Companys recruitment process seeks to find candidates most suited for the job.
The Company respects the dignity of individuals and their beliefs and does not tolerate any sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in the workplace.
It is the Companys policy that disabled persons should be given the same opportunity for training, career development and promotion, as other employees.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to maintain the employees employment and suitable retraining is offered, if appropriate.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Further details of the Groups approach to employee involvement, training, development and communication can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 27 to 30.
Change of Control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
None is considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business as a whole as all agreements are entered into in the ordinary course of business and are on arm's length commercial terms.
Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 April 2009 at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ at 11.00am.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2008, shareholders granted authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
The authority will expire at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009 or 18 months from the date granted, whichever is earlier.
During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own ordinary shares.
The Directors will propose the renewal of the authority to purchase own shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going Concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review as referenced to on page 41.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Commentary on pages 10 to 22.
In addition the Notes on pages 107 and 114 and the Risk and Risk Management section on pages 58 to 63 include: the Companys objectives: policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity.
As shown on page 20 of the Financial Commentary, the Groups capital position is strong and well in excess of regulatory requirements.
The long term nature of the business results in considerable positive cash flows arising from existing business.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
44 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
