214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 51 Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises independent non-executive Directors and the executive Chairman.
The members of the Committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report are: Michael Sorkin Chairman Simon Gulliford to February 2008 Derek Netherton from February 2008 Mike Wilson Duties The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Before an appointment is made the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of existing members and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Succession planning forms a core remit of the Committee, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company at present and in the future and the Committee gives full consideration to the type of skills and expertise required at Board and senior management level.
To assist in finding suitable candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, the Committee uses the services of an external search consultancy from time to time.
The terms of reference that set out the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate website.
Activities During the year the Committee sought to find a suitable independent non-executive Director to fill the vacancy left by Simon Gulliford.
An external search consultancy was used and the Committee continues to evaluate suitable candidates.
The search was delayed in the latter half of the year, due to the uncertainty surrounding the acquisition of the Companys largest shareholder, HBOS plc, by Lloyds TSB Bank plc now called Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Now that the acquisition has taken place, the search to find a suitable replacement independent non-executive director is continuing and the Committee hopes to be able to recommend one or more candidates to the Board as soon as possible.
In addition, during the year, the Committee reviewed the succession plans for the Board and senior management and considered plans for identifying in due course a successor for Sir Mark Weinberg, as Chair of the Investment Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent non-executive Directors.
The members of the Committee who held office during the year and at the date of this report are: Michael Sorkin Chairman Simon Gulliford to February 2008 Derek Netherton Roger Walsom from February 2008 51 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
