214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place is committed to growing our business in a way that takes account of the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
Responsible management is increasingly important to our The St. Jamess Place Foundation stakeholders shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
We Overview are pleased that St. Jamess Place continues to be included The St. Jamess Place Foundation was set up in 1992, in the FTSE4 GOOD Index, which comprises companies following the creation of the St. Jamess Place Group by that meet globally recognised Corporate Social Sir Mark Weinberg and Mike Wilson in 1991.
From day Responsibility CSR criteria.
In this years report, we one, Directors, Partners and employees at St. Jamess have sought to provide information on how we manage Place had a collective desire to give something back to CSR at St. Jamess Place and highlight five key areas where the community.
As a result, the Foundation has grown we have had a positive impact in 2008: into a thriving grant-making charity that relies on the efforts of Partners and staff to raise vital funds for The St. Jamess Place Foundation charities in the UK and abroad.
The Company matches People every pound raised by Partners and staff for the Our Clients Foundation on a pound for pound basis.
Community Activities Environment 2008 Grant-Making Activities During 2008, the Foundation donated 1.2 million to Further information can be found on our website at fund the building of a specialist Hydrotherapy Centre at www.
The Childrens Trust, Tadworth in Surrey.
CSR Governance St. Jamess Places Corporate Social Responsibility programme is steered by the CSR Committee.
The Committee comprises senior executives from across the business and is chaired by the Company Secretary.
The Committee meets on a monthly basis to review the programme.
An artists impression of the completed Hydrotherapy Centre at Tadworth, Surrey 24 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued The Childrens Trust provides unique and specialist Teenage Cancer Trust residential care, education, rehabilitation and therapy for Our relationship with the Teenage Cancer Trust TCT has some of the UKs most profoundly disabled children.
continued in 2008 with a payment of 120,000 to support The Hydrotherapy Centre will enable the team at the patient technology within the TCT unit at the Royal Marsden Trust to offer vital therapy to over 250 children who the Hospital in Surrey.
Leeds and Birmingham infirmaries have been Trust helps each year.
recipients of previous donations under this scheme and the latter attracted a significant donation from one of St. Jamess Places It is the single largest gift made by the Foundation in its former investment managers.
TCT has opened 9 units so far sixteen year history.
and aims to open 21 more units around the UK for teenage cancer sufferers.
Other grant-making activities during 2008 included: www.
org Cherishing the Children CIDA Any charity with an annual income of less than 600,000 that has CIDA is a non-profit, private higher education institution a project that will directly help young people under the age of 25 founded in 1999 in South Africa which focuses on creating in the UK who suffer from physical or mental health difficulties a meaningful financial and economic democracy in South Africa or conditions, or a life threatening or degenerative illness, can through providing students with business and technology based apply for a grant of up to 10,000 from the Foundation.
Initial funding from the Foundation the year, 79 grants were distributed totalling 670,000 under sponsored 39 students through a three-year degree course.
A further 60 students have since been sponsored through generous contributions by Partners and employees.
In 2008, the The Hospice Movement Foundation granted CIDA 71,400.
The Foundation makes grants of up to 10,000 to Hospices in the www.
co. za UK for items such as equipment or a contribution towards the cost of specialist nursing care or therapies.
During the year, Fund-Raising Activities 25 grants were distributed totalling 228,000 under this scheme.
Supporting the Foundations fundraising activities is a key corporate objective for St. Jamess Place.
Everyone at Hope & Homes for Children St. Jamess Place focuses on this objective with the same The Foundation has continued its long standing relationship with level of rigour and passion that we bring to managing this charity that provides family homes and other support for other key performance indicators for our business.
children orphaned by war or disaster.
More than 2.9 million has been donated to Hope & Hopes since the relationship began.
In Every Partner and employee is encouraged to take part in, 2008 our funding focused on vital projects in Romania and and contribute towards, fundraising events that raise Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Thanks to funding from the Foundation, anything from a few hundred pounds to hundreds of Hope and Homes for Children were able to place 208 vulnerable thousands of pounds.
Each office location takes and abandoned young people into caring and loving home responsibility for fundraising led by a local Foundation environments.
Committee which helps shape the national approach.
org events, as well as more formal business gatherings, are seen as opportunities to raise funds and highlight the needs of others.
Many of our suppliers also support the Foundation through regular donations of cash or items for auction.
25 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Typical fundraising events have included tandem skydiving, Extreme Challenge in a triathlon, marathons and ironman challenges.
From time to Support of the time, extreme challenges emerge, often starting as the dream Foundation of a single employee and quickly blossoming into a viable In 2008 St. Jamess Place plan, gaining support and sponsorship across the Group.
Partner David Cook ran 200km During 2008, these included: through dense jungle, swamps, rough terrain and risked a Coast to Coast Cycle Challenge where individuals coming face-to-face with raised over 40,000: jaguars, piranhas and venomous a Ten Tors challenge across Dartmoor for teams from snakes as part of the Jungle different offices that raised over 62,000: Marathon in Brazil to raise vital funds for the Foundation.
a London based Boxing Event that raised over 45,000: and Nearly a third of all entrants dropped out of the Amazon a Triathlon-based in St Albans where teams from race ahead of the finish line due to the sweltering heat and various St. Jamess Place offices and our suppliers humidity, but heroically David managed to complete the raised in excess of 45,000. gruelling course.
All of these events received Company matching effectively doubling the funds raised.
Payroll Giving Alongside these ad hoc fundraising initiatives, the Foundation has consistently promoted regular giving through deductions from payroll and, in the case of Partners, deductions from their gross earnings.
This has the benefit of providing a regular monthly income to the Foundation and enables the Foundation to reclaim the tax relief provided under the Gift Aid scheme.
Around 80% of the St. Jamess Place community make regular monthly donations to the Foundation.
This raised 400,818 during the year.
This impressive result demonstrates the Foundation Award commitment by the St. Jamess Place community as Many of our Partners and staff are dedicated to raising a whole to support the activities of the Foundation on an funds for the Foundation and often go to extraordinary ongoing basis and shows that the Foundation is at the heart lengths to enable the Foundation to make a difference.
of what we do at St. Jamess Place.
In 2008 we decided to award two Partners for their special efforts.
The joint winners of the inaugural Since 1999, every pound raised by members of the Foundation award this year were Martin Rashdi and St. Jamess Place community has been matched by Placid Gonzales, who together have raised well over St. Jamess Place.
This matching totalled 1,040,752 1million, with matching, for the Foundation.
Martin million in 2008. created the St. Jamess Place Foundation Triathlon in 2003 which has raised funds for a number of Hope and The Foundation is a great example of a company acting Homes for Childrens vital projects in Eastern Europe.
responsibly while also positively engaging all of its Placids boxing event is held in London and is now in its stakeholders.
In our case, the Foundation has made a seventh year, proving to be extremely popular with the significant impact in maintaining our core values and St. Jamess Place community, Partners, staff, clients reinforcing team working within the Partnership and and suppliers.
We are confident this has played a large part in the sustained growth of St. Jamess Place.
26 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
