214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:15 Page 1 About Us St. Jamess Place was established in 1991 and began Our Approach to Investment Management advising clients in January 1992.
In the period since then We do not employ in-house fund managers because we our business has grown to become one of the UKs believe that no single investment house can have a leading wealth management companies, providing facemonopoly of investment expertise.
We therefore to-face advice to clients based on their individual needs carefully select a number of external managers to and circumstances.
manage our range of funds.
The cornerstone of this approach is the Investment Committee who manage the This relationship-based approach has proven to be very fund managers on behalf of our clients.
We retain an resilient and no more so than in these very volatile times.
independent investment consulting firm, Stamford Indeed as the UK, along with other economies, faces up Associates, who play a crucial role in selection and to fallout from the current financial crisis, there is management.
This approach gives us both the flexibility increasing demand for advice that can be trusted and for to respond to market conditions as they change and also timely and reliable information.
the confidence that we are employing the best fund managers for our clients.
We believe we are uniquely positioned to continue to succeed in this market because of two fundamental Our Corporate Objective principles that have underpinned our business from day 1: Our goal is to be acknowledged as the UKs most the strength of the relationship between our advisers and successful wealth management business.
As such, we their clients: and our approach to investment management.
were delighted that at the end of 2008 the readers of the Daily Telegraph again voted St. Jamess Place Wealth Partner-Client Relationships Manager of the Year having also voted us recipients of Our advisers, members of the St. Jamess Place this award in 2007.
We were also voted Wealth Manager Partnership, build long-term, sustainable relationships of the Year by the readers of the Financial Times and the with clients that last.
We are dedicated to working with Investors Chronicle.
clients to help them realise their long-term aims, supporting them over the years as their circumstances and priorities change.
We believe advice is best given face-toface and focused on the personal needs of each individual client.
Our Partners recognise that no one clients objectives or circumstances are the same as another.
The relationships between Partners and clients endure because they are founded on mutual respect and trust.
The success of our approach can be seen from the fact that in recent years over 70% of new investments came from existing clients or from referrals from existing clients.
1 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
