214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued In February 2008 we completed the construction of our Our Clients 45,000 sq.
ft. purpose-built Head Office in Cirencester, which is now home to 368 head office employees.
Further St. James's Place has always considered the fair treatment details of the new building can be found on page 34. of clients to be central to its culture.
We strive to build and maintain long-term relationships with clients Diversity & Equal Opportunities through the St. James's Place Partnership.
These St. Jamess Place has a well-established awareness of its relationships are founded on the principle that every statutory and social responsibilities with regard to the client has different goals and aspirations, requiring an recruitment and employment of staff.
The Company is individual, personal and bespoke advice service from committed to maintaining an appropriately skilled and a St. James's Place Partner.
By applying this principle, our diverse work force irrespective of race, religion, marital Partners have developed exceptionally strong and lasting status, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability.
relationships with their clients which are founded on trust.
We aim to deliver consistent all round In respect of employees with disabilities, we will always performance to clients by: consider possible modifications to the working environment to ensure someone with disabilities has the Providing trusted advice through experienced and chance to take up opportunities or receive promotion.
suitably trained advisers: Providing solutions to meet identified client needs: We ensure that every effort is made to achieve continuity Ensuring that our literature is clear and easily of employment in the event of an employee becoming understood: disabled.
Similarly, best practice principles ensure that Doing our very best to ensure that their investments are our responsibilities are met as an equal opportunity managed effectively to meet or exceed expectations: employer.
and Exhibiting empathy and consideration when dealing Employee Communication with clients, working within the spirit of our We remain committed to an open style of relationship and listening to their needs.
We keep our entire community informed on a regular basis on matters that We support and encourage Partner-client relationships might affect their day-to-day work and communicate by ensuring that the range of wealth management items of interest.
Regular feedback is encouraged and services on offer are comprehensive and meet both the managers are expected to have regular one-to-ones with current and future needs of clients.
We wish to ensure team members as well as team and other ad hoc that our clients perception of St. James's Place is positive meetings.
Directors and senior managers regularly visit in every sense and that their experience of dealing with all St. James's Place office locations to disseminate key the organisation is consistent with the image we portray.
corporate messages and obtain valuable feedback.
In settling life and health claims, we take a positive view and do not hide behind the small print.
Wherever possible, we will pay claims in line with the spirit of the contract.
We also place great emphasis on communicating the characteristics of our products and services with clarity and transparency.
30 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Investing Client Money with them in times of market volatility.
Client feedback As well as providing advice on a range of products and has been instrumental in formulating best practice for the services, a substantial part of our business is the year ahead and will ensure that, whatever the news, we always keep clients up to date and comfortable with our management of our clients money.
Stamford Associates, an external firm of consultants, to oversee the performance of our Fund Managers and The results from 2008 have also been very illuminating in report regularly to our Investment Management identifying moments of truth that our clients experience Committee.
We select the best Fund Managers, closely with us moments that stay in their memory banks and monitoring their activities and introducing new make a real difference to their relationship with us.
We are managers where appropriate.
This approach has delighted to report that the majority of these have been consistently delivered above average investment returns very positive but we are also committed to ensuring that over the medium to long term for our clients.
issues raised by clients who have experienced less favourable moments are addressed and prevented from There have been a number of initiatives developed in re-occurring in the future.
recent years to enhance the client experience such as the introduction of our flagship client report - the Wealth Future research in 2009 will enable us to measure the Account.
This brings together all of a clients investments impact of our efforts in these critical areas and ensure we arranged via the St. James's Place Partnership into a remain aligned to clients expectations in the current consolidated annual summary with valuation and asset economic climate.
Further testament to client sentiment is reflected in the For clients particularly interested in investing in following awards that we have been privileged to receive environmentally friendly companies, the Group offers during the course of 2008: ethical funds.
These funds invest in companies demonstrating sound environmental and social policies.
Best Wealth Manager 2008 and Best Income Fund Manager 2008 as voted for by readers of the Financial Client Feedback Times and Investors Chronicle magazine We recognise that, over time, clients needs change.
Wealth Manager of The Year in 2007 and 2008 voted We try to anticipate and understand their changing needs by readers of the Daily Telegraph and ultimately respond positively to these changes, in a way that maintains the Partner-client relationship for the Finally, we were also awarded Britain's Most Admired long-term.
Company 2008 in the Life Assurance & Insurance category, at the Management Today awards, as voted for We consult regularly with clients through annual by our peers and competitors.
satisfaction surveys and focused research on specific areas of our offering.
We aim to build on the outcomes of each survey and from the direct feedback clients give Partners.
In 2007, we delivered our first annual satisfaction survey.
The feedback was very positive and gave us a clear understanding of what clients want and expect.
In 2008, we have been able to build on our understanding of clients needs by focusing on how best to communicate 31 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
