Growth markets Innovation Continued growth in Standard Chartereds largest African market Standard Chartered Nigeria in Africa further deepened its corporate client base, winning sole banking mandates from British The Group continues to expand its network in American Tobacco Nigeria and Guinness Nigeria PLC.
We are introducing leading international The Bank has continued to increase its footprint in the Wholesale Banking products and innovative ways market, opening six new of making transactions in Consumer Banking.
branches, launching internet banking and increasing the number of ATMs to 25.
Markets13 Trusted partner People6,045 Providing valuable loan facilities to key corporate clients Standard Chartered was the Branches151 sole mandated lead arranger on a $1 billion loan facility to South Africas leading global mining company.
The transaction ATMs292 improved AngloGold Ashantis financial position at a time of scarce liquidity in the global financial markets and made Female employees48% an ongoing contribution to the economic development of all the countries where the company operates.
Trade corridors Enabling cross-border networking for SME clients Standard Chartered provided 150 of its African SME clients with a unique opportunity to build links with SMEs in China and beyond.
The delegation travelled to Guangzhou and the World SME Expo in Hong Kong.
Economic Customer development focused Committed to increasing Standard Chartered attracts access to financial services women savers Standard Chartered structured a $5 Building on the success of the Diva million loan for LAPO, the Nigerian account for women, Standard Chartered microfinance institution.
Our commitment has expanded this tailor-made solution to expand access to financial services with the launch of Diva Chamma in helps microentrepreneurs like Ramat.
The Diva Chamma account She used profits from her hair salon enables groups of women to save and a loan from LAPO to buy fabric and together in investment clubs.
expand her business into making and selling clothing.
She has now secured her second loan of N15,000 $130.
