Business review continued Consumer Banking Record deposit growth in 2008 highlights the strength of our franchise.
The strategic shift towards customer segments and standardisation positions us well for long-term growth.
Steve Bertamini, Group executive director, Consumer Banking Our business and strategy 2008 was a year of significant change and transformation Consumer Banking offers a broad range of products and for Consumer Banking.
The business developed and rolled services to meet the borrowing, wealth management and out a new strategy focused on customer segments and transaction needs of individuals and SMEs achieved scale benefits through standardisation to position the business for long-term growth.
Our vision is to become the worlds best international consumer bank in each of our chosen markets and Transaction convenience was improved in 2008 by strengthening customer segments across Asia, Africa and the Middle East and repositioning our cards proposition, forging strategic alliances and materially improving internet and mobile banking capabilities.
Our strategy is to consistently deliver superior service by providing financial solutions which meet our customers Despite a challenging economic environment the business evolving needs, empowering and engaging our employees continued to invest to grow the franchise.
We integrated AEB, and making a difference in our communities which strengthened the Private Bank: introduced the full range of Islamic banking services in Malaysia: and enhanced the We will differentiate ourselves with standardised systems branch network in markets such as Taiwan and India through and processes and through targeted marketing and targeted niche acquisitions.
stronger analytical capabilities In total, the business added more than 80 branches and We will continue to enhance transaction convenience by 1,200 ATMs in 2008 and extended internet and mobile providing outstanding internet and mobile capability, banking across several markets.
relationship rewards and integrated card offerings At the same time, the business reconfigured its cost base by supported by convenient branch and ATM access reducing employee numbers and driving efficiency through standardisation and enhanced productivity improvements, Our priorities in 2009 such as consolidating call centres, streamlining the account opening process, leveraging cross-border opportunities and Continue Consumer Bankings strong deposit growth prioritising investment.
which is a major driver of the Banks liquidity position Proactively manage and selectively grow the loan Performance portfolio with a focus on secured assets The Groups well-diversified and strong franchise across Significantly deepen relationships with customers some of the worlds most dynamic markets, combined with the by increasing the average number of products and managements pre-emptive action in curtailing the cost base services bought by each customer mitigated the slowdown in Wealth Management income and higher loan impairment charges.
Reposition the Wealth Management business to match changing customer demand Deposit gathering was a key area of focus for Consumer Banking in 2008.
Liabilities grew 16 per cent in 2008, resulting Maintain disciplined cost and risk management in a doubling of our surplus liquidity to over $40 billion.
A combination of flight-to-quality as a result of the financial Continue to implement a standardised business crisis, a series of innovative campaigns, and expansion of the model to leverage global scale Banks internet and phone banking offerings helped achieve these results.
22 Standard Chartered 2008 Operating income Operating profit $5.95bn $1.12bn 2007: $5.81bn 2007: $1.68bn With the acquisition of AEB, Consumer Banking income rose 3 per cent while expenses grew 13 per cent, resulting in Operating income $m operating profit before tax declining 33 per cent to just over $1.1 billion.
Cost efficiency measures were accelerated in the 7,500 second half, resulting in 6 per cent decrease in costs over the first half of 2008.
6,250 5,952 In terms of quality, over 75 per cent of the Consumer Banking 5,806 lending is secured and 59 per cent of the total Consumer 5,000 4,684 Banking loans are mortgages with an average loan-to-value of just over 50 per cent.
This positions us relatively well during 3,750 3,802 these difficult times.
2,700 2,500 Small and Medium Enterprises business 1,250 The SME business had a solid year, with income growing by 8 per cent.
SME is a deposits-led franchise, with deposits 04 05 06 07 08 0 now almost twice the level of loans outstanding.
Due to difficult market conditions, the proportion of secured lending was increased and pricing adjusted to reflect the risk environment.
The business actively managed its lending exposures and repositioned its book away from sectors that historically have been most affected during periods of economic downturn.
We are well positioned to selectively grow market share in this economically important segment.
Wealth Management Continuous improvement Standard Chartered has improved the Wealth Management, which accounts for 47 per cent of banking experience of customers around the world through the launch of Consumer Banking income, grew strongly in the first half of the online banking platforms in 24 countries and mobile banking in 17 countries year against a backdrop of falling stock markets as investors over the past year.
switched out of equity-linked and unit trust products into structured deposit and insurance products.
After well-publicised losses in certain industry products at the end of the third quarter, customers moved into cash deposits, sacrificing yield for greater security.
Whilst the Group was successful in attracting deposits, margins earned were much lower, resulting in overall Wealth Management income growth of 6 per cent in 2008.
In the medium term, demand for Wealth Management products in our markets is expected to return, given naturally high savings levels, limited social security nets and, in some cases, capped savings rates.
The business is being repositioned to address the changing industry landscape and will focus on developing simple, innovative products and annuity income streams.
Consumer Banking remains well diversified across products and geographies, operates in some of the most attractive markets in the world and has a relatively low-risk loan portfolio.
We have an ambitious transformational agenda for 2009 and, most importantly, great people.
The difficult economic environment presents us with a unique opportunity to selectively grow market share as we reposition our business for long-term sustainable growth.
com 23 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Consumer Banking
