Business review The Group in 2008 Standard Chartered had another year of strong financial Our business and strategy performance in 2008.
The performance was particularly pleasing as it came in a year of global financial upheaval.
Standard Chartered aims to be the worlds best The Group has not escaped unscathed from the biggest international bank, providing Consumer and Wholesale financial crisis of our times, but a firm grip on the basic Banking services in Asia, Africa and the Middle East foundations of banking liquidity, capital, risk and cost We are very focused on the basics of banking: on management enabled it to escape the worst of the liquidity, capital, risk management, operational control turmoil and stand out in the global financial landscape.
and costs Last years performance can be summed up by the We do business in markets we understand intimately, following achievements: with customers with whom we have long-standing Strong earnings: The Group delivered another set of strong relationships, selling products we understand fully financial results, measured by a 26 per cent growth in Group We strive to be true to our values and culture, income to almost $14 billion and a 13 per cent rise in operating running the Group as one bank across geographies profit to $4.6 billion, despite the difficulties faced in the and businesses external business environment.
We are committed to building a sustainable business, Firm foundations: The foundations of the Group remain in through our strategy, business models, products and excellent condition.
The capital position has been strengthened involvement in our communities further by a successful rights issue which closed in December.
The Bank is also very liquid, benefiting further from a strong inflow of deposits: the balance sheet is in excellent shape: Our priorities in 2009 and the Group has a firm grasp on risks and expenses.
Stick to our focused, clear and consistent strategy to lead Strongly positioned: We believe these strong foundations the way in Asia, Africa and the Middle East coupled with the diversity of the business, both by geography and product as a result of selective acquisitions, will position Reinforce balance sheet strength and liquidity in the us well to face the continuing challenges of deepening business and keep our focus on the basics of banking economic turbulence in 2009.
As we implement our strategy we will need to anticipate and respond to the extraordinary changes around us Strong earnings We aim to make use of the emerging opportunities to The Groups income was driven by strong momentum in deepen our relationship with customers, build market Wholesale Banking where income grew by 43 per cent.
share and improve margins Organic growth was again the driver of income growth, Our strategy must take into account the fundamental delivering $2.3 billion out of the total $2.9 billion increase task of re-establishing confidence and trust in banks in income.
Excluding the acquisition of American Express and the need to build a sustainable business Bank AEB in 2008, Group income rose by 21 per cent, reflecting the strength of its underlying business.
Our disciplined management of expenses was demonstrated in the second half of 2008 as the Bank reduced costs in anticipation of the slowdown in Asia, Africa and the Middle East caused by the banking crisis in the West.
Overall, growth in expenses was less than income growth, at 22 per cent.
Excluding AEB, expenses rose by 13 per cent, again significantly less than the underlying growth in income.
Firm foundations Standard Chartereds strong balance sheet is a key source of its competitive strength.
The Banks capital and liquidity profile reflects the financial health of the Group.
In the current turmoil, the Bank has proven to be a flight-to-quality institution as it continued to attract substantial deposit growth in both Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking businesses.
The Groups deposit base grew 30 per cent through 2008.
16 Standard Chartered 2008 Group operating income Group operating profit $13.97bn $4.57bn 2007: $11.07bn 2007: $4.04bn The managements focus on deposit growth and its disciplined deployment of the balance sheet resulted in the ratio of customer loans to customer deposits, the advances to deposits ratio, improving from 86 per cent at the end of 2007 to 75 per cent at the end of 2008.
At the end of 2008, the ratio remained under 100 per cent in all of our major markets.
In a global economy starved of liquidity, Standard Chartered remained a net interbank lender in the money markets and continued to lend to its clients.
Loans and advances to customers increased by $22 billion to $179 billion.
The Groups lending portfolio is diversified over a wide range of products, industries and customer segments.
The conservative The Right Partner The Group has demonstrated it is the right partner nature of the Groups balance sheet is further evidenced through for governments and regulators across our markets by working with them to address the short-term crisis and longer-term regulatory reform.
the limited exposure to higher-risk asset classes and segments.
Asset backed securities accounted for less than one per cent of Group assets.
Exposures to commercial real estate, leveraged loans and illiquid assets are also extremely modest.
The Groups capital position, already strong before the onset of the global financial crisis, continued to improve and remains well above its stated targets.
Core Tier 1 capital, at 7.6 per cent, Tier 1 capital at 10.1 per cent and total capital at 15.6 per cent of risk weighted assets are well above our stated targets.
Positioning for growth The Groups strong franchise, built mainly through years of organic growth, has positioned it to take advantage of the American Express Bank As the amalgamation of AEB progressed next upturn in the global economy.
The Bank supplemented throughout the year, employees around the world held special events to this strength with selective acquisitions in 2008 which provided welcome the new members to our team.
the businesses with specialist capabilities in key markets.
The acquisition of AEB, which was completed in February 2008, was one such addition which added both scale to the Private Bank as well as boosting the Groups transaction banking capabilities.
The Bank made good progress in integrating AEB, amalgamating businesses in 47 countries by the end of the year.
In terms of performance, AEB delivered $552 million of income during the ten months of ownership in 2008.
The Group is confident that it will be able to realise cost synergies of over $130 million in 2009 while integration expenses are expected to fall significantly, resulting in a significant increase in profitability.
The Groups other acquisitions in 2008 included a majority stake in UTI Securities, an Indian retail brokerage: Yeahreum Mutual Savings Bank in Korea: Asia Trust and Investment Corporation, a bank in Taiwan: Lehman Brothers Brazilian franchise: and JPMorgan Cazenoves Asian brokerage operations, which completed in 2009.
These acquisitions were made in response to customers seeking specialised financial services in our markets.
They help diversify the Groups revenue-generating capabilities and position the Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking businesses to acquire new customers and seek a bigger share of business from their best customers.
com 17 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review The Group in 2008
