John Peace, acting chairman, non-executive director 7.
Val Gooding CBE, non-executive director Appointed to the board on 1 August 2007 and as acting Appointed to the board on 1 January 2005.
She is a chairman on 14 January 2009.
He is chairman of Experian plc non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc and of the Lawn and Burberry Group plc.
He is also chairman of the board of Tennis Association and of the BBCs executive board.
She governors of Nottingham Trent University, deputy lieutenant for is also a trustee of the British Museum.
Previously she was the County of Nottinghamshire, a fellow of the Royal Society of chief executive officer of BUPA and director, Asia Pacific Arts and chairman of The Work Foundation.
Previously he was with British Airways.
Group chief executive of GUS plc from 2000 until 2006, having 8.
Rudy Markham, acting senior independent been a director of GUS since 1997.
Peter Sands, Group chief executive Appointed to the board on 19 February 2001.
He is a Appointed to the board on 14 May 2002 and as Group non-executive director of Legal and General Group Plc, chief executive on 20 November 2006.
He had been Group AstraZeneca PLC and of United Parcel Service, Inc. and is finance director since his appointment to the board and was a member of the board of the Financial Reporting Council.
responsible for finance, risk, strategy and technology and Previously he was chief financial officer of Unilever.
Before his appointment to the Standard Chartered 9.
Ruth Markland, non-executive director PLC board he was a director with worldwide consultants McKinsey & Co.
He had been with McKinsey since 1988, Appointed to the board on 3 November 2003.
She is chairman where he worked extensively in the banking and technology of the board of trustees of the WRVS and a non-executive sectors in a wide range of international markets.
Age 47. director of The Sage Group plc.
Previously she was managing partner, Asia for the international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus 3.
Richard Meddings, Group finance director Deringer.
Appointed to the board on 16 November 2002.
Sunil Mittal, non-executive director appointed as Group finance director on 20 November 2006 and is responsible for finance, corporate treasury and corporate Appointed to the board 1 August 2007.
He is chairman and development.
Immediately prior to this he was Group executive Group CEO of Bharti Enterprises.
He sits on various boards and director responsible for growth and governance across Africa, councils including the Prime Minister of Indias Council on Trade the Middle East, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, Europe and and Industry, the India Advisory Council of the Harvard Business the Americas and before that was responsible for risk, special School, the Singapore-India Partnership Foundation, the assets management and legal & compliance.
He is a nonexecutive board of the Indian School of Business.
He is the executive director of 3i Group plc.
Before his appointment recipient of Padma Bhushan, one of the highest civilian to the Standard Chartered PLC board he was chief operating awards in India.
Age 51. officer, Barclays private clients at Barclays PLC and prior to that Group financial controller at Barclays PLC.
John Paynter, non-executive director Appointed to the board on 1 October 2008.
Gareth Bullock, Group executive director non-executive director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Appointed to the board on 6 August 2007.
He is Group and was previously vice chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove.
executive director with responsibility for growth and governance He joined Cazenove in 1979, was appointed partner in 1986, in Africa, the Middle East, Europe and the Americas and for risk and later headed corporate finance, Cazenoves largest and special asset management.
He joined Standard Chartered in business.
1996 and was appointed as a director of Standard Chartered Bank in 2003.
His previous senior appointments include Group 12.
Paul Skinner, non-executive director head of strategy, Group chief information officer and CEO Africa.
Appointed to the board on 3 November 2003.
He is chairman He is chairman of MCashback Limited and is a non-executive of Rio Tinto plc.
He is a non-executive director of the director of Fleming Family & Partners Limited and Tetra Laval Group and LAir Liquide SA.
He is chairman of the of Spirax-Sarco Engineering PLC.
Commonwealth Business Council, a member of the board of INSEAD, and also of the defence board of the UK Ministry of 5.
Steve Bertamini, Group executive director Defence.
Previously he was a director of The Shell Transport Appointed to the board on 1 June 2008 and is chief executive and Trading Company plc and group managing director of the officer, Consumer Banking.
Previously he spent 22 years with Royal Dutch Shell group of companies where he was CEO GE, most recently as chairman and CEO of GE North East Asia, of its global oil products business.
Age 64. with responsibility for Greater China, Korea, and Mongolia.
He was also responsible for GEs acquisition and merger business 13.
Oliver Stocken, non-executive director in the Asia-Pacific region from 2004 and president of GE Capital Appointed to the board on 1 June 2004.
He is chairman of Asia since January 2001.
Home Retail Group plc, deputy chairman of 3i Group plc and chairman of Oval Limited and Stanhope Group Holdings Limited.
Jamie Dundas, non-executive director He is also chairman of the trustees of the Natural History Museum.
Appointed to the board on 15 March 2004.
He is chairman of Previously he was group finance director of Barclays PLC.
Jupiter Investment Management Holdings Limited and a nonAge 67. executive director of Drax Group plc.
He is also chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Previously he was chief executive 14.
Annemarie Durbin, Group company secretary officer of the UK property company MEPC and finance director of the Airport Authority Hong Kong, and prior to that a director of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
com 67 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review
