Senior management Group management committee Tim Miller The Group management committee as at 3 March 2009 Joined Standard Chartered in 2000.
He is director, people, comprises the executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC property and assurance and has responsibility for human and the following senior executives: resources, corporate real estate, compliance and regulatory risk, legal, global research and operational excellence.
He also Jaspal Bindra has functional responsibility for internal audit and the corporate secretariat.
He was previously Group head of human resources.
He is a director of He is non-executive chairman of Standard Chartered First Bank Standard Chartered Bank and chief executive officer, Asia.
He Korea Limited, a non-executive director of Michael Page has previously held the positions of general manager, South International plc and a member of the ifs board of governors East and South Asia, global head client relationships and and vice president, organisation and resourcing at the regional general manager, India.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited, Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad, Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Mike Rees Limited, Scope International Private Limited and chairman of Standard Chartered Thai Public Company Limited, Joined Standard Chartered in 1990.
He is a director of Prime Financial Holdings Limited and Scope International Standard Chartered Bank and chief executive officer, Wholesale Malaysia Sdn Bhd.
He has previously held the positions of chief financial officer of Group treasury, regional treasurer in Singapore and Tracy Clarke Group head of global markets.
She is Group head Vis Shankar of human resources.
She has previously held the positions of Group head corporate affairs, head of the Group chief Joined Standard Chartered in 2001.
He is Group head of executives office and other banking roles in the UK and Hong origination and client coverage and is executive chairman Kong.
She is a non-executive director of eaga plc.
Age 42. of principal finance and chairman of The Standard Chartered Private Bank.
He has previously held the position of Group David Edwards head, corporate finance.
He is a member of the board of the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore and on the board of Joined Standard Chartered in 1999.
He is president and chief trustees of Sinda, Singapore.
Age 51. executive officer of Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited.
He has previously held the positions of chief operating officer of Jan Verplancke Wholesale Banking, Group head risk and Group special assets management, regional general manager, Middle East and South Joined Standard Chartered in 2004.
He is chief information Asia and Group head risk management.
Age 55. officer and Group head of technology and operations and is responsible for all systems development, technology support Richard Goulding and banking operations.
Prior to joining the Group he was chief information officer EMEA at Dell.
He is Group chief risk officer.
He was previously the chief operating officer of Wholesale Banking.
Prior to joining the Group he was chief operating officer of the Old Mutual Group and before that was a member of the global executive board of UBS investment banking division.
