Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report and On 27 May 2008, the Company issued 337,500 nonthe financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each US for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Preference Shares and, on 19 September 2008, the Company issued a further 125,000 US Preference Shares.
Further details can be found in note 38 on page 145. Business review The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries The Company is required to present a fair review of the business no rights to fixed income.
On a show of hands, each member performance of the Group during the financial year ended present has the right to one vote at general meetings of the 31 December 2008, a description of the principal risks and Company.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote uncertainties facing the Group and the future developments of for every $2 nominal value of share capital held.
These are covered in the Chairmans Statement Preference Shares issued by the Company on 27 May 2008 on pages 6 and 7, the Group chief executives review on pages and on 19 September 2008 each carry 8.125 per cent interest 8 to 11, the key performance indicators on pages 12 and 13 but do not carry voting rights.
and the business, financial and risk reviews on pages 16 to 63.
Each is incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares represent directors report.
76.7 per cent of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed Principal activities by the general provisions of the articles of association and The Company is the holding company for the Standard Chartered prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any Group of companies.
The Group operates globally and is agreements between holders of the Companys shares that principally engaged in the business of retail and commercial may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on banking and the provision of other financial services.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Areas of operation Rights issue underwriting agreement The Group has over 1,600 branches and outlets.
Further details of the branches and outlets can be found on the On 24 November 2008, the Company entered into an Companys website.
Underwriting Agreement the Agreement with Dover Investments Pte Ltd Dover, JPMorgan Cazenove Limited, UBS Limited, Goldman Sachs International and J. P. Morgan Results and dividends Securities Ltd.
Under the Agreement, UBS Limited, Goldman Sachs International, J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. and Dover A final dividend of 42.32 cents 2007: 56.23 cents, 42.27 cents post rights issue adjustment is recommended for the year the Underwriters agreed to take up 469,865,678 new ended 31 December 2008.
This is the same absolute monetary ordinary shares the New Shares in the proportions set out amount that would have been paid had the rights issue not been in the Agreement at a price of 390 pence HK$45.11 the implemented.
This, together with the interim dividend already Issue Price to the extent that the shares were not taken up by the Companys shareholders under the rights issue.
paid, makes a total dividend for the year of 61.62 cents 2007: 79.35 cents, 59.65 cents post rights issue adjustment.
The In consideration of the Underwriters agreement to underwrite the final dividend, if approved at the 2009 Annual General Meeting New Shares and the joint bookrunners services, the Company AGM, will be paid on 15 May 2009 to shareholders on the agreed to pay to UBS Limited, Goldman Sachs International register as at 13 March 2009. and JPMorgan Cazenove Limited the Joint Bookrunners, a total commission to be shared amongst them of 2.75 per cent The ordinary shareholders will be offered the choice to receive their cash dividends in sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US dollars.
of the aggregate value at the Issue Price of the New Shares It is also intended that a share dividend alternative to the cash underwritten by them: and to Dover, a commission of 1.75 per dividend will be offered during 2009. cent of the aggregate value at the Issue Price of that number of New Shares underwritten by it which is equal to the number of new ordinary shares which Dover was entitled as a shareholder Post balance sheet event to take up under the rights issue and a commission of Please refer to note 55 on page 164.
2.75 per cent of the aggregate value at the Issue Price of the balance of the New Shares underwritten by it.
Going concern The underwriting fee was determined in accordance with market rates.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that Under the Agreement, the Company agreed to pay all costs the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources and expenses of the rights issue, the allotment and issue to continue in operational business for the foreseeable future of the New Shares and the Underwriting Agreement.
and have therefore continued to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors consider that the terms of the Agreement were fair and reasonable and that the Agreement was in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Share capital The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was increased Authority to purchase own shares by 486,507,906 during the year.
5,410,537 ordinary shares were issued under the Companys employee share plans at prices At the Companys AGM held in May 2008, the shareholders between nil and 1243.0 pence.
11,082,539 ordinary shares renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of were issued under the Companys share dividend scheme up to 141,042,099 ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately and 470,014,830 ordinary shares were issued under the 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary shares as at rights issue announced on 24 November 2008.
19 March 2008, and up to all of the Companys issued preference www.
com 69 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Report of the directors continued share capital.
These authorities were not used during the year Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of and remained in force at 31 December 2008.
In accordance with section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in force the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2008 and remain in force at the date of this report.
on 16 April 2008, the Company will comply with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to holding of any shares in treasury and with the conditions of the waiver, in connection Risk management with any shares it may hold in treasury.
At the forthcoming AGM, There is in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities.
Details are and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The risk contained in the Notice of AGM.
The Company held no treasury management objectives, policies and procedures, including shares during the year.
the policy for hedging risk: the Groups exposure to credit risk: liquidity risk and market risk are covered in the risk review Major interests in shares and voting rights on pages 43 to 63 of this report.
Company only risks are As far as the directors are aware as at 31 December 2008, managed as a part of overall Group risks.
Temasek Holdings Private Limited Temasek was the only shareholder that had an interest of more than 10 per cent in Significant contracts and agreements the Companys issued ordinary share capital carrying a right At no time during the year did any director hold a material to vote at any general meeting of the Company.
interest in any contracts of significance with the Company As at 2 March 2009, the Company had been notified by the or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
following company of its interests in the total voting rights of the Company: Related party transactions Percentage Percentage Number of of voting of voting Details of transactions with directors and officers and other Shareholder ordinary shares rights indirect rights direct related parties are set out in note 56 on page 165.
Temasek 356,613,884 18.81 The Company has been notied that Temaseks interest in the total voting rights of the Connected continuing connected transactions Company is held indirectly through Fullerton Management Pte Ltd, Dover and other subsidiaries of Fullerton Management Pte Ltd. By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties Loan capital and connected persons of the Company for the purposes Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries of the UK Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of The Stock are set out in note 38 on pages 144 and 145.
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited the HK Listing Rules respectively together, the Rules.
Neither Temasek nor its associates are related parties for the purposes of IAS 24.
Board members The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable The present members of the board, together with their treatment to Temasek or its associates as defined under the biographical details, are shown on pages 66 and 67.
Rules as a result of such shareholding, to the detriment of Steve Bertamini joined the board as an executive director other shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions which on 1 June 2008 and John Paynter was appointed as an the Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or independent non-executive director on 1 October 2008. its associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or are Sir CK Chow, Mike DeNoma and Lord Turner resigned as members the subject of a specific waiver, they may require a combination of the board on 7 May, 1 June and 19 September 2008 respectively.
of announcements, reporting, shareholder approval and or additional disclosure.
To ensure transparency, the Rules also On 14 January 2009, Lord Davies retired as chairman of the impose additional reporting and disclosure requirements board following his appointment as Minister for Trade and on the Company in respect of certain non-exempt and other Investment to the UK Government.
On the same day, John transactions with Temasek or its associates.
Peace was appointed as acting chairman and Rudy Markham was appointed as acting senior independent director.
On 10 January 2008, the Company and HSBC Institutional Trust Services Singapore Limited, as trustee of CapitaCommercial Re-election of directors Trust being an associate of Temasek, entered into a Framework Agreement in relation to continuing connected transactions for In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the leasing of premises.
Steve Bertamini and John Paynter, who were appointed since the last AGM, will offer themselves for election at the 2009 On 24 November 2008, the Company entered into an AGM.
Jamie Dundas, Rudy Markham, Ruth Markland, Richard Underwriting Agreement with Dover Investments Pte Meddings and John Peace will retire by rotation and, being Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Temasek.
Details eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at this years AGM.
of the Underwriting Agreement are set out on page 69.
During the year, the Group also entered into certain nonDirectors interests exempt continuing connected transactions with Temasek The directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the and its associates in the normal course of its business for Company as at 31 December 2008 are shown in the directors which shareholder authority was obtained at the 2007 AGM.
remuneration report on pages 80 to 93.
This authority expires on 3 May 2010.
Further details of the above-mentioned Framework Agreement Qualifying third party indemnities and continuing connected transactions are set out in the Supplementary Financial Information on pages 173 and 174.
The Company has granted to all of its directors indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
70 Standard Chartered 2008 The independent non-executive directors of the Company confirm The Group has measured employee engagement for the 12 that the continuing connected transactions have been entered into last eight years using the Gallup Organizations Q survey.
by members of the Group with Temasek or its associates: The annual survey provides important feedback to managers and teams and internal research has demonstrated a strong in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group: relationship between high engagement and increased business either on normal commercial terms or, if there are not performance.
In 2008, almost 95 per cent of employees sufficient comparable transactions to judge whether they voluntarily took part in the survey.
are on normal commercial terms, on terms that are no less favourable to the Group than terms available to or from as Major customers appropriate independent third parties: and Taken together, the five largest customers of the Group in accordance with the relevant agreement governing them account for 2.31 per cent of the total interest income and on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of other operating income of the Group in the year ended the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
For the purposes of Rule 14A.
38 of the HK Listing Rules, the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associated Creditor payment policy firms together KPMG, has performed certain agreed-upon procedures on the aforementioned continuing connected Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms transactions for the year ended 31 December 2008, in and conditions with their suppliers in the economies where they accordance with International Federation of Accountants conduct business and for bringing those terms and conditions Related Services 4400 Engagement to Perform Agreed-Upon to the attention of the supplier.
It is the Groups policy to pay Procedures Regarding Financial Information.
creditors in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
KPMG have reported their factual findings on these procedures to the board of directors and confirmed that for the year for The Company is a holding company and does not trade.
those continuing connected transactions selected: i they have Therefore, it is not considered meaningful to give a number received approval of the board of directors: ii they have been of days purchases outstanding for the Company as at entered into in accordance with the pricing policies of the 31 December 2008.
For the Groups operation in the United Group: iii they have been entered into in accordance with the Kingdom, there were 43 days purchases outstanding as at relevant agreement governing the transaction: and iv they 31 December 2008. have not exceeded the relevant annual caps disclosed in previous announcements.
Community investment The Group is committed to building a sustainable business Employee policies and engagement and a more sustainable society, recognising its responsibility The Group is committed to open, honest and productive to invest in the communities in which it operates.
In 2008, relationships with its employees.
Employees are provided the Group made a total investment of $48.6 million 2007: with clear and timely communication by senior management $24.5 million to charities, community organisations and to ensure that they understand the financial and economic causes across its footprint.
This included direct financial factors that affect the performance of the Group.
support of $30.5 million 2007: $18.2 million, and indirect contributions, which comprise employee time: the donation The Group employs over 70,000 staff in 75 countries of non-monetary goods: and funds raised by our employees and territories.
The average number of people employed by 1 of $13.3 million 2007: $2.3 million.
the Group in the United Kingdom during the year was 1,610 and their total remuneration for the year was $362 million.
The Group focuses community investment activity on a number of major programmes: Living with HIV, Seeing is Believing, Nets As part of its approach to employee engagement, the Group for Life and Womens Empowerment, as well as on a wide operates worldwide share plans.
All employees are invited to range of local initiatives.
These are underpinned by employee participate in the Groups all-employee sharesave schemes volunteering activities.
Further details of community projects and share in the success of the Group.
Further details of the can be found in the Business review on pages 30 and 31. sharesave schemes are given in the Directors remuneration report on page 86 and in note 42 on pages 148 to 153.
HIV AIDS policy The Groups employment policies are designed to accommodate the relevant social, statutory and market conditions and practices The Group is committed to addressing social, health and in each country where the Group operates.
It is committed to human rights issues confronting its employees, their families equality of opportunities and diversity for all regardless of gender, and the communities in which it operates.
The Group race, age, physical ability, religion or sexual orientation.
This recognises that the principal competitive advantage of any applies equally to recruitment and to the promotion, development business is gained through its employees, and this advantage and training of people who are already part of the Group.
is only sustainable if they are healthy, skilled and motivated.
The Group recognises its social and statutory duty to employ HIV AIDS directly and indirectly impacts the Groups staff and disabled people and has followed a policy in the United therefore its business.
The Groups policy on HIV AIDS has been Kingdom by providing, wherever possible, the same employment adopted across all the countries in which the Group operates and opportunities for disabled people as for others.
If employees applies to all staff and their families in a manner consistent with become disabled, every effort is made to ensure their employment existing medical cover.
A copy of the Groups HIV AIDS policy is continues, with appropriate training where necessary.
available to shareholders on the Companys website.
1 The Group uses the London Benchmarking Group framework to classify community investment.
The increase in direct cash investment in 2008 results from some existing programmes newly having a community or charitable component, becoming eligible to be classed as community investment: funding of extraordinary events, such as the Szechuan earthquake relief and reconstruction efforts: and improved reporting.
com 71 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Report of the directors continued Environmental policy Annual general meeting The Group is committed to minimising any adverse impact of The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon UK time 7.00 pm the conduct of business on the environment.
It therefore aims Hong Kong time on Thursday 7 May 2009 at The Honourable to manage its businesses with regard to the use of energy Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London, EC1Y and other resources, by disposing of waste responsibly: 2BQ.
Details of the business to be conducted at the AGM are by encouraging its customers to ensure that their products, contained in the notice of meeting for the AGM.
processes and businesses do not damage the environment unnecessarily: and by taking environmental considerations Auditor into account when making business decisions.
The audit and risk committee reviews the appointment of the A copy of the Groups environmental policy is available to external auditor, the auditors effectiveness and its relationship shareholders on the Companys website.
with the Group, including monitoring the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance of audit and Social, ethical and environmental SEE responsibilities non-audit fees paid to the auditor.
Having reviewed the independence and the effectiveness of the external auditor, A report on SEE responsibilities can be found on page 79 a resolution will be proposed at the 2009 AGM to reappoint of this report and further details of the Groups policies on KPMG as auditor to the Company.
So far as each director SEE risk can be found on the Companys website.
is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each of the directors has Electronic communication taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to The board recognises the importance of good communications establish that the Companys auditor is aware of any with all shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional relevant audit information.
shareholders and general presentations are made when the financial results are announced.
The AGM is used as an By order of the board opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
Annemarie Durbin To promote environmental awareness, the Company encourages Group company secretary its shareholders to receive the Companys corporate documents 3 March 2009 electronically.
The annual and interim financial statements, notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all available www.
If you do not already receive your corporate documents electronically and would like to do so in future please contact the Companys registrars at the address on page 177.
Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM through the Companys registrars website at: www.
