Business review continued Wholesale Banking Our strategy is to become the core bank to our clients, deepening relationships and providing them with a broader range of solutions and services.
Mike Rees, Chief executive officer, Wholesale Banking Our business and strategy Wholesale Banking had an outstanding year in 2008, Wholesale Banking has a client-focused strategy, with broad-based income growth across client segments, providing trade finance, cash management, securities products and markets.
This resulted in record operating services, foreign exchange and risk management, profits for the business, which reached $3 billion.
capital raising and corporate finance solutions Operating income rose 43 per cent, supported by a 25 per cent Our strategy is to be the core bank to our clients, growth in client income and a significant increase in own deepening relationships and providing them with account income, which more than doubled.
Operating profit a broader range of solutions and services grew by 28 per cent.
We serve local and global companies and financial Expenses grew by 34 per cent, a far lower rate than income institutions doing business for and in Asia, Africa growth, due to disciplined growth in staff costs, the largest and the Middle East component of the cost base.
Variable expenses now account for almost 44 per cent of total staff costs, increasing our Our priorities in 2009 flexibility in a challenging economic environment.
Wholesale Bankings continued strong performance was Continue to build scale in our core businesses underpinned by consistent execution against our client-centred and key local markets strategy with the goal to become a top-three bank to more clients.
In 2008, the number of clients generating over Strengthen and deepen our client relationships $5 million of income per year increased by 85 per cent and to become core bank to our major clients those generating over $10 million increased by 88 per cent.
Increase cross-border opportunities across our international network Strong income and franchise Expand our product sophistication and provide The business delivered strong growth across all client segments increasingly strategic and value-added capabilities over the course of the year.
In particular, the Local Corporates to clients segment was a major engine of growth in our core markets and Maintain tight management of costs, capital, liquidity grew by 31 per cent.
Cross-border income grew by 33 per and risk cent, reflecting the strength of our network franchise.
The business also delivered strong performances across product segments, with the Transaction Banking, Financial Markets and Corporate Finance businesses delivering strong growth, mainly driven by Trade Finance, Fixed Income and Corporate Advisory respectively.
Cash Management and Trade Finance, which are core to Transaction Banking, grew strongly.
Although trade volumes fell globally, trade finance capacity across the industry fell more rapidly, leaving Standard Chartered well positioned to take market share.
Net interest margins in Trade Finance increased following several years of compression, and volumes rose more than 40 per cent.
24 Standard Chartered 2008 Operating income Operating profit $7.49bn $3.00bn 2007: $5.24bn 2007: $2.35bn Global Markets, which includes Financial Markets, Corporate Finance and Principal Finance, achieved 60 per cent growth.
Operating income $m The Rates business, which deals with interest rate derivatives and is a part of Financial Markets, had an exceptional year.
7,500 7,489 Given high market volatility in interest rates, there was strong demand for hedging products and the number of clients 6,250 purchasing Rates products increased by 28 per cent.
The Banks trading activities are primarily based on leveraging 5,243 5,000 client flows, which increased substantially in 2008 due to greater fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, and we 3,923 3,750 were able to take advantage of the opportunities provided 3,059 by high market volatility.
2,500 2,574 The Capital Markets segment performed well, with continued 1,250 good levels of origination of Asia Pacific syndicated loans and Asian local currency bonds.
Standard Chartered is consistently 04 05 06 07 08 0 ranked among the top three banks in these markets.
The Principal Finance business, which has had a strong track record of creating value through its investments, was impacted by the depressed equity markets, leading to lower realisations than in 2007.
Income from the segment declined 37 per cent and the value of the portfolio was impaired by $171 million, reflecting falling prices of comparable securities in the market.
The Bank remains confident in the underlying quality of the portfolio.
Disciplined management As a business, Wholesale Banking continues to be disciplined Deepening client relationships Standard Chartered partnered with in managing the relationship between risk weighted assets Tata Chemicals on the $1 billion acquisition of US-based General Chemicals, RWA and income growth, with an ongoing focus on origination creating the world's second largest soda-ash producer.
The Groups role as and distribution of assets.
The business experienced good mergers and acquisitions advisor, lead arranger and structuring bank anchored demand for secondary market securities.
To strengthen capabilities and scale in key growth regions, Photo: Tata Chemicals Wholesale Banking has focused on maximising synergies resulting from the integration of American Express Bank and further increasing strategic capabilities with the acquisition in 2009 of JPMorgan Cazenoves Asian operations.
The businesss tight discipline in managing capital, liquidity and risk is a key enabler of growth and a differentiating competitive advantage.
The business remains vigilant to the changing external environment and focused on proactive and robust risk management.
In 2008, the Groups successful embedding of Basel II into the business drove significant efficiency gains in RWA.
We have been increasingly looking to use collateral to reduce risk, whilst regularly conducting stress testing to highlight and pre-emptively mitigate any major risks to the business.
com 25 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review Wholesale Banking
