Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information The Company has a desired average level of gearing of The Company has announced that it is conducting a full strategic approximately 20% over time and has an absolute maximum review of the business, with the objective of improving share limit on borrowings of two times its adjusted capital and reserves, price performance and liquidity.
The outcome of this will be as set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
announced by the end of April 2009.
Strategy Marketplace A market commentary can be found in the Chairmans statement Investing in international private equity on pages 4 and 5.
The Companys core investment focus is on international private equity.
Financial review Diversication The Financial review is contained in the Finance Directors report on pages 6 and 7.
The majority of the Companys investments are focused on one, highly rated, manager, Permira, an international private equity Portfolio review specialist.
The current relationship with Permira is addressed through the operating agreement of 21 March 2005 as set out The dramatic fall in public market comparable earnings multiples in Contractual arrangements on page 20.
Information on the and share prices that impacted valuations in June continued in Companys investment portfolio, including the diversication of the second half of 2008.
This, coupled with the sharp decline its underlying assets by vintage year, size, geography and industry in the global economic environment towards the end of the year sector is contained in the portfolio review on pages 9 to 19. has resulted in a number of valuations being written down signicantly, outweighing the positive impact of foreign exchange Building a successful fund management business and realisations.
SVG Capitals fund management business, SVG Advisers, was Private equity is a long term asset class and investments are established in 2001 with the strategy of providing intelligent usually held for four to five years before being sold, historically at solutions for mid-sized institutions and high-net-worth investors premiums to carrying value and cost.
In the case of SVG Capital for investing in private equity or public equity using private this average multiple to cost on exit has been 2.2x.
of SVG Capitals portfolio companies have been held for less than three years and are therefore in the mid-stages of the value creation process.
As such, it is important to note that the current A description of certain key risks which affect the Companys portfolio valuation is not necessarily a reection of the long term business are set out on pages 20 to 23, which include risks relating value of the underlying companies as it does not factor in the to valuation and leverage, funding, borrowing, concentration future opportunities the businesses have to grow earnings and and portfolio company risk.
Major realisation Jet Aviation The realisation of Jet Aviation was completed in November 2008.
Funds advised by Permira originally acquired Jet Aviation in October 2005.
Since then, the company has grown both organically and through acquisition and the management team has worked closely with Permira to transform the company from a family run business into a truly global leader in business aviation.
1 Total proceeds from the sale of Jet Aviation of 86.8 million Realisation value represent a 162% multiple to carrying value and a multiple of 4.4x original cost.
1 62% uplift to December 2007 value 1 Gross of carried interest SVG Capital plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
