Business review The Business review provides shareholders Introduction with an overview of SVG Capitals: SVG Capital is a private equity investor and fund management business with ofces in London, Boston and Singapore.
Investment objective and policy page 8 Key Performance Indicators page 8 Investment objective Strategy page 9 The investment objective is to achieve capital appreciation by investing principally in private equity funds that are managed or Marketplace page 9 advised by Permira, a leading international private equity specialist.
In addition, the Company invests in private equity funds that invest Financial review page 9 in Japan, North America, Asia and the life sciences sectors, and in unquoted and quoted businesses through specialist funds and Investment portfolio review page 9 co-investments alongside these funds.
The Company may also invest in other private equity related assets and alternative asset classes.
20 Largest underlying companies page 16 To complement this investment objective and create capital and SVG Advisers page 20 income for the Company, its fund management business structures, markets, manages and advises products for investment Contractual arrangements page 20 in private equity related asset classes and in public equity using private equity techniques.
Risks and risk management page 20 Investment policy The Company invests principally in private equity funds managed or advised by Permira, which provide it with exposure to a portfolio of companies that are diversied by vintage year, size, geography and industry sector.
Under current legalisation, the Company operates so as to ensure that, at the point of acquiring or adding to its investment in any company or group, its holding in that company or group does not exceed 15% by value of its overall investments.
Key Performance Indicators The Groups Financial Key Performance Indicators are: 1 Shareholder total return 88.1 % 5.5 %p.
Year to 31 December 2008 Since 1996 1 Source: Bloomberg 2 Including the 31 December 2008 Directors unaudited valuations of SVG Advisers Long term net IRRs of the portfolio of underlying private equity funds 15.7%p.
Since inception of underlying funds 1983 More information on non-financial KPIs are contained in the Corporate social responsibility report on page 42.
SVG Capital plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
