Directors Lynn Fordham Executive Director aged 45 Lynn Fordham was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2008.
She is the Groups Finance Director.
She has over 20 years of financial experience and has held financial positions with Barratt Developments plc, BAA plc, Boots Group plc, Chubb plc, MAN Group plc and BAT Holdings plc.
She also spent 10 years in a number of roles with Mobil Oil Corporation.
Nicholas Ferguson Chairman aged 60 Andrew Williams Executive Director aged 56 Nicholas Ferguson was appointed as a Director on 12 February 1996 Andrew Williams was appointed as a Director on 3 May 2002.
He retired and Chairman on 25 April 2005.
He was formerly Chairman of Schroder from being a Director of Schroder Ventures Holdings Limited in December Ventures and instrumental in its development since 1984.
Before joining Schroder Ventures, Mr Williams worked at Schroders Senior Independent Director and a non-executive Director of British including a period as Co-head of equity capital markets and for four years Sky Broadcasting Group Plc.
He is the Chairman of the Nominations in Japan where he was Head of Corporate Finance.
He was also head of Committee.
the Schroders Securities Asian Division.
He is a non-executive Director of CDC Group plc and of Macquarie Bank International Ltd.
In March 2009, Committees: the Company announced Mr Williams will be leaving the Company.
Nominations Chairman Damon Buffini Non-Executive Director aged 46 Damon Bufni was appointed as a Director on 25 April 2005.
He became a Partner of Permira in 1992, Managing Partner of the UK in 1999 and Managing Partner in 2000.
He is now Chairman of the Board of Permira Holdings, chairman of the Permira Funds investment committees and a member of the management committee of Permira Holdings LLP.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Committees: Nominations SVG Capital plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Francis Finlay Non-Executive Director aged 66 Denis Raeburn Non-Executive Director aged 64 Francis Finlay was appointed as a Director on 1 October 2004.
He is Denis Raeburn was appointed as a Director on 25 June 2001 and was non-executive Chairman of Clay Finlay LLC.
a New York based investment Managing Director of the asset management company Global Asset management rm.
His other non-executive directorships include two Management GAM between 1986 and 1999.
He is a member of London listed investment trusts, Scottish Investment Trust plc and each of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and Indochina Capital Vietnam Holdings Limited.
He is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee.
Committees: Committees: Audit Nominations Remuneration Remuneration Chairman Nominations Anthony Habgood Non-Executive Director aged 62 Charles Sinclair Non-Executive Director aged 60 Anthony Habgood was appointed as a Director on 12 February 1996 Charles Sinclair was appointed as a Director on 1 January 2005.
He is and is Chairman of Bunzl plc and Chairman of Whitbread plc.
He is a non-executive Director of Associated British Foods plc.
He retired as a member of each of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee Chief Executive of Daily Mail and General Trust plc on 30 September 2008, and Remuneration Committee.
Mr Sinclair is the Senior Independent Director of the Company.
He is a past non-executive Director of Schroders plc Committees: and Reuters Group plc.
He is a member of the Audit Committee.
Audit Nominations Remuneration Committees: Audit Edgar Koning Non-Executive Director aged 56 Gary Steinberg Non-Executive Director aged 56 Edgar Koning was appointed as a Director on 12 February 1996 and Gary Steinberg was appointed as a Director on 15 March 2007. is Executive Vice President with AEGON Nederland NV.
He joined the He is currently working as an investment consultant.
Prior to this, AEGON Group in 1981 and has held various senior management positions Mr Steinberg was the Chief Investment officer of The Wellcome Trust in the AEGON Group.
and the Chief Executive of BP Investment Management Limited, responsible for managing investment portfolios of 11 billion and Committees: 12 billion respectively.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and Nominations a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Committees: Audit Chairman Remuneration SVG Capital plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
