14 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Martin Toogood 61 Lord Harris of Peckham 65 Non-Executive Director Chairman and Chief Executive Martin Toogood joined the Board in 2002.
Lord Harris is now in his 51st year in carpet retailing and is one of the best known names He has wide retail experience at the highest level in several companies including BhS, Habitat, in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 Heals and B&Q, where he was Chief Executive until 2002.
Until spring 2007 he was Chairman until the company was taken over in 1988. and Chief Executive Officer of ILVA, the Danish Lord Harris is a Non-Executive Director of Arsenal Holdings plc and Arsenal Football Club plc.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc for 18 years until July 2004 Baroness Noakes 59 and was a Non-Executive Director of Matalan Plc Non-Executive Director for two years.
Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, John Kitching 57 joined the Board in 2001.
Baroness Noakes is a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent plc and Chief Executive officer, Europe the English National Opera, and a trustee of the John Kitching joined Carpetright on its formation Reuters Founders Share Company.
Previously she was with KPMG for 30 years and was the in 1988, having occupied a number of senior Senior Non-Executive Director of the Bank management roles within Harris Queensway.
He was appointed Sales Director in 1992 and of England.
Baroness Noakes chairs the Audit and Nomination Committees and is the Senior Managing Director in 1996.
John has overall responsibility for European operations and was Independent Director.
appointed Chief Executive Officer, Europe in June 2005.
John is also Chief Executive of the Storey Simon Metcalf 65 Carpets chain which was acquired in May 2007.
Non-Executive Director Christian Sollesse 49 Simon Metcalf joined the Board in 2004.
He is a chartered accountant and worked in corporate Managing Director, UK and Republic of Ireland finance as a Director of County Bank and its successor organisations for over 25 years, Christian Sollesse joined Carpetright in 1995 latterly as Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners.
having worked for many years in senior retail management roles in Harris Queensway and He is currently a Non-Executive Director of The Collinson Group, Professional Travel Insurance Harris Interiors.
Christian was appointed Sales Director in 1997 with responsibility for sales Limited and a number of other private companies.
He is a trustee of the Bankside Gallery.
In June 2005 Christian Simon chairs the Remuneration Committee.
was appointed Managing Director, UK and Republic of Ireland, taking responsibility for trading operations.
Guy Weston 47 Non-Executive Director Martin Harris 39 Guy Weston joined the Board in 2005.
Guy began Group Commercial Director his career as a management tutor and business analyst before entering the food and beverage Martin Harris joined Carpetright in 1991, previously having been an Executive Director industry, working for R Twining & Co. Jacksons of Piccadilly and The Ryvita Company.
of Harveys Furnishing Group Limited.
Martin became Marketing Director in 1997, resigning Currently, Guy is Chairman of Heals PLC and Wittington Investments Ltd, a Director of the to become a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
Thrombosis Research Institute and a Trustee In November 2002 Martin resumed Executive Director responsibilities as Buying Director and of the Garfield Weston Foundation.
was appointed Commercial Director when he assumed responsibility for Marketing in 2003.
Geoff Brady 54 Martin took on responsibility for supply chain and Non-Executive Director logistics in June 2005 and was responsible for the move to Carpetrights new central cutting Geoff Brady joined the Board in March 2007. and distribution centre and offices in early 2008.
He has had a career of over 30 years in the retail sector including Chief Executive Officer Allied Carpets plc, Managing Director Daimler Chrysler, Retail UK and Commercial Director Superdrug plc.
He was a Deputy Chairman of Matalan Plc and a Non-Executive Director of Floors-2-Go Plc, prior to both companies return to private ownership.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Fairline Boats Ltd and Saul D. Harrison & Sons plc.
