214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 10 Managers report 2008 was a horrible year for equities and, unlike Our performance in 2008 can be most clearly the bear market earlier in the decade, when a explained by reference to these two parts of the reasonable number of stocks produced positive portfolio.
Of the stocks we owned, our positive returns, investors found few hiding places.
Of the relative performance was provided mainly by 37 sectors in the FTSE All-Share Index, 35 fell successes in the larger company portfolio over the course of the year.
although we were lucky enough to benefit from bids for Thus and TNS in the smaller segment Our contrarian principles had steered us away and in particular Unilever, GlaxoSmithKline, from the most popular sectors of the preceding AstraZeneca and BP.
Obviously, our zero holding years and, as these sectors fell furthest in 2008, in the mining sector, prior to our purchase in our relative performance improved significantly.
December of Fresnillo, the Mexican silver Of particular relevance to us was the collapse of producer, was also a significant positive factor as the mining sector, our bte noire in previous was our underweight position in the banking years, which fell 55% in 2008.
bubble had inflated on claims of limited supply and high growth demand.
While there was clearly These positives were partially offset by the some substance to these arguments, prices of underperformance of some of our more cyclical commodities over-reacted excessively, creating a picks such as Travis Perkins and Signet and our speculative bubble.
Within the UK mining sector, modest exposure to smaller companies such as many companies heightened their vulnerability to Uniq and Future.
lower commodity prices by markedly increasing their debt as the bubble inflated.
They were Investment Style badly exposed as it burst.
To some people, the word contrarian is very As always, we tried to minimise portfolio emotive, with connotations of high risk investing turnover, aware that patience has often paid conducted in a stubborn and somewhat excellent dividends to long term investors.
Of course, our contrarian However, in a year of extraordinary volatility, approach is a distance away from this image.
We sitting on our hands proved very difficult believe many of the best long term stock market although there were many more active investors performers of the future are among the current elsewhere in the market.
The basic shape of the long term underperformers.
However, detailed portfolio remained fairly stable during the year.
analysis is essential as this group contains a Approximately two thirds of the portfolio was number of stocks with a high risk of default.
The committed to some of the largest companies in finest analysis cannot guarantee avoidance of all the market, with good dividend yields, strong bad performers but the beauty of a balanced balance sheets, relatively low exposure to the portfolio is that, if we hold sufficient winners, we economic cycle and opportunities to grow profits can grudgingly accept losers.
Approximately one third We recognise the importance of avoiding of the portfolio was invested in stocks with obsession with individual stocks, and not holding greater economic exposure and good long term an unnecessarily dogmatic view of any prospects where we believed the share price had companys prospects.
If a share falls after we already discounted a steep fall in earnings.
have bought it, we revisit the arguments for its purchase, and decide if new factors affect our estimate of fair value.
We believe that flexibility, a willingness to admit mistakes and knowing when to stop averaging down, are essential in limiting the risks of investing in out of favour stocks.
10 10 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 11 A further element in our risk-reduction strategy Portfolio Turnover ensures that our holdings are widely spread We used the volatility in the market to fine tune across industries.
Some may be out of favour for our portfolio, with particular reference to the extended periods before recovering strongly.
Our four areas of risk highlighted above.
We sold, or portfolio approach allows for this by blending significantly reduced, our holdings in, amongst underperformers from previous years which others, ITV, DSGi, Daily Mail & General Trust, might now be doing better with more recent Standard Life and Kingfisher, and reinvested the vintages of underperformers.
proceeds in Premier Farnell, Travis Perkins, International Personal Finance, Grafton, Paddy Power, Home Retail, Invensys, Charter Stock Picking International and Carnival.
Out of favour stocks tend to have characteristics which could be regarded as risk factors: weak Certainly, most of the purchases are currently balance sheets, volatile profit profiles, hints of under significant trading pressure but we believe, structural decline or evidence of poor as a sub-portfolio, they offer exposure to some management.
We would not avoid a stock where great businesses at excitingly low valuations.
one of these risks is identified, but we become Some of these companies are more indebted increasingly nervous as the risk factors increase.
than is ideal, but we believe they can negotiate the difficulties of the current downturn, perhaps Balance sheet risks have increased significantly with the aid of rights issues and, more over the last twelve months, and many importantly, generate sharply increasing profits companies have needed to renegotiate their in the future.
However, it is vital to stress that a facilities with reluctant banks.
The significant number of these companies are not financially economic downturn, together with the credit stretched, and some Paddy Power, Invensys, crunch, has separated the winners from the Charter and Home Retail have net cash losers.
Warren Buffetts view remains as relevant although, at Home Retail, management has a as ever: You only find out who is swimming large number of lease liabilities to focus its naked when the tide goes out.
Even the best purchases rarely feel If we persuade ourselves that a company has a comfortable, and must often be made against tolerable risk profile, we do not then simply buy some persuasive bear arguments, but it is exactly the shares.
We always require evidence of that negativity which provides the investment sufficient upside potential to more than offset opportunity.
the risk of a negative outcome.
We do not build In holding these shares, we are certainly not our buy arguments on one vision of the future ignoring the likelihood of a downturn, or denying but, rather, model a number of scenarios.
This the possibility that a downturn may be quite underlines our belief that fund management deep.
Instead, we are remaining cognisant of involves probabilities not certainties.
economic cycles and believe that, economic Armageddon aside, these companies trade at significant discounts to their long term values.
T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 11 11 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 12 Managers report continued Attribution Analysis Outlook % Many stock market participants would prefer to Change in Net Asset Value wait until things are less uncertain before per Ordinary Share 27.68 committing additional funds to the equity Income distributed to shareholders 2.66 market.
In an ideal world, this would be a good strategy.
However, stock markets rarely behave in 25.02 an ideal way.
Investors may find that Expenses 0.36 opportunities are lost through waiting for a Finance costs 0.70 Impact of gearing & mixture of better economic and corporate news, valuation of debt on an end to large negative surprises and a greater portfolio balance 3.11 Residual effect 0.32 flow of cash into equities.
When these factors can be positively identified, we will be far closer to Change in Ungeared Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share 21.17 the top of the market than the bottom.
To quote Buffett again: if you wait for the robins, Spring Total return of FTSE will be over.
All Share Index 29.93 We believe the equity investor looking to as % of opening Total Assets maximise returns would be more likely to benefit by dealing only when there is great uncertainty.
Portfolio Concentration Of course, there would be no guarantee that The scenario analysis outlined earlier justifies conditions would not become more uncertain ie our highly concentrated portfolio.
Although we worse and prices fall further.
But, assuming that have considered a significant number of purchases were priced below fair value, that underperforming stocks, many have not offered would not be a problem in the longer term.
sufficient upside to offset the level of perceived risk.
We can highlight at least four factors that could At the end of the year, our seven largest holdings force the market lower.
The massive build up BP, Royal Dutch Shell, GlaxoSmithKline, of debt over the last two decades has left Vodafone, Unilever, HSBC and AstraZeneca us watching a worked example of global comprised 56% of the portfolio.
As the economies of the US and companies share two important qualities: strong UK have never had this much debt relative to balance sheets and very diverse operations.
In GDP, the outcome of this great unwind cannot be fact, with their broad business spreads, they forecast with certainty.
Despite recapitalisation, could almost be regarded perhaps with the many banks are clearly reluctant to lend.
In fact, exception of HSBC as lowly geared investment fide-leveraging is impeded by utilisation of trusts.
We believe such diversification uncommitted facilities previously provided to significantly reduces the concentration of risk.
companies and consumers, and accounting An interesting speculation is that any, or all, of changes requiring more capital to be held against these companies could at some stage demerge depreciating assets.
most were built by acquisition.
Theoretically, we might at some time be holding, say, ten or more companies instead of seven.
Of course, this would optically increase our portfolio diversification although nothing would have actually changed.
12 12 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 13 And yet the hoarding inclinations of banks might Finally, equity valuations although significantly not be unreasonable, as they try to identify lowered in the last nine years, are yet to reach clients ability to repay their loans.
This may not happen but who have overspent for years are unlikely to pay should not be a surprise when set against the back large amounts of mortgage, loan or credit extent of the overvaluation at the market peak in card debt.
Indebted companies are experiencing 1999. large falls in free cashflow as earnings However, it is vital to avoid the characteristics of downgrades come through, so debt repayments an uber bear.
We own stocks which we are happy appear minimal.
This could be an additional to hold throughout an economic cycle, and reason why so much pressure is falling on hedge whose valuations already discount a great deal of funds to reduce debt.
If markets move lower we are prepared The extent of future hedge fund selling cannot to add more risk to the portfolio but, if they do be predicted, as it is a symptom of their own not, we are invested sufficiently to benefit from deleveraging, and the fund redemptions which positive movements.
If their selling depresses prices, the vicious circle is reinforced.
Alastair Mundy Ultimately, buyers will emerge to take advantage Investec Investment Management Limited of great bargains, but the absence of hedge fund 20 February 2009 investment activity will leave a gap in the market.
The second factor is whether the combined fiscal and monetary actions of the developed nations will have a beneficial effect.
The Japanese have made great efforts in recent years to stimulate their economy, but the outcomes have been mixed.
Although the Japanese authorities have been criticised for unsuitable or belated actions, scant evidence is available to demonstrate that other actions would have been more successful.
The third factor is the unknown consequences of throwing the kitchen sink at the worlds woes.
Lower interest rates, massive government bailouts and huge government spending are offered as a panacea but the ultimate outcome is unforeseeable.
T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 13 13
