214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 17 Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts It is the Companys policy to invest no more than for the year ended 31 December 2008.
15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
BUSINESS REVIEW The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of Introduction investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, This business review forms part of the Report of but without restricting the Company from the Directors.
Its function is to provide a holding a more or less concentrated portfolio balanced and comprehensive review of the from time to time as circumstances require.
Companys performance and development during The Companys long term investment strategy the year and its position at the year end.
The emphasises: review also covers the principal risks and Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120- uncertainties faced by the Company and sets out 140% of that of the FTSE All-Share Index key performance indicators used to measure, monitor and manage the Companys business.
Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose share prices do not match the Business of the Company Managers assessment of their longer term The Company carries on business as an value investment company under Section 833 of the From time to time fixed interest holdings or non Companies Act 2006 and was approved by HM equity interests may be held on an opportunistic Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in basis.
accordance with Section 842 of the Income & Derivative instruments are not normally used but Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 December 2007.
In the opinion of the directors in certain circumstances, and with the prior approval of the Board, their use may be the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
considered either for hedging purposes or to exploit a specific investment opportunity.
The Companys principal business activity of Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the investment management is sub-contracted to aim of increasing returns to shareholders.
The Investec Investment Management Limited IIM Companys gearing range total gross assets under the ultimate supervision of the board of divided by total net assets may fluctuate directors.
The Company has one active wholly between 75% and 130%, based on the current owned subsidiary company, whose principal balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of business is investment dealing, and one dormant 150%.
A review of the business is given in the Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, investment limits set by the Board and Chairmans statement and the Managers report.
The results of the Group are shown on page 29. appropriate financial and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
Investment Objective and Policy The Companys investment objective is to provide Investment Approach growth in income and capital to achieve a long The investment approach of our Manager is term total return greater than the benchmark premised on a contrarian view on the timing of FTSE All-Share Index, through investment buy and sell decisions, buying the shares of primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy companies when sentiment towards them is at or is to invest in a broad spread of securities with near its worst and selling them as fundamental typically the majority of the portfolio selected profit improvement and or re-evaluation of their from the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
long term prospects takes place.
The UK equity element of the portfolio will be The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in mostly invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: driving down the prices of out of favour however, exceptional positions may be companies to below their fair value will offer sanctioned by the Board and up to 10% of the investment opportunities.
This will allow the portfolio may be held in listed international Company to purchase shares at significant equities in developed economies.
The Company discounts to their fair value and to sell them as may continue to hold securities that cease to be they become more fully valued, principally as a quoted or listed if the manager considers this to result of predictable patterns in human be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit of 10% psychology.
on individual stocks with a maximum exposure to a specific industrial or commercial sector of The Managers process is designed to produce 25%, in each case irrespective of their best ideas to drive active fund management weightings in the benchmark index.
The T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 17 17 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 18 Report of the directors continued framework begins through narrowing down the 24.7% compared with a fall in the total return of universe of stocks by passing those companies the Companys benchmark index of 29.9%.
In with a market capitalisation above 100m addition, the graph below shows the ungeared through a screening process which highlights the investment performance over a five year period weakest performing stocks.
This isolates compared with the FTSE All-Share Index.
The opportunities with attractive sentiment Chairmans Statement on pages 7 to 8 and the characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised managers report on pages 10 to 13 include a in greater detail to identify investment review of developments during the year together opportunities.
with information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio and an assessment of The process is very much bottom up and can future developments.
result in large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of sufficient interest are found Ungeared 5 year performance 180 within a single sector.
However, top down risk 170 analysis is undertaken to identify potential 160 concentration of risk and to factor this 150 awareness into portfolio construction.
The portfolio comprises stocks which have been 140 purchased for different reasons and at different 130 times.
In general, because of the bottom up 120 approach to stockpicking, each of these reasons 110 is independent of the other and the portfolio, 100 therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer term macro trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the FTSE All Share Total Return Temple Bar gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and associated costs portfolio value.
The approach to stock selection and portfolio Key Performance Indicators construction is driven by four core beliefs: The key performance indicators KPIs used to 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and determine the progress and performance of the the downside.
The Manager aims to be Company over time, and which are comparable to sceptical of the crowd and aware of investor those reported by other investment trusts, are psychology, which often causes overvaluation set out below:- of those stocks that are deemed to have good Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE prospects and an undervaluation of those All-Share Index which are out of favour.
There are few companies which sustain below Discount on net asset value normal profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to leave an industry, thus Earnings and dividends per share improving the balance of supply and demand, Total expense ratio are bid for or management is changed.
While some elements of performance against Similarly, there are few companies which can KPIs are beyond management control they sustain supernormal profits over the longer provide measures of the Companys absolute and term.
Such profits tend to be competed or relative performance and are, therefore, regulated away.
monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant Net Asset Value Total Return of stock prices over the long term.
In other In reviewing the performance of the assets of the words cheap stocks will outperform Companys portfolio the Board monitors the net expensive stocks.
asset value in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
Diversification is an important control.
During the year the net asset value total return of Particular companies or sectors can be out of the Company fell by 24.7% compared with a total favour for a considerable time.
return fall of 29.9% by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Performance Performance Attribution The purpose of performance attribution analysis In the year to 31 December 2008 the net asset value total return of the Company decreased by is to assess how the Company achieved its 18 18 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 19 performance relative to its benchmark index.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Details of the attribution analysis for the year The principal risks facing the Company fall under ended 31 December 2008 are given in the the general categories of strategy, operational and management risks.
With the assistance of managers report on page 12. the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Discount on Net Asset Value Company under these broad headings.
The Board The Board monitors the premium discount at reviews and agrees policies, which have remained which the Companys shares trade in relation to unchanged since the beginning of the accounting the assets.
During the year the shares traded at period, for managing these risks, as summarised an average discount to NAV of 6.0%.
compares with an average discount of 6.6% in the previous year.
Improved short term Investment Strategy performance has helped maintain the discount at An inappropriate investment strategy on matters a steady level despite a general widening of such as asset allocation or the level of gearing average discounts in the growth and income may lead to underperformance against the sector.
The Board and Manager closely monitor Companys benchmark index or peer companies, both movements in the Companys share price resulting in the Companys shares trading on a and significant dealings in the shares.
In order to wider discount.
The Board manages such risks by avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of diversification of investments through its shares in the market the Board asks shareholders investment restrictions and guidelines, which are to approve resolutions which allow for the buy monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The back of shares and their issuance which can Manager provides the directors with regular and assist in the management of the discount.
accurate management information including Regular demand generated by monthly absolute and relative performance data, investment in the Savings Scheme and the use of attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity marketing and promotional activity also assist in reports, risk profile and shareholder analysis.
The keeping the discount at an acceptable level.
Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment Earnings and Dividend Per Share manager, who attends Board meetings.
It remains the directors intention to distribute Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting over time by way of dividends substantially all of devoted to strategy, the most recent one being in the Companys net revenue income after expenses May 2008. and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches great Income Risk Dividends importance to dividends in achieving total return.
Generating the necessary level of income from The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium portfolio investments to meet the Companys to the market.
The final dividend recommended expenses and to provide adequate reserves from for the year is 22.34p per ordinary share which which to base a sustainable programme of brings the total for the year to 32.84p per increasing dividend payments to shareholders is ordinary share, an increase of 6.0%.
This increase subject to the risk that income generation from exceeds the RPI inflation of 0.95% by a investments fails to meet the level required.
The comfortable margin and is the 25th consecutive Board monitors this risk through the receipt of year in which the Company has increased the detailed income reports and forecasts which are overall level of its dividend payment.
As at 31 December 2008 the Group had distributable revenue Total Expense Ratio TER reserves of 30.1 million before declaration of the The TER is an expression of the Companys final dividend for 2008 of 13.1 million.
management fees and all other operating Share Price Risk expenses including tax relief where allowable but excluding interest payments as a percentage of The Companys share price and discount to net average month end net assets over the year.
The asset value are monitored by the Manager and TER for the year ended 31 December 2008 was considered by the Board at each meeting.
The Board reviews each short term influences over the discount may be year a comparison of the Companys TER with exercised by the use of share repurchases at those of its peers.
At the present time the acceptable prices: however, market sentiment is Company has one of the lowest TERs in the beyond the absolute control of the management growth and income sector of investment trust and Board.
T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 19 19 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 20 Report of the directors continued Accounting, Legal & Regulatory ORDINARY DIVIDENDS In order to qualify as an investment trust the An interim dividend of 10.50p per ordinary share Company must comply with Section 842 of the was paid on 30 September 2008 2007: 9.91p Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Were the and the directors are recommending a final Company to breach Section 842 it might lose dividend of 22.34p per ordinary share 2007: investment trust status and, as a consequence, 21.07p, a total for the year of 32.84p 2007: gains within the Companys portfolio would be 30.98p.
Subject to shareholders approval, the subject to capital gains tax.
The Section 842 final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2009 to qualification criteria are, therefore, monitored by shareholders on the register on 13 March 2009. the Board at each meeting.
ISAs The Company must also comply with the The Company has conducted its investment policy so provisions of the Companies Acts and, since its as to remain a qualifying investment trust under the shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, ISA regulations.
It is the intention of the Board to the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the continue to satisfy these regulations.
Companies Acts could result in the Company being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
SHARE CAPITAL Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result in On 22 December 2008 250,000 ordinary shares the Companys shares being suspended from Listing which in turn would breach Section 842. of 25p were allotted fully paid for cash at a price The Board relies on the services of its company of 605p.
On 12 February 2009 a further 200,000 secretary, Investec Investment Management ordinary shares of 25p were allotted fully paid for Limited, and its professional advisers to ensure cash at a price of 588p, both representing a compliance with the Companies Acts and the premium to the prevailing net asset value.
Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 Corporate Governance and Shareholder The following information is disclosed in Relations accordance with Section 992 of the Companies Details of the Companys compliance with Act 2006. corporate governance best practice including Capital Structure information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the corporate governance report on The Companys capital structure is summarised pages24to26.
Control Systems Risk Voting Rights in the Companys Shares Disruption to, or failure of, IIMs accounting, The voting rights at 31 December 2008 were: dealing or payments systems or the custodians Number of Voting rights Total records could prevent accurate reporting and Share class shares issued per share voting rights monitoring of the Companys financial position.
Ordinary Details of how the Board monitors the services shares of 25p each 58,590,742 1 58,590,742 provided by IIM and its associates and the key elements designed to provide effective internal As at 20 February 2009, the share capital of the control are included within the internal control Company and total voting rights was 58,790,742. section of the corporate governance report on DIRECTORS pages 24 to 26.
The directors of the Company during the year Other Risks were as stated below and their interests in the Other risks to which the Company is exposed and ordinary share capital of the Company are as which form part of the market risks referred to follows.
Each of the directors held office above are included in note 22 to the financial throughout the year.
statements together with summaries of the 31 December 1 January policies for managing these risks.
These 2008 2008 comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, J F fide Moller 3,056 1,980 liquidity risk, credit risk and currency risk.
R W Jewson 5,048 4,383 J Reeve 36,340 32,892 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing M R Riley 15,000 15,000 process for identifying, evaluating and managing F L J Walton 6,724 6,724 strategic and operational risks.
This process is All the above interests are beneficial.
None of the regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance directors had at any date any interest in either of with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
20 20 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 21 On 12 January 2009 Mr Reeve acquired a further MANAGEMENT CONTRACT 170 ordinary shares in the Company through his The Company has a management agreement regular monthly saving in an ISA.
On 22 January with Investec Investment Management Limited 2009 Mr Jewson and Mrs fide Moller acquired a IIM for the provision of investment further 45 and 89 ordinary shares respectively in management, secretarial, accounting and the Company through their regular monthly administrative services to the Company and its savings in the Temple Bar Investment Trust subsidiaries.
The agreement is subject to one Savings Scheme.
No other changes in the interests years notice of termination by either party.
shown above occurred between 31 December IIM receives an investment management fee of 2008 and 20 February 2009.
0.35% per annum, payable quarterly, based on No other person was a director during any part the value of the investments including cash of of the year.
On 1 January 2009 Mr D G C Webster the Company.
Investments in funds managed by was appointed as a director.
the Investec Group are wholly excluded from this The directors retiring by rotation and or in charge.
60% 2007: 60% of the investment compliance with the provisions of the AIC Code management fee payable to IIM is charged by the are Mr Reeve, Mr Walton and Mrs fide Moller.
Mr Company to capital and the remaining 40% Webster will also offer himself for re-election, 2007: 40% to the revenue account on the basis being the first annual general meeting since his of the expected long term division of returns.
Each of these directors being The investment management fee charged for the eligible, the Board recommends their re-election.
year ended 31 December 2008 amounted to In making these recommendations the Board has 1,561,000 2007: 2,041,000 excluding value carefully reviewed the composition of the Board added tax.
as a whole and borne in mind the need for a IIMs performance under the contract and the proper balance of skills and experience.
The contract terms are reviewed at least annually.
Board does not believe that length of service per This covers, inter alia, the performance of the se detracts from the independence of a director, Manager, their management processes, particularly in relation to an investment trust, investment style, resources and risk controls.
The and on that basis considers that the directors Board endorses the investment approach standing for re-election are independent.
It is adopted by the Manager, recognising that while confirmed that, following formal evaluation, the the contrarian style can sometimes lead to short performance of each director continues to be term periods of underperformance it usually effective and each continues to demonstrate delivers good investment returns over a longer commitment to the role.
The Companys five year performance There were no contracts subsisting during or at against its benchmark is considered acceptable the end of the year in which a director of the and is in the top half of its peer group over the Company is or was interested and which are or same period.
In addition, the portfolio has were significant in relation to the Companys produced high and growing dividend income to business.
No director has a service contract with shareholders.
In the opinion of the directors the the Company.
continued appointment of the Manager on the PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS terms set out above is in the best interests of shareholders.
The Companys policy is to obtain the best possible terms of payment from suppliers for all DONATIONS forms of business.
All terms agreed with No political or charitable donations were made suppliers have been complied with during the during the year 2007: Nil.
There were no trade creditors at the year DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO end.
AUDITORS SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The directors are not aware of any relevant As at 20 February 2009 the following had information of which the auditors are unaware indicated an interest in 3% or more of the issued and have taken all the steps that they ought to ordinary shares of the Company.
have taken as directors in order to make % themselves aware of any relevant audit Brewin Dolphin Limited 5.01 information and to establish that the Companys Legal & General Group plc 3.98 auditors are aware of that information.
T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t 21 21 214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 22 Report of the directors continued AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 30 March 2009.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION We are asking shareholders to adopt new articles of association the New Articles, primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The proposed changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised in the Appendix on pages 50-51.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature or which merely reflect modifications made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the current articles are available for inspection at the Office of the Manager, Investec Investment Management, Woolgate Exchange, 25 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5HA from 20 February 2009 until the time of the AGM and at the location of the meeting, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP from 15 minutes before the AGM until it ends.
DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the shares may be bought for a price which is below the net asset value per share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary shares trade in the market through the Company becoming a new source of demand for ordinary shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above the average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
It is expected that any shares bought back pursuant to this authority will be cancelled rather than being held in Treasury.
The appropriate resolution is set out in the notice of meeting on page 48.
By order of the Board of Directors M K Slade For Investec Investment Management Limited Secretary 20 February 2009 22 22 T Temple B emple Bar In ar Inv five es stment T tment Trus rust t
