214032 Temple Bar pp01-pp26 20 2 09 20:50 Page 5 Directors JOHN REEVE, Chairman, MARTIN R RILEY, aged aged 64, was appointed a 65, was appointed a director director in 1992.
He has over 35 formerly executive years experience in chairman of the Willis stockbroking and fund Group, group managing management in the City and director of Sun Life is a former director of Assurance Society and a Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, member of the boards of Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd the Association of British Insurers and the and Barlows PLC.
He is currently chairman of SR International Insurance Society.
He is a director of Europe Investment Trust PLC and Howard a number of other companies.
Investment Company Ltd and a director of various private investment companies.
RICHARD W JEWSON, aged 64, was appointed a FIELD L J WALTON, aged director in 2001.
He first 68, was appointed a worked in the timber and director in 1983.
He started building material supply his career in engineering industry, becoming management and moved to managing director of the City as an analyst with Jewson the builders Cazenove in 1971. merchants for twelve years Subsequently he held a from 1974, and then managing director and number of positions in fund chairman of its parent company Meyer management.
He is a former chairman of Biofuels International PLC from which he retired in 1993.
Corporation PLC and a non-executive director of a He is currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited number of engineering and trust companies.
He is and Archant Limited, and a non-executive director also a director of Harrods Group Trustees Ltd. of Grafton Group PLC, Clean Energy Brazil PLC DAVID G C WEBSTER, and other private companies.
aged 64, was appointed a JUNE F fide MOLLER, director in 2009.
His career aged 61, was appointed a started in corporate finance director in 2005.
She is a at Samuel Montagu before non-executive director of becoming a founder and Derwent London PLC, subsequently chairman of Archant Limited and a Safeway PLC from which he former managing director retired in 2004.
He is of Carlton Communications currently chairman of InterContinental Hotels PLC.
She was previously a Group PLC and has a wide range of other business non-executive director of J Sainsbury PLC, interests including membership of the Appeals Cookson Group PLC and BT PLC.
Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
He was previously a director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Independent non-executive director and member of the audit committee and nomination committee.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
