MANAGERSREPORT&PORTFOLIOREVIEW 30 APRIL 2008 Mark Mobius and TAMLs Emerging Markets team returns.
After reaching a record high at the end of MANAGEMENTCOMPANY October 2007, renewed concerns of a recession in the The Directors have appointed Templeton Asset US and its possible impact on emerging markets, Management Ltd. TAML as Investment Manager of coupled with global credit concerns, led markets to the Company.
correct, eliminating some of the gains recorded in the TAML, part of the Franklin Templeton Group with earlier part of the period.
Most stock markets were US$617 billion in assets under management as at supported by a robust macroeconomic environment, 30 April 2008, has over 20 years of investment surging money supply, rising commodity prices, stronger experience in emerging markets and approximately emerging market currencies, improved corporate earnings US$41 billion in assets under management.
In addition, emerging TAMLs Executive Chairman, Mark Mobius, has spent market countries are benefiting from large fiscal reserves over thirty years working in Asia and other emerging and strong macroeconomic trends.
TAML currently has 66 employees supporting Manager is thus of the opinion that emerging markets Mark, consisting of 36 portfolio managers analysts from are in a much better position to weather a slowdown in 18 nationalities who between them speak 19 different the US economy than in the past.
They are located in 14 offices: Moscow Russia, Warsaw Poland, Vienna Austria, Dubai, Within the emerging markets asset class, Latin American United Arab Republic, Istanbul Turkey, Johannesburg markets were among the top performers as stronger South Africa, Hong Kong China, Singapore, Shanghai regional currencies, higher commodity prices and greater China, Seoul South Korea, Mumbai India, Ho Chi demand for metals and soft commodities supported Minh Vietnam, Rio fide Janeiro Brazil, and Buenos resource producers in markets such as Brazil.
China, India and Thailand were among the top performing markets.
China and India continued to TAMLs Emerging Markets Team receives support from benefit from strong economic growth, a large consumer the employees of Franklin Resources Inc. its ultimate base and large foreign reserves.
Despite returning parent company and its subsidiaries.
double-digit returns, South Korea, on the other hand, underperformed its regional peers during the period.
In OVERVIEW Europe, the Russian market benefited from high Emerging market equities started the reporting period on commodity prices, robust FDI inflows and strong an upbeat note with most markets recording positive economic growth.
While Turkey ended the period with TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9 MANAGERSREPORT&PORTFOLIOREVIEW CONTINUED  a minor gain, the South African market recorded a Conversely, detractors to relative performance included decline.
overweight positions in Turkey and Hungary as well as selective investments in South Korea.
Investments in Akbank, Gedeon Richter and SK Energy resulted in the  largest negative attribution effects in these markets due The Companys performance, relative to the MSCI to their underperformance relative to the benchmark Emerging Markets EM index, benefited significantly MSCI EM index during the period.
Remaining confident from its overweight position and good stock selection in of the long-term potential of Akbank and SK Energy, the Brazil.
An underweight position in South Africa and Company increased its holdings in both stocks as recent overweight exposure in Thailand, coupled with good markets corrections provided an attractive buying stock selection in these markets as well as Russia, further opportunity.
Holdings in Gedeon Richter, however, were enhanced relative performance.
reduced due to regulatory risks.
By industry, an The largest contributors to performance in Brazil were underweight exposure to telecommunications services overweight exposures to Vale Do Rio Doce, one of the companies and the underperformance of selective worlds biggest iron ore producers who are also engaged holdings in the energy and pharmaceutical sectors had a in various mining activities, and leading commercial negative impact on the Company.
banks, Unibanco and Banco Bradesco.
The Companys absence from underperforming stocks such as Standard PORTFOLIOCHANGES& Bank and Goldfields in South Africa and Russias Sberbank, as well as an overweight exposure to Norilsk INVESTMENTSTRATEGIES Nickel in Russia, allowed these markets to record Fund-raising for share buybacks required the sale of a positive attribution effects.
Overweight positions in PTT number of holdings during the period.
The attainment of Exploration & Production Public PTTEP, the oil and target prices also led to selective sales.
These sales also natural gas exploration and production arm of PTT, Siam allowed the Company to focus on stocks deemed to be Commercial Bank, a major commercial bank in Thailand, relatively more attractively valued within our investment and Land & Houses, a premier real estate developer in universe.
Holdings were thus reduced in Brazil, China the country, also helped the portfolio.
By sector, good Red-chip shares, Malaysia, Hungary, South Africa, stock selection in the banking, materials and utilities Taiwan and South Korea.
These sales reduced the sectors as well as an underweight position in Companys exposure to the wireless & integrated semiconductor companies supported performance.
telecommunications services, electric utilities, marine 10 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC ports & services, pharmaceuticals and tobacco sectors.
ASIA Major sales included Maxis Communications, a leading Chinas economy grew 10.6% year-on-year in the first telecommunications services provider in Malaysia that quarter of 2008, compared to the revised 11.9% for all the Company sold in a tender offer, Gedeon Richter, a of 2007.
The slowdown was mainly due to slower export major pharmaceutical producer in Hungary, and China growth and heavy snowstorms in the earlier part of the Merchants, a conglomerate specialising in ports and year.
Inflation, while lower than the 8.7% recorded in related asset investments in China.
February, was a relatively high 8.3% year-on-year in March as a result of high food prices.
Tightening The Companys search for undervalued stocks trading at measures continued during the reporting period as the attractive valuations led to selective investments in the government strived to curb rising inflationary pressures.
automobile manufacturing, metals & mining, IT Chinas foreign reserves increased 40% year-on-year in consulting, oil & gas and banking sectors.
Energy stocks the first quarter of 2008 to US$1.7 trillion in part due to are expected to benefit from greater revenues and trade and foreign direct investment FDI inflows.
FDI earnings as a result of high oil prices and greater global flows totalled US$74.7 billion, up 7.5% year-on-year in energy demand.
Politically, President Hu Jintao and Premier Wen leading integrated gas company, and SK Energy, a major Jiabao were re-elected for another five-year term by the player in South Koreas refining market.
National Peoples Congress in March.
Growing demand for raw materials in emerging markets, In South Korea, GDP increased 5.7% year-on-year in the especially markets such as China and India as well as first quarter of 2008, higher than 2007s 4.9% growth, high commodity prices should support corporate mainly due to higher exports.
Growth, however, slowed earnings in these natural resource companies.
Purchases down on a quarter-on-quarter basis, as lower domestic included Sesa Goa, a leading Indian iron ore miner and demand led private consumption growth to reach a exporter, Aluminum Corporation of China Chalco, three-year low of 3.6%.
The government maintained its Chinas leading producer of alumina and primary GDP growth forecast of 6% for 2008, despite aluminium products, and National Aluminum Indias expectations of slower global growth this year.
remained a key concern for the government with the CPI Banking reforms and growing demand for financial increasing 3.9% in March, higher than the Central Banks services made banks attractive investments.
Banks are 3.5% target for the fourth consecutive month.
Actual also generally facing more favourable business conditions FDI inflows totalled US$7.7 billion in 2007 while foreign such as increasing fee income derived from cross-selling exchange reserves reached a new high of US$264.3 of financial products and lower non-performing loans billion in March.
In politics, Lee Myung-bak was sworn due to economic recovery and fewer bankruptcies.
in as the new President following his election in Investments included Turkeys Akbank, Indonesian December 2007.
Lee pledged to boost economic growth banks, Bank Danamon and Bank Central Asia, and Faysal through tax cuts, deregulation and privatisation.
Moreover, the continued trend of The Bank of Thailand raised its 2008 GDP growth outsourcing of services to Indian consulting companies forecast to 4.8% to 6.0% from 4.5% to 6.0% due to the could also lead to higher corporate earnings.
Thus, governments economic stimulus package and stronger exposure to the sector was increased via the purchase of exports growth.
The Tata Consultancy, a major IT consulting company in government implemented measures such as the India.
simplification of red tape for investors and reduction in the time taken to process small and medium-sized project approvals, to attract local and foreign investment.
Politically, the People Power Party PPP, supporters of ousted Prime Minister Thaksin, won the most seats in the parliamentary elections in December.
The new parliament subsequently elected Samak Sundaravej, the head of the PPP, and ally of former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, as Prime Minister.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 LATINAMERICA SOUTHERN EASTERNEUROPE Brazils GDP grew 5.4% year-on-year in 2007, its fastest Government estimates put Russias first quarter GDP annual growth in three years.
Key drivers included growth at 8.0% year-on-year, in line with the 8.1% strong investment and private consumption growth.
This led the government to revise Brazils financial position continued to strengthen with its 2008 growth forecast to 7.6% from 7.1%.
Key drivers international reserves totalling US$193.9 billion in midincluded robust investment and consumption growth.
March, compared to US$180.3 billion as of end-2007.
Investment also remained robust with FDI inflows International ratings agency, Standard & Poors, raised totalling US$47 billion in 2007.
On the political front, as Brazils long-term foreign currency sovereign credit rating widely expected, First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry from BB to the investment grade of BBBdue to the Medvedev won the presidential elections by an countrys improved growth prospects and fiscal overwhelming majority on March 2, 2008.
Fitch and Moodys currently rate confirmed that his administration would continue the the country at one level below investment grade status.
policies set by President Putins government.
Putin also After 18 interest rates cuts totalling 850 basis points, the formally agreed to becoming the leader of the ruling Central Bank embarked upon a tightening policy in April United Russia party and its nomination for the position 2008 by raising its key interest rate by 50 basis points as of prime minister in May 2008.
Given the partys inflation reached a two-year high of 4.7% in March.
majority in the Duma, Putins appointment is assured.
GDP growth in Turkey slowed to 4.5% year-on-year in 2007 from 6.9% in 2006 due to slower growth in the last three quarters of the year.
The economy remained embroiled in political instability for a large part of the period, firstly due to parliamentary elections and then a power struggle between the ruling government party, army, judiciary and republican opposition.
Despite being re-elected in a landslide victory in July 2007, Turkeys chief prosecutor, Abdurrahman Yalcinkaya, petitioned the constitutional court for the closure of the ruling Justice and Development Party AKP as well as a 5-year political ban for 71 officials of the AKP including President AbdullahGul and Prime Minister Tayyip Erdogan.
Yalcinkaya accuses the AKP of being the centre of anti-secular activities.
In the meanwhile, however, government focus has been drawn away from much-needed focus on reforms and financial markets 12 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Mark Mobius works with some of his senior analysts Goingforward, theInvestmentManager  ,   prospects.
have experienced significant volatility as a result of the Manager will continue to monitor these markets with a uncertainty.
Turkey is currently one of the cheapest view to future investment by the Company all of these markets in emerging markets which means that the countries have already been approved for investment by political uncertainty is already priced in its valuations.
While political issues may continue in the short-term, we Additionally, over the last 5 years, emerging markets remain confident of Turkeys longer-term potential.
For example, Asia is the largest emerging markets region in the world OUTLOOK and home to some of the fastest growing economies While there has been much talk about emerging markets globally.
In fact, more than half of the worlds decoupling from the US market, the Investment Manager population lives in Asia, providing the region with a does not believe a complete decoupling is possible huge consumer base.
Per capita incomes have also been because the world has become so interdependent.
There rising, which leads to higher domestic consumption and is no question that the relationships between nations are decreasing dependence on exports to the US.
growing because world trade and travel has been While stock prices have fallen across the board recently growing.
Whereas in the past, the US was the centre, the without much differentiation and in empathy with what biggest economy in the world by far, this is no longer was happening in the US, one must remember that the case.
While the US is still the largest economy and historically, emerging markets are generally not strongly most influential, this influence has gradually diminished correlated to the US.
Going forward, the Investment as other economies continue to grow at much faster Manager therefore expects to see discerning investors rates.
This has especially been the case in the emerging becoming more selective, benefiting markets with market countries where we are seeing new centres of stronger fundamentals and better growth prospects.
China, Russia, Brazil and India are clear examples.
Moreover, there is a lot of new growth taking place in the world today.
In addition to J Mark Mobius, Ph.
D. emerging markets, frontier markets such as Qatar, UAE, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Nigeria and Vietnam are all forecast to grow 7% to 12% in 2008.
The Investment 26 June 2008 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13
