DIRECTORSREPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2008.
BUSINESSREVIEW Principal Activity and Investment Status The Company is registered as a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has directed its affairs so as to be able to continue to seek approval as an investment trust from the HM Revenue & Customs under section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 each year.
Investment Policy The objective of the Company is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its shareholders through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
No material change will be made to this policy without shareholder approval.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, some of which themselves are diversified companies.
Where possible, investment will generally be made directly in the stock markets of emerging countries.
However, investment in companies listed on more developed stock exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries although the Investment Manager does not anticipate investing a significant part of the Companys assets in such companies.
Where the Investment Manager determines appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through collective investment schemes although such investment is not likely to be substantial.
In any event, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager, as the Investment Manager to the Company, will invest directly only in countries where it is satisfied that acceptable custodial and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs investments and in companies with perceived satisfactory procedures.
It is intended that the Companys funds will normally be invested in equity investments although the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where there are perceived to be advantages.
The Investment Manager employs a bottom-up, value oriented, long-term approach to investing.
It focuses on the market price of a companys securities relative to the Investment Managers evaluation of the companys long-term earnings, asset value and cash flow potential.
As it looks for investment, it focuses on specific companies and undertakes in-depth research to construct an action list from which it makes its buy decisions.
Before a purchase is made, it looks at the companys potential earnings and growth over a five-year horizon.
During its analysis, it also considers the companys position in its sector, the economic framework and political environment.
The portfolio will frequently be over-weight or under-weight against the indices.
This is consistent with its investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily basis, and adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are assessed to be best bargains in global emerging markets.
The Investment Manager searches for well-managed companies assessed as under valued, especially those that are out-of-favour among investors.
On the other hand, the Investment Manager sells companies that, in its opinion, are over valued, typically when the earnings prospects or underlying net asset values are fully recognised by other investors.
The Investment Managers investment research and portfolio construction processes may be summarised in five steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A master list is compiled which is screened for securities that meet certain market capitalisation and liquidity criteria as determined by the Investment Manager: TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED 2 Analyse Companies A detailed analysis of the stocks industry and financial accounts is undertaken along with a visit to the company to interview management, assess its quality of product or services, analyse customers and competitors and ascertain competitive advantage: 3 Construct Action List Each stock on this list has a specified buy and sell target.
This selection list is a dynamic list that is monitored continually: 4 Allocate Portfolio On a weekly basis, the portfolio is reviewed for consistency and to ensure that it complies with the Investment Managers investment committee guidelines: and 5 Evaluate and Monitor Portfolio Once the portfolio has been constructed, each investment within the portfolio is reviewed against price targets set for the securities.
These targets are continually updated, with comparisons made with the sector that the security operates in.
Contact is also maintained with the company and its suppliers and staff.
The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested.
However, in response to market conditions, the Investment Manager may decide to hold funds temporarily in cash or other appropriate assets.
Key Performance Indicators The following are considered key performance indicators for the Company: the return in net asset value per share compared to its benchmarks: the movement in share price and discount: and the total expense ratio.
Performance The Investment Manager employs a value investing strategy and purchases stocks trading at less than their assessed value.
The TEMIT portfolio may therefore differ significantly from the benchmark indices.
In the year to 30 April 2008, the Companys net asset value per share returned 35.7%.
This was ahead of both the Companys benchmarks.
The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased by 27.0% and the S&P IFCI Composite Index rose by 25.6%.
Since inception, the net asset value of TEMIT has risen by 1,479.4% compare with a rise of 673.4% for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and 707.8% for the S&P IFCI Composite Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Report on pages 9 to 13 include a review of the main developments during the year and the investment outlook.
Share Capital and Discount The Board is aware that discount volatility is unwelcome to many shareholders and has powers to buy back the Companys shares as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
The share price of TEMIT increased by 33.8% to 438.00p as at 30 April 2008 from 327.25p as at 30 April 2007.
Market conditions have seen large fluctuations in the discount during the year from a high of 15.5% to a low of 6.2%.
As at 30 April 2008, the discount had widened to 9.6% from 8.9% at 30 April 2007.
During the year, the Company bought back and cancelled 63.3 million Ordinary Shares for a total cost of 245.1 million which represented 11.5% of the share capital in issue at the start of the year.
The Board held extensive discussions with major shareholders in recent months following the lack of agreement among shareholders last year over the best means of providing an exit opportunity to those shareholders who wish to realise part or all of their investment.
In these discussions, it became apparent that while a group of shareholders wished to dispose of all of their investment, others indicated a desire to reduce their holding and many indicated a wish for little or no change.
22 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC  After careful consideration, the Board concluded that, whilst many shareholders wished the Company would maintain the status quo, it should seek to bring supply and demand closer to an equilibrium by providing an exit opportunity to those shareholders who wished to realise their investment without adversely affecting continuing shareholders.
The Board believed that the best way to achieve this was by way of a tender offer.
The size and characteristics of the tender offer were set to permit each group of shareholders to achieve their objectives as far as possible.
The tender offer proposals were approved at an EGM of the Company on 13 June 2008.
As a result, 141.8 million Ordinary Shares will be bought back and cancelled at a discount of 4% to the NAV.
In the period from 1 May 2008 to 18 June 2008, no shares were bought back and cancelled.
Expense Ratio The Total Expense Ratio has risen from 1.32% at 30 April 2007 to 1.33% at 30 April 2008.
This is due to additional expenses which were incurred as part of the Companys reorganisation proposals brought to shareholders in July 2007.
Results and Dividends The profit for the year was 626.3 million 2007: 74.1 million of which 19.8 million 2007: 22.3 million was revenue profit.
The full results for the Company are disclosed in the Income Statement on page 38.
Following the tender offer, whereby 30% of the Companys share capital was bought back and cancelled, and in order to maintain the Companys status as an Investment Trust, the total amount distributable is calculated with reference to the reduced amount of shares in issue after the tender offer.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 3.50 pence per Ordinary Share 2007: 3.13p making a total dividend for 2008 of 12.4 million 2007: 16.8million.
If approved by shareholders of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 September 2008, this will be payable on 1 October 2008 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 29 August 2008.
Gearing The Board has agreed that in exceptional circumstances, TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
The use of gearing is discussed by the Board and the Investment Manager regularly and is monitored on a daily basis.
During the period, the Company utilised a short term overdraft facility with JPMorgan to facilitate the share buy back programme and secure an orderly realisation of investments for the purpose.
The maximum borrowing was 25 million in November 2007.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks facing the Company are summarised below.
The number and spread of investments in TEMITs portfolio is intended to reduce the degree of risk, however, investors should be aware of the risks associated with TEMITs investment objectives.
Market risk Many of the companies in which TEMIT does or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of its investments and the income derived therefrom, and investors in emerging markets can face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards which are equivalent to those applicable in the United Kingdom and there may also be less government supervision and regulation.
These risks can increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging markets is taken.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED In recent years many Emerging Market stock markets have experienced considerable price appreciation, and are at, near, or above the high points of their historic valuations.
Emerging Markets have in the past been subject to greater price volatility and rapid and severe re-pricing than developed markets.
In such situations, the correlation between different stocks in the same market, and between various Emerging Markets and countries has been shown to increase, reducing the benefits that diversification between securities, industries, markets and countries generally provides.
Investment risk In addition, the Company may invest a greater portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry group than other types of fund investments.
As a result, it may be more sensitive to economic, business, political or other changes affecting similar issues or securities, which may result in greater fluctuation in the value of the portfolio.
Currency risk It is important to recognise the effect of currency movements on TEMITs performance.
In general, if the value of sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth fewer UK pounds.
This can have a negative effect on fund performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling weakens in relation to a foreign currency, investments traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which can contribute to an improvement in the Companys performance.
Regulatory risk It is also worth noting that the Company operates in a complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 would result in the Company being subject to capital gains tax on portfolio investments.
Breaches of other regulations such as the ULKA Listing Rules, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
Key personnel The ability of the Company to achieve its investment objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise of the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and retain suitable staff.
The Company is also reliant upon the skills of its Directors and the loss of any of these individuals could reduce its ability to achieve its planned investment objectives.
The Company and the Investment Manager have endeavoured to ensure that the principal members of their management teams are suitably incentivised, but the retention of such staff cannot be guaranteed.
Operational risk Like many other investment trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies up on the services provided by third parties and is dependent upon the control systems of the Investment Manager and the Companys service providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements depend on the effective operation of these systems.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control report, which includes an assessment of risks together with an overview of procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the Secretary and Administrator and reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
The custodian JP Morgan produces an annual SAS 70 report which is reviewed by its auditors and gives assurance regarding the effective operation of controls.
The Directors have sought to ensure that the Companys service providers have adopted an appropriate framework of controls which is designed to monitor the principal risks facing the Company, and to provide a monitoring system to enable the Directors to mitigate these risks.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to is also detailed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
24 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC FINANCIAL Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 10 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all the relevant terms and conditions.
For the year ended 30 April 2008 the number of trade broker creditor days was 1 day 2007: 1 day.
Auditors Grant Thornton UK LLP have expressed their willingness continue in office as auditors and resolutions proposing its re-appointment and authorising the Directors to determine its remuneration for the ensuing year will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors were unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED The Directors, to the best of their knowledge, state that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally accepted Accounting Practice, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Annual Report is available on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DIRECTORS Directors The Board currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the group of companies associated with the Companys Investment Manager.
The Chairman is NonExecutive and independent from the Investment Manager.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 6 to 8.
The following were Directors during the year to 30 April 2008: Peter A Smith Sir Peter Burt Neil A Collins Peter O Harrison appointed 30 November 2007 Christopher D Brady appointed 12 December 2007 Gregory E Johnson appointed 12 December 2007 Charles B Johnson resigned 12 December 2007 Sir Ronald Hampel resigned 12 December 2007 Peter C Godsoe OC resigned 26 June 2008 Andrew S B Knight resigned 25 February 2008 The Company identified suitable candidates for the Board after consultation with appropriate individuals operating in the investment trust industry.
External search consultants were not appointed and no formal advertising was carried out.
Peter Godsoe resigned as a Director and a member of the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008 and Hamish Buchan was appointed as a Director and a member of the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008.
Mr Johnson is President and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Resources, Inc.
He is also President of Templeton Worldwide Inc, the parent company of the Investment Manager.
He is therefore not an independent Director.
The Companys Articles of Association require newly appointed Directors to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors are then subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
All Directors serving longer than nine years must offer themselves for annual re-election.
Sir Peter Burt retires by rotation as a Director and offers himself for re-election as required under the Companys Articles of Association.
Peter Harrison, Christopher Brady, Gregory Johnson and Hamish Buchan offer themselves for re-election as Directors as required under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board recommends the re-election of Sir Peter Burt, Peter Harrison, Christopher Brady, Gregory Johnson and Hamish Buchan, whose biographies are set out in this Annual Report, as they will continue to provide the Company with valuable guidance, experience and support.
Each Director has a letter of appointment from the Company.
Other than previously stated, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
The Directors meet quarterly and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of the Investment Manager, and FTIML the Secretary and Administrator.
The Board is responsible 26 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The primary focus of the Directors at the quarterly board meetings is a review of the investment performance of the Company and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board also reviews the investment mandate, long-term investment strategy, performance of the Company and the appropriate guidelines within which the Investment Manager should operate.
The table below lists the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were 7 Board Meetings, 4 Audit Committee Meetings and 2 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meeting.
Nomination and Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Director Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended 2 Christopher D Brady 4 N A N A Sir Peter Burt 6 2 2 Neil A Collins 7 4 N A 1 Peter O Harrison 5 2 N A 2 Gregory E Johnson 3 N A N A Peter A Smith 7 3 N A 3 Sir Ronald Hampel 4 N A 2 3 Charles B Johnson 4 N A N A 4 Andrew S B Knight 4 N A N A 5 Peter C Godsoe, OC 5 3 N A 1 Peter O Harrison was appointed on 30 November 2007.
2 Christopher D Brady and Greg Johnson were appointed on 12 December 2007.
3 Sir Ronald Hampel and Charles B Johnson resigned on 12 December 2007.
4 Andrew S B Knight resigned on 25 February 2008.
5 Peter Godsoe resigned on 26 June 2008.
In addition to the scheduled Board and Committee meetings, there have been a number of additional meetings of the Directors to formulate and finalise the capital reorganisation proposals in 2007 and the tender offer proposals in 2008.
Throughout this process, the Chairman and all of the Directors have contributed significant additional time in performing their role, attending such additional meetings, when possible.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board established a Nomination and Remuneration Committee in February 2002, which currently comprises Sir Peter Burt appointed Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 12 December 2007 and Peter Smith appointed member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 12 December 2007 and Neil Collins appointed member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 26 June 2008.
Sir Ronald Hampel was a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee until his resignation from the Board on 12 December 2007.
In appointing Peter Harrison, Christopher Brady, Gregory Johnson and Hamish Buchan as Directors, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and prepared a description of the role and capabilities required for these particular appointments.
In appointing Peter Smith as Chairman, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and prepared a description of the role and capabilities required for this appointment.
A job specification has been prepared by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Peter Smiths other significant commitments were re-disclosed to the Board prior to his appointment.
The role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED In addition, the Committee reviews the level of Directors fees periodically relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Performance Evaluation The Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
The evaluation of the Board, of its Committees, and the performance of individual Directors, is carried out first through discussions between the Chairman and each Director on an individual basis.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors, led by Sir Peter Burt, the Senior Independent Director and such evaluations shall continue to take place at least annually.
Thereafter the Board meets as a group to review the findings.
The performance and cost of service providers are considered as regular items annually on the Boards agenda.
Information, Induction and Professional Development The Board is supplied, via the Company Secretary, with regular information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The new Directors were provided with detailed information on the performance and background of the Company and briefings from Franklin Templeton management and the Companys advisers on joining the Board.
The induction process was adapted to recognise the experience and qualifications of the new Directors.
The Company Secretary provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
Directors appointment letters Each of the Directors has an appointment letter with the Company and such letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The terms of their appointment provide that a Director will be subject to re-election at the first annual general meeting after their appointment, and at least every three years after that.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed without notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
Indemnification and Insurance The Company entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors prior to the date of this report.
These are qualifying third party indemnity provisions and are in force as at the date of this report.
This information is disclosed in accordance with sections 236 2 and 236 3 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Remuneration Details of the remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board as a whole and be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are currently determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association, and they are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director who served in the year is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 34.
Apart from the Directors, TEMIT itself has no employees and therefore no retirement or health scheme obligations or policies in respect of employment, including the employment of disabled persons.
28 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC No Director had notified the Company of any beneficial interest including any family interest existing either at the beginning or at the end of the year to 30 April 2008 in the Companys Ordinary Shares save for the following Directors: 30 April 2008 30 April 2007 Sir Ronald Hampel resigned 12 December 2007 Ordinary Shares N A 21,618 Sir Peter Burt Ordinary Shares 4,000 4,000 Andrew S B Knight resigned 25 February 2008 Ordinary Shares N A 11,000 Neil A Collins Ordinary Shares 7,000 7,000 The Company has not received notification of any changes in the above interests as at 18 June 2008.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 18 June 2008 the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
The substantial shareholder notifications are based on the expected outcome once the tender proposals are fully implemented around end July 2008 using the issued share capital figure of 330.9 million.
Number Name of Shares Percentage City of London 50,378,491 15.23 Legal & General Investment Management 20,273,398 6.09 Templeton Investment Plan 16,290,962 4.92 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 13,386,007 4.05 SERVICEPROVIDERS Investment Manager During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML acted as Investment Manager to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the total net assets of the Company.
The investment management agreement between the Company and TAML is of an unlimited duration and may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to TAML of an amount up to one years management fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
When assessing the performance of the Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to long term timeframe which is in accordance with the long term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as Investment Manager to the Company and well resourced to identify attractive investment opportunities.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Secretarial and Administration Managers During the year FTIML acted as secretary and administrator of the Company.
The fee paid to FTIML for this is an annual rate of 0.20% of the total net assets of the Company, payable monthly.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIML of an amount up to one years secretarial and administration fee.
The Directors also keep under annual review the performance of FTIML as secretarial and administration managers.
Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
CORPORATEGOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006.
It also makes reference to the Companys adherence to the Code of Corporate Governance of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 throughout the year ended 30 April 2008.
AIC Code of Corporate Governance 2007 the AIC Code The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Board considers that the Company adheres to the principles and follows the recommendations of the AIC Code and where appropriate, it provides explanations why and or detailed the steps it intends to take to bring the Company into line in the future.
By reporting against the AIC Code and by following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, the Company is meeting its obligations under the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules and as such the Company is not required to report further on issues contained in the Combined Code which are not relevant to the Company as explained in the AIC Guide.
Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand Shareholders: a The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction in the United Kingdom may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange corporate governance rules and the principles of the Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
b Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs home exchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at www.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved to them for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the half yearly and annual financial statements, recommendation of the final dividend, approval of any preliminary announcements of 30 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC the Company, approval of any changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Investment Manager or its Secretary and Administrator, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager who manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Social, Environmental & Ethical Policy As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or environmental responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the social and environmental requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Institutional Shareholder Voting Policy As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
Contact with Shareholders The Chairman of the Company is available for any shareholder questions and he has regular meetings with the Companys major shareholders.
Furthermore, the members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are usually present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, Dr Mark Mobius, briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Shareholders may contact the members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Accountability and Audit In 1994 the Board established an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter Harrison Chairman of the Audit Committee, Sir Peter Burt, Neil Collins and Hamish Buchan appointed 26 June 2008.
Peter Godsoe was a member of the Audit Committee until his resignation from the Board on 26 June 2008.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Investment Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, at least once a year, and report on their work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment, remuneration, independence and policy on supplying non-audit services and ensuring continued independence.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 31 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED website www.
co. uk or on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on page 1.
Non-audit work undertaken by Grant Thornton UK LLP for the year ended 30 April 2008 on behalf of TEMIT includes assistance with the capital restructuring proposals in 2007 and the tender offer proposals in 2008, review of the October 2007 Half Yearly Report and review of the Interim Accounts of the Company for the 11 month period ended 31 March 2008.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the Auditors is safeguarded.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term in seeking its investment objectives as stated on pages 21 and 22.
This creates potential exposure to the following risks: Market Price, Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Liquidity and Fair Value risks.
The Companys policy and objectives in relation to such risks is disclosed in Note 14 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that a sound system of internal controls of the Company is maintained to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and the Directors believe that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirement of ensuring that a sound system of internal controls is in place by the Company.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks that the Company is exposed to.
This process is conducted throughout the year and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review and, if relevant, necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
It has, however, to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 13 June 2008, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its Ordinary Shares in the market, a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue on 13 June 2008 or 70,854,915 shares, whichever is lower, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and b that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
The minimum price payable for the Ordinary Shares will be 25 pence per share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowing.
The authority to purchase shares will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2009 and in each succeeding year.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC ANNUALGENERALMEETING Ordinary Business It is proposed to receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2008 and to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2008.
It is proposed to declare a dividend and to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
It is proposed to re-elect Christopher D Brady, Hamish N Buchan, Sir Peter Burt, Peter O Harrison and Gregory E Johnson as Directors.
Grant Thornton UK LLP will be re-appointed as Auditors.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website www.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to the cancellation of Share Premium Account and the Capital Redemption Reserve and adoption of new Articles of Association of the Company.
Adoption of New Articles of Association It is proposed in resolution 11 to adopt new articles of association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current articles of association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix to the Notice of AGM.
The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted on page 57 of this document.
Capital Reorganisation It is proposed in resolution 12 to cancel the amounts standing to the credit of the Companys share premium account and capital redemption reserve.
The cancellation will create additional distributable reserves which will provide flexibility to the Company in continuing to operate its share buy-back policy.
If resolution 12 is approved, it is expected that, subject to confirmation of the Court of Session in Scotland the Court, an application for the Court order confirming the cancellation will be made in October 2008 and the cancellation will take effect immediately upon the registration of such order with the Registrar of Companies which is expected to be during December 2008.
Recommendation The Directors believe all the Resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the Resolutions.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH, UK Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 26 June 2008 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 33
