Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Review continued better handset availability from vendors translates into the best value and We see considerable scope choice for our customers.
It is a virtuous circle, with this reinvestment in turn generating further market share gains.
for further expansion in This year our store base grew by 267 net new stores.
We opened 390, closed or relocated 138, acquired a chain of 77 stores in Portugal at the Europe and the US start of the year and sold our 62 Swiss stores just before the year end.
This shows how active we are in managing our portfolio both with Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer respect to individual stores and also in relation to whole geographical markets.
Our store base has almost doubled in the last four years.
After five years of sustained growth in the European handset market, as further penetration growth was supported by an accelerating replacement cycle, many of our territories saw flat or negative market unit growth.
It is a testimony to the strength of our customer proposition that we recorded mobile connections growth of 15% in this market environment.
In fact our retail chain did even better than these numbers suggest, with total connections growth of 16% adjusting for a very weak year-on-year Our Strategy in Focus performance from our off-the-page channel in the UK.
The key drivers of growth were the explosion in mobile broadband modems, and a growing consumer interest in the smartphone category of handsets that combine traditional calls and text messaging services with email and other data functionality.
This was a trend that we identified early, and we added significant value to our network operator partners by recruiting material volumes of high value data customers on their behalf.
These trends are set to continue in the coming year.
Best Buy Mobile, our US retail venture in partnership with Best Buy, has comfortably exceeded our expectations.
We have accelerated our roll-out Our virtuous circle plans twice over the last 12 months and now intend to have a presence of performance in every Best Buy store in the US by the end of the current calendar year.
The customer response has been very positive and this has translated into material sales uplifts.
We are confident that, over time, this business can become a meaningful third leg to the Group.
Looking forward, the next 12 months offer an exciting combination of new growth opportunities and management challenges.
We have chosen to slow our rate of physical expansion temporarily, diverting more of our resources towards the evolution of our retail proposition described in the next section.
Once we are satisfied that we have developed the right formula of store format, product range and employee training to address our changing marketplace, we will revert to the more aggressive space Investment Scale growth demonstrated over the last four years.
This year we plan to open a net 120 new stores, but also invest in a large number of major Our long-term approach to We aim to be a mass market provider investment creates sustainable in our major business lines by driving relocations and refits to maintain and improve the quality and relevance competitive advantage in our chosen for volume ahead of margin.
Investment is not just about then use our increased presence in capex although our commitment the market to improve our supplier There is no doubt that the consumer environment has been tougher to store openings and exchange terms and reinvest these benefits of late in a number of our markets, and we expect these conditions unbundling is significant it is also in the customer proposition.
to continue over the coming months.
However, mobile phones have about marketing, brand-building long since passed from being a luxury item to an absolute necessity and customer recruitment.
in the eyes of most users: and the subsidised business model lessens Proposition Efficiency or removes the upfront cash cost.
In addition, the new growth areas in mobile data should lend support to our performance over the next year.
We are absolutely committed to Scale also creates significant Developing our retail proposition delivering value to customers across efficiencies for our business, through all our services.
Investment in the leveraging our fixed cost store base Last year I highlighted how the needs of our customers were changing.
right platforms is key to our ability and telecoms infrastructure.
We Historically, The Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House have been to develop a compelling customer seek to maintain our competitive the places to go to find someone to guide you through the complexities proposition, as it allows us to build advantage by continued investment of the mobile phone market: to identify the right combination of handset, scale, and offer greater value and across the business.
network and tariff to suit your needs.
We have never considered ourselves to be retailers of hardware: our DNA is much more about helping customers understand technology.
8 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Business Review Headline EBIT up 73% Today, most customers who come into our stores have owned several m mobile phones before: they understand the market much better and come to us because we offer choice and impartiality.
However, there are new areas of technology and services which are just beginning to reach critical mass, but where consumer knowledge and awareness remains 258.3 relatively low.
The strong growth we have seen in mobile broadband and smartphones over the last 12 months is the first tangible evidence of this: but at the same time, homes are increasingly host to wireless broadband 149.5 141.8 networks with a multiplying array of devices and services that connect to 105.2 them.
We think this is a potentially huge new market that we should own.
In the short term, this means evolving the retail business in two clear and 05 06 07 08 practical ways.
Firstly, we are going to stock a range of laptop computers alongside mobile phones.
The logic is simple: if we had only ever been a retailer of SIM cards rather than mobile phones, we would never have created a business of the scale of The Carphone Warehouse: we believe the same will be true of mobile broadband.
By bundling a subsidised device a laptop rather than a mobile phone with a mobile broadband access services, and we have built a next generation telecoms network subscription, we are giving customers an all-in-one solution and that delivers a level of operating efficiency and technical superiority that significantly increasing the scale of the potential market.
The cost of none of our competitors has managed to emulate.
laptops has fallen so dramatically that the overall economics for us Our journey has not been without its challenges, and this time last year we and the network operators are not materially different from the traditional were still struggling under the burden of acute customer service problems subsidised handset model.
caused by the massive success of our free broadband launch and the Secondly, we are going to establish the same proposition in fixed line uneven reliability of the network migration process.
This undoubtedly broadband cable and DSL as we have had for many years in mobile.
damaged the TalkTalk brand, lost us many thousands of customers, and put off thousands more from signing up to us despite the Last year we began to offer a range of fixed broadband providers demonstrable value of our proposition.
services in our stores across Europe.
This year we are making a much greater commitment to it and also bringing the hardware model into it Thus I am delighted and relieved to say that the past year has been a so that laptops will be available on either fixed or mobile broadband.
period of great success for our UK Fixed Line division.
Customer service has improved steadily throughout the year: we can still do much better, For the next 12 months we will focus the bulk of our attention on and our ambition is to be famous for good service, but the trend is developing the UK retail business towards this model, with the rest positive.
From an operational and financial perspective, we have delivered of Europe to follow in the medium term.
This is a major undertaking, everything we promised when we embarked on our local loop unbundling which will involve not only a comprehensive programme of refits, but project two years ago.
We now have nearly 70% of our customers on our also a big investment in employee training and raising awareness with own network, creating significant operating efficiencies: and only a small our customers of the changing nature of our proposition.
Importantly, handful of customers are still losing us money each month.
As a result, we have also announced plans to create greater operational autonomy our operating margin has increased from barely 2% to around 9%, with for the two divisions, with lower shared resource and central overhead.
further good progress expected in the coming year.
This delivers not only a more efficient group structure, but also allows the Distribution business to provide a more clearly impartial broadband At the same time, we have continued to grow our broadband base offer to its customers.
The planned formation of a new company with successfully, with nearly 450,000 customers added during the year.
This Best Buy is going to be a key part of this strategy and we will give a puts us firmly on target to hit our goal of 3.5m customers by March 2010.
Churn is falling as customer service improves and our network becomes detailed update on progress in next years annual report.
more stable: and the improvement in brand perception and TalkTalks In the medium term, we foresee further radical developments.
As new positioning at the value end of the market should support customer products and services proliferate, we will trial new formats that allow growth in the medium term.
customers to experience and test a range of in-home and on-the-move It has also been an important year for the AOL Broadband base we devices that will enable them to seamlessly capture, store, share and acquired in December 2006.
The integration process will be completed interact with content across multiple platforms mobile phone, TV, in the coming months, delivering significant cost savings and a common computer wherever they are and whenever they like.
We have also used the brand to innovate, Becoming the leading alternative fixed line provider in the UK and launched a very successful free laptop offer on AOL during the year.
Nearly six years ago, when we acquired Opal Telecom in November We expect further developments in the coming months, although the 2002, we set ourselves the ambitious goal of becoming the number one final integration processes do present some execution risk.
alternative residential telecoms provider in the UK.
We believed that the The Carphone Warehouse Networks, the telecoms platform over which combination of high consumer prices, a high incumbent market share, we deliver our services to customers, has made further outstanding meaningful regulatory change and our own unique distribution network progress.
We now have the widest coverage of any unbundler in the was a powerful one: the network infrastructure and telco know-how we UK, with over 1,600 exchanges covering around 80% of the population.
acquired with Opal completed the jigsaw.
Crucially, the Next Generation Network we have developed allows us to Today, this unique formula has proved to be a winning one.
We are now deliver voice and data over a single technology platform, making us highly the clear number three in the market for both telephony and broadband efficient and allowing us to lead the market on price while still making 9 www.
com Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Review continued We are continuing to develop our retail proposition in response to the needs of our customers.
We have never considered ourselves to be retailers of hardware: our DNA is much more about helping customers understand technology Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer excellent returns.
We believe this advantage is set to continue into the service provision customer base over time, will see Mobile revenues medium term.
This change is neutral to profitability but positive for cash flow as we will subsidise fewer of our connections ourselves.
Looking forward, we see a year of further investment and growth.
On the network side, we are putting in place the infrastructure to protect our Altogether, we anticipate revenue growth in Distribution of 9-10%, with EBIT likely to be relatively flat year-on-year.
However, this reflects margins as customer usage rises, and again our engineers are leading the absorption of approximately 15m of costs previously accounted the industry in this regard.
We are also investing in continued customer recruitment and the introduction of new and innovative bundles, as we for within our central PLC overhead: so the underlying performance is seek to maximise the advantage that our efficient network gives us.
expected to reflect solid progress despite the tough retail environment At the same time, we are committed to delivering further significant and the substantial investment in evolving the retail business model.
improvements in customer service, both through the speed and quality In our UK Fixed Line division, we expect top line growth of 4-5%, driven by of the broadband connection and through our ability to fix customers a combination of further broadband customer growth and an improvement problems in our contact centres.
This will be offset by a continuing decline in our voiceonly and dial-up customer bases.
We expect to add approximately 400,000 Outlook We remain cautious in our outlook for the year ahead, given the poor broadband customers during the year, with a weighting to the second half.
economic climate and inflationary pressures on European customers.
EBITDA margins in UK Fixed Line are expected to increase to In our Distribution business, we believe that new areas of growth in the 22-23%, primarily as a result of the migration of customers onto our own market, and our own focus on evolving our retail proposition, will help unbundled network.
The investment in capex and customer recruitment us offset some of the risks to consumption presented by the tougher costs over the last two years will translate into a significant year-on-year economic environment.
Our track record speaks for itself: while countless increase in depreciation and amortisation charges.
Nevertheless, we other independent mobile phone retailers have fallen by the wayside over expect EBIT margins to grow to 12-12.5%, representing an improvement the years, we have continued to grow and flourish because we have of over three percentage points over this year.
successfully identified changes in the marketplace and adapted our model to take advantage of them.
Our new venture with Best Buy I am very proud of what we have achieved over the last 12 months.
will enable us to adapt our business to our customers changing needs In broadband, we got ourselves into a hole and we have managed to better and more quickly than we could on our own, as well as giving us dig ourselves out very successfully.
However, we cannot afford to be a whole new avenue of potential growth in the wider consumer electronics complacent.
In the Distribution business, we identified the emerging growth market place.
trends of the year, and we began the important evolution of the business that we are now accelerating.
We have a great team at The Carphone We are targeting mobile connections growth of 8-10% in the coming Warehouse and everyone has worked exceptionally hard over the last two year, with an even balance between subscription and pre-pay growth.
years often through very testing times to deliver a strong operational The current runrate of sales in new areas such as mobile broadband and performance.
We are no less determined to do the same in the coming year.
smartphones comfortably supports this goal, and we are also optimistic that the pipeline of new mobile handsets over the coming months could see renewed growth in the mobile voice market.
The growth trajectory is, as usual, supported by further physical expansion, with 120 net new stores planned over the coming year.
This is a lower rate than in the past, but we are focusing on larger stores and a number of Charles Dunstone, relocations, so average space growth will still be close to 10% and Chief Executive Officer we have not changed our view on the longer-term growth prospects.
Elsewhere within Distribution, we expect our high value ancillary revenue streams of Insurance and Ongoing to continue their very consistent performance of recent years, with revenue growth driven by subscription connections.
A change in our business model in Germany, which will make connections more profitable at the point of sale but reduce the 10 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008
