Chairmans Statement by rising costs as we evolved the business, a disappointing performance from our non-store channels and the losses incurred in exiting our Swiss retail business.
UK Fixed Line EBITDA was up from 69m to 226m.
EBIT also grew strongly from 20m to 126m, as we moved a significant We have successfully proportion of our broadband customer base onto our own network and enjoyed much lower running costs as a result.
identified and exploited new Headline earnings per share rose 70% to 20.1p 2007: 11.8p.
Statutory areas of growth in mobile profit before tax, after the amortisation of acquisition intangibles and reorganisation costs relating to the AOL acquisition, was 124m 2007: data, which have offset a 68m, while statutory earnings per share rose 73% from 7.5p to 13.0p.
Cash generated from operations was up 83% to 468m 2007: 256m slower handset market with year-end net debt of 843m 2007: 617m affected by the strengthening of the Euro and Swiss Franc in the latter part of the year.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.00p, taking the John Gildersleeve, Chairman total for the year to 4.25p 2007: 3.25p.
This represents a year-on-year increase of 31% and underlines the Boards confidence in the Groups continued growth.
Overall, the Group has made further substantial progress this year.
In our Joint ventures Distribution business, we have not only continued to grow our European In May 2008 we announced that we had reached agreement with Best footprint, but have successfully identified and exploited new areas of Buy, our US partner, to form a new company to pursue growth opportunities growth in mobile data, which have offset a slower handset market.
As part of the agreement, we are contributing our retail and Fixed Line business has delivered on its promises, achieving a remarkable related businesses into the new company.
Best Buy will pay Carphone uplift in margin through the migration of customers onto our own network.
Warehouse 1.1 billion for a 50% stake in the venture.
We believe that Improving customer service the combination of the two companies skills will allow us to accelerate Importantly, we have also made significant investments in, and the development of our own retail proposition, as described above, and to improvements to, our broadband customer service, which let our customers introduce Best Buys large format consumer electronics stores into Europe.
We still have much work to do to meet our aspiration of Both of these opportunities are significant and we are confident that they will differentiating ourselves positively through the service we offer, but we are deliver material value to shareholders over the longer term.
The proposed now firmly on the right track, as recent surveys have begun to indicate.
transaction remains subject to shareholder approval and is expected to While people often think of customer service as the speed and accuracy complete by the end of June 2008. of response in our call centres, which has improved markedly, the customer A key reason for our enthusiasm for working with Best Buy in Europe is experience should also encompass the simplicity of the product, the ease the great early success we have enjoyed with them in the US, where we of set-up, and the quality of the connection in terms of both speed and have a share in the profits of its new mobile retail format, Best Buy Mobile.
All of these elements continue to have our full attention.
We are in the middle of a very rapid roll-out across all of Best Buys US Financial performance stores, which is expected to be complete during calendar year 2008 a Financial performance this year has been strong.
Group revenue for year ahead of our previous plans.
Store conversions have been achieving the period was 4,474m, a rise of 12% on last years figure of 3,992m.
an extraordinary uplift in sales, and customers are responding Headline pre-tax profit was up 75% to 216m, reflecting the reversal of last enthusiastically to our proposition.
years steep losses incurred as we launched Free Broadband.
The divisions UK Fixed Line business financial performance reflected a reversal of last years trends.
Distribution In our Fixed Line business, we expect to complete the integration of AOL EBIT was broadly flat at 175m, as good top line growth was offset over the next six months.
This will deliver additional cost efficiencies and allow us to offer a fuller product suite to AOL customers on our network.
In Total Shareholder Return addition, we have accelerated our Network Unification Project, which allows us to scale up capacity into all our exchanges to address our customers The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC 550 FTSE 100 Index growing demand for bandwidth.
The project will deliver significant additional 500 capacity with little impact on fixed operating costs and gives us excellent 450 visibility of our network economics for the foreseeable future.
400 350 Outlook 300 A year ago I wrote here about our great disappointment over our failure 250 to deliver an adequate service to our broadband customers, and our 200 determination to get it right.
We are only halfway there but we would never 150 have got this far if it were not for the dedication, passion and aptitude of our 100 employees, whether in stores, contact centres, IT or management.
These 50 are the same qualities that will enable us to be famous again for good 0 service, and re-invent our retail model with the changing times.
On behalf Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 of the Board I extend my warmest thanks to all of our employees.
Source: Thomson Financial This graph shows the value, by 29 March 2008, of 100 invested in The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC on 29 March 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
Values are calculated on a rolling 3-month average John Gildersleeve, basis.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Chairman 6 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Value of 100 invested on 29 March 2003
