Governance Following such performance evaluation the Chairman confirms that all The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from those Non-Executive Directors seeking election or re-election at the the Company Secretary and are published on the Companys website, Annual General Meeting continue to be effective and demonstrate a comply with the Code.
During the period, the formal calendar of items commitment to the role, including having time to attend all necessary considered at each Audit Committee meeting within each annual cycle meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
embraced the Code requirements to: The Chairman meets regularly with all the Independent Non-Executive monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, and any Directors usually in the evening prior to a Board meeting.
This provides formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, the opportunity to raise any questions regarding the performance of the including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained Executive Directors or in respect of any other matters.
in them: The Senior Independent Director also met with the Non-Executive review the Companys internal financial controls and its internal control and Directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans risk management systems and to make recommendations to the Board: effectiveness, having first reviewed the results of a performance evaluation review the Companys arrangements by which employees may raise questionnaire completed by all the Directors apart from the Chairman.
concerns in confidence: The Board is of the opinion that the Chairman had no other significant commitments during the period that would have affected his performance monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: in his role.
make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, External appointments re-appointment and removal of external auditors and to approve their The Board supports Executive Directors taking up Non-Executive remuneration and terms of engagement: Directorships as part of their continued development, and the Board review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity believes that this will ultimately benefit the Company.
Further details and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38. relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and Board Committees review the Companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors There are six key Board Committees: Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, to supply non-audit services.
In this context the Committees remit Insurance Compliance, Consumer Regulation Compliance formally requires it to report to the Board identifying any matters in respect of Telecoms Regulatory Compliance and Group Finance.
The Committees which it considers that action or improvement is needed and to make are provided with sufficient resources via the Company Secretary and, recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
where necessary, have direct access to independent professional advisors to undertake their duties.
In light of the assessments and review undertaken, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte & Touche LLP be retained as Audit Committee auditors of the Company.
This recommendation was endorsed by the Board.
The Committee currently comprises the following Independent NonExecutive Directors: David Grigson Chairman, Sir Brian Pitman, Adrian The policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external Martin, David Mansfield, Steven Esom and Baroness Morgan.
Adrian auditors specifies the types of work from which the external auditors are Martin served as Chairman throughout the period, subsequent to which excluded: for which the external auditors can be engaged without referral he stood down, and David Grigson was appointed as Chairman.
All of to the Committee: and for which a case-by-case decision is required.
the Committee members have extensive commercial experience.
The In order to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence, the ratio Committee met formally three times during the period.
All members of non-audit fees to audit fees is monitored by the Committee within an attended each meeting, with the exception of Sir Brian Pitman who was overall limit set by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee.
absent from the meetings on 30 October 2007 and 31 January 2008 A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external auditors and David Grigson who was also absent from the meeting on 31 January during the period is set out below: 2008.
These absences were due to prior engagements that could not 2008 2007 be changed with the exception of David Grigson who had to attend an m m emergency meeting in respect of Reuters Group PLC.
Audit services: The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board on any significant statutory audit 1.6 1.4 issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting following each Tax services 0.3 0.1 Committee meeting.
During the period, all the requirements of the Code Other services 0.3 0.1 in respect of the Committee were met.
The work undertaken by the Total 2.2 1.6 Committee is described within the following sections of this Report.
The Groups Chief Financial Officer and other senior management attend Certain non-audit services are pre-approved by the Committee depending Committee meetings by invitation of the Committee.
Representatives of upon the nature and size of the service.
Tax services principally comprise the Companys external auditors and the other senior executives from technical advice associated with relevant UK and international fiscal laws Finance, Tax, Treasury, Legal and Risk and Assurance also attend these and regulations and, in particular, assessment of the potential implications meetings by invitation of the Committee.
The external and internal auditors of proposed corporate transactions or restructuring.
Having undertaken have direct access to the Committee during formal meetings and time a review of the non-audit related work, the Committee has satisfied itself is set aside for them to have private discussions with the Committee, that the services undertaken during the period did not prejudice the in the absence of management.
