com Group Overview Improving quality of service and profitability The Carphone Warehouse is Europes leading independent retailer of mobile 4 9 phones and services, with 2, 11 stores across countries.
Our UK Fixed Line business has grown from its launch five years ago to being the number three operator in residential telephony and broadband, through a combination of strong organic growth and strategic acquisitions.
Distribution Comprises our Retail operations, mobile airtime reselling business and all other directly related business streams.
Retail including Online Insurance Ongoing Mobile Provision of mobile handsets Provision of insurance products ARPU-sharing agreements Reselling mobile network capacity and connections, accessories, covering loss, theft or damage to with networks through which the and developing our own brands and related products and mobile handsets.
2.4m customers Group receives a percentage of to broaden the proposition available services through 2,411 stores, across Europe.
customers monthly bills in return to our retail customers in the UK call centres and the web across for customer recruitment.
To maintain or grow the penetration Strategy Strategy Strategy of Insurance sales relative to To maintain or improve existing To bring innovative products To grow our market share by opening subscription connections, through arrangements and seek ARPU-sharing to market to attract new new stores and developing additional ongoing training and the introduction agreements with additional networks.
customers and to manage distribution channels: to evolve the of a wider range of products: existing customers profitably.
business model, to address the to reduce churn through improved changing needs of customers by management of existing customers.
providing a wider range of hardware and connectivity options.
47% 4% 2% 12% 4 The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Brands % of Group Revenue Overview of Business Divisions Highlights Glossary ARPU Average revenue per user: applies to both mobile and fixed line customers.
Usually quoted as a monthly figure.
CPS Carrier Pre Selection: the platform on which TalkTalk has grown to date, whereby calls are switched from BT onto an alternate service providers network at the local exchange level.
DSLAM DSL Access Multiplexor: First generation unbundling infrastructure, handing off voice and data over DSL between the customer and the unbundlers backhaul and core network, installed into BT exchanges.
IP Network Internet Protocol Network: packet switched technology used on the internet.
The method by which both voice and data will be switched over Next Generation Networks.
ISP UK Fixed Line Internet Service Provider: company providing Comprises our business-to-business and internet access.
residential fixed line telecoms business in the UK.
LLU Local Loop Unbundling: process that allows other operators access to BTs local loop, by installing Business B2B Residential equipment in BTs exchanges and physically moving over a customers line.
Provision of voice, data Provision of voice and broadband and value-added services services to residential customers Local loop to businesses in the UK.
in the UK under the TalkTalk and The copper wire that connects houses to the BT AOL brands.
Migration Both businesses are supported by our nationwide, state-of-the-art The process of moving a customer from BTs all IP-network which delivers voice and data traffic in a highly cost-effective manner.
wholesale products onto our own unbundled lines.
MPF or full unbundling Strategy Providing both broadband and telephony services to To acquire new customers and broaden the suite of services offered: customers from our own exchange infrastructure.
to invest in enhancing and modernising the network to maximise efficiency and support new services.
MSAN Multi Service Access Node: Second generation exchange equipment used to connect copper loop.
Differs from a DSLAM in that it converts normal 7% 24% circuit-switched voice calls into IP for transmission, whereas a DSLAM can only handle IP voice.
MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator: a mobile service provider with no network infrastructure of its own, that piggybacks off a network operator at a  wholesale rate.
OFCOM The UK regulatory body for the telecoms and media industries.
Openreach The access services division of BT, responsible for delivering equivalence of service on a range of access products.
The result of the regulatory settlement between BT and OFCOM.
SMPF or partial unbundling Providing broadband services to customers from our own exchange infrastructure.
com Brands % of Group Revenue Overview of Business Divisions
