B Bu us si in ne es ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Review After the year end, we announced one of the most important developments in the Groups history: the formation of a new company with Best Buy, one of the worlds leading consumer electronics retailers and our partner in the US market.
Under the terms of the deal, we are As always, we place the to receive 1.1 billion in cash, and Best Buy will become 50% owners of our retail chain and related assets.
The newly formed company will not potential for long-term only accelerate the evolution of our existing store proposition, as described below, but also look to seize the significant opportunity value creation above the presented by the European consumer electronics market.
shorter-term vagaries of I make no apology for the short-term negative impact on our earnings that this transaction creates.
It should be seen in the context of the stock market fashions long-term growth opportunities it presents, both for our core business and new areas of retail where we have no current expertise but where Best Buy are global leaders.
I believe we have entered a new and very Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer exciting growth phase for the business.
Strategic context This has been a very successful year for The Carphone Warehouse.
Our strategic approach is built on three primary objectives.
The first and Financially we have performed very well, with 12% growth in revenues third of these objectives have been consistent for a number of years: the and 75% growth in headline pre-tax profit.
Perhaps more importantly, second objective has changed over time to reflect the proposed evolution our operational performance has improved significantly.
The additional of the retail business: investment in our telecoms customer service we highlighted last year has To continue to grow mobile handset market share in all our geographical started to pay off, and our network investment is delivering better speeds markets, by investing in new store openings, achieving increased and reliability to an ever increasing proportion of the population.
productivity from our existing estate, and developing additional Ultimately all of this has a direct financial payback: it improves the worth distribution channels: of the brand in the marketplace, making customer recruitment easier: and it drives down customer churn, increasing customer lifetime value.
To develop our retail proposition to meet the changing needs of customers and suppliers, so that we offer the widest range of mobile We have grown strongly but we have also invested heavily: in our and fixed line broadband services and associated hardware alongside telecoms network, our IT infrastructure, our stores and customer the core mobile phone offer: and recruitment.
We are confident that this is all money well spent and will generate a good return for shareholders over time.
Weighing capital To become the leading alternative provider of fixed line structure considerations against opportunities to invest and grow is telecommunications services in the UK.
always a difficult balance to strike.
However, as always we place the Through organic growth and acquisition, we have built up a unique set potential for long-term value creation above the shorter-term vagaries of assets: a network of stores that act as the focal point of our interaction of stock market fashions.
with customers, both mobile and fixed line: a comprehensive fixed line As a result net debt has increased substantially this year, affected also telecoms network covering the whole of the UK, delivering a mass market by the weakness of sterling.
But we will continue to invest in areas all-IP platform that no-one else in the UK has yet replicated on the same which deliver competitive advantage: store growth, network capacity scale: and significant customer bases, creating valuable annuity revenue and resilience and broadband market share, where we see good future streams to improve the quality of our earnings.
We believe that our shareholders will continue to support us in aim to leverage these assets to deliver long-term growth and value this strategy for as long as we explain our investment strategy coherently creation to shareholders.
Growing our retail presence Our core business of helping customers with their choice of mobile handset, network and tariff remains one with attractive financial returns Headline Financials and ongoing growth opportunities.
Although Western European markets 2008 2007 are quite saturated, we believe that our constantly evolving proposition m m can allow us to continue to grow market share, and establish ourselves Revenue 4,474.4 3,991.5 as the leading independent distributor in all of our geographical markets.
We see no structural barrier to reaching a similar share in our other Distribution 3,116.2 2,917.8 European markets as we see in the UK over time.
UK Fixed Line 1,399.6 1,084.3 Why is market share important?
Firstly, it makes us the independent Eliminations 41.4 10.6 distributor of choice for network operators and handset vendors.
Our EBIT 258.3 149.5 scale can influence their share of the market, and our trading terms reflect this.
Furthermore, our focus on handset range and availability Distribution 175.0 176.9 is supported by a regular supply of exclusive and first-to-market UK Fixed Line 125.6 19.7 models which differentiates us from our competitors.
PLC costs 36.2 37.2 Secondly, our growing market share allows us to reinvest the benefits of JVs 6.1 9.9 scale into our customer proposition: improved terms from networks and 7 www.
