Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Chris Turner MRICS Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class March 2007 seems a world away.
Writing in November, at the not reopened, and lenders started to widen margins and interim stage, it was not clear that the crisis in banking credit reduce loan to value ratios.
To add to the sense of unease, a would deepen to the extent that it did and would impact on number of open-ended property funds had to close for global economic growth in 2008.
We said then that we felt as immediate redemptions and became, for a short period, though we were threatened by a hurricane and that we had perceived as forced sellers of assets.
battened down the hatches, but we added that storms might The New Year brought a modest turnaround in sentiment.
veer off and that damage to well protected assets was often Concerted action by Central Banks was welcomed, UK less than predicted.
Well this hurricane did not veer off and house prices were stable, UK unemployment numbers were the damage to asset pricing and economic activity is very still falling, retail sales had not crumbled, modest rental considerable.
Meanwhile, out at sea, yet another storm is growth was still foreseen and base rates were expected to brewing inflation.
At lower price levels the property investment market saw a rise in turnover with both domestic Property Investment Markets and overseas buyers hunting bargains.
Property fund Across Europe property investment values are now generally managers saw, and continue to see, inflows into vulture and declining due to rising yields.
In the UK this trend started in opportunist funds and the forced sellers found ready buyers mid summer 2007: on the Continent the values probably for some of their stock.
The total capital value fall in the last nine months in the UK has been 14% taking average initial We think Phase 3 started this March as it became clear that yields from 4.5% to 5.1%.
By equity standards this is not the banking crisis has not been stamped out fast enough to technically even a bear market, but in the slower moving and prevent a heightened level of caution in the banking industry leveraged world of real estate, this price movement is both and a decline in economic activity.
Unemployment claims are rapid and considerable.
rising, retail sales are slowing, financial services are expected to see significant job cuts so rental values are going to be UK under pressure.
Though debt is still available, lenders have In the direct investment market in the UK there have been tightened their terms again.
Fortunately most of the existing three phases of sentiment.
In Phase 1, in early and mid 2007, commercial property debt is lent against income producing investor demand cooled in response to rising long and short assets and, where loan to value ratios are breached, banks term interest rates, which in turn were responding to rising show little or no sign of pressurising borrowers, at least for inflation expectations.
At that stage there was talk of a soft the time being.
landing and the expectation that the autumn would see a stable market with modest rental growth offset by slightly The UK IPD Annual Index derivative pricing has, for the last higher yields.
four months, been pointing to an average decline in UK commercial property values of about 14% in 2008 of which Phase 2 started in the summer holidays when it suddenly 5.5% has actually been reported in the period to the end of became clear that the little local US difficulty with sub-prime April.
If we use the derivative pricing as a guide then UK mortgage debt was neither little nor local.
There was an commercial property values are likely to fall another 9% or so immediate feeling of heightened nervousness in the property by the end of 2008.
Current pricing also indicates further, investment market.
The majority of cash buyers withdrew to more modest, weakness in 2009 with values recovering only the sidelines, agreed deals fell through, and price chipping slowly in 2010 and 2011.
So far the movement in values has became commonplace.
The CMBS market closed and has TR Property Investment Trust 11 THE GROUP COMPANY
