Managers Report Ordinary Share Class & Sigma Share Class Market Background and Outlook Chris Turner MRICS Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager Fund Manager Ordinary share class Sigma share class March 2007 seems a world away.
Writing in November, at the not reopened, and lenders started to widen margins and interim stage, it was not clear that the crisis in banking credit reduce loan to value ratios.
To add to the sense of unease, a would deepen to the extent that it did and would impact on number of open-ended property funds had to close for global economic growth in 2008.
We said then that we felt as immediate redemptions and became, for a short period, though we were threatened by a hurricane and that we had perceived as forced sellers of assets.
battened down the hatches, but we added that storms might The New Year brought a modest turnaround in sentiment.
veer off and that damage to well protected assets was often Concerted action by Central Banks was welcomed, UK less than predicted.
Well this hurricane did not veer off and house prices were stable, UK unemployment numbers were the damage to asset pricing and economic activity is very still falling, retail sales had not crumbled, modest rental considerable.
Meanwhile, out at sea, yet another storm is growth was still foreseen and base rates were expected to brewing inflation.
At lower price levels the property investment market saw a rise in turnover with both domestic Property Investment Markets and overseas buyers hunting bargains.
Property fund Across Europe property investment values are now generally managers saw, and continue to see, inflows into vulture and declining due to rising yields.
In the UK this trend started in opportunist funds and the forced sellers found ready buyers mid summer 2007: on the Continent the values probably for some of their stock.
The total capital value fall in the last nine months in the UK has been 14% taking average initial We think Phase 3 started this March as it became clear that yields from 4.5% to 5.1%.
By equity standards this is not the banking crisis has not been stamped out fast enough to technically even a bear market, but in the slower moving and prevent a heightened level of caution in the banking industry leveraged world of real estate, this price movement is both and a decline in economic activity.
Unemployment claims are rapid and considerable.
rising, retail sales are slowing, financial services are expected to see significant job cuts so rental values are going to be UK under pressure.
Though debt is still available, lenders have In the direct investment market in the UK there have been tightened their terms again.
Fortunately most of the existing three phases of sentiment.
In Phase 1, in early and mid 2007, commercial property debt is lent against income producing investor demand cooled in response to rising long and short assets and, where loan to value ratios are breached, banks term interest rates, which in turn were responding to rising show little or no sign of pressurising borrowers, at least for inflation expectations.
At that stage there was talk of a soft the time being.
landing and the expectation that the autumn would see a stable market with modest rental growth offset by slightly The UK IPD Annual Index derivative pricing has, for the last higher yields.
four months, been pointing to an average decline in UK commercial property values of about 14% in 2008 of which Phase 2 started in the summer holidays when it suddenly 5.5% has actually been reported in the period to the end of became clear that the little local US difficulty with sub-prime April.
If we use the derivative pricing as a guide then UK mortgage debt was neither little nor local.
There was an commercial property values are likely to fall another 9% or so immediate feeling of heightened nervousness in the property by the end of 2008.
Current pricing also indicates further, investment market.
The majority of cash buyers withdrew to more modest, weakness in 2009 with values recovering only the sidelines, agreed deals fell through, and price chipping slowly in 2010 and 2011.
So far the movement in values has became commonplace.
The CMBS market closed and has TR Property Investment Trust 11 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued been across the board in terms of quality, with prime assets Offices appearing to decline as fast as secondary property, partly Pan European prime office rental values are reported to have because the turnover evidence is biased towards prime and risen by an average around 9% in the last twelve months, but partly because concerns over reversions tend to impact on this average number masks a very wide variation city by city.
the valuation of higher growth property.
We look for the The three top performers, all with over 30% rental growth, values of secondary and empty property to weaken more were Moscow, Warsaw and Oslo.
Central London, Budapest than prime values in any further downturn.
and Copenhagen saw 10% to 20% prime rental growth, while Paris, Milan, Madrid and Stockholm were all in the 9% Western Europe to 15% range.
Under performers were the UK regional European property investment markets generally enjoyed a centres, the Dutch and German cities, Rome, Barcelona and strong year in 2007 and saw little or none of the weakness Prague.
In Brussels there are reports of a slight decline in that we noted in the UK.
Starting with slightly higher income prime office rents during the autumn.
yields than the UK and with lower interest rates, these These numbers are encouraging but the pace of rental markets saw significant turnover with leveraged buyers to the growth has been slackening since the autumn with the fore.
Tenant demand was generally good with falling weakening economic outlook.
Though vacancy rates have unemployment and buoyant retail sales.
The credit crisis of fallen they are still over 10% in many German and Dutch the early autumn had less impact than in the UK and banks cities due to overbuilding at the turn of the century, and continued to lend freely throughout most of the year.
There probably 8% average across the Continent.
Meanwhile the were hints in Q4 2007 that yields might be rising and a cost of building offices rose by around 6% last year hurting number of major deals were withdrawn or concluded at lower development margins.
Despite this there is some 75 million than expected pricing, but in general the feeling was that with square feet of space under construction of which Moscow index linked rents to aid cash flow, European yields were set accounts for a third.
Much of this space is speculative and for stability in 2008. vacancy rates are now rising in centres such as Barcelona, This spring the European investment property market is Dublin, Helsinki and Leeds.
seeing some, if not all, of the UK markets current problems.
The City of London is a particular case in point: good rental House price growth is under pressure and there are reports growth in the 100 million square foot City market over the of a general tightening in bank finance availability.
European past two years has encouraged a rash of speculative investors traditionally work with greater leverage than their development starts.
Agents vacancy figures tend to omit UK counterparts and constrictions in the lending market space from availability until six months before completion, so could therefore have a marked impact on pricing.
Economic on that basis the City vacancy rate is still a modest 6% down weakness is expected to be most pronounced in Southern from 7% a year ago.
However there are nearly 7 million feet Europe, while the German economy is expected to show to be delivered by the end of 2009 of which only 1 million is stronger than average resilience.
The pricing in the nascent pre-let.
The City is now losing jobs and tenant demand is European property derivative markets is pointing to a 5.5% declining.
It is not difficult to forecast that the City vacancy decline in German capital values in the next 18 months and a rate will rise to over 10% by end 2009 and that prime rental 20% decline in French office values over the same period.
values, currently in the low 60s per foot will drop back to 50 per foot.
Indeed City rents may drop sufficiently to attract Eastern Europe occupiers from other London markets who wish to cut their Very strong demand for property investments in Eastern rental costs.
Floor space per worker in the City is very low by Europe was evident in the first half of 2007, and prime yields international standards, and all the new space would be in the major cities have approached the level of those in quickly absorbed if City workers were to get 10% more Western Europe.
From available information it seems that working space each.
investor demand has tailed off since last summer and that overall values are currently stable with investors more Londons 120 million square foot West End market is better cautious particularly in those locations where speculative placed than the City in terms of existing vacancy rates under development is at its highest.
Some Eastern European 4% and potential speculative development completions to economies are beginning to show signs of strain.
end 2009 3.5 million feet, mostly on the fringes.
It also benefits from a steady, but unquantified, removal of older stock for conversion back into residential use.
Top rents in the Mayfair core are 125 per foot or double the level in the 12 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued City, but average rents are far below this figure and the West which saw some of the strongest rental growth in 2007, End demand is far more broadly based than City demand.
We though increases were still only in the 5% to 10% range.
In think this market is better placed to avoid any sharp the London area and around Paris average rental values did wholesale rental decline.
The current year is likely to see lower levels of development as banks offer less financing, but equally Retail business growth is expected to moderate.
All in all the Pan-European retail rental values saw another year of modest prospects for warehouse property are relatively stable and but steady rental growth which averaged about 5%, though unexciting.
there were significant regional variations.
Some areas of Eastern Europe were particularly strong, notably Poland and Residential Markets Slovakia where growth of up to 20% was reported.
Western UK Europe generally slightly lagged the average, with the UK In the UK the shortened supply of credit is now markedly showing only about 2% rental growth in shopping centres in impacting residential pricing.
We have commented in past the year to end March 2008. statements that residential prices have been rising far faster than commercial property values in the UK, due to high Everywhere there is uncertainty about the impact of the demand, a chronic shortage of supply and the easy slower economies and residential price trends on consumer availability of cheap credit.
The long term demand for housing expenditure and therefore on the demand for retail property.
and the shortage of supply have not gone away, but for the Measuring the potential impact is not easy.
In the UK next year or two we see UK average house price trends mortgage debt is around 1.3 trillion while the housing being set chiefly by the availability and cost of mortgage stock is estimated to be worth 4 trillion, so national finance.
The omens do not look propitious.
Credit terms may leverage is modest by corporate standards.
Many have been tightened rapidly but they are unlikely to be consumers here and on the Continent have little or no slackened again with any speed.
mortgage debt, but the propensity to spend is linked to the presence or absence of a feeling of economic well-being Rest of Europe and to concerns over jobs.
Landlords void rates in larger Rather as in the commercial market, European residential UK and European shopping centres are currently extremely markets seem to be following the UK market with a six to low no more than about 2.5% in the top Malls but the nine month time lag.
Across the Continent confidence in number of units available for assignment may be double continued house and apartment price growth appears to be this level, lease incentives are now widening in the UK, and ebbing away.
Current price trends are varied and generally it seems illogical to expect rental values not to be affected reflect the growth or lack of growth in pricing over the last by the squeeze on consumer credit.
In Ireland prices have been falling since last spring.
In Spain official statistics show stability but the market is In the Eurozone underlying retail rental growth has been in fragile.
Dutch and Italian house prices now appear to be the 2% to 5% range, so that the indexation of rents has declining.
In France the rate of growth has slowed rapidly.
In France rents have German house prices appear to be stable, though, having been linked to the cost of construction index rather than RPI been asleep for a decade, they are unlikely to wake now.
In leading to 5% to 7% rental income growth last year.
Central and Eastern Europe pricing appears stable after a Eurozone sales volume statistics have been volatile over the year of significant price rises.
last six months but the most recent numbers have pointed to a marked weakness in consumer confidence and to a slight Property Share Background decline in sales.
It was a poor year for property share prices virtually everywhere and globally the Sector fell 21% in Sterling Warehousing terms.
UK stocks suffered an average 35% decline in the Across Europe the last twelve months have seen high levels twelve months to end March 2008, while European stocks of development activity and letting, but thanks to an equally fell 30% in Euros, but only by 18% in Sterling terms thanks high amount of speculative development, average rents rose to the strength of the Euro.
Elsewhere, in local currency only slightly and the vacancy rates have marginally increased terms, US REITs saw price declines of 22%, Australian to record levels.
Occupier demand for new space has been property trusts fell 28% and Japanese real estate shares fell driven by outsourcing and the expanding retail market, 43%.
Hong Kong was alone amongst the leading markets to particularly in Eastern Europe.
In a reversal of office market gain rising 12%.
rental movements, it was the Dutch and Belgian markets TR Property Investment Trust 13 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued The US and UK property share markets led the decline Spanish property shares had an awful year, Italian stocks fell through the autumn as their economies appeared most by 55%, Austrian stocks by 44% and German stocks by exposed to the credit problems.
saw their major declines late in the autumn and early in Analysts forecasts currently expect muted NAV growth in 2008.
The March and April period of 2008 has seen a sharp Europe in 2008, with stable or very slightly rising yields more recovery by US REITs pricing, caused by their increased than offset by increased rents through indexation.
European income attractions following the huge base rate cuts and by company quarterly valuations are usually internal and better than anticipated earnings results.
therefore show little change, but two larger companies have already indicated a softening in the market in 2008, sufficient UK to reduce their NAVs modestly.
Much will depend on the UK property shares fell 35% in the year to March 2007, and outlook for tenant demand over the summer.
have now fallen 40% since the end of December 2006.
At that date they stood on an average premium to NAV of about Outlook 6% based on asset values that continued to rise through the If all the foregoing sounds rather foreboding, we have to first half of 2007.
Seventeen months later the average remember that economies go through cycles and will recover, discount is now 28% to the estimated current NAVs, which and that your funds are principally invested in companies have fallen by 18% on the back of a 12% decline in property owning prime, high quality, bricks and mortar without which values since last June amplified at the NAV level by governments and businesses cannot operate.
On their current rating property shares are assuming decline in values has unexpectedly punished prime property a further 16% to 20% fall in property values to the bottom of just about as hard as secondary.
As we have noted, this trend the market maybe H2 2009 which, amplified by gearing, will is unlikely to last.
take NAVs down to current share price levels.
This 16% to 20% decline just about ties in with the value nadir in UK IPD We think the point of maximum pessimism is still ahead of us, derivative pricing noted earlier.
This may be coincidence but but is getting closer.
The spotlight of concern is shifting from probably indicates that investors are using derivative and the state of financial markets to the weakening economic property share pricing as reference points for cross checking environment across Europe.
We also have to watch for the timing, type and speed of the Where and when the nadir in valuations comes is one eventual recovery.
What falls fastest doesnt always recover question.
Another is the relative rating that property shares fastest, but it is essential to consider how UK and European will have to those base asset values.
In past markets 1975 property shares might perform, and clearly UK stocks should and 1992 before the world of mobile phones, Blackberries have far more potential for recovery.
Hunting for the triggers and instant everything, property share discounts to NAV for a reversal of sentiment is not easy, if it were, then the tended to widen as values declined.
We will be very surprised event would already have occurred.
There has been talk of if this occurs in this cycle.
The recovery in property shares is large scale overseas buying interest from sovereign funds likely to precede the recovery in property markets by one or and a considerable number of opportunity funds have been two quarters.
created with the objective of buying real estate from distressed sellers.
The problem at present is that there are Continental Europe few of these potential sellers around and the property they European property shares fell by 30% in Euro terms in the own is mostly second or third rate.
Straight takeover bids of year.
At March 2007 their average premium to NAV was quoted companies look less likely while private equity debt is about 30%.
NAVs grew by an average of 6% over the year so hard to obtain.
and at the end of March 2008 the average premium was about 6%.
French property performed very strongly, boosted Meanwhile rising inflation doesnt help the economy, but by indexation to the fast rising cost of construction index.
In doesnt altogether hinder the attractions of the property share Euros the Swiss market performed best, falling only 5%, sector.
Inflation protection is one of the long term thanks to the unchanging nature of Swiss yields and rents fundamental positives of real estate as an asset class.
So for and to the attractions of the Swiss currency in disturbed now we are trying to be patient and disciplined so as to markets.
The Dutch stocks outperformed falling only 20% in preserve your capital, and also to be alert and watch for Euros, buoyed by high dividend yields and the take-over of signals that will, one day, lead us out of net cash and back Rodamco during the year.
French property shares fell by 26% into gearing.
At the other end of the table, 14 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY
