Overview The objective of TR Property Investment Trust plc the Company is to maximise shareholders total returns by investment in the property sector.
The trust offers investors two share classes: Ordinary shares a portfolio invested in the shares of property companies of all sizes on an international basis and also in investment property located in the UK.
Sigma shares a portfolio invested in the shares of smaller property companies on an international basis.
The Sigma share class does not hold property directly.
Introduction The Investment Trust has been in existence since 1905 and a dedicated property investor through the Ordinary share class, since 1982.
In July 2007 a second share class, the Sigma share class, was introduced.
This was created mainly through the conversion of some of the existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares.
Each share class has a dedicated portfolio and is able to pursue independent investment and gearing strategies.
However, they are share classes of one corporate entity with a single Independent Board of Directors.
The Report & Accounts contain the group financial statements and as supplementary information separate income statements and balance sheets for each share class.
There is a separate Managers Report for each share class.
The pages in the accounts have been marked at the side of the page to highlight whether they refer specifically to one or other of the share classes or to the group as a whole.
The following four pages set out the objective and investment policies for each share class and key financial and performance data.
The Managers Report for each share class comments on how the actual investment activity through the period has followed the proposed policies and the resulting performance.
Benchmark The Benchmark for both share classes is the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index in Sterling.
This index, calculated by FTSE, is free-float based and currently has 95 constituent companies.
com contains further details about the index and performance.
Independent The directors are all independent of the management company and meet regularly to Board consider investment strategy, to monitor adherence to the stated objective and investment policies set out on the following pages and to review performance.
Details of how the board operates and fulfills its responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report on pages 44 to 56.
Further General shareholder information and details of how to invest in TR Property Investment Information Trust plc, including investment through an ISA or shareplan, can be found on page 95 and the inside back cover.
This information can also be found on the Companys website www.
