Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Group Basis of Accounting and IFRS and their report for the year ended 31 March 2008.
The Environmental Policy Group comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc the The results and performance of the two share classes are Company and its subsidiaries.
In July 2007 a second reviewed separately.
Full details of each portfolio and the share class was introduced.
The Company therefore had Managers views on the outlook for the coming financial two share classes at 31 March 2008, the Ordinary share year for each share class are covered in the Managers class and the Sigma share class.
The review of the Report for the Ordinary share class on pages 16 to 21 business of the Company, recent events and outlook are and for the Sigma share class on pages 30 to 33. contained within the Chairmans Statement, on pages 7 to 10, which forms part of this Report of the Directors by Ordinary share class reference.
Objective and Strategy The objective of the Ordinary share class of TR Property Status Investment Trust plc is to maximise the shareholders total The Company is an investment company, as defined in returns by investing in property shares and property on an Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates as international basis.
an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to As at 31 March 2008, 87.5% of the Ordinary share class seek HM Revenue & Customs approval of its status as an assets were invested in Pan-European listed property investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 securities with the balance in directly owned UK real estate.
every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
HM Revenue & Customs approval of the Companys The Ordinary share class portfolio is total return focused and status as an investment trust has been received in respect future growth and capital appreciation potential is generally of the year ended 31 March 2007.
The directors are of the regarded more highly than immediate initial yield or discount opinion that the Company has subsequently conducted its to asset value.
The investment selection process seeks to affairs in a manner which will enable it to continue to gain identify well managed companies of all sizes, especially those such approval.
The Company has no employees and the with a focus on a particular type of real estate business.
close company provisions do not apply.
The investment policies are described on pages 2 to 4.
The Ordinary share class is a dedicated investor in real Share capital estate and real estate securities and will continue to adhere At 31 March 2008, the Company has two classes of to this strategy.
share: Ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each.
The Ordinary shares represent Revenue and Dividends 69.6% and the Sigma shares represent 30.4% of the total 2008 2007 Change authorised share capital.
The shares are in registered form.
Revenue earnings per share 5.79p 4.09p 41.6% Dividends per share 5.60p 4.10p 36.6% Business Review The following review is designed to provide information Total earnings per share, which include capital losses on primarily about the Companys business and results for the investments, amounted to minus 68.62p per share.
year ended 31 March 2008 and covers: The capital loss of 74.41p per share reflected the Objective and Strategy performance of the property equity market through the period which is covered in detail in the Managers Report.
Revenue and Dividends Capital Return Revenue earnings have increased by 41.6%, partly due to the impact of some UK property companies converting to Property Valuation REIT status and increasing the distributions and dividend Performance Measurement KPI growth in European securities earnings.
Share Buy-back Activity The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Financial Instruments and Management of Risk of 3.30p per Ordinary share.
Subject to approval at the Management Arrangements and Fees AGM, the dividend will be paid on 5 August 2008 to 44 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued shareholders on the register at 4 July 2008.
The Ordinary Share Buy-back Activity shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 2 July 2008.
The Board has not set a specific discount at which shares will be repurchased.
However, there has been considerable An interim dividend of 2.30p per Ordinary share was paid activity in recent years and around 187 million Ordinary on 9 January 2008.
The total dividend in respect of the shares have been repurchased since the Board first took year is, therefore, 5.60p per Ordinary share.
the decision to buy back shares in 1999.
During the year to 31 March 2008, the Company repurchased 14,116,714 The dividends shown in the Group Statement of Changes in Ordinary shares at an average cost of 216.90p per share.
Equity for the year are those dividends which have actually been approved in the period, i. e. the final dividend relating to Creation of the Sigma share class the financial year ended 31 March 2007 2.40p per share At an EGM on 24 July 2007, the shareholders approved the and the interim dividend for this period 2.30p per share.
creation of a new class of shares, the Sigma share class.
Capital Return Ordinary shareholders were offered the opportunity to 2008 2007 Change elect to convert part of their existing Ordinary shareholding NAV per share 219.61p 290.78p -24.5% into the new Sigma share class which has the objective of Share price 188.25p 256.50p -26.6% investing in smaller sized property companies.
In addition, institutional investors were offered the opportunity to Falls in property equity share prices resulted in a reduction invest in a new issue of Sigma shares.
The Benchmark returned minus 25.4% on a price only basis.
Elections to convert Ordinary shares into Sigma shares were received in respect of 61,883,286 Ordinary shares in Details of the investments are shown within the Managers aggregate, representing approximately 19.0% of the Report on pages 22 to 26.
Ordinary share capital in issue at that date.
Under the Property Valuation conversion, each Ordinary share converted into two Sigma Valuations of all the Groups properties as at 31 March shares.
Subscriptions for a further 8,029,175 Sigma 2008 have been carried out by external independent shares were received under the Placing, generating valuers.
These valuations have been adopted in the proceeds of approximately 10 million.
Details of the values and changes in fixed The Net Asset Value of the total portfolio was calculated assets are shown in note 10 to the financial statements.
as at the Conversion Date on the basis set out in the Performance Measurement prospectus dated 20 July 2007 and allocated between the The directors consider performance measured against the two share classes.
The Net Asset Value of the Company Benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the on this basis as at the close of business on the share class.
As a result the Net Asset Value allocated to the Ordinary Pool was 655 For the year to 31 March 2008 the Benchmark was the million and the total Net Asset Value of the Sigma Pool FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index in Sterling.
The portfolios were subsequently calculated by FTSE, is free float based and currently has managed as discrete portfolios in each case by the 95 constituent companies.
Manager of the particular share class, following the investment objectives and policies of that share class and On a total return basis the share class returned minus which are set out on pages 2 to 4 of these accounts.
22.9% against the Benchmark total return of minus 23.0%.
Sigma Share Class The performance for the financial year just ended and the Objective and Strategy outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in The objective of the Sigma share class is to maximise the detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background shareholders total returns by investing in the shares of and Outlook and Ordinary Class Managers Report on smaller property companies on an international basis.
TR Property Investment Trust 45 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued As at 31 March 2008 the portfolio was invested in Pan Details of the investments held in the Sigma portfolio are European property shares.
The original portfolio was shown in the Managers Report on pages 34 to 37. inherited from the Ordinary share class on creation at Performance Measurement 24 July and 64% of this was large cap stocks.
By The directors consider performance measured against the 31 March 2008 this had reduced to 37% and the benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the repositioning of the portfolio is continuing as described in share class.
The Benchmark for the share class is the more detail in the Managers Report on pages 29 to 39.
FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Index in Sterling.
As with the Ordinary share class, the Sigma share class is a dedicated investor in the real estate sector and will On a total return basis the Sigma share class returned continue to adhere to this strategy.
minus 10.5% against a Benchmark total return of minus 10.1%.
Revenue and Dividends 2008 The performance for the financial year just ended and the outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in Revenue earnings per Sigma share 0.85p detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background Dividends per Sigma share 0.85p and Outlook and Sigma Class Managers Report on pages Special dividend per Sigma share 1.10p 7 to 14 and 29 to 39.
Total earnings per Sigma share, which include capital losses Share Buy-back Activity on investments amounted to minus 13.88p per share.
During the year to 31 March 2008, the Company Revenue earnings for the period from inception to the repurchased 4,115,747 Sigma shares at an average cost year end amounted to 0.85p per Sigma share.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk of 0.65p per Sigma share.
Subject to approval at the By its nature as an investment trust, the portfolios of both AGM, the dividend will be paid on 5 August 2008 to share classes are exposed to market price risk, foreign Sigma shareholders on the register at 4 July 2008.
The currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Companys shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 2 July 2008. policies for managing these risks are outlined in note 11 to the financial statements.
Further information on the An interim dividend of 0.20p per Sigma share was paid on management of risk and internal controls is contained in 9 January 2008 to shareholders on the register at the Corporate Governance Report on pages 52 to 56.
Management Arrangements and Fees A special dividend of 1.10p per Sigma share was paid on Investment management services have been provided by 12 October 2007 to Sigma shareholders on the register Thames River Capital LLP Thames River, accounting on 5 October 2007.
The special dividend arose as a result and administrative services by BNP Paribas Fund Services of accrued earnings included in the Calculation Date NAV UK Limited, custodial services by JPMorgan Chase and for the conversion of Ordinary shares into Sigma shares corporate secretarial services by Capita Company on creation of the Sigma share class.
The special dividend Secretarial Services Limited.
8R disclosure of related party Capital Return transactions and changes therein the Company discloses 2008 Inception Change that it entered into a new Sigma Management Agreement NAV per Sigma share 108.64p 122.85p -11.6% with Thames River on 20 June 2007 in relation to the Sigma Share Price 92.00p 106.25p -13.4% management of the Sigma share class, and an Amendment and Restatement Agreement whereby the existing Falls in property equity prices resulted in a reduction in Management Agreement has been amended to reflect the shareholders funds of 11.6% per Sigma share.
Over the creation of the Sigma share class and various consequential same period the price only element of the benchmark fell changes.
The full terms of the new agreement and changes by 11.5%.
46 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued were set out in the prospectus dated 20 June 2007 issued by at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Company for the proposed creation of the Sigma shares.
the Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : this outperformance expressed as a perentage will be The significant terms of the fund management agreement known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee with Thames River are as follows: payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary shareholders at 31 March Notice Period each year, multiplied by the percentage outperformance, The investment management agreements IMAs then multiplied by 15%.
provide for termination of the agreements by either party without compensation on the provision of not less The maximum performance fee payable in any period than 12 months written notice.
will be 1% of the adjusted net assets attributable to Management Fees Ordinary shareholders.
If any fee exceeds 1%, such Ordinary share class excess will be carried forward and applied to reduce A base management fee of 0.70% pa on the net asset any percentage underperformance in future value of the Ordinary share class is payable quarterly in performance periods.
At 31 March 2008, an excess of advance to the Investment Manager.
For the period up 3.1m is being carried forward.
to 31 March 2009 a rebate has been secured which Sigma share class will reduce the management fee to 0.40% pa on that A performance fee will become payable if the total portion of the share class net asset value which return of adjusted net assets attributable to Sigma exceeds 450 million.
The fee is based on the share shareholders, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, class net asset value determined in accordance with at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Association of Investment Companies AIC the Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : method of valuation on the last day of March, June, this outperformance expressed as a percentage will be September and December respectively.
known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee Sigma share class payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted A base management fee of 1.10% pa on the net asset net assets attributable to Sigma shareholders at value of the Sigma share class is payable quarterly in 31 March each year, multiplied by the percentage advance to the Investment Manager.
The fee is based on outperformance, then multiplied by 20%.
the share class net asset value determined in accordance The maximum performance fee payable in any period will with the AIC method of valuation on the last day of March, be 5% of the adjusted net assets attributable to Sigma June, September and December respectively.
shareholders unless the adjusted net assets at the end The management fees include a number of services of the period are less than at the beginning of the period such as administrative services and company secretarial when the maximum performance fee payable will be services which are provided by third parties.
The limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets attributable to Company has a direct contractual relationship with the Sigma shareholders.
If any fee exceeds the relevant cap parties providing these services and the fees incurred 5% or 1% as applicable, such excess will be carried are deducted from the gross fees due to Thames River.
forward and applied to reduce any percentage This affords the Company a high degree of underperformance in future performance periods.
transparency and control in respect of these services.
If the total return of Group equity shareholders funds for Performance Fees any performance period is less than the hurdle rate for In addition to the management fees, the Board has the relevant performance period, such underperformance agreed to pay the Investment Manager performance expressed as a percentage will be carried forward.
No related fees in respect of a performance period if fee will be payable unless the total return on Group certain performance objectives are achieved.
equity shareholders funds for the particular share class Ordinary share class outperforms the hurdle rate, after taking into account any A performance fee will become payable if the total accumulated percentage underperformance for previous return of adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary periods to the extent it is not offset by the shareholders, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, overperformance offsets described above.
TR Property Investment Trust 47 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued At 31 March 2008, 1.48% of under performance is companies to raise concerns about environmental matters.
So far as direct property investments in the Ordinary share class portfolio are concerned, the Company conducts Basis of Accounting and IFRS environmental audits prior to purchase to identify possible On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of contamination or materials considered environmentally returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal harmful.
We will take remedial action or enforce tenant proportions, the Group charges 50% of finance costs to obligations to do so wherever appropriate.
One-third of the management fee is deemed to advisers assess the environmental impact of our relate to the administration of the Company and is properties on an ongoing basis and will take all necessary charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same action to comply with our environmental responsibilities.
basis as finance costs and 50% charged to capital.
The overall result is that two-thirds of the management fee is Amendments to Articles of Association charged to revenue and one-third to capital.
All Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be performance fees are charged to capital.
made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
A resolution will be put Allocation of Costs between share classes to the AGM and separate Class Meetings to be held on Each share class has its own management fee structure 29 July 2008 to amend the Articles.
Details of the and is invoiced directly for management fees which are specific changes being proposed are set out in full in the allocated between capital and revenue accounts on the explanatory notes to the notice convening the AGM set basis of accounting described above.
Administration costs incurred specifically by a single share Annual General Meeting class are charged to that share class.
The AGM will be held on Tuesday, 29 July 2008 at 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 82 The remaining corporate expenses are allocated to the and 83, and an explanation of the business to be share class in the proportion to their relative Net Asset conducted is given on pages 83 and 84.
Values at the end of the previous accounting period.
For the period between 24 July 2007 and 31 March 2008, Two items of Special Business are to be proposed at the this is on the basis of the relative Net Asset Values on the AGM.
Resolution 11 and 12 will be proposed as special creation of the Sigma share class, 81% to the Ordinary resolutions.
share class and 19% to the Sigma share class.
Resolution 11 Authority to Purchase Own Shares Environmental Policy The Companys Articles permit the Company to purchase its The Company considers that good corporate governance own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules of extends to policies on the environment and has therefore the Financial Services Authority a company is permitted to adopted an environmental policy in respect of its purchase up to 14.99% of its issued equity share capital investments in both physical property and listed property through market purchases pursuant to a general authority companies.
Within the context of the overall aim of the granted by shareholders in general meeting.
Company to maximise shareholders returns, we will seek to limit our own and our investee companies impact on The current authority which permits the Company to the environment.
We will comply with all relevant purchase up to 14.99% of its issued Ordinary and Sigma legislation relating to our operations and activities.
shares expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The Board believes that the Company should continue to We review the environmental statements and behaviour of have authority to make market purchases of its own all the companies in which we invest and take these into Ordinary and Sigma shares for cancellation.
The Board is account in decision-making.
We recognise that good therefore seeking to renew its power to make market environmental management can play a part in overall risk purchases of Ordinary and Sigma shares.
Accordingly, a management and also have a financial impact in terms of special resolution to authorise the Company to make savings through energy and water efficiency.
Where market purchases of up to 14.99% of the Companys appropriate, our managers will engage with investee 48 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued issued Ordinary and Sigma share capital at the date of the Sigma share class 31 March 2008 AGM is proposed, with the shares purchased to be Sigma cancelled.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the shares of 12.5p date of this Report, 14.99% of the Companys issued With beneficial interest: Ordinary share capital is equivalent to 38,599,250 C M Burton 6,600 Ordinary shares and 14.99% of the Companys issued P L Salsbury 65,000 Sigma share capital is equivalent to 19,124,242 Sigma R A Stone 50,000 shares.
These figures have been calculated on the basis P H Wolton 20,000 H Seaborn 12,045 that there is no change in the issued share capital P Spencer between the date of this Report and the AGM to be held There have been no changes in the directors interests between the end on 29 July 2008. of the financial year and the date of this report.
Any purchase of shares would be made at a discount to Other Statutory Information the prevailing Net Asset Value, thus enhancing the Net Directors Interests in Shares Asset Value of the remaining shares.
The terms of the The directors interests in the share capital of the resolution will restrict the price payable to the effect that it Company are shown in the tables above.
could not be less than 25p per share for Ordinary shares and 12.5p per share for Sigma shares being the nominal There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of values and not more than 5% above the average of the the year in which a director of the Company is or was closing mid-market quotations for the five business days materially interested and which is or was significant in immediately preceding the date on which the Company relation to the Company's business.
No director has a agrees to buy the shares concerned.
contract of service with the Company.
Resolution 12 New Articles of Association Payment of Suppliers We are asking shareholders to approve new Articles of It is the Company's payment policy for the current financial Association in substitution for the current Articles of year to obtain the best possible terms for all business.
The Association primarily to reflect the provisions of the Companies Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which Act 2006.
The proposed changes are detailed in the business will take place and it abides by these terms.
There explanatory notes on pages 89 to 91. were no trade creditors at 31 March 2008 2007: same.
Recommendation Share Capital Changes The directors consider that the resolutions are in the At 1 April 2007 the Company had 334,600,000 Ordinary interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a shares in issue.
Up to 24 July 2007, the Company made whole and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour market purchases for cancellation of 8,800,000 Ordinary of the resolutions, as the directors intend to, in respect of shares of 25 pence each representing approximately their own beneficial holdings of Ordinary and Sigma 2.63% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2007: shares amounting, in aggregate, to 290,834 shares.
the aggregate consideration paid was 20,479,000.
The number of Ordinary shares in issue on 24 July 2007 was Ordinary share class 31 March 1 April 325,800,000.
2008 2007 Ordinary Ordinary On 24 July 2007, 61,883,286 Ordinary shares were shares shares of 25p of 25p converted to Sigma shares, representing approximately With beneficial interest: 19.0% of the Ordinary share capital in issue at that date.
C M Burton 18,700 22,000 Under the conversion, each Ordinary share converted into P L Salsbury 32,500 55,000 two Sigma shares.
Subscriptions for a further 8,029,175 R A Stone 70,000 80,000 Sigma shares were received under a placing, generating P H Wolton 10,104 7,500 net proceeds of 10,050,050.
Following implementation H Seaborn 5,885 P Spencer of the Conversion and Placing the company had There have been no changes in the directors interests between the end 263,916,714 Ordinary shares and 131,795,747 Sigma of the financial year and the date of this report.
TR Property Investment Trust 49 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Between 25 July 2007 and 31 March 2008 the Company The procedure used to determine the relevant weighting of made market purchases for cancellation of 5,316,714 each share is outlined in the Articles.
The number of votes Ordinary shares for an aggregate consideration of given to each shareholder on a poll is determined by 10,104,000 and 4,115,747 Sigma shares for an multiplying the Share Voting Number by the number of aggregate consideration of 3,511,845.
This represents a shares held by each shareholder.
For each class of share further 1.59% of the Ordinary share capital in issue at the Share Voting Number is a number equal to the Net 31 March 2007.
At 31 March 2008 258,600,000 Ordinary Asset Value of the assets attributable to that class, divided shares and 127,680,000 Sigma shares were in issue.
by the number of shares in that class in issue on the Voting Calculation Date a date six weeks before the Since 1 April 2008, and up to the date of this document, general meeting is convened.
The Net Asset Values of the the Company has made further market purchases for assets attributable to each class of shares is calculated cancellation of 1,100,000 Ordinary shares of 25 pence every day by the Administrator.
each for an aggregate consideration of 1,924,165 and 100,000 Sigma shares of 12.5 pence each for an Restrictions on voting aggregate consideration of 86,000.
Holders of Sigma shares do not have the right to vote, at general meetings of the Company, on resolutions which At the AGM in 2007 the directors were given power to buy relate only to the Ordinary shares, other than where the back 49,496,980 Ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
Since Board determines that such a resolution will have a the AGM the directors have bought back 15,216,714 substantial adverse impact on the holders of Sigma shares shares under this authority.
The outstanding authority is and or where it is a requirement of the Listing Rules that therefore 34,280,266 shares.
This authority will expire at all shareholders are entitled to vote.
The same restrictions the 2008 AGM.
At the EGM held on 24 July 2007, the on voting apply to the holders of Ordinary shares in directors were given power to buy back 19,756,182 Sigma relation to the Sigma shares.
Since the EGM the directors have bought back 4,215,747 Sigma shares under this No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting authority.
The outstanding authority is therefore 15,540,435 or class meeting in respect of any shares held by them if Sigma shares.
This authority will also expire at the 2008 any call or other sum then payable by them in respect of AGM.
The Company will seek to renew the power to make that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are market purchases of Ordinary and Sigma shares at this fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if years AGM.
he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with Rights and obligations attaching to shares information concerning interests in those shares required to Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders be provided under the Companies Acts.
rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution Deadlines for voting rights decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the does not make specific provision as the Board may Company in respect of which the business being voted decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate disposal of the Board.
Voting The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by a forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as show of hands, each holder of Ordinary shares and each the Board may determine before the meeting not holder of Sigma shares has one vote.
If a poll vote is excluding non-working days.
called for then each holder of Ordinary shares has a weighted vote in accordance with the underlying Net Transfer of shares Asset Value of each Ordinary share and similarly each Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated Sigma shareholder has a weighted vote in accordance form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated with the underlying Net Asset Value of each Sigma share.
shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
50 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any Significant Voting Rights Sigma shares % of Sigma of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in share voting any usual form or in any other form which the Board may Shareholder rights approve.
The instrument of transfer must be executed by Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. UK 4.89 or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a partlyM&G Investment Management Ltd 4.42 paid share the transferee.
Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without held over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any basis: share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless % of Sigma Shareholder share voting the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified rights or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be Reliance Mutual Insurance Society Ltd. 9.95 exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 9.07 JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 7.66 relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the Insight Investment Management Global Limited 6.87 right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii Merseyside Pension Fund 3.16 is in respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more than four such See page 50 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary and Sigma shares.
ISAs PEPs The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has Individual Savings Accounts and Personal Equity Plans been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Regulations.
Both Ordinary shares and Sigma shares can Articles after failure to provide the Company with be held in Individual Savings Accounts.
information concerning interests in those shares required Directors Indemnity to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of length sale as defined in the Articles.
Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK Significant Voting Rights Ordinary shares legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs % of Ordinary which they may incur relating to the defence of any share voting Shareholder rights proceedings brought against them arising out of their Legal & General Investment Management Limited UK 4.85 positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company, Articles of Association, the Company has entered into deeds at 30 April 2008, are set out above.
of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their In addition, at 30 April 2008 the following shareholders held capacity as directors of the Company.
These provisions, over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as % of Ordinary defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were Shareholder share voting introduced in January 2007 and currently remain in force.
rights TR Property ISA PEP and Shareplan Schemes 7.12 Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 6.38 Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 4.81 Auditors JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 4.49 The directors who were members of the Board at the time F&C Investment Management Limited 3.55 UBS Wealth Management UK Limited 3.11 of approving the Report of the Directors are listed on page 41 of these financial statements.
Each of these directors confirms that: TR Property Investment Trust 51 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, Composition and Independence of the Board there is no information relevant to the preparation of The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom their report of which the Companys auditors are are non-executive and are independent of the Investment unaware: and Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to each director has taken all the steps a director might the Investment Manager: they all have other professional reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of employment.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Powers of the Directors Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Shareholder Information Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by Further information on the Company can be found on special resolution, the business of the Company is pages 93 to 94 and on the inside back cover.
managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the Going Concern business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it has debentures and other securities and to give security for any adequate financial resources to continue in operational debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Directors Registered Auditor Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the the Articles of Association, the Combined Code published in Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the June 2006 and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
The Articles of Association require that up to one-third of Corporate Governance the directors must retire every year and that every director Corporate Governance Report must retire by rotation at least every three years.
They The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for may then offer themselves for re-election.
The terms of the the governance of the Companys affairs.
directors appointments also provide that a director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and Application of the AIC Codes Principles to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Under the This statement describes how the principles of the Companys current Articles of Association, all directors Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code must retire by the next AGM after they attain the age of 70. issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM are Mr Wolton and Ms Burton who, being eligible, offer In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have themselves for re-election.
Mr Salsbury has served on the also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance Board for more than nine years.
In accordance with the published by the AIC, which established the framework of Combined Code on Corporate Governance, he will stand best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust for annual re-election by shareholders and offers himself companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust The Board has considered the continued appointment of Mr companies.
Salsbury, who has served on the Board for eleven years.
He has no other links to the Investment Manager.
The Board The directors believe that during the period under review subscribes to the AIC Code view that length of tenure is not they have complied with the provisions of the Code, in itself felt to be an issue, rather the directors contribution.
insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity the provisions of the AIC Code.
on the Board and believes that retaining directors with 52 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance sufficient experience of both the Company and the markets The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the is of great benefit to shareholders.
Moreover, long-serving internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider directors are less likely to take a short-term view.
The Board and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of has concluded that Mr Salsbury continues to make a the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and valuable contribution and, notwithstanding his length of to review the accounting policies and significant financial service, believes that he remains independent in character reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews and judgement.
Accordingly, all six directors are regarded as the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in appointment, remuneration, the quality of the services of respect of independence arise.
the service providers to the Company, and, together with the Investment Manager, reviews the Companys The Chairman is Mr Salsbury.
A senior independent compliance with financial reporting and regulatory director has not been identified as the Board considers requirements.
Representatives of the Investment that all the directors have different qualities and areas of Managers, Administrators and Corporate Secretarys expertise on which they may lead when issues arise, and internal audit and compliance departments may attend to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The directors these meetings at the Chairmans request.
biographies, on page 41, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience The provision of non-audit services by the Companys relevant to their positions as directors of the Company.
Auditors is considered and approved by the Audit Committee on a case-by-case basis.
Paul Spencer was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 August 2007.
Mr Spencer is Chairman of National Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Savings & Investment a Government funded body, Auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the draft Managed Pension Funds Ltd and Sovereign Reversions Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are given plc.
He also sits on the Boards of Nipponkoa Insurance the opportunity to speak to the Committee members Company Europe Ltd, WPP Group Plc where he chairs without the presence of the representatives of the the Audit Committee and Resolution plc.
with the Articles of Association a resolution to elect The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP Mr Spencer as a director will be proposed at the is independent of the Company.
The Board recommend the reappointment of Ernst & Board Committees Young LLP as Auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board has established an Audit Committee as set out below.
The Management Engagement Committee, which The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Committee, the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
Further details are set out Management Engagement Committee below.
The Board does not have a Nominations Committee.
The Management Engagement Committee MEC was This function is carried out by the Board as part of the formed in November 2006 comprising the Chairman and agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
all directors of the Company.
Audit Committee The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the end of the financial year.
The MEC met in March 2008. members of the Board.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Stone.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one Committee The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Thames River and its continued suitability to manage the Companys portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of the The Committee has written terms of reference, which Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they are clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be competitive and fair and in the best interests of the found on the website, are available on request and will shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
also be available for inspection at the AGM.
TR Property Investment Trust 53 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance At the MEC meeting in March 2008, the MEC confirmed commitment to his or her role, including commitment of time that Thames River should be retained as the Investment for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2009.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience, ages and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board has delegated to external third parties the custodial services The performance of the Company is considered in detail at which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day each Board meeting.
accounting, company secretarial services, administration and In particular, it is considered that each of the directors makes registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered a significant contribution to the affairs of the Company and into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the that directors seeking re-appointment at the Companys services offered, including the control systems in operation forthcoming AGM merit re-appointment by shareholders.
insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
Directors Remuneration Directors remuneration is considered by the MEC.
The In addition to the reviews by the MEC the Board reviews MEC determines and approves directors fees following and considers performance reports from the Investment proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees Manager at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives payable to non-executive directors in the industry regular reports from the Administrator and Corporate generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect Secretary and the Investment Manager also reports to the of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time Board on the performance of all other third party service committed to the Companys affairs.
In the recent review providers.
external advice was also taken.
The MEC also reviews, on an annual basis, the directors The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate fees.
The results of the most recent review are set out in fees payable to the Board to a total of 250,000 per annum.
the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 43.
Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for Tenure Policy the directors of the Company can be found in the Directors No director has a contract of employment with the Remuneration Report.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment Appointment of New Directors are set out in letters of appointment which are available The directors have determined that, due to the size of the for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company Board and the independence of each of its members, there and will be available at the AGM.
is no requirement for a separate Nominations Committee.
Performance Evaluation The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its responsible for succession planning.
The Board has an Committees and of the individual directors, the Chairman open mind regarding the use of external recruitment has put in place, and carried out, an appraisal process.
This consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, was implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
In respect of the Chairman, the interview was conducted by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Directors Training The process is considered by the Board to be constructive When a new director is appointed, he she is offered in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also and performance of the Board and the Committees, the provided on a regular basis with key information on the contribution of individual directors, as well as building on and Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory developing individual and collective strengths.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they The Chairman confirms that, in the light of the formal arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, performance evaluation, the performance of each of the statutory and industry matters.
directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate 54 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Board Meetings Further details of the Boards consideration of key The number of meetings of the Board and Committees operational matters is contained in the Business Review held during the year under review, and the attendance of section of the Report of the Directors on pages 44 to 48. individual directors, are shown below: Internal Controls Meetings The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups Board Audit MEC No.
of meetings in the year 7 2 1 systems of internal controls and for reviewing their Peter Salsbury 7 2 1 effectiveness.
The Investment Manager is responsible for Caroline Burton 7 2 1 the day to day investment management decisions on Richard Stone 7 2 1 Peter Wolton 7 2 1 behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial Hugh Seaborn 3 0 1 services have both been outsourced.
Paul Spencer 4 1 1 1 Jeremy Newsum 11 0 The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the Group 1 Mr Newsum retired from the Board on 24 July 2007. are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, and the financial information used within the business and for directors also attend a number of informal meetings to publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering represent the interests of the Group.
financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the controls of the Group by a series of regular The Board investment performance and attribution statements, financial The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of and risk analyses, Fund Manager reports and quarterly control the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put in monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework place to mitigate them, including those not directly the which has been agreed with the Managers.
Additional responsibility of the Investment Manager.
meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a decision, which are categorised under various headings, continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Corporate reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports investment restrictions, performance, corporate from them.
The control systems are designed to provide governance and Board membership and appointments.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all risk of failure to achieve objectives.
directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Companys As the Company has no employees and its operational investment performance and considers financial analyses and functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee other reports of an operational nature.
The Board monitors does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible own internal audit function.
Instead, the Audit Committee relies for setting asset allocation, investment and gearing limits on AAF and other internal control reports received from its within which the Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus principal service providers, particularly the Investment Manager, supervises the management of the investment portfolio, which to satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
is contractually delegated to the Investment Manager.
The Board has established a process for identifying, The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the investments and any investments in in-house funds Group.
The process is subject to regular review by the managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
It has Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance Directors on the Combined Code published in September of their duties, to take independent professional advice at 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
the expense of the Company.
TR Property Investment Trust 55 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups General presentations are given to both shareholders and system of internal controls, and the business risks have analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All been analysed and recorded in a risk map that is reviewed meetings between the Fund Manager and shareholders regularly.
The Board receives each quarter a formal report are reported to the Board.
from each of the Investment Manager, the Administrator Socially Responsible Investment and the Corporate Secretary detailing the steps taken to Good corporate governance extends to a companys policies monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not on the environment, employment, human rights and community directly their responsibility, and which report the details of relationships.
Corporations are playing an increasingly any known internal control failures.
The Board also has important role in global economic activity and the adoption direct access to company secretarial advice and services of good corporate governance enhances a companys provided by Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited, economic prospects by reducing the risk of government which, through its nominated representative, is responsible and regulatory intervention and any ensuing damage to its for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are business or reputation.
followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
Policies relating to physical property either held directly or Voting Policy by the companies in which the Trust invests, is described in The Board has approved a corporate governance voting the Directors Report under Environmental Policy on page 48. policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The Companys objective remains the long-term maximisation of shareholders total return.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Compliance Statement The directors acknowledge that the Company did not Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is comply with the following provisions of the Combined Code in the year ended 31 March 2008. through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys A.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company activities and their results.
This information is supplemented and the Board the directors do not feel it is by the daily calculation and by the publication at the London necessary to appoint a chief executive.
Stock Exchange of the Net Asset Value of the Companys A.
3.3 A senior independent director has not been Ordinary shares and interim management statements.
identified as the Board considers that all the This information is also available on the Companys website, directors have different qualities and areas of www.
com together with a monthly factsheet and expertise on which they may lead when issues arise Manager commentary.
and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Fund Managers A.
4.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations following the business of the meeting.
This function is carried out by the Board the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and as part of the agenda of regular Board meetings the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM.
shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders Committee are carried out by the MEC.
so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the By order of the Board AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are For and on behalf of invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited registered address given on page 92.
Secretary 5 June 2008 56 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY
