Board of Directors Terry Smith aged 55 Tullett Prebon plc was listed Chief Executive on the London Stock Exchange Terry Smith started his career with in December 2006, following Barclays Bank and became a stockbroker the demerger of the Collins in 1984 with W Greenwell & Co.
He was top rated bank analyst in London from Stewart stockbroking business 1984 to 1989, during which period he from Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
also worked at BZW and James Capel.
In 1990 he became head of UK Company The then directors of Collins Research at UBS Phillips & Drew, a position Stewart Tullett plc became he left in 1992 following the publication of his best selling book, Accounting directors of Tullett Prebon plc, for Growth.
He joined Collins Stewart and Collins Stewart plc became subsequently Collins Stewart Tullett plc shortly after and became a Director in a separate listed company.
He is an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers, has an MBA from The Management College, Henley and is quali ed as a Series 7 Registered Representative and a Series 24 General Securities Principal with the NASD.
He has acted as Chief Executive of Tullett Prebon plc since December 2006, and is also Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
Keith Hamill aged 56 Paul Mainwaring aged 45 Chairman Finance Director Keith Hamill became Chairman of Tullett Paul Mainwaring trained as a chartered Prebon plc in December 2006.
He had accountant with Price Waterhouse, previously served as Chairman of Collins qualifying in 1987, and obtained an MBA Stewart Tullett plc since September 2000. from Cran eld School of Management in He is also Chairman of Travelodge, Heath 1991.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked for Lambert, Alterian plc, Deputy Chairman Caradon plc in a number of financial roles, of Collins Stewart plc, a non-executive including three years as Finance Director Director of easyJet plc and Pro-Chancellor of MK Electric.
In 2000, he was appointed of Nottingham University.
He is a as Group Finance Director of TDG plc.
chartered accountant and was previously He was appointed as Group Finance Finance Director of WH Smith, Forte and Director of Mowlem plc in 2005.
He was United Distillers, Director of Financial appointed to the Collins Stewart Tullett Control at Guinness and a partner at Price plc Board in October 2006, and has been Waterhouse.
He was also a member of the Finance Director of Tullett Prebon plc since Urgent Issues Task Force of the Accounting December 2006.
Standards Board and Chairman of the CBI Financial Reporting Panel.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
For more information please visit: 26 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com David Clark aged 61 Richard Kilsby aged 57 Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Richard Kilsby joined the Board in David Clark worked for Bankers Trust, December 2006 and is Chairman of Commerzbank and Midland Bank before the Audit Committee and a member being appointed Treasurer, Europe of of the Remuneration and Nominations HSBC Holdings in 1992.
He had previously been a Bankgesellschaft Berlin AG becoming Director of Collins Stewart Tullett plc since Managing Director of Bankgesellschaft June 2005.
He is also a Non-executive Berlin UK plc until June 1999.
He was Director of Collins Stewart plc and NonSenior Adviser to the Major Financial executive Chairman of 888 Holdings plc.
Groups Division of the FSA until March He has formerly held many positions 2003.
He is Non-executive Chairman of in finance and the City including: Vice Charity Bank and a Non-executive Director Chairman of the virt-x stock exchange of Caf Bank and Westpac Europe Limited.
created by the merger of the Swiss He was appointed as a Non-executive Exchange with Tradepoint, Chief Executive Director of Tullett Liberty in September of Tradepoint an AIM quoted electronic 2000 and to the Collins Stewart Tullett plc exchange, and an Executive Director of Board in March 2003, and subsequently the London Stock Exchange responsible became a Director of Tullett Prebon plc for listing, secondary regulation and the in December 2006.
He is a member of the introduction of the SETS trading system.
Audit, Remuneration and Nominations He is a chartered accountant and was Committees.
previously an audit partner at Price Waterhouse.
Michael Fallon MP aged 56 Rupert Robson aged 48 Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Michael Fallon became a Director of Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board Tullett Prebon plc in December 2006 in January 2007.
He is a member of the and is Chairman of the Remuneration Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee and a member of the Audit Committees.
He has held a number of and Nominations Committees.
He had senior roles in City institutions, most previously been a Director of Collins recently Global Head, Financial Institutions Stewart Tullett plc since September Group, Corporate Investment Banking 2004.
He is a Director of Just Learning and Markets at HSBC between 2003 and Ltd, a Director of Attendo AB, a provider 2006 and, prior to that, Head of European of long term care in Scandinavia, and the Insurance, Investment Banking at Conservative MP for Sevenoaks.
He is also a Citigroup Global Markets.
He is Chairman member of the Treasury Select Committee of Charles Taylor Consulting plc, Chairman of the House of Commons, and chairs the of Silkroute financial Group Ltd and a Treasury sub-committee, responsible for Non-executive Director of Tenet Group Ltd. overseeing HM Revenue and Customs.
He was Opposition spokesman on Trade and City matters from 1997-1998.
He was previously a Director of Quality Care Homes PLC and Bannatyne Fitness Ltd. Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 27 shareholder information financial statements governance business review
