Report of the Directors The directors present their report, together Business review Directors with the audited financial statements of The information that ful ls the The directors who served throughout the the Company and its subsidiaries for the requirements of the Business Review year, except as noted, were as follows: year ended 31 December 2008. can be found on pages 8 to 24.
The Business Review is incorporated into this Keith Hamill Principal activities Report of the Directors by reference.
It Non-executive Chairman Tullett Prebon plc operates as an includes an analysis of the development Terry Smith intermediary in wholesale financial and performance of the Group during the Chief Executive markets facilitating the trading activities year, and the position of the Group at the of its clients, in particular commercial end of the year, including financial and Paul Mainwaring and investment banks.
In certain nonfinancial performance indicators, Finance Director product areas the customer base also and a description of the principal risks David Clark includes financial institutions and other and uncertainties facing the Group, is Senior Independent Non-executive professional investors.
The main subsidiary included in the Risk Management section Director undertakings through which the Group of the Business Review.
Information on conducts its business are set out in note 38 the main trends and factors likely to Michael Fallon to the consolidated financial statements.
affect the development, performance Independent Non-executive Director and position of the business, information Richard Kilsby Results and dividends on environmental, employee, social Independent Non-executive Director The results for the year are set out in and community issues and information the Consolidated Income Statement on about persons with whom the Group has Rupert Robson page 46. contractual or other arrangements which Independent Non-executive Director are essential to the business are also set The directors recommend a final dividend out in the Business Review.
Biographical details of the Directors are for the year of 8.0p per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved, will be This Annual Report has been prepared paid on 21 May 2009 to ordinary for, and only for, the members of the Directors con icts of interest shareholders whose names are on the Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Companys Articles of Association register on 1 May 2009.
The Company, its directors, employees, were amended at the 2008 Annual General agents or advisers do not accept or assume Meeting with effect from 1 October 2008 Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend responsibility to any other person to whom to permit the Board to consider and, if it for 2007 of 8.0p per ordinary share and this document is shown or into whose sees t, to authorise situations where a an interim dividend for 2008 of 4.75p hands it may come and such responsibility director has an interest that con icts, or per ordinary share.
By their nature, may possibly con ict, with the interests the statements concerning the risks of the Company Situational Con icts.
and uncertainties facing the Group in The Board has a formal system in place for this Annual Report involve uncertainty directors to declare Situational Con icts since future events and circumstances to be considered for authorisation by can cause results and developments to those directors who have no interest in differ materially from those anticipated.
In deciding The forward-looking statements re ect whether to authorise a Situational Con ict, knowledge and information available at the non-con icted directors must act in the date of preparation of this Annual the way they consider, in good faith, would Report and the Company undertakes no be most likely to promote the success obligation to update these forward-looking of the Company, and they may impose statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report limits or conditions when giving the should be construed as a pro t forecast.
authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The Board has followed the prescribed procedures in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational Con icts and believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and considering Situational Con icts continue to operate effectively.
For more information please visit: 28 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
com Directors interests Capital structure Policy of payment to suppliers The interests all bene cial of those Details of the authorised and issued It is the Groups policy that all transactions persons who were directors at the end of share capital, together with details of the are settled in accordance with relevant the year in the ordinary share capital of the movements in the Companys issued share terms and conditions of business agreed Company, together with comparatives for capital during the year are shown in Note with the supplier, provided all such terms the previous year, were as follows: 27.
The Company has one class of ordinary and conditions have been complied with.
shares, which carry no right to xed The Company does not have any trade 2008 2007 income.
Each share carries the right to one creditors.
vote at general meetings of the Company.
Keith Hamill 80,299 80,299 Special business at the Terry Smith 8,805,779 8,805,779 There are no speci c restrictions on the Annual General Meeting Paul Mainwaring 20,000 20,000 David Clark size of a holding nor on the transfer of At the Annual General Meeting AGM Michael Fallon 2,000 2,000 shares, which are both governed by the to be held at 2.30pm on 14 May 2009 Richard Kilsby provisions of the Articles of Association Resolutions 7 to 10 will be proposed Rupert Robson 7,000 7,000 and prevailing legislation.
The directors under special business.
are not aware of any agreements between The Tullett Prebon plc Employee Share Ownership holders of the Companys shares that Under Resolution 7, it is proposed to grant Trust held 1,425,892 shares at 31 December may result in restrictions on the transfer the directors authority to allot unissued 2008 2007: 4,387,061 and the Tullett Prebon plc of securities or on voting rights, nor are shares in the capital of the Company.
In Employee Bene t Trust 2007 held 696,736 shares there any arrangements by which, with the accordance with the latest institutional 2007: 630,680.
The bene ciaries of the trusts are the employees of the Group, including the executive Companys co-operation, financial rights guidelines issued by the Association directors.
Under Schedule 1 of the Companies Act carried by securities are held by a person of British Insurers ABI, the proposed 2006 the executive directors are deemed to be other than the holder of those securities.
authority will allow the directors to allot interested in these shares.
ordinary shares equal to an amount of Details of employee share schemes are set up to one third of the Companys existing Directors share options are set out in out in Note 29 which is incorporated into issued share capital plus, in the case of the Report on Directors Remuneration, this Report of the Directors by reference.
a fully pre-emptive rights issue only, a including changes which have occurred further amount of up to an additional one since the end of the financial year.
No person has any special rights of control third of the Companys existing issued over the Companys share capital and all share capital in each case excluding Substantial interests issued shares are fully paid.
At 9 March 2009, being the latest practicable date before signing of this With regard to the appointment and The nominal amount of securities to which document, the following not being replacement of directors, the Company is the new authority will relate represents directors, their families or persons governed by its Articles of Association, the approximately one third, or up to two connected, within section 252 of the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and thirds in the case of a fully pre-emptive Companies Act 2006 had noti ed the related legislation.
The Articles themselves rights issue only, of the Companys issued Company that they were interested in 3% may be amended by special resolution of share capital as at 10 March 2009.
As at or more of the voting rights of the issued the shareholders.
The powers of directors 10 March 2009, the Companys issued ordinary share capital of the Company: are described in the schedule of matters share capital amounted to 53,828,396 reserved for the Board, which is available comprising 215,313,584 ordinary shares % on the Companys website, and in the of 25p each.
Aviva plc 12.72 Lloyds Banking Group plc 10.98 Corporate Governance Report on page 31.
Morgan Stanley 5.77 The schedule of matters reserved for the Resolution 8 seeks to renew, in accordance OppenheimerFunds, Inc: Baring Board is incorporated into this Report of with section 89 of the Companies Act Asset Management 4.04 the Directors by reference.
1985, the directors authority to allot Legal & General Group plc 4.00 further shares for cash, without first Under its Articles of Association, offering them to existing shareholders the Company has authority to issue under the statutory pre-emption 284,699,450 ordinary shares.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 29 shareholder information financial statements governance business review Report of the Directors continued It is also proposed that any shares which Resolution 10 is required in view of the Auditors are purchased by the Company, held in proposed implementation in the UK in A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP treasury and subsequently resold for cash August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights as the auditors will be proposed at the will be covered by this authority.
The Company is currently forthcoming AGM.
authority is limited to the issue of equity able to call general meetings other securities in connection with rights issues, than AGMs on 14 clear days notice in Disclosure of information to the auditors open offers or similar issues and otherwise accordance with its Articles of Association Each of the persons who is a director at up to a nominal amount of 2,691,420 and would like to preserve the ability to the date of approval of this annual report representing approximately 5% of the do so.
The regulation implementing the con rms that: Companys issued share capital as at the SRD will increase the notice period for date of this document.
general meetings of the Company to 21 so far as the director is aware, there is days unless shareholders have approved no relevant audit information of which Resolution 9 seeks to obtain authority the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
the Companys auditors are unaware: for the directors to purchase up to Under the terms of the SRD, Resolution 10 and 21,531,358 ordinary shares, being 10% will be effective until the Companys next the director has taken all the steps that of the share capital in issue at the date AGM, when it is intended that a similar he ought to have taken as a director of this document.
The maximum price resolution will be proposed.
The Company in order to make himself aware of that may be paid under the authority will need to meet the requirements for any relevant audit information and to will be limited to the higher of 105% of electronic voting under the SRD before establish that the Companys auditors the average middle market quotations it can call a general meeting on 14 days are aware of that information.
of the Companys shares as derived from notice.
the Daily Of cial List of the London Stock This con rmation is given and should Exchange for the five business days prior to The directors consider that the passing be interpreted in accordance with the any purchase and that stipulated by Article of the resolutions contained in the provisions of section 234ZA of the 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Notice of AGM is in the best interests of Companies Act 1985.
Regulation 2003 exclusive of expenses shareholders as a whole, and therefore payable by the Company in connection recommends that shareholders vote in By order of the Board with the purchase.
The minimum price favour of them.
which may be paid for an ordinary share Alistair Peel will be 25p exclusive of expenses payable For this forthcoming AGM shareholders Company Secretary by the Company in connection with the will be able to utilise the CREST proxy 10 March 2009 purchase.
The directors will exercise this voting service to lodge their proxy votes.
authority only if they are satis ed that Details of how this will operate are any purchase will be in the interests of included in the notes to the Notice of shareholders.
Annual General Meeting at the back of this Annual Report.
It is not the directors present intention to allot any ordinary shares or to purchase Political and charitable donations any ordinary shares in the market except During 2008 no political donations to satisfy share options that may be were made by the Group 2007: nil.
No exercised under the Companys share charitable donations were made during option schemes.
The authorities contained 2008 2007: 9,000. in Resolutions 7 to 9 will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2010 or on 1 July 2010 whichever is the earlier.
For more information please visit: 30 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 www.
