Chief Executive officer, who are well known to and have frequent Exercise of Voting Powers formal and informal contact with the members of the Board.
It is the Boards view that in order to achieve longterm success companies need to maintain high standards of corporate The Company does not have an internal audit function.
It governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore the Board delegates to third parties the management of its investments and encourages its investment managers to vote proxies in the best most of its other operations and employs only a small staff.
The long term interest of Witan shareholders and in accordance with investment managers and certain other key contractors are subject their own investment philosophies.
The Companys UK equity to external regulation and most have compliance and internal managers expect UK companies to comply with the Combined audit functions of their own.
The Companys investments are held Code, including the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, or to on its behalf by a global custodian.
A specialist rm of investment provide adequate explanation of any area in which they fail to accountants and administrators is responsible for investment comply whilst recognising that a different approach may be administration, for maintaining accounting records and for justied in special circumstances.
Elsewhere, it can be more preparing financial accounts, management accounts and other difficult to vote shares as each country has its own rules and management information.
The investment performance of the practices regarding shareholder notication, voting restrictions, investment managers, both individually and collectively, is registration conditions and share blocking, including, for example, measured for Witan by a company that is independent of all the dealing constraints.
Therefore, whilst the Board has agreed general investment managers.
The corporate company secretary is a policies with the non-UK managers, they do use their discretion in company with long experience in servicing investment trusts.
The applying these in individual circumstances.
appointment of these and other professional contractors provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal controls Statement of Compliance that is balanced and robust.
The Board will continue to monitor The directors consider that the Company has complied during its system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it the year ended 31 December 2008 with all the relevant operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually provisions set out in the Code.
The directors consider that the whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 with the AIC Code.
Going Concern The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are New Zealand Listing readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate Governance financial resources to continue in operational existence for the may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges foreseeable future.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is corporate governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in Practice Code.
Investors may nd more information at preparing the accounts.
Further details are given in Note 1 b www.
co. uk on page 43 Warning to Shareholders Over recent months many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to ofcial documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on page 68.
