Directors Report: Investment Managers Thomas White International Founded in 1992 by a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, Thomas White has 450m under management.
With professionals in Chicago and Bangalore, India, Thomas White invests in 50 markets around the world using a disciplined value-driven strategy.
Its analysts are aided in their stock selection by proprietary fundamental appraisal techniques applied to each company within an industry and or country.
This body of valuation knowledge has been refined over decades.
Their unique analytical approach allows them to limit overall portfolio volatility and downside risk while delivering excellent longterm investment returns.
MFS Investment Management Boston-based MFS is a global business with additional offices in London, Tokyo and Singapore.
Founded in 1924, it has some 88bn under management on behalf of institutional and retail clients.
Its investment philosophy is based on the premise that stocks of companies that provide substantial earnings growth and trade at a discount to their expected growth rate will outperform the market.
The company believes that fundamental research is the most reliable method of identifying these stocks.
MFS is 78% owned by Sun Life Financial, Inc with up to 22% available for ownership by its employees.
Southeastern Asset Management Founded in 1975 and based in Memphis Tennessee, Southeastern manages over 14.0bn for a range of institutional, high net worth and retail clients.
When Southeastern makes an investment they take the view that they are purchasing that company in its entirety.
They aim to avoid capital loss while targeting an annual average return of at least inflation plus 10%.
In the US they manage the Longleaf mutual funds which reopened in 2008 to new investors, after being closed for several years, due to the large amount of opportunity in the market.
Southeastern is 100% employee owned with all staff equity investment made exclusively into the firms funds.
Artemis Investment Management Established in 1997, Artemis Investment Management Ltd manages over 16bn on behalf of a range of retail and institutional clients.
Witans portfolio is a segregated mirror of Derek Stuarts 2bn UK Special Situations Fund launched in 2001 a contrarian fund that aims to outperform the FTSE All-Share Index by 3% per annum.
This approach seeks to exploit market inefficiencies, with an absolute return mindset, in order to generate maximum returns.
It is a stock-picking strategy that aims to achieve long-term capital growth by focusing on stocks that are out of favour and have turnaround potential.
Marathon Asset Management Marathon Asset Management was founded in 1986 and is totally independent, managing some 21bn of institutional client assets.
At the heart of Marathon's investment philosophy is the capital cycle approach to investment.
This is based on the idea that the prospect of high returns will attract excessive capital and hence competition, and vice versa.
In addition, the assessment of management and how they respond to incentives and the forces of the capital cycle is critical to the investment outcome.
The investment philosophy is intrinsically contrarian.
Given the long-term nature of the capital cycle, Marathon's investment ideas generally require patience and, by industry standards, long stock holding periods.
Henderson Global Investors Henderson has been managing investments since 1934.
Once owned by Witan, it has managed the Trusts portfolio since the beginning.
Currently it has some 49.5bn assets under management and provides a full range of investment products and services to clients worldwide.
Henderson has recognised expertise as an enhanced index manager and is recommended as such by investment consultants.
Neil Hermon continues to manage Witans UK smaller company portfolio as he has done successfully for the past six years.
Henderson is a quoted company on the London Stock Exchange.
20 Wellington Management Tracing their roots to 1928, Wellington Management is one of the largest independent investment management firms in the world.
They are a private firm whose sole business is investment management.
With client assets under management totalling just under 292bn, they serve as investment adviser for institutional clients in over 40 countries.
Wellingtons most distinctive strength is their commitment to proprietary, independent research the foundation upon which our investment approaches are built.
Wellingtons commitment to investment excellence is evidenced by their significant presence and longterm track records in nearly all sectors of the liquid, global securities markets.
Varenne Capital Partners Varenne Capital Partners invests internationally in significantly undervalued equity and other listed securities.
Varenne was established in 2003 and is a Paris-based boutique with four founding partners.
The managers at Varenne focus on companies with good to excellent economic characteristics a measurable, sustainable competitive advantage delivering long-term above-average returns on capital employed that trade at discounts of at least 45% to its intrinsic value estimates.
Brandes Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. Brandes is a leading US investment advisory firm, managing approximately $52.9bn in equity and fixed income assets for institutional and private clients worldwide.
Since the firms inception in 1974, Brandes has applied the value investing approach, pioneered by Benjamin Graham, to security selection.
Among the first investment firms to bring a global perspective to value investing, they manage a variety of investment strategies.
They believe that a securitys price and its intrinsic value detach from one another in the short term.
The firm focuses on the fundamental characteristics of a company in order to develop an estimate of its intrinsic value.
By choosing stocks that are selling at a discount to the firms estimates of their intrinsic value, the firm seeks to establish a margin of safety and an opportunity for competitive performance.
This combination of rational fundamental analysis and the discipline to take advantage of market price irrationality enables the firm to target competitive long-term results.
Comgest Wholly owned by its principals and staff, Comgest is completely independent.
Founded in Paris in 1986, Comgest also has offices in Hong Kong, Dublin and Tokyo and manages some 5.1bn solely in equities 4.0bn in Aisa Emerging markets.
Comgest uses a fundamental bottom-up approach, investing in companies that show exceptional characteristics that are likely to appreciate over the long term.
No specific sectors or geographical zones are favoured.
Comgests objective is to achieve above-average returns at below average levels of risk over the long-term, reflecting the excellent visibility and strong profit growth of the companies in which it invests.
Orbis Orbis employs over 100 staff based at offices in Bermuda, London, Sydney and Seoul and manages approximately 9bn.
Orbis adopts a bottom-up approach to selecting a portfolio of typically 30-50 stocks, offering best value, diversification and liquidity.
Orbis offers a range of equity-based pooled investment vehicles, including a range of equity funds, three of which are AAA rated by Standard & Poors.
Witan invests in Orbiss Australian Equity Fund, which since its launch in January 2006 has consistently outperformed its benchmark.
All figures as at 31 December 2008 except MFS and Henderson: 30 September 2008 21
