Directors H M Henderson R E Clarke BSc, MSc, ACA A W Jones MA, FREng, R H McGrath R A Bruce MA, MBA Age 56 Appointed Age 51 Robert Clarke was FRAeS, FIEE, CIM Age 62 Rory McGrath Age 59 Andrew Bruce a director in 1988, appointed a director and Age 69 Alan Jones was was appointed a director in was appointed a director Harry Henderson became Chief Executive officer with appointed a director in 1996.
He is Group Chairman in March 2003. effect from 15 September 1996 and became Chief Executive of Credit Risk Director at He was formerly a partner 2008.
He is responsible for Chairman of the H. Young Holdings plc, Barclays PLC where he has of Cazenove & Co. and the overall management of Remuneration Committee a marketing company.
responsibility for asset subsequently a senior Witan.
For the last 26 years on its formation in Mr McGrath is a director quality and credit risk executive at Cazenove Mr Clarke has held various December 2003.
He was of Witan Investment across the Barclays Group.
Group plc, retiring in 2002. positions in the financial formerly Chief Executive of Services Limited.
He is also a non-executive Mr Henderson is Chairman services sector.
Until March BICC plc and until 2008 director of Clearstream of Witan Investment 2008 he was a director and Chairman of The International.
He is also the Chief Executive of Manchester Airport Group a director of Cadogan Majedie Investments PLC.
He is a director of Settled Estates Limited.
Mr Clarke is a director of Agustawestland NV.
He is a Witan Investment Services former member of The Limited.
He will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in April 2009.
A Watson CBE, BSc J E B Bevan MA MA, FCA M C Claydon BA, MBA R W Boyle Econ, ASIP, Barrister-atAge 48 James Bevan was Age 61 Robert Boyle Age 44 Catherine Claydon Law, FSI Hon appointed a director in was appointed a director will join the Board on Age 63 Tony Watson was February 2007.
He 9 March 2009 as an appointed a director in CCLA Investment retired in 2006 from independent non-executive 2006.
From 1992 to 2007 Senior Independent joining CCLA in November LLP where he was Chairman she worked at Goldman Director on 5 February 2006, he was the Chief of the PwC European Sachs, from 2002 as 2008.
He is a non-executive Investment officer at Entertainment & Media Managing Director, Pension director of Hammerson plc Abbey.
Prior to Abbey, he Industry practice for Advisory Group.
From 2007 and of Vodafone Group Plc was Chief Investment 12 years.
He is a nonto 2008 she held the same and Chairman of the officer for Barclays executive director and position at Lehman Brothers Trustees of the Stockbrokers and Barclays chairman of the audit International.
Mrs Claydon is Marks & Spencer Pension Personal Investment committee of Maxis a Canadian citizen.
Scheme and of Strategic Management, having Communications Berhad Investment Board Limited joined BZW in 1988, and the Hampshire Northern Ireland.
He was following postgraduate Partnership National Health a member of the Financial research in applied Service Trust.
He is also a Reporting Council.
non-executive director of economics and asset Mr Watson retired in 2006 Prosperity Voskhod Fund allocation at Cambridge from an executive career Limited, an AIM company, University.
in the investment and the independent management industry, most member of the audit recently as Chief Executive committee of the National of Hermes Pensions Trust.
Members of the Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Boyle.
Members of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr Jones.
