Governance Board of Directors and Executive team 1.
Roger Carr Chairman 62 N, R Roger Carr joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2001.
He was appointed Chairman of the Board in May 2004 and is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is chairman of Cadbury plc and a non-executive director of the Bank of England.
Until June 2008, he was chairman of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Sam Laidlaw Chief Executive 53 C, D, E, N Sam Laidlaw joined Centrica as Chief Executive in July 2006.
He is Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Disclosure Committee.
He was previously executive vice president of the Chevron Corporation, chief executive officer at Enterprise Oil and president and chief operating officer at Amerada Hess.
In January 2008, he was appointed a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings 1 2 plc.
Until August 2007, he was a non-executive director of Hanson plc.
He is a trustee of the medical charity RAFT.
Helen Alexander CBE Non-Executive Director 52 A, N, R Helen Alexander joined the Board in January 2003 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She is a vice-president of the CBI, a senior adviser of Bain Capital and a non-executive director of Rolls-Royce plc.
She is a trustee of the Tate Gallery and an honorary fellow of Hertford College, Oxford.
Until July 2008, she was chief executive of the Economist Group.
Formerly, she was a non-executive director of BT Group plc and Northern Foods plc.
Phil Bentley Managing Director, British Gas 50 C, E Phil Bentley joined Centrica as Group Finance Director in 2000, a position he held until the end of February 2007 when he was appointed Managing Director, British Gas.
He was also Managing 3 4 Director, Europe between July 2004 and September 2006.
Formerly, he was finance director of UDV Guinness from 1999 and group treasurer and director of risk management of Diageo plc from 1997.
Previously, he spent 15 years with BP plc in various international oil and gas exploration roles.
He is also a non-executive director and the chairman of the audit committee of Kingfisher plc.
Mary Francis CBE Senior Independent Director 60 A, C, N, R Mary Francis joined the Board in June 2004 and is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
She is a non-executive director of Aviva plc and St. Modwen Properties plc and a trustee and treasurer of the Almeida Theatre.
She is a former director general of the Association of British Insurers, a former non-executive director of the Bank of England and Alliance & Leicester plc, and was a senior civil servant in the Treasury and the Prime Ministers Office.
Mark Hanafin Managing Director, Centrica Energy and Europe 49 E Mark Hanafin joined Centrica as Managing Director, Centrica Energy and Europe in July 2008.
He was previously president and chief executive officer of Shell Energy North America in Houston.
Mark began his career with Shell in 1986 in the UK, holding positions in sales, trading and commercial management.
In 1999 he joined the team that created the global LPG business for Shell and went on to manage the new global LPG Supply and Trading division.
Prior to joining Shell, Mark worked for General Electric Company.
Nick Luff Group Finance Director 41 D, E Nick Luff joined Centrica as Group Finance Director in March 2007.
He was previously chief financial officer of The Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company P&O and has held a number of other senior financial roles at P&O, having qualified as a chartered accountant 7 8 at KPMG.
He is a non-executive director of QinetiQ Group plc.
36 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 8.
Andrew Mackenzie Non-Executive Director 52 A, C, N, R Andrew Mackenzie joined the Board in September 2005.
In November 2007, he was appointed group executive and chief executive non ferrous at BHP Billiton, a position he took up in November 2008.
From 2004, he was with Rio Tinto, latterly as chief executive diamonds and minerals.
Previously, he spent 22 years with BP plc in a range of senior technical and engineering positions and ultimately as group vice president, BP Petrochemicals.
From 2005 to 2007, he was chairman of the board of trustees of the think tank, Demos, and he remained a trustee until June 2008.
Paul Rayner Non-Executive Director 54 A, N, R Paul Rayner joined the Board in September 2004 and is Chairman 9 10 of the Audit Committee.
In September 2008, he was appointed as a non-executive director of Boral Limited and in July 2008, he was also appointed as a non-executive director of Qantas Airways Limited.
He was finance director of British American Tobacco plc from 2002 until April 2008.
In 1991 he joined Rothmans Holdings Limited in Australia, holding senior executive appointments, and became chief operating officer of British American Tobacco Australasia Limited in September 1999.
Paul Walsh Non-Executive Director 53 A, N, R Paul Walsh joined the Board in March 2003.
He is chief executive of Diageo plc, having previously been chief operating officer and having served in a variety of management roles.
He is a non-executive director of Federal Express Corporation, a member of the Council of the University of Reading, deputy chairman of the Prince of Wales International Business Leaders Forum, a member of the Business Council for Britain and chairman of the Scotch Whisky Association.
Grant Dawson General Counsel & Company Secretary 49 D, E Grant Dawson has been General Counsel & Company Secretary of Centrica since the demerger from British Gas plc in February 1997, having joined British Gas in October 1996.
Deryk King President and Chief Executive Officer, Direct Energy 61 C, E Deryk King is responsible for all of Centricas activities in North America.
He joined Centrica in September 2000, having previously been group managing director of Powergen plc.
Catherine May 13 14 Group Director, Corporate Affairs 44 C, E Catherine May joined Centrica as Group Director, Corporate Affairs in September 2006, having previously been group director of corporate relations for Reed Elsevier.
Anne Minto OBE Group Director, Human Resources 55 E Anne Minto was appointed Group Director, Human Resources in October 2002.
Prior to that she was director, human resources for Key to membership Smiths Group plc, a position which she held since early 1998. of committees She is also Chairman of the Centrica Pension Schemes.
Chris Weston Committee Managing Director, British Gas Services 45 E D Disclosure Committee Chris Weston was appointed Managing Director, British Gas Services E Executive Committee in June 2005.
Prior to this he was Managing Director, British Gas N Nominations Committee Business from January 2002.
