22 DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE AT 29 JANUARY 2009 Estimated filing date Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA phASE I NCEs Cardiovascular AZD6482 PI3K-beta inhibitor thrombosis AZD4017 11BHSD inhibitor diabetes obesity Gastrointestinal AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist GERD AZD1386 vanilloid receptor antagonist GERD Infection MEDI-534 RSV PIV-3 vaccine intranasal immunisation MEDI-560 PIV-3 vaccine intranasal immunisation MEDI-566 pandemic influenza virus vaccine pandemic influenza vaccine 1 AZD9639 MEDI-564 RSV F protein inhibitor RSV treatment CMV Vaccine CMV vaccine cytomegalovirus MEDI-557 YTE extended half-life RSV MAb RSV prophylaxis MEDI-559 RSV vaccine RSV treatment Neuroscience AZD5904 myeloperoxidase MPO inhibitor multiple sclerosis AZD3241 myeloperoxidase MPO inhibitor Parkinsons disease AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist chronic neuropathic pain AZD6280 GABA receptor subtype partial agonist anxiety 1 TC-5619 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist cognitive disorders in schizophrenia AZD8529 glutamatergic modulator schizophrenia AZD2516 metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 antagonist chronic neuropathic pain AZD1446 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist Alzheimers disease AZD7268 enkephalinergic receptor modulator depression anxiety Oncology AZD8931 erbB kinase inhibitor solid tumours AZD7762 CHK1 kinase inhibitor solid tumours 1 AZD8330 ARRY-424704 MEK inhibitor solid tumours CAT-8015 recombinant immunotoxin haematological malignancies 1 MEDI-538 CD19 B cells leukaemia lymphoma AZD8055 TOR kinase inhibitor range of tumours AZD6918 TRK inhibitor solid tumours AZD4769 EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours 1 Respiratory & Pneumococcal vaccine pneumococcal vaccine Streptococcus pneumoniae Inflammation CAM-3001 anti-GM-CSFR rheumatoid arthritis AZD8848 asthma AZD8566 CCR5 rheumatoid arthritis AZD8075 CRTh2 antagonist asthma COPD AZD5985 CRTh2 antagonist asthma COPD 1 Partnered product.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORs REPORT 23 Estimated filing date Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA phASE II NCEs Cardiovascular AZD0837 direct thrombin inhibitor thrombosis 2012 2012 AZD1305 anti-arrhythmic arrhythmias AZD6370 GK activator diabetes AZD1656 GK activator diabetes obesity Gastrointestinal AZD3355 inhibitor of transient lower oesophageal GERD 2011 2011 sphincter relaxations TLESR 1 Infection CytoFab anti-TNF-alpha polyclonal antibody severe sepsis 1 EBV vaccine Epstein-Barr virus vaccine post-transplant proliferative disease AZD7295 NS 5a inhibitor hepatitis C 1 Neuroscience AZD3480 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist Alzheimers disease AZD6765 NMDA receptor antagonist depression 2012 2012 AZD1940 CB1 receptor agonist nociceptive and neuropathic pain AZD1386 vanilloid receptor antagonist chronic nociceptive pain AZD2624 NK receptor antagonist schizophrenia AZD2327 enkephalinergic receptor modulator anxiety and depression AZD7325 GABA receptor subtype partial agonist anxiety 2013 2012 Oncology Recentin VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor NSCLC 2013 2013 1 AZD6244 ARRY-142886 MEK inhibitor solid tumours 2014 2014 AZD2281 PARP inhibitor breast ovarian cancer 2012 2012 AZD0530 SRC kinase inhibitor solid tumours and haematological malignancies AZD4877 cell cycle agent haematological malignancies AZD1152 aurora kinase inhibitor haematological malignancies 2011 2011 Respiratory & AZD9056 ion channel blocker P2X7 rheumatoid arthritis 2012 2012 Inflammation AZD5672 chemokine receptor antagonist CCR5 rheumatoid arthritis 2012 2012 AZD1981 CRTh2 receptor antagonist asthma COPD MEDI-528 anti-IL-9 antibody asthma CAT-354 anti-IL-13 antibody asthma AZD9668 neutrophil elastase inhibitor COPD AZD1236 matrix metallo-proteinase inhibitor COPD AZD3199 iLABA asthma COPD MEDI-563 anti-IL-5R antibody asthma MEDI-545 anti-IFN-alpha antibody SLE, myositis phASE II lINE ExTENSIoNS 2 2 Gastrointestinal Nexium proton pump inhibitor extra-oesophageal reflux disease 3Q 2009 3Q 2009 Infection Motavizumab humanised MAb binding to RSV F protein early and late treatment of RSV in paeds 1 yr phASE III REgISTRATIoNS: NCEs 1 Cardiovascular Onglyza DPP-4 inhibitor diabetes Filed Filed Brilinta AZD6140 ADP receptor antagonist arterial thrombosis 4Q 2009 4Q 2009 1 Crestor Trilipix statin fibrate fixed combination dyslipidaemia 3Q 2009 1 Dapagliflozin SGLT2 inhibitor diabetes 2H 2010 2H 2010 Infection Motavizumab humanised MAb binding to RSV F protein RSV prevention TBD Filed 1 Neuroscience PN400 naproxen esomeprazole signs and symptoms of OA, RA and AS 4Q 2009 Mid 2009 Oncology Zactima VEGFR EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor with NSCLC 2Q 2009 2Q 2009 RET kinase activity Recentin VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor CRC 2H 2010 2H 2010 Recentin VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor recurrent glioblastoma 2H 2010 2H 2010 ZD4054 endothelin A receptor antagonist hormone resistant prostate cancer 2011 2011 1 Partnered product.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 24 Estimated filing date Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation MAA NDA phASE III lINE ExTENSIoNS 1 1 Cardiovascular Atacand angiotensin II antagonist diabetic retinopathy Published Published Atacand Plus angiotensin II antagonist thiazide diuretic 32 12.5mg, 32 25mg for hypertension Filed Crestor statin outcomes in subjects with elevated CRP 2Q 2009 2Q 2009 2 Onglyza Metformin FDC DPP-4 inhibitor biguanide FDC diabetes 2H 2010 4Q 2009 2 Dapagliflozin Metformin FDC SGLT2 inhibitor biguanide FDC diabetes 2011 2011 Gastrointestinal Nexium proton pump inhibitor peptic ulcer bleeding Filed Filed Nexium Low Dose proton pump inhibitor low dose Aspirin associated peptic ulcer 3Q 2009 2Q 2009 Aspirin Combination 1 1 Nexium proton pump inhibitor extra-oesophageal reflux disease 3Q 2009 3Q 2009 Infection FluMist live, attenuated, intranasal influenza virus vaccine influenza Filed Launched Neuroscience Seroquel D2 5HT2 antagonist bipolar maintenance Filed Launched Seroquel D2 5HT2 antagonist bipolar depression Approved Launched Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist major depressive disorder Filed Filed 2 2 Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist bipolar mania Approved Approved 2 2 Seroquel XR D2 5HT2 antagonist bipolar depression Approved Approved Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist generalised anxiety disorder Filed Filed 2 2 Oncology Iressa EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor NSCLC Filed Zactima VEGFR EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor medullary thyroid cancer 2H 2010 4Q 2009 with RET kinase activity Faslodex oestrogen receptor antagonist first line advanced breast cancer Faslodex oestrogen receptor antagonist adjuvant 3 Respiratory & Symbicort pMDI inhaled steroid fast onset, long-acting agonist asthma Filed Launched 2 Inflammation Symbicort pMDI inhaled steroid fast onset, long-acting 2 agonist COPD Filed Filed 2,4 Unit Dose Budesonide inhaled steroid asthma Therapy area Compound Areas under investigation dISCoNTINuEd NCEs Cardiovascular AZD1175 diabetes obesity AZD2207 diabetes obesity Infection AZD2836 hepatitis C Neuroscience AZD3480 cognitive disorders in schizophrenia AZD0328 Alzheimers disease AZD1704 analgesia Oncology MEDI-561 IPI-504 GIST MEDI-561 IPI-504 solid tumours IPI-493 solid tumours AZD4877 solid tumours AZD1152 solid tumours Respiratory & AZD4818 COPD Inflammation Therapy area Compound Areas under investigation dISCoNTINuEd lINE ExTENSIoNS Cardiovascular Crestor outcomes end renal disease 5 stage renal disease 1 Publication only.
3 US approval based on 12 years and above.
4 Subject to review under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.
CommENTS As disclosure of compound information is balanced by the business need to maintain confidentiality, information in relation to some compounds listed here has not been disclosed at this time.
Compounds in development are displayed by phase.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORs REPORT 25 1 SAlES ANd mARKETINg SAlES FoRCE EFFECTIVENESS training programmes have been adapted for, In the majority of key markets, we sell through and deployed in, local environments.
The main Active in over 100 countries, we have an wholly-owned local marketing companies.
focus of these programmes is to embed core extensive sales and marketing network Elsewhere, we sell through distributors or commercial skills, such as segmentation and focused on growing our business and driving local representative offices.
Our products are targeting, and to strengthen sales managers the levels of commercial excellence that will marketed primarily to physicians both primary coaching and planning skills.
Both regional and maintain our position among the industry care and specialist as well as to other local senior teams have adopted the same world leaders.
Marketing efforts practice of active follow-up and monitoring are also directed towards explaining the as applied in our Established Markets.
Our Global Marketing GM function is economic as well as the therapeutic benefits responsible for developing and leading our of our products to governments and others AdApTINg To ThE ChANgINg ENVIRoNmENT global brand strategy, to ensure strong who pay for healthcare.
We continue to adapt to the changing customer focus and commercial direction in demands and market conditions.
Restructuring the management of our R&D and brand Face-to-face contact is still the single most of our Established Market sales forces is development activity, across the full range of effective marketing method, but increasingly being made to deliver efficiencies within a pipeline and marketed products.
the efforts of our sales forces are being challenging business environment alongside complemented by our use of the internet the expansion of our Emerging Market teams We define at an early stage of the drug to facilitate and enhance our commercial to ensure we are appropriately resourced discovery process what we believe the profile activities.
For a few products we also use to deliver the full potential of the business of a medicine needs to be to work most direct-to-consumer advertising campaigns opportunities in these countries.
effectively in combating a particular disease.
in the US, where it is an approved and These disease target product profiles TPPs accepted practice.
Our business in Europe is now delivering are based on the insights that GM gains improved productivity following our rethrough its relationships with healthcare The way in which biologics are marketed and structuring programme which over the last professionals, patients and others for whom sold is an intensive, personal approach that two years significantly reduced sales force the medicine must add value, including is more targeted compared with traditional numbers and marketing spend across all our regulators and payers.
The attitudes and pharmaceuticals, with extensive use of major marketing companies in the region.
needs of these groups are key drivers of the specialty pharmaceutical distributors and Productivity benefits are also being seen in development of the TPPs which are used little direct-to-consumer advertising.
Japan, where we continue to reshape our throughout the life-cycle of a medicine to sales and marketing cost base to support guide our R&D activity and help shape the We continue to evolve our sales and marketing existing well performing brands and prepare therapy area and marketing strategies.
Early model to ensure we stay at the forefront of for potential launches of new products.
in the development of new products, we also best practice in meeting customer needs.
consider how best to demonstrate the value In 2008, we created a cross-commercial In key Emerging Markets, in line with our of our medicines to payers.
strategy team, charged with the development future growth ambitions, we increased our and sharing of new sales and marketing best sales and marketing spending by doubleIN ThE mARKETplACE practice across our marketing companies.
digit growth rates in 2008 and we continue As well as building on our leading positions in Pilot programmes currently being implemented to expand our sales forces to support our Established Markets such as the US, Japan include interactive selling models that are strategic expansion in these areas.
and Europe, we continue to increase our better suited to the time pressures of our strength through strategic investment in customers, and novel approaches to the use SAlES ANd mARKETINg EThICS Emerging Markets, where ongoing GDP growth of web-based tools that provide customers Our global reach, coupled with the broad and changing disease demographics present with information and support for their patients.
range of different channels that we use for significant opportunities for our business.
interacting with our customers, means that In Europe, we have continued to invest we face an increasing level of complexity In these markets, we are applying the same significantly in strengthening the skills of our in the various regulatory and legislative strategic approach that has delivered our commercial teams.
Throughout 2008, several environments in which we operate.
continued success in Established Markets major international training programmes were a focus on adapting to local customer needs, held to enhance customer interaction skills and We are committed to ensuring that we backed by global capability and scale.
build capabilities in collecting and analysing manage these complexities consistently As part of this, we are strengthening our first-hand customer insight.
These programmes and appropriately and deliver ethical sales in-country sales and marketing presence to are being reinforced by in-market follow-up and marketing practices worldwide that, as a support swift and effective response to local activities to consolidate core segmentation minimum, meet or exceed the standards set customer needs.
We continue to deliver and management skills, and promote high by external regulations and codes of practice.
strong, profitable growth in our Emerging quality customer service.
To that end, we require all our marketing Markets business, alongside our ongoing companies to have codes of practice in place investment in these countries.
Our rapid growth in Emerging Markets that are in line with our own Code of Conduct is driving demand for central commercial and Global Policies, and which are at least as support, particularly in respect of sales force restrictive as all applicable external codes.
Core sales and marketing 1 For the AstraZeneca definition of markets please see the Glossary on page 199.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 26 During 2008, we updated and further We take all breaches very seriously and our patents in the courts.
We can face strengthened our existing codes of sales take appropriate action to prevent repeat challenges early in the patent process and and marketing practice, with a particular occurrences.
This may include re-training, throughout the life of the patent, until the focus on interactions with patient groups, discipline, or other corrective action up to patent expires some 20 to 25 years later the use of the internet for communicating and including dismissal, depending on patent expiry is typically ten to 15 years after about our products, and anti-bribery and the circumstances.
the first marketing approval is granted.
This update These challenges can be to the validity of was supported by extensive training of all Further information about our commitment to a patent and or to the effective scope of a relevant staff in all countries.
responsible business practice is available on patent and are based on ever-evolving legal our website, astrazeneca.
There can be no guarantee of Line managers monitor compliance locally success for either party in patent proceedings within their teams, supported by dedicated INTEllECTuAl pRopERTY taking place in patent offices or the courts.
compliance professionals, who also work to ensure that appropriate training in sales and Patents are important incentives for the Worldwide experience of biotechnology marketing practices is provided.
We also have continued innovation that drives societys patent procurement and enforcement is, like a nominated signatory network that focuses progress.
We continue to commit significant the technology itself, relatively young and still specifically on approving promotional materials, resources to establishing effective patent developing.
As a result, there can be some to ensure that they meet all applicable protection for our intellectual property, and uncertainty about the validity and effective internal and external code requirements.
to vigorously defending our patents if they scope of biotechnology patent claims in are challenged.
The investment At a global level, our Group Internal Audit in bringing biotechnology innovations to teams conduct local audits within our The discovery and development of a new the market is huge and a well-functioning, marketing companies and regional offices.
medicine requires a significant investment of predictable patent system is vital.
Marketing companies outside North America time, resource and money by research-based conduct their own local audits under the pharmaceutical companies over a period of The generic industry is increasingly challenging control of the Local Compliance Officer, 10 or more years.
For this to be a viable innovators patents, and almost all leading reporting to the Regional Compliance Officer.
investment, the results new medicines pharmaceutical products in the US have must be safeguarded from copying with faced or are facing patent challenges from Information concerning instances where our a reasonable amount of certainty for a generic manufacturers.
The research-based practices may not be up to the standards reasonable period of time.
The principal industry is also experiencing increased we require is collected through our various safeguard in our industry is a well-functioning challenges elsewhere in the world, for compliance and continuous assurance patent system that recognises our effort and example in Europe, Canada, Asia and Latin rewards our innovation with appropriate America.
We are confident of the value of our reporting routes and reviewed by senior management in local and or regional protection allowing time to generate the innovations and, through close collaboration compliance committees.
As appropriate, revenue we need to re-invest in new between our intellectual property experts and serious breaches are reviewed by the pharmaceutical innovation.
R&D scientists, we will continue to seek to obtain patents and defend them vigorously, if AstraZeneca Board and the AstraZeneca Audit Committee.
More information about Our first level of protection is typically the challenged.
Further information about the risk our compliance and assurance processes patent to the new molecular entity, either of the early loss and expiry of patents is is contained in the Risk Management and a new chemical entity or a biological product.
contained in the Risk section from page 74.
However, further innovations such as new Assurance Processes section on page 74. medical uses or different ways of taking the Compulsory licensing the over-ruling of The variations between national external treatment are often made during the R&D patent rights to allow patented medicines frameworks for regulation of sales and process and beyond.
Each of these to be manufactured by other parties is developments also requires significant increasingly being included in the access to marketing practices create a challenge in interpreting the number of cases of confirmed resource investment to obtain marketing medicines debate.
AstraZeneca recognises breaches of codes or regulations ruled by approval from regulatory authorities around the right of developing countries to use the external bodies our key performance the world.
Our policy is to protect all the flexibilities in the World Trade Organizations innovations that result from the investment TRIPS Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual indicator KPI.
Nevertheless, this KPI provides a benchmark against which to measure our we make in leading-edge science to deliver Property Rights Agreement including the Doha performance over time.
amendment in certain limited circumstances, such as a public health emergency.
We believe We apply for patent protection relatively early that this should apply only when all other In 2008, we identified a total of 15 such cases 32 in 2007, based on information gathered in the R&D process to safeguard our increasing ways of meeting the emergency needs have from 63 countries in which we have marketing investment.
We pursue these patents as been considered and where healthcare subsidiaries or branch offices.
We believe this appropriate through patent offices around frameworks and safeguards to prevent the world, responding to questions and diversion are in place to ensure that the significant decrease reflects our continuing commitment in this area and arises primarily challenges from patent office examiners.
medicines reach those who need them.
from our strengthened internal procedures.
In some countries, our competitors can The decrease should also be seen in the challenge our patents in the patent offices, and in all countries competitors can challenge context of the continuing rise in strict standards from national and international codes.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORs REPORT 27 SupplY ANd mANuFACTuRINg Our drive for efficiency and effectiveness Some 600 people are employed at our five resulted in announcements in 2008 of principal biologics commercial manufacturing Core to our continued business success is our planned workforce reductions in our Supply and distribution facilities in the US Frederick, ability to provide a secure, high quality, organisation, which includes the closure of Maryland: Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and cost-effective supply of our products worldwide.
three sites, Porrio in Spain, Destelbergen in Louisville, Kentucky : the UK Speke : and Belgium and Ume in Sweden.
Our facilities The Netherlands Nijmegen with capabilities We continue to drive operational excellence, in Macclesfield UK and Sdertlje Sweden in process development, manufacturing and make adjustments to our manufacturing base will also be affected.
Subject to local distribution of biologics, including worldwide and make effective use of strategic outsourcing consultation, we expect these moves to supply of monoclonal antibodies and influenza to maximise the efficiency of our supply chain result in headcount reductions of approximately vaccines.
In addition to our own capabilities, whilst maintaining the highest standards of 1,400 across the business by 2013.
We Boehringer Ingelheim in Biberach, Germany quality and security of supply at every stage.
recognise the impact that significant business serves as our manufacturing partner for certain monoclonal antibodies.
Our biologics change can have on our employees morale Our supply chains are structured to be and productivity and the increased risk of production capabilities are scalable, which flexible and responsive to the changing industrial action.
We aim to manage these enables efficient management of our needs in our local markets.
During 2008 we risks by ensuring that throughout the combined small and large molecule pipeline.
maintained our focus on driving continuous Substantially all of our properties are held implementation of these changes we continue improvement to our supply system, as part to consult fully with staff representatives and freehold, free of material encumbrances of a wide-ranging cost and efficiency act in line with local labour laws.
Our Human and we believe such properties are fit for programme.
This has delivered significant Resources policies and processes are also their purposes.
benefits in recent years, including reduced focused on ensuring that the people affected manufacturing lead times and lower stock are treated with respect, sensitivity, fairness As part of our overall risk management, we levels, which have been achieved without and integrity at all times, and you can read carefully consider the timing of investment to compromising high levels of customer service more about this commitment in the People ensure that secure supply chains are in place and quality.
Further improvements are for our products.
We have a programme in section from page 28 onwards.
planned using principles that focus on what place to provide appropriate supply capabilities adds value for our customers and patients, SupplY CApABIlITY for our new products, including an assessment whilst also eliminating waste.
In line with We have approximately 10,800 people at 26 of new technology needs.
our commitment to strategic outsourcing to manufacturing sites in 18 countries working maximise supply chain efficiency, we plan on the supply of our products.
ENSuRINg pRoduCT QuAlITY to outsource all of our active pharmaceutical We are committed to delivering assured ingredient API manufacturing within five to Our principal small molecule manufacturing product quality that underpins both the safety 10 years.
and efficacy of our medicines.
facilities are in the UK Avlon and Macclesfield : Sweden Snckviken and We continuously review our manufacturing Grtuna, Sdertlje : the US Newark, The manufacturing processes for chemical assets to make sure that they are being used Delaware and Westborough, Massachusetts : products and biologics can be very complex in the most effective way, whilst preserving the and must be conducted under rigorous Australia North Ryde, New South Wales : flexibility we need to respond to fluctuations France Dunkirk and Reims : Italy Caponago : standards of quality.
During 2008, we completed the Japan Maihara : China Wuxi and Puerto and processes are subject to periodic sale of facilities in Germany and we closed our Rico Canovanas.
Approximately 1,400 inspections by regulators to ensure that packaging site in Canada.
Capital expenditure manufacturers are complying with prescribed people work in active pharmaceutical on supply and manufacturing facilities totalled ingredient supply and 8,800 in formulation standards of operation.
Regulators have approximately $179 million in 2008 and packaging.
We operate a small number the power to require, if they believe action is 2007: $191 million: 2006: $201 million of sites for the manufacture of active warranted, changes and improvements, to across a range of projects.
We also recently halt production and impose conditions that ingredients in the UK, Sweden and France, announced the establishment of regional complemented by efficient use of must be satisfied before production can offices to optimise further our supply chain outsourcing.
Our principal tablet and capsule resume.
Regulatory standards also evolve activity.
This includes sourcing centres in formulation sites are in the UK, Sweden, over time as the industry develops new Shanghai, China and Bangalore, India, manufacturing techniques, so a process that Puerto Rico, France and the US, and we also established to identify high quality suppliers have major formulation sites for the global may have been acceptable at one time may in those regions to support the growing supply of parenteral and or inhalation products subsequently require changes.
We will also establish in Sweden, France, Italy and the UK.
a regional packing strategy, to improve our The outcomes of our own routine internal ability to respond to customer requirements, Packaging is undertaken in a large number inspections, as well as those conducted by while equipping the business for Emerging of locations, both at our own sites and at regulatory authorities, are rigorously reviewed Markets growth.
contractors facilities, which are situated and, if required, actions are taken to improve quality and compliance consistently across close to our marketing companies to ensure The introduction of new manufacturing rapid and responsive product supply.
The results of all external processes has brought further opportunities to inspections carried out during 2008 were drive efficiencies across the global supply chain.
All regulatory compliance observations that were raised during ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 28 inspections at our sites and at our partners pEoplE practice are consistently applied in the most sites were resolved satisfactorily.
During 2008, we also introduced appropriate, the experience and knowledge EmploYEES BY gEogRAphICAl loCATIoN an online resource that will, in time, make obtained as a result of these inspections is L&D tools and programmes available to all shared with other sites across the Group.
34% CONTINENTAL EUROPE employees, creating a common platform that 32% AMERICAS increases access to learning and supports 17% UK In March 2008, AstraZeneca Australia self-development across the organisation.
17% ASIA, AFRICA AND AUSTRALASIA undertook a voluntary recall of four batches Implementation of further online L&D of Heparinised Saline 50IU 5ml because of resources will continue during 2009. the detection of a contaminant in the heparin raw material used in the manufacture of Our leadership development frameworks are these batches.
The heparin raw material was focused on six core capabilities which we manufactured by a number of independent With over 65,000 employees worldwide, believe are essential for strong and effective companies in China and sourced by we value the diverse skills and capabilities leadership: passion for customers: strategic AstraZeneca from an independent that a global workforce brings to our business.
thinking: acting decisively: driving performance: supplier.
We communicated with all relevant Aligning these skills and capabilities with working collaboratively: and developing people stakeholders at the time of the recall.
strategic and operational needs, improving and the organisation.
These capabilities apply No adverse events were reported as a result leadership capability, optimising performance to all employees and are used in performance of patients taking our heparinised saline and maintaining high levels of employee management, talent management, staffing product.
As a result of this incident, we have engagement are top priorities, alongside the and selection at all levels.
taken steps to reinforce the security of our integration of responsible business thinking incoming materials supply chain, including across all our activities.
To ensure we maintain a flow of effective strengthening our audit programme.
leaders, we work to identify individuals with SETTINg ThE TARgETS the potential for increasingly more senior and We continue to be actively involved through Clear targets and accountabilities are essential complex roles.
These talent pools provide our membership in industry associations for ensuring that people understand what is succession candidates for a range of in influencing new product manufacturing expected of them as we work to deliver our leadership roles across the Company that are regulations, both at national and international business strategy.
The AstraZeneca Board critical to our continued business success.
and Senior Executive Team are responsible levels, primarily in Europe, the US and Japan.
for setting our high level strategic objectives CommuNICATIoN ANd dIAloguE mANAgEmENT oF ouTSouRCINg RISK and managing performance against these We aim to provide an inclusive environment Our global procurement policies and see the Chief Executive Officer, Delegation of that encourages open discussion and debate Authority and Senior Executive Team section at all levels across the Company.
As well as integrated risk management processes are aimed at ensuring uninterrupted supply of on page 86.
Managers across AstraZeneca line manager briefings and team meetings, sufficiently high quality raw materials and are accountable for working with their teams we use a wide range of media to communicate other key supplies, all of which are purchased to develop individual and team performance with our employees around the world.
targets that are aligned to our high level from a range of suppliers.
We focus on a range of risks to global supply, such as objectives and against which individual We also use a global employee survey disasters that remove supply capability or and team contributions are measured FOCUS to track employee opinion across a the unavailability of key raw materials and and rewarded.
The results, which are communicated to all employees, provide work to ensure that these risks are effectively mitigated.
Contingency plans include the Our focus on optimising performance is valuable insights that inform strategic appropriate use of dual or multiple suppliers reinforced by performance-related bonus planning across the business.
To support our and maintenance of appropriate stock levels.
AstraZeneca also goal of promoting high levels of employee encourages employee share ownership engagement, in 2008, our SET took the Although the price of raw materials may fluctuate from time to time, our global by offering employees the opportunity to decision to run FOCUS annually, rather than purchasing policies seek to avoid such participate in various employee share plans, every two years.
fluctuations becoming material to our business.
some of which are described in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 174 and 86% of our employees participated in the Our risk management also includes mitigating also in Note 24 to the Financial Statements FOCUS 2008 survey reflecting their any reputational risk associated with the on page 139. continued confidence in this feedback use of third parties.
As stated in our Code of mechanism.
Results showed that employee lEARNINg ANd dEVElopmENT engagement scores were very strong and we Conduct, we are committed to working only with suppliers that embrace standards of We encourage and support all our people in continue to outperform other pharmaceutical ethical behaviour that are consistent with our achieving their full potential with a range of companies in this area.
See the Working with Suppliers section high quality learning and development L&D indicated that people were seeing increased opportunities around the world.
levels of cooperation between senior leaders, for more on this commitment on page 75. enabling more effective global and crossWe are also in the process of adopting a new functional working.
The survey also identified global approach, backed by the creation of a some key areas that continue to require new global L&D organisation in 2008, which attention, in particular the need for improved aims to ensure that standards of best L&D communication from leaders about ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORs REPORT 29 To ensure that a consistent approach human resources processes.
As an indicator, AstraZenecas strategic direction and the need to strengthen further our change continues to be adopted throughout the 21% of the 82 senior managers reporting to management capabilities whilst continuing programme, specific guidance is provided for the SET are women.
The change from 2007 to invest in the development of our people.
the HR teams and line managers throughout 26% of 81 senior managers is not a result the organisation.
Our challenge is that there of reduced commitment to diversity, but is a Our leaders take this feedback very seriously.
New targets that address these issues are differences in the legal frameworks and consequence of our continued re-organisation have been included in the SET business the customary practice in the different of the Company at all levels, which continues performance management framework for geographies which are most affected by the to impact SET reporting lines.
business changes, but the global guidance 2009, and are focused on maintaining the already high levels of employee engagement, provided aims to ensure that the same or We have made significant investment in and improvements to the clarity of direction similar elements are included in local improving our human resources information by senior leaders.
implementation, for example, open technology and are in the process of implementing a global system that will drive communication and consultation with Our goal of creating a culture of open employees, re-deployment support and consistent people management and data discussion and debate is supported by our appropriate financial arrangements.
Launched in the UK, well-developed arrangements for interactions with our core values, we expect the people Sweden and China in 2006, the system is now in use in 16 countries which means we with trade unions, elected employee affected to be treated with respect, sensitivity, representatives and local worker councils.
fairness and integrity at all times.
have consistent, detailed and integrated A challenge for us is ensuring a level of global people information available at a global level consistency whilst allowing enough flexibility Our long-standing arrangements for covering over 40,000 employees.
to support the local markets in building good interactions with trade unions, elected relations with their workforces that take employee representatives and worker councils SAFETY, hEAlTh ANd WEllBEINg account of local laws and circumstances in the UK and Sweden provide the forum for Providing a safe workplace and promoting which vary from country to country.
To that productive discussion and collaboration with the health and wellbeing of all our people remains a core priority.
A safe, healthy end, relations with trade unions are nationally regard to our workforce reduction activity.
determined and managed locally in line with Elsewhere, our processes follow the nationally working environment not only benefits the applicable legal framework and standards determined arrangements.
employees, it supports our business through of good practice.
We provide training at improved employee engagement, retention and productivity.
a local level for managers in consultation humAN RIghTS requirements as well as relevant labour law, We are fully supportive of the principles set and we have a range of Human Resources out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, We are committed to ensuring that safety and HR and line manager networks for sharing and our Code of Conduct and supporting health risks are understood and managed responsibly.
We continue to build on our experience and good practice, and promoting policies outline the high standards of alignment across the organisation.
At a global employment practice with which everyone in traditional safety and health programmes, level, we have a Group Employee Relations AstraZeneca is expected to comply, both in which focus on workplace behaviours and Director who supports national managers spirit and letter.
This includes, as a minimum, attitudes, whilst developing new approaches to managing stress and helping employees in ensuring that their local activities are compliance with national legal requirements consistent with our high level principles.
regarding wages and working hours.
understand their personal health risks.
We also support the International Labour As we continue to develop our global Organisations standards regarding child Wellbeing programmes vary according to health risk profile, function and local culture, platform for managing HR going forward, labour and minimum working age.
we are working to ensure that the strength and include general health initiatives aimed at of our local management approaches is not We believe that every employee should be increasing exercise levels, reducing smoking, undermined.
This is particularly critical to the treated with the same respect and dignity.
improving nutrition and managing stress.
We also have plans in place to deal with the effective management of the impact of our All judgements about people for the current business changes.
purposes of recruitment, hiring, compensation, potential threat of pandemic flu, including the development and promotion are made solely provision of anti-virals for employees based in Our continuing strategic drive to improve on the basis of a persons ability, experience, areas where adequate supplies may not be available through national treatment regimes.
efficiency and effectiveness resulted in further behaviour, work performance and planned reductions of the workforce in some demonstrated potential.
As part of this, areas of our business during 2008.
New we are committed to complying with the Our key performance indicator KPI for safety, business reshaping activities, combined provisions of all equality legislation including health and wellbeing combines the frequency rates for accidents resulting in fatal and with revised estimates for the original 2007 the UK Disability Discrimination Act 1995. programme 7,600 job reductions, will result serious injuries and new cases of occupational in the overall programme delivering a reduction We continue to work to ensure that diversity illness into one KPI, with an overall target of of approximately 15,000 positions by 2013. is appropriately supported in our workforce, a 50% reduction in the combined rates by 2010, compared with a 2001 2002 reference All reductions in positions are subject to reflected in our leadership and integrated into consultations with works councils, trade business and people strategies.
The overall fatal and serious injury unions and other employee representatives included in our Talent Management SET accident rate for AstraZeneca employees and in accordance with local labour laws.
objectives and we have a set of minimum decreased by 14% to 2.28 per million hours worked in 2008, whilst the occupational standards that support global alignment in the integration of diversity and inclusion into our illness rate increased by 5% to 1.04.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 30 This equates to a combined reduction of 9% In the US, where we have a sales force of compared to 2007, and we are on track to around 6,500 people, our Road Scholars achieve the targeted reduction by 2010. driver safety programme has been in place since 2005 and continues to be a valuable We regret that during 2008 there were six channel for building awareness and improving fatal accidents, resulting in the deaths of driver skills.
During 2008, we further three employees, two sub-contractors and strengthened commitment and accountability five members of the public.
Five of these in this area with the inclusion of a driver accidents were vehicle related.
Three people safety objective in the US performance were killed in a single vehicle accident in management framework.
China, two in a single vehicle accident in Saudi Arabia and one person killed in vehicle Outside the US, in our International Sales and accidents in the US, Thailand and Egypt.
Marketing Organisation ISMO, where we The sixth accident occurred at one of our have around 17,000 representatives across US sites where two sub-contractors were 61 countries, we are implementing a new killed whilst engaged in construction work.
Full investigations into the circumstances Whilst taking account of the different driving surrounding these accidents are being environments across the various ISMO carried out.
countries, DriveSuccess provides a high-level framework of common standards to be We work hard to identify the root causes adopted by each country.
The framework was of any serious accident and use a range rolled out across Europe, Central Eastern of investigation procedures to help us Europe, Middle East and Africa and Latin avoid repetition.
Learning is shared with America during the last quarter of 2008, management and staff, and our conclusions and Asia Pacific, including Japan, will follow about underlying causes are used to improve in 2009. our management systems.
With the support of the Executive VicePresident of Operations, a global initiative to share learning from recent accidents and fatalities was implemented during 2008.
A learning package was rolled out to employees in Operations and relevant areas of R&D, which focused on involving them in discussions about the root causes of these incidents, and on emphasising the need for everyone to challenge unsafe acts or working conditions.
We remain dissatisfied with our driver safety record and we are determined to improve our performance in this area.
Our commitment centres on the promotion of driver safety across our sales forces worldwide, taking into account local conditions and opportunities for improvement.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
