DIRECtORs REPORt REsPIRAtORY AND INFLAMMAtION 67 2008 IN BRIEF ouR STRATEGIC oBJECTIvE ouR FoCuS Our key marketed products Symbicort sales over $2 billion, up 22%.
We aim to build on our strong position in Symbicort Turbuhaler provides rapid, effective asthma treatment through the growth of key control of asthma and effective reduction of Symbicort Rapihaler pMDI licensed for long-term maintenance treatment of asthma products, particularly Symbicort, with new exacerbations, improving symptoms and in the US.
Submissions made for use in COPD indications and market launches as well as providing a clinically important improvement and paediatric asthma.
developing novel approaches to other areas in the health of patients with severe COPD.
Outside the US, Symbicort Turbuhaler SMART of inflammatory disease such as chronic now approved for use in managing asthma in obstructive pulmonary disease COPD Symbicort Rapihaler pMDI approved for the over 90 countries.
long-term maintenance treatment of asthma Symbicort Turbuhaler now approved in COPD in over 80 countries.
in patients 12 years of age and older, was Copd ANd ASTHmA launched in the US in 2007.
Further information The Joint Advisory Committee of the FDA concluded that the benefits of Symbicort about the progress of Symbicort since its outweigh the risks in adult and adolescent COPD is expected to become the worlds launch in the US is set out in the Geographical asthma patients.
third biggest health threat by 2020.
In December 2008, the Continued growth for Pulmicort with sales of treatment has recently demonstrated some Joint Advisory Committees of the FDA $1.49 billion.
survival benefit but the prognosis of the COPD completed a review of the benefits and risks Settlement of AstraZenecas Pulmicort Respules patient remains poor.
In asthma, morbidity of asthma medications containing LABAs.
patent infringement litigation against Teva including an exclusive licence to Teva to sell and mortality remain important issues and This concluded that the benefits of Symbicort generic Pulmicort Respules from 15 December disease normalisation is not achieved by outweigh the risks in adult and adolescent 2009 with significant royalties for AstraZeneca.
ouR mARKETEd pRoduCTS The typical treatment across COPD and Symbicort SMART provides increased asthma asthma is a fixed-dose combination of an control and simplifies asthma management Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide formoterol in a dry powder inhaler is a combination of an inhaled corticosteroid ICS with a long-acting through use of only one inhaler for both inhaled corticosteroid and a fast onset, long-acting beta-agonist LABA or for COPD specifically, maintenance and relief of asthma symptoms.
bronchodilator for the treatment of asthma inhaled long-acting muscarinic agonist LAMA.
It is also a cost-effective treatment option for and COPD.
Other major asthma treatments include oral many healthcare payers.
Symbicort SMART Symbicort SMART is licensed for maintenance leukotriene receptor antagonists and oral is included in the Global Initiative for Asthma, therapy as well as for maintenance and reliever therapy in persistent asthma.
steroids for severe disease and in combination the international treatment guidelines.
Significant Symbicort Rapihaler pMDI budesonide formoterol in a pressurised metered-dose inhaler new product classes impacting the asthma The US sNDAs for Symbicort Rapihaler pMDI for the maintenance treatment of asthma.
market up to 2015 are unlikely.
First novel in COPD and paediatric asthma in the US Pulmicort budesonide is a corticosteroid anti-inflammatory compounds aimed mainly were submitted as planned during the second anti-inflammatory inhalation drug that helps prevent at prevention and or treatment of COPD quarter of 2008.
Our existing regulatory filings symptoms and improves the control of asthma.
exacerbations, such as oral phosphodiesterase for Symbicort Rapihaler pMDI in the EU for Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation 4 inhibitors, may appear on the market asthma and COPD were supplemented with suspension is the first and only nebulised before 2015. data supporting two additional strengths in corticosteroid in the US for the treatment of asthma in children as young as 12 months.
Symbicort SMART flexible dosing introduced Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid treatment for allergic rhinitis hay fever, perennial a step change to asthma care in Europe Pulmicort remains one of the worlds leading rhinitis and nasal polyps.
resulting in lower ICS and oral steroid use.
asthma medicines and is available in several Oxis formoterol is a fast onset, long-acting Novel ICS LABA combination products for forms.
Pulmicort pMDI is now approved in beta-agonist for treating asthma and COPD.
this area are expected from 2009 and generic 98 countries.
Accolate zafirlukast is an oral leukotriene receptor ICS LABA combinations may be available antagonist for the treatment of asthma.
from the early part of the next decade.
Several Information about our settlement of the patent companies are developing new biologics for infringement action against IVAX in the US, severe asthma, including improved versions which began in October 2005, in relation to THERApy AREA WoRld mARKET mAT q3 08 of anti-IgE and differentiated anti-cytokine IVAXs ANDA for a budesonide inhalation antibodies.
Post-2015, immune response suspension is set out in Note 25 to the $ BILLION modifiers could deliver intermittent therapy Financial Statements from page 154.
16.1 ASTHMA for moderate to severe asthma.
9.4 COPD 7.4 RHINITIS Oxis is added to the treatment regime when 19.9 OTHER A number of novel COPD combinations in corticosteroid treatment alone is not adequate.
industry pipelines may change the way in Oxis is also indicated for symptom relief which COPD is managed.
LABAs, LAMAs and triple-combinations with The prescription Respiratory world market value existing and new anti-inflammatories, may Rhinocort combines powerful efficacy with is $53 billion.
become future treatments of choice.
There rapid onset of action and minimal side effects The World Health Organization estimates that 100 million are also agents in early development with the and is available as a once-daily treatment in people worldwide suffer from asthma and more than twice that from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD, potential to change the course of the disease the Rhinocort Aqua nasal spray and the which is currently the fourth leading cause of death in the by targeting the immune and inflammatory Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler forms.
world with further increases in the prevalence and mortality response that results in lung damage.
of the disease predicted for the coming decades.
In 2008, is subject to review in the US under the Clinical trial developments In the latter part of 2008, data from one of we initiated two new studies with CAT-354: Hart-Scott-Rodino Act and becomes effective the pivotal US COPD studies were published a Phase II trial in Europe and Australia designed after the waiting period has ended.
UDB is SHINE, confirming the efficacy and tolerability to assess the potential of this MAb in patients being developed by MAP Pharmaceuticals with uncontrolled asthma despite optimal as a potential treatment for paediatric asthma of Symbicort Rapihaler pMDI in COPD.
treatment, and a US Phase I study to assess and is currently in Phase III clinical development.
In the pipeline pharmacokinetics in healthy adult patients.
UDB has the potential to be nebulised more Our monoclonal antibody MAb programmes quickly and at a lower nominal dose than the The early pipeline has been reshaped to focus commercially available product.
AstraZeneca for asthma treatments focus on targeting interleukins which appear to play a role in more on COPD, looking for novel strategies and Dainippon Sumitomo have a wellthe regulation of inflammatory and immune to inhibit exacerbations in COPD which include established alliance to discover and develop responses and, therefore, may improve the regulation of inflammatory cell migration and small molecules directed towards toll-like treatment and or prevention of asthma.
Most activation with MAbs directed to antigen.
receptor 7 and the first compound from this of these MAbs are in Phase II to assess their These include CXCR3, as well as inhibition of alliance has entered early stage development.
potential to affect the significant remaining molecules involved in both viral and bacterial unmet medical need in the disease including mediated exacerbations.
A number of small The partnership with Dynavax Technologies uncontrolled asthma and moderate to severe molecule approaches for the treatment of Corporation, which began in 2006, continues persistent asthma.
Concurrent Phase I activity COPD are in development.
AZD1236 is a to pursue opportunities in the field of toll-like is supporting our understanding of the impact potent MMP inhibitor currently in Phase II, receptors.
Dynavax has unique competence of these large molecules on asthma biology.
the expression of these proteins are in generating immunostimulatory DNA associated with key pathological features of sequences that activate toll-like receptors.
MEDI-563 is an investigational approach that the disease including bronchiolitis, vasculitis The alliance should enable us to expand our may treat or help prevent asthma by targeting and emphysema.
Human Neutrophil Elastase portfolio of small molecule and biological the interleukin-5 IL-5 receptor to neutralise HNE is a key factor in cigarette smoke drugs to treat asthma and COPD.
the binding of IL-5 and deplete the cells induced inflammation, lung injury and expressing the IL-5 receptor, typically emphysema and AZD9668, a potent and Our 2007 discovery alliance with Argenta eosinophils, as both IL-5 and eosinophils are selective oral, reversible inhibitor of HNE, Discovery Limited aimed at identifying improved thought to play key roles in the pathology of also in Phase II, is expected to reduce the bronchodilators to treat COPD continues.
In 2008, the results of a Phase I progression and severity of COPD.
study presented at the European Respiratory Our three-year research collaboration with Society meeting showed that MEDI-563 Alongside these novel approaches and building Silence Therapeutics, established in 2007, exhibited an acceptable safety profile and on our capabilities in combinations and device is continuing.
In 2008 we entered into a new showed pharmacological activity in mild development demonstrated through our collaboration with this company focused on the asthmatics.
In addition, a Phase I study to experience with Symbicort, we are aiming to development of a range of novel approaches measure the depletion of eosinophils in the improve further the symptom relief delivered by for the delivery of siRNA molecules, which airways of asthmatics and a Phase II study on-market bronchodilators, the mainstay of allows both Silence Therapeutics and with this anti-IL-5 receptor MAb to assess treatment for all COPD patients.
By combining AstraZeneca to commercialise the novel whether it can reduce the incidence of two enhanced bronchodilators in one inhaler, delivery systems we develop together.
asthmatic relapse in subjects following an patients should benefit from improved symptom asthmatic episode that required hospitalisation control, as well as reducing the complications RHEumAToloGy have been initiated.
of multiple dosing or inhaler devices.
Rheumatoid arthritis RA is currently treated Also in 2008, we completed two out of three Strategic collaboration activity makes a key with generic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic ongoing Phase IIa studies evaluating the contribution to our respiratory pipeline.
agents and, where the relevant criteria are met, biologic disease-modifiers.
There remains potential for MEDI-528 anti-IL-9 MAb to treat AstraZeneca and MAP Pharmaceuticals or prevent symptomatic, moderate to severe announced in December 2008 an exclusive a need for novel effective treatments since persistent asthma, and a fourth Phase IIa worldwide agreement to develop and only about a third of patients treated with clinical trial, designed to assess its effectiveness commercialise Unit Dose Budesonide UDB, biologics achieve their treatment goals.
in patients with stable asthma and exerciseMAP Pharmaceuticals proprietary nebulised induced bronchoconstriction, was initiated.
This agreement ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIRECtORs REPORt 69 The RA market has grown from $1.3 billion in AZD9056 and AZD5672 are novel oral Pulmicort sales were flat at $1,495 million, with 1998 to over $10 billion in 2008, driven largely compounds being primarily developed as a US sales up 2% as the generic competition by the introduction of biologic tumour necrosis new generation of disease modifying from the Teva product affected quarter four factor alpha TNFa blockers first Amgen anti-rheumatoid arthritis drugs.
US sales for Pulmicort were down Wyeths Enbrel, followed by Centocor Phase IIb, their different mechanisms of 15% to $260 million in the fourth quarter and Schering-Ploughs Remicade and Abbotts action a P2X7 antagonist and a CCR5 Pulmicort Respules sales were down 18% Humira, which together account for over antagonist provide multiple chances of as a result of the at risk launch of generic $8 billion in this disease alone.
Launches of success to provide significant new choice in budesonide inhalation suspension BIS on additional TNF blockers are imminent, and 18 November.
The patent litigation between the management of RA.
use of other biologic approaches, currently Teva and AstraZeneca was subsequently reserved for TNF failures, is expected to We also have an ongoing alliance with Bayer settled on 26 November.
Targeted novel oral drugs aimed Schering in respiratory and rheumatology Teva to commence sales of BIS under an at patients that currently choose not to take, exclusive licence from AstraZeneca beginning indications with the objective of identifying are ineligible for or dont respond to biologics, novel compounds without steroid side effects.
The agreement also are in development to provide anti-TNF-like provided that any product already shipped by efficacy with safety benefits and more FuRTHER INFoRmATIoN Teva would remain in the market to be further convenient dosing.
As a result, Teva Patent infringement litigation filed by products accounted for nearly 15% of total Current treatment of systemic lupus AstraZeneca against IVAX Pharmaceuticals prescriptions for BIS products dispensed erythematosus SLE focuses on controlling a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva during the fourth quarter, including a 40% disease flares, preventing renal failure and Pharmaceuticals USA Teva following the share in December 2008.
US sales for suppressing symptoms to an acceptable level submission of an ANDA with the FDA for Pulmicort for the full year were $982 million.
Despite considerable generic Pulmicort Respules was settled in Pulmicort Respules accounted for around recent development activity, no targeted November 2008.
Under the terms of the 90% of total Pulmicort sales in the US.
Sales disease-modifying agents have yet been settlement, Teva concedes that the patents of Pulmicort in Rest of World were down successfully launched for SLE.
Most emerging asserted by AstraZeneca in the litigation are 2% for the full year to $513 million.
biologic agents will likely be used initially valid and enforceable and that its generic in combination with corticosteroids or version of Pulmicort Respules infringes pERFoRmANCE 2007 immunosuppressants to provide incremental AstraZenecas patents.
See Note 25 for Reported performance benefit and or allow reduced doses or further details.
Continued growth from Symbicort drove numbers of these agents.
the increase in reported sales for R&I, which FINANCIAl pERFoRmANCE 2008 2007 grew by 18% from $3,151 million in 2006 to ouR FoCuS $3,711 million in 2007.
In the pipeline pERFoRmANCE 2008 In 2008, we invested in several novel multiReported performance Performance CER growth rates functional MAbs that allow simultaneous Sales in Respiratory and Inflammation Sales in R&I increased by 12% at CER.
inhibition of either two secreted proteins or therapy area R&I increased by 11% to surface receptors.
Our first disease being $4,128 million from $3,711 million in 2007.
Symbicort sales for the full year were up 22% studied is RA, where TNF inhibitors with to $1,575 million.
Sales in Western Europe other molecules may improve both the Performance CER growth rates were up 16%, with market share up another efficacy and prevent the establishment of R&I sales grew by 7% at CER.
point in the last 12 months, aided by the TNF refractory disease while maintaining an roll-out of the Symbicort SMART regime.
Sales of Symbicort grew by 22% to Good growth for the year was achieved in $2,004 million.
In the US, sales of the Canada up 25% and in Emerging Markets MEDI-545 is a MAb targeting interferonproduct were $255 million, up 410%.
Sales in the US were $50 million alpha, which regulates processes involved Product trial rate among target specialist since launch at the end of June 2007. in autoimmune diseases.
In 2008, we physicians is now approaching 90%: these Specialist physicians rapidly adopted the initiated a Phase IIa trial in patients with specialists are now starting more than 30% product: nearly 75% of allergists and more SLE and a Phase I study in patients with of patients new to combination therapy on than 60% of pulmonary specialists in our active dermatomyositis.
More than half of target primary target audience have prescribed Symbicort.
care physicians have prescribed Symbicort, Pulmicort sales increased by 10% to $1,454 CAM-3001 is a MAb with potential to help and share of new patient starts is just under million.
US sales increased 15% for the full patients with RA.
Overall, Symbicort share of new year to $964 million.
Pulmicort Respules alpha sub-unit of the  for fixed combinations reached sales in the US were up more than 20% for macrophage colony stimulating factor 11.7% in the week ending 16 January, with the full year, on estimated volume growth of receptor.
In September 2008, preliminary market share among patients newly starting 15%.
Of the approximately six million children results were reviewed from the first Phase I combination treatment at 18.3%.
Symbicort under the age of eight who are treated for study of CAM-3001, which had been initiated sales in other markets in the year were asthma, more than one million benefit from to evaluate the safety profile and tolerability $1,749 million, up 9%.
Symbicort SMART treatment with Pulmicort Respules.
Sales in of single doses in patients with RA.
has now been approved in 91 markets.
other markets were unchanged for the year.
AstraZeneca, through its acquisition of MedImmune, acquired exclusive Rhinocort sales fell by 4% to $354 million, development rights to the CAM-3001 with a 9% decline in the US being programme from CSL Limited in 2007. compensated by small gains elsewhere.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
