8 INTRODUCTION ASTRAZENECA IN BRIEF In this Directors Report, we have applied the We highlight the importance of leadership, best practice principles of an Operating and effective decision-making and risk Focused on the discovery, development, Financial Review and, to demonstrate how management, and include a summary of manufacturing and marketing of prescription we have performed our duty to promote the our business organisation and the various pharmaceuticals and biological products for success of the Company, we discuss the main responsibilities and processes in place for important areas of healthcare: Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, Infection, Neuroscience, trends and factors underlying the development, ensuring the integrity of financial information, Oncology, and Respiratory and Inflammation.
performance and position of AstraZeneca internal controls and risk management.
Broad product range, including many world in 2008. leaders and a number of key products: Arimidex, As a global, research-based pharmaceutical Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel and Symbicort.
We summarise the opportunities and company, we face a diverse range of risks and Active in over 100 countries with a growing challenges of our business environment, uncertainties that may affect our business.
presence in important emerging markets including China: corporate office in London, UK: including the world market for pharmaceuticals We work continuously to ensure that we have major R&D sites in Sweden, the UK and the US.
and biological products: the competitive and appropriate and effective processes in place Over 65,000 employees 51% in Europe, regulatory environment: and the principal for identifying, assessing and managing these 32% in the Americas and 17% in Asia, Africa risks and uncertainties we face, as well as risks, in line with our strategic objectives, the and Australasia.
the importance of intellectual property rights.
material needs of our stakeholders and our Around 12,000 people in our R&D organisation core values.
In the Risk section, we describe and 17 principal R&D centres in eight countries.
We describe our strategy for creating our key risk management and assurance 26 manufacturing sites in 18 countries.
enduring value for shareholders, patients mechanisms, together with the principal Committed to a responsible approach and other stakeholders and explain how areas of risks and uncertainties that we to business across all activities.
our progress towards achieving our strategic currently consider to be material to our goals is measured.
Where relevant, specific risks and uncertainties are also discussed at various We provide an overview of the resources, points throughout this Directors Report.
skills and capabilities that we have in place and how they are aligned to the achievement Stakeholder expectations of the industry of our goals.
This includes information regarding corporate responsibility continue about the ways in which our medicines are to vary from country to country.
Nevertheless, differentiated and effective, as well as details a global business means global visibility and of our research and development, sales and there are a number of issues relating to our marketing, and supply and manufacturing business that have the potential to impact activities worldwide.
We also describe our our reputation anywhere in the world.
These commitment to ensuring that our global include patient safety, access to medicines, workforce continues to be motivated and sales and marketing practices, research ethics, clear about what is required of them as we employment practices and the environment.
drive the continued success of our business.
We provide information throughout this Directors Report about our position on key In the Financial Review, we report our global issues, and about our approach to managing financial results for 2008 with our comparative the challenges and opportunities associated 2007 results and we highlight our key with our corporate responsibility to ensure accounting policies and our approach to that we continue to be led by our core values financial risk management.
Further information about our commitment to In the Geographical Review, we report on responsible business, our position on the our global financial performance at a product issues and our performance is available on level and in different geographical areas, with our website, astrazeneca.
The Shareholder Information and Corporate The Therapy Area Review provides additional Information sections starting on pages 190 information about our areas of interest, and 197 respectively, are incorporated into including why we are focused on particular this Directors Report.
diseases, our goals and our progress towards achieving them.
As part of this, we report in The Glossary and the Market Definition Table detail on our pipeline of potential new from page 199 provide a useful guide to products and life-cycle developments of our terms, as well as acronyms and abbreviations, marketed medicines.
used in this Directors Report.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
