16 RESOURCES, SkIllS AND CAPABIlITIES AstraZenecas continued success depends We introduced the worlds first proton FluMist, the first intranasal influenza vaccine on focused delivery of our strategy, responding pump inhibitor, Losec Prilosec in 1988 to be approved in the US, represents the effectively to the challenges of our rapidly a breakthrough in the treatment of gastrofirst innovation in flu vaccination in more than changing business environment and oesophageal reflux disease and we have 60 years.
successfully identifying and harnessing since developed an improved therapy, Nexium, opportunities to strengthen the value of our which provides healing and symptom relief in Further information about all our major contribution to healthcare and society.
more patients in a shorter time.
products can be found in the Therapy Area Review on page 53.
This section describes the resources, skills Even after a new medicine is launched, and capabilities that we have in place to we continue to explore all the ways it can be ENSuRINg pATIENT SAFETy drive delivery of our strategic goals and used to maximise patient benefit.
We have The safety of the patients who take our keep AstraZeneca at the forefront of positive clearly defined development management medicines is a fundamental consideration.
programmes for our marketed products All drugs have potential side effects and we designed to optimise both the benefit they aim to minimise the risks and maximise the Underpinning all of our activity is our bring to patients lives and their commercial benefits of each of our medicines, throughout commitment to innovative collaboration, potential within the timeframe that patent their discovery, development and beyond.
focused on a common goal: better health.
protection is available to us.
After launch, we continually monitor the use This means engaging and working with our of all our medicines to ensure that we become stakeholders to gain the insights we need to For example, Crestor, our statin for lowering aware of any side effects not identified during maintain a flow of new, targeted and valued cholesterol levels has been used to treat over the development process and to ensure medicines.
It means working in effective teams 14 million people since its launch in 2003. that accurate, well-informed and up-to-date internally and in external partnerships that Studies in recent years have shown that information concerning the safety profile of complement and strengthen our own not only does Crestor reduce cholesterol, our drugs is provided to regulators, physicians, capabilities.
It also means active participation it also slows the progress of atherosclerosis, other healthcare professionals and, where in the debate on issues that impact our or hardening of the arteries.
Clinical trials, although business and shape our operating environment.
study reported that Crestor significantly extensive, cannot replicate the complete reduced major cardiovascular events by 44% range of patient circumstances and rare side mEdICINES in patients with normal cholesterol levels but effects can often only be identified after a with other high risk factors.
medicine has been launched and used in far Backed by our 70-year track record of greater numbers of patients and over longer pharmaceutical innovation, we have a broad Similarly, we first introduced Seroquel as periods of time.
We have comprehensive and range of marketed medicines that continue a treatment for schizophrenia, and our rigorous pharmacovigilance systems in place to make a positive difference in important subsequent studies have shown that it is for detecting and rapidly evaluating such areas of healthcare.
We actively and also effective in treating both the manic and effects, including mechanisms for highlighting rigorously develop our brands to bring depressive dimensions of bipolar disorder.
those that require immediate attention.
further benefit for patients and maximise Recent clinical development has also been their commercial potential.
undertaken for the use of Seroquel in treating We have an experienced, in-house team of major depressive disorder and general anxiety around 500 clinical patient safety professionals Our range of medicines is highly competitive disorder.
Launched in 1997, Seroquel is now working around the world who are dedicated and includes 11 products each with annual the most commonly prescribed atypical to the task of ensuring that we meet our sales of over $1 billion.
Our business growth anti-psychotic in the US.
Each of our in the short to medium term is being driven by products whether in development or on Arimidex, Crestor, Seroquel and Symbicort.
We also continue to develop better ways the market has an assigned Global Safety Together with Nexium, these five key products in which our medicines can be used.
Physician who, supported by a team of provide the platform for our continued success Our Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Patient Safety Scientists, is responsible for whilst we enhance our pipeline for the future.
Therapy Symbicort SMART is the first that products continuous safety surveillance.
asthma treatment regime to combine both Patient Safety Managers in each of our national Our medicines are testament to the skills regular maintenance and as-needed reliever companies have local responsibility for product of our scientists and our commitment to therapies allowing patients to control daily safety within their respective countries.
working closely with physicians, patients and symptoms and reduce asthma attacks using other stakeholders to understand what they one inhaler, instead of the usual two or more.
Our Chief Medical Officer CMO has overall need and what they value.
Such relationships In another development, Symbicort is also accountability for the benefit risk profiles of the have helped us develop families of medicines now used to treat chronic obstructive products we have in development and those generation by generation such as the pulmonary disease COPD.
The CMO provides medical hormone-based cancer treatments we have oversight and ensures that appropriate risk discovered since the 1970s, including Nolvadex Our acquisition of MedImmune in 2007 brought assessment processes are in place to enable tamoxifen, Zoladex, Casodex, Arimidex and some significant biological products into our informed decisions to be made about safety Faslodex.
Among other benefits, these have portfolio.
Synagis is the standard of care for as quickly as possible.
played a part in increasing the five year respiratory syncytial virus RSV prevention survival rate for women with breast cancer and has been administered to over one from under 70% 50 years ago to around million premature babies around the world to 90% today.
help protect them from serious RSV disease.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT 17 Our commitment to patient safety includes pricing in this context, provided that safeguards approval purposes First Good Laboratory ensuring the security of our medicines are in place to ensure that differentially priced Practice FGLP instead of when a candidate throughout their manufacture and supply.
products are not diverted from patients who drug is simply nominated for development.
We continuously monitor our business need them, to be sold and used in more During 2008, 32 FGLPs were selected for environment to identify any new or emerging affluent markets.
development compared with 36 in 2007. product security risks and work to ensure that these are managed quickly and effectively.
BRINgINg ECoNomIC AS WEll Further details are set out in the Development In addition to our internal processes, we also AS ThERApEuTIC BENEFIT Pipeline table on pages 22 to 24. work with regulatory authorities, government Our medicines play an important role in agencies, trade associations and law treating serious disease and in doing so dISEASE AREA STRATEgIES enforcement agencies to combat the growing they bring economic as well as therapeutic Our disease area strategies are established threat of counterfeiting.
Effective treatments can help to save using a regular review process that centres the ways in which we manage the risk of on the evaluation of research opportunities healthcare costs by reducing the need for counterfeiting can be found in the Principal more expensive care, such as hospital stays against a set of consistent criteria, including Risks and Uncertainties section from page 76. or surgery.
They also contribute to increased unmet medical need, commercial and productivity by reducing or preventing the scientific opportunity, competitive position hoW WE pRICE ouR mEdICINES and alignment with our capabilities.
Our R&D incidence of diseases that keep people away Despite significant advances in healthcare from work.
Executive Committee further details of which in recent decades, many diseases are still are set out on page 21 uses the reviews to under-diagnosed or not well treated, or there RESEARCh ANd dEvElopmENT determine the levels of investment we will is not yet an effective therapy.
Continued make in different disease areas.
The process innovation is required to address these unmet R&d STRATEgy also enables us to deploy our resources in medical needs.
At the same time, the growing Our R&D strategy is geared to maintaining a the best way to meet our commercial and demand for healthcare, driven by people flow of new products that will deliver sustained scientific objectives.
living longer, increasing populations and the business growth in the short, medium and emergence of new economies, means ever long-term.
Our New Opportunities Team, operating from greater pressure on the payers budgets.
pre-clinical through development, generates In the short-term, we have continued to build more value from disease mechanisms and At AstraZeneca, our challenge is to balance on the good growth achieved in 2007.
Our compounds through both internal efforts and the associated downward pressure on overall portfolio volume has grown by 5% and external alliances with the aim to transform the price of medicines with the cost of the our in-phase distribution of the projects has them into profitable, innovative therapies.
continued innovation that brings benefit for improved.
Phase III volumes have remained In addition, the New Opportunities Team will patients and society.
constant and our Phase II portfolio has grown consider a broad range of pre-clinical to late by over 50% 20 to 31 during 2008. stage development opportunities.
This includes When setting the price of a medicine, we take identification of compounds that help address into consideration its full value to patients, Notable successes in the life-cycle side effects and complications in disease to those who pay for healthcare and to management LCM of our key marketed areas we have prioritised, and of opportunities society in general.
Our pricing also takes products during the year included eight that enable rapid entry into breaking new account of the fact that, as a publicly owned significant submissions and three approvals disease areas via strategic alliances, in order company, we have a duty to ensure that we in the US and or the EU, which are described to provide additional assets for our pipeline continue to deliver an appropriate return on in the Therapy Area Review commencing on and the delivery of profitable growth.
We balance page 53. many different factors, including ensuring ouR RESouRCES appropriate patient access, in our global In the medium-term, we will continue to drive AstraZenecas research effort spans a range pricing policy, which provides the framework our pre-clinical and clinical Phase I and II of different disciplines and locations, but our for optimising the profitability of our products projects towards proof of concept as rapidly as scientific community shares a common goal: in a sustainable way.
In line with our ongoing externalisation to deliver new and innovative medicines to strategy, we continue to look beyond our patients as quickly, efficiently and safely as We continually review our range of medicines own laboratories, and actively seek alliances possible.
They work together across national both those on the market and in the pipeline and acquisitions with external partners to boundaries and sites to exchange ideas, to identify any that may be regarded as gain access to leading drug projects or promote best practice and maximise the particularly critical to meeting healthcare needs technology platforms.
scientific potential offered by our size and either because they treat diseases that are global reach.
or are becoming prevalent in developing The progress we are making in our drive countries, or because they are potentially to increase productivity is reflected in the We have a global R&D organisation, with a leading or unique therapy addressing an delivery of projects from discovery and the around 12,000 people at 17 principal centres unmet need and offering significant patient growth of our early development portfolio.
Our main small molecule benefit in treating a serious or life-threatening We have introduced a more rigorous and facilities are in the UK Alderley Park, condition.
In such cases, we aim to provide consistent measure for the number of Macclesfield and Charnwood : Sweden Lund, patient access to these medicines through compounds reaching development and now MIndal and Sdertlje : and the US Boston, expanded patient access programmes.
record additions to the pipeline from the first Massachusetts and Wilmington, Delaware.
We also support the concept of differential pre-clinical study conducted for regulatory Other sites which have a focus on discovery ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 18 Our review of our disease area strategies as well as two new product submissions and deployment of resources to the best for motavizumab and Onglyza.
We have opportunities led us to modify our therapeutic strengthened our mid-stage pipeline area strategy during the year and to stop and maintained 10 projects in Phase III discovery work in osteoarthritis to allow us development.
32 projects entered the to increase our commitment to biologics.
pipeline during the year and 44 projects Coupled with a productive licensing activity, were progressed to their next phase of we have now created a more balanced development.
We have a total of 144 portfolio of high quality small molecule and projects in the pipeline an increase of 2008 has been a milestone year for our biologics projects that present a strong seven compared with 2007.
We are discovering and platform for continued success in important developing effective medicines faster than areas of unmet medical need.
I believe that AstraZeneca is well placed ever before and the considerable progress to maintain this rate of progress, backed we have made in reducing development During 2008, we delivered eight significant by our clear strategy for R&D, our drive for cycle times and costs has been achieved regulatory packages in several jurisdictions to continuous improvement, and an R&D without compromising on quality.
broaden the use of our marketed products, leadership committed to delivery of our Seroquel, Symbicort, Iressa and FluMist: scientific and commercial objectives.
JohN pATTERSoN CBE FRCp Executive Director, Development research are in Canada Montreal, Quebec : which opened in 2007.
The Centre is focused We believe that one of the reasons for our France Reims : India Bangalore : China on translational medicine in cancer, a major productivity success in Discovery over the Shanghai : and the UK KuDOS and Arrow cause of death in China.
In addition, Process past five years is because we have taken a Therapeutics sites.
We have a clinical R&D has further expanded its capability in long-term view and maintained consistency development facility in Osaka, Japan.
Bangalore as it moves to optimise the capital of focus over time on our strategic objectives.
Our principal sites for biologics and vaccines investment at this site in recent years.
Latest industry benchmarks indicate that our are in the US Gaithersburg, Maryland and speed and cost-effectiveness in Discovery Mountain View, California and the UK dISCovERy RESEARCh have moved into the top quartile, while our Cambridge.
Substantially all of our In discovery research, we analyse many delivery of candidate drugs this year exceeded properties are held freehold, free of material thousands of compounds for their potential our targets despite managing significant encumbrances and we believe such to become a new medicine.
Only a few make change across the organisation.
properties are fit for their purposes.
it through the various, increasingly demanding, stages of discovery research through which dISCovERy mEdICINE In 2008, we invested $5.2 billion in R&D we identify the most promising candidates for Discovery medicine the collaboration between 2007: $5.2 billion: 2006: $3.9 billion, clinical development.
Our discovery teams clinical medicine and basic science helps us $101 million on externalisation and approved work closely with clinical and development gain a better understanding of human diseases $308 million of R&D capital investment to teams to prioritise their activities in line with and the suitability of future medicines to treat strengthen our resources in line with our our disease area strategies.
those diseases, as well as identify and deploy strategic objectives.
Major capital commitments biomarkers a biological factor or measure made in previous years continue to progress We continue to improve the quality of chemical that can be used to quantify the progress of as planned.
In Boston US, we have continued leads and biological targets so that we a disease and or the effects of a treatment to enhance our infection research capability, can eliminate, at an early stage, those which can help us to make early decisions on and at Macclesfield UK ongoing work is compounds that are unlikely to make it the effectiveness and safety of our compounds focused on expanding and improving our through development.
We have invested in in clinical development.
New investments a number of key academic collaborations nominated for development now have a in 2008 included the replacement and to identify potential new targets, disease biomarker strategy although it is not always consolidation of Pharmaceutical & Analytical mechanisms and technology platforms.
easy to identify a marker for each molecule.
R&Ds high potents manufacturing facilities at For example, collaborations with Melior Charnwood UK, and a major construction Discovery Exton, Philadelphia, US and SAFETy ASSESSmENT project to provide a new biologics services Graffinity Pharmaceuticals Heidelberg, Safety assessment is a critical aspect of all our facility at Alderley Park UK.
Germany help us to identify more rapidly research and we implement high-throughput those high quality, novel compounds which testing of safety early in the process of As part of our strategic expansion in important have the potential to proceed rapidly through prioritising and selecting the best compounds emerging markets, we continue to strengthen for progression.
Recent process improvements discovery into clinical development.
In addition our research capabilities in Asia.
Investment we have continued to increase the speed and have reduced attrition due to safety issues continued during 2008 at our Innovation efficiency of our drug discovery processes and cut the time taken to deliver key safety Centre China research facility in Shanghai, using Lean Sigma approaches.
studies, without compromising quality allowing more rapid entry to testing in man.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT 19 dEvElopmENT pRoJECTS NCEs ANd lINE EXTENSIoNS We have around 30 biological product candidates in our development pipeline, PRE-CLINICAL PHASE I PHASE II PHASE III LINE EXTENSIONS backed by leading-edge technologies and R&D capabilities that cover a broad range of approaches to targeting disease across 2008 46 34 31 10 23 a range of therapy areas.
These include 2007 42 41 20 10 24 antibodies, antibody derivatives, therapeutic 2006 49 23 18 5 25 proteins, peptides, RNA interference 2005 45 17 13 6 25 technologies and various types of live attenuated and sub-unit vaccines.
2004 31 17 13 5 25 PRE-CLINICAL CLINICAL We also have a world-leading drug discovery platform, based on advanced technology for rapidly isolating human monoclonal dEvElopmENT The initiatives we have in place to deliver antibodies using phage and ribosome display In development, we focus on ensuring that significant productivity improvements by 2011 and a significant in-house manufacturing our expanding range of potential medicines are making excellent progress and all are on capacity and capability, including expertise in is developed effectively to meet the needs track.
These include: high-yield purification process and analytical of patients and regulators.
bring together all the relevant skills and The change programme that resulted experience needed for the rapid progress from our disease area strategy review Our strategic objective is to generate eight of new medicines, the management of during 2007 was completed in 2008 with compounds entering pre-clinical phase development risks, and ensuring that quality anticipated financial benefits of over $100 per year, on a steady-state basis, which and safety remain fundamental considerations million to be delivered by the end of 2009. we anticipate will translate into six new at every stage.
During 2008, we centralised and We have a wide range of compounds in outsourced our clinical data handling EXTERNAlISATIoN early development, and a total of 34 projects to our external partner, Cognizant.
Our externalisation strategy continues to in Phase I, 31 projects in Phase II and 10 This has enabled us to simplify our focus on enhancing our internal innovation projects in Phase III development and are processes, promote consistency and through investment, external partnerships, running 23 life-cycle management projects.
drive resource efficiencies across our data alliances and acquisitions that further management.
These improvements are strengthen our pipeline of new products Throughout 2008, we have continued to also helping to speed our internal data and our Strategic Planning and Business focus on improving quality and speeding the interpretation and decision-making.
Development SPBD team works closely progression of early phase projects along the with R&D, global marketing and finance development pipeline to market.
Backed by Our re-organisation of the Pharmaceutical teams to deliver these objectives.
reduced timelines across the whole small and Analytical R&D function aims to molecule development process, Phase I improve productivity and meet the demands We have completed over 40 major cycle times have halved since 2006 and over of an increasingly strengthened pipeline externalisation deals in the last two years, the last three years the composite product better by changing working processes, including the acquisitions of MedImmune development cycle time has now been while retaining our focus on innovation.
For and Arrow Therapeutics in 2007, as well as reduced by approximately two years.
example, we have been able to progress numerous smaller deals to enhance and a larger number of early projects by strengthen the overall health of the portfolio.
With the adoption of Lean Sigma reducing the resource per project by more methodology and the implementation of best than 50% since 2004.
The function has We believe that every collaboration is unique, practice solutions, we have eliminated the lost also downsized by 10% while introducing and we work with potential partners to time between key steps in the development these productivity improvements.
structure deals that leverage each partys process and we again exceeded our targets capabilities and assets.
Major transactions for development cycle times in 2008 for our Streamlining of our regulatory function in the last two years have included the small molecules.
We believe that we are exceeded the target 18% reduction in in-license of rights to Cubicin an antibiotic well placed to achieve our target of median headcount achieving a 21% reduction from Cubist in certain geographies and a composite development cycle times of by June 2008. co-development and co-commercialisation eight years by 2010, based on the projects agreement with Abbott for a combination of currently in development.
Importantly, we BIologICAl pRoduCTS Crestor and Trilipix.
We recently extended have in recent years established a culture of We have a significant biologics business with our co-development and co-commercialisation continuous improvement that should sustain proven end-to-end capabilities from discovery agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company the momentum behind our initiatives for to commercialisation brought together in 2007 regarding saxagliptin Onglyza and increased speed, with better quality, and under the brand name of MedImmune.
As is dapagliflozin two products in development for with improved efficiency.
the case for small molecules, the discovery the treatment of Type 2 diabetes to include and development strategy for our biologics dapagliflozin in Japan.
We also concluded business is determined by the R&D Executive an exclusive worldwide agreement with Committee, as is the funding allocation from MAP Pharmaceuticals to develop and the overall R&D budget.
commercialise Unit Dose Budesonide UDB, MAP Pharmaceuticals proprietary nebulised formulation of budesonide.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 20 Important early stage collaborations have When conducting a trial anywhere in the world, The number of animals we use each year included deals with Argenta and silence we operate to the highest of the standards varies according to the amount of pre-clinical required by the external international, regional research we are doing and the complexity Therapeutics and more recently with Columbia University in the Us regarding both or local regulations, and our own internal of the diseases under investigation.
As we cardiovascular and neurology opportunities.
We have strict guidelines to ensure continue to expand our discovery research Additionally, we have also formed a significant that those taking part are not exposed to activity, our ongoing challenge is to ensure unnecessary risks: that they understand that our use of animals is minimised number of early stage partnerships to ensure that we have access to the latest science the nature and the purpose of the research: without compromising the quality of the and technology.
that proper procedures for gaining informed data.
We believe that, without our active consent are followed including managing any commitment to the 3Rs, our animal use special circumstances such as different levels would be much greater.
our externalisation strategy is not restricted to securing in-licensing deals and research of literacy : and that appropriate confidentiality or commercial collaborations.
It represents rules are applied.
We continue to develop our data capture an important component of our efforts to processes to incorporate companies recently Whilst all AstraZeneca clinical studies are acquired by AstraZeneca and our animal maximise value from our portfolio and incorporates value creation through disposal.
designed and finally interpreted in-house, numbers for 2008 now include MedImmune, To that end, we have completed a number some of them are run for us by external Arrow Therapeutics and Kudos.
of out-licensing transactions and disposals organisations.
The percentage of studies we place with third parties varies, depending In 2008, AstraZeneca used approximately in 2008, including the transfer out of assets 1 relating to certain gastrointestinal projects to on the number of trials we have underway 347,000 animals in-house 2007: 271,000.
We also concluded and the amount of internal resource available In addition, approximately 29,000 animals a fostering agreement with Cancer Research to do the work.
We contractually require all of were used by external contract research our suppliers to work to the same standards organisations on our behalf 2007: 13,500.
UK under which they will conduct the early development of an src Kinase Inhibitor at that we apply in-house.
In 2008, around Around 93% of the animals used in 2008 their own cost with AstraZeneca retaining 26% of patients in our global studies were were rodents, 4% were fish and amphibians options on the product upon completion monitored by external contract research and the remaining 3% included chickens, organisations on our behalf.
rabbits, dogs, ferrets, primates, pigs and of certain development milestones.
We also use genetically modified mice We continue to strengthen our biologics during 2008, we extended the scope of our and rats to understand better the genes capability through externalisation and clinical trials disclosure to include information involved in human disease.
In 2008, these about the registration and results of all accounted for approximately 13% of our total completed a number of significant transactions during 2008 including deals with direvo AstraZeneca sponsored clinical trials for all rodent use.
Biotech and sBI Biotech Co. products in all phases, including marketed We only use primates in circumstances where medicines, drugs in development and drugs whose further development has been no other species or non-animal methods can during 2008 we broadened the scope of activity by MedImmune Ventures, a captive discontinued.
We make information available, provide the safety or clinical benefit information venture capital fund, set up to access irrespective of whether the results are that we are seeking in a study, and where the outcomes of the study are likely to bring leading-edge technology emerging within the favourable or unfavourable to AstraZeneca, on public websites including our own significant advances for the development of biotechnology world.
MedImmune Ventures will now seek opportunities on a more global dedicated website, .
our expanding biologics basis to stay at the forefront of novel science com.
At the end of 2008, we had registered capability means that we will be increasing our primate use over time, particularly in accessing the most innovative start-ups over 800 trials and published the results of more than 500 trials.
the development of monoclonal antibodies in biotechnology.
targeted at important areas such as cancer R&d ETHICS Animal research and respiratory disease.
Monoclonal antibodies are highly specific to human physiology, so In our search for new medicines for important our pre-clinical research includes animal studies, which continue to play a vital role.
primates are in most cases the only relevant areas of healthcare, we are committed to innovative, high quality science, conducted They provide essential information, not animal model because of their similarity to to high ethical standards.
Compliance with available through other methods, about the humans.
relevant laws and regulations is a minimum effects of a potential new therapy on disease AstraZeneca does not conduct or outsource baseline and underpins our own global and the living body.
Regulatory authorities principles and standards, as outlined in our around the world also require safety data work using wild caught primates or great Bioethics Policy.
from pre-clinical testing in animals before ape species.
In the future, in the rare case where there is no credible alternative model, a new medicine can be tested in man.
exceptions may be considered but this Clinical trials Most of our clinical trials are global in nature All our research using animals is carefully will require rigorous secondary ethical and because studies conducted across a broad considered and justified and, backed by scientific review in addition to our normal review processes to challenge the need geographic span enable us to represent more our global policies, we continue to drive for the study, followed by appropriate Board fully the diversity of the patient populations the application of the 3Rs Replacement, for whom the new medicine is intended.
Reduction and Refinement of animal studies level approval.
Final data will be available end March 2009 on our website, astrazeneca.
com responsibility ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 8831 AZ AR08 p07-21 v04 13 02 JHC.
indd 20 26 2 09 15:02:58 DIRECTORS REPORT 21 The welfare of the animals we use continues AstraZeneca is one of nine partners in To conduct a portfolio review process to be a top priority.
Qualified veterinary staff a European Framework Research VI to evaluate all potential new medicines are involved in the development and programme and is a founding member of within the business to ensure resource implementation of our animal welfare the public-private partnership, Stem Cells prioritisation and delivery in line with that programmes and everyone working with for Safer Medicines, in the UK, which brings process.
In particular, this process is laboratory animals is trained and competent together academia, government and members intended to ensure that internal and in their allocated responsibilities.
of the pharmaceutical industry to broaden external opportunities are reviewed using the approach to understanding this complex the same criteria and that there is a clear As well as mandatory inspections by area of research.
externalisation strategy, aligned with and government authorities, we have a formal complementary to, the disease area programme of internal inspections carried out Further information about our commitment strategies, the internal portfolio and local by our own qualified staff.
External contract to responsible research is available on our market needs.
research organisations that conduct animal website, astrazeneca.
studies on AstraZenecas behalf are also The R&D Executive Committee currently required to comply with our ethical standards, R&d EXECuTIvE CommITTEE, govERNANCE comprises the Executive Vice-President, and we conduct regular inspections to ANd poRTFolIo mANAgEmENT Discovery Research: the Executive Viceensure our requirements are being met.
The R&D Executive Committee oversees and President, Development: the Executive prioritises our portfolio of both small molecule Vice-President, Research and Development, Stem cell research and biological discovery and development MedImmune: the Executive Vice-President, As a company whose success is built on projects from across the Group whether Clinical Research and Chief Medical Officer, leading-edge science, we continuously monitor originating from our own R&D activities or MedImmune: the Chief Executive Officer, and assess new research capabilities to identify from external sources.
On an annual basis North America and Executive Vice-President, opportunities that could help us deliver better it takes a view across all therapy areas and Global Marketing and the President of medicines for patients worldwide.
We believe makes decisions based on unmet therapeutic MedImmune: the Senior Vice-President, that human embryonic stem cell research need, commercial and scientific opportunity, Strategic Planning and Business may present such an opportunity.
competitive position and capability mix.
Development: the Vice-President, R&D It is also charged with overseeing a portfolio Finance: and the Vice-President, Because this is a relatively new area for us review process intended to ensure that internal Development Projects.
and because we do not yet have all the and external opportunities are reviewed using necessary skills and technologies in-house, the same criteria and that there is a clear we are working with external partners who externalisation strategy aligned with the have the capabilities and expertise, and an disease area strategies.
ethical commitment consistent with our own.
Some significant progress has been made, The Committee has the following with some promising results, but more work accountabilities: is needed to understand the full potential of To establish a series of disease area this type of research.
strategies through joint therapy area Our Bioethics Policy demands compliance strategy teams and to bring them together both with external legislation, regulations into a single AstraZeneca portfolio across small molecules and biologics.
and guidelines, and with our own codes of research practice, which include essential criteria that must be met before any such To develop enabling strategies to ensure research is undertaken.
Similar to those that the optimal delivery of the disease area strategic targets, including technology govern inclusion in public stem cell registries such as the UK Registry and the US National strategies, capital expenditure, capability Institute of Health Registry, these criteria mix, shape and size and geographic require that the stem cells must have been footprint of the R&D organisation.
derived from a fertilised egg that was created for reproductive purposes, that the fertilised To work with the Chief Executive Officer egg must no longer be needed for these and Chief Financial Officer to agree an purposes and that fully informed consent overall R&D budget for AstraZeneca and, within the R&D Executive Committee, with no financial inducements must have been obtained for the donation of the allocate that budget to discovery and fertilised egg for scientific research.
These development activities across small requirements apply to all internal work and molecules and biologics.
external research carried out on our behalf.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
