DIRECtORs REPORt INFECtION 59 2008 IN BRIEF ouR STRATEGIC oBJECTIvE indicated for the prevention of RSV in paediatric patients at high risk of RSV.
Synagis Merrem sales of $897 million, up 13%.
We aim to build a leading franchise in the is administered by intra-muscular injection.
treatment of infectious diseases through Strong reported growth for Merrem of 16% globally: 39% in the US.
continued commercialisation of the in-line In the pipeline brands such as Synagis, Merrem and FluMist, During 2008, we filed a biological licence Synagis sales of $1.23 billion: in the US $923 million.
effective use of our structural and genomicapplication with the FDA for an improved Biologics Licence Application submitted for based discovery technologies and antibody anti-RSV MAb, motavizumab.
We recently motavizumab, an improved anti-respiratory platforms, and through continued research completed a Phase III study with syncytial virus monoclonal antibody.
of novel approaches in areas of unmet motavizumab as a prophylaxis in infants A Complete Response Letter subsequently received from the FDA.
with haemodynamically significant congenital heart disease.
We are also conducting Market authorisation application submitted to European Medicines Agency for Live Attenuated RESISTANT BACTERIAl INFECTIoNS a Phase IIb study with motavizumab as a Influenza Vaccine.
treatment for children hospitalised with severe World demand for antibiotics remains high, RSV disease.
In November 2008 we received ouR mARKETEd pRoduCTS due to escalating resistance and the increased a Complete Response Letter from the risk of serious infections in both immunoFDA asking for additional information on Synagis palivizumab is a humanised monoclonal antibody used for the prevention of serious lower suppressed patients and ageing populations.
motavizumab which we are confident we can respiratory tract disease caused by RSV in paediatric Many bacterial infections currently have few respond to and does not lead us to believe it patients at high risk of acquiring RSV disease.
satisfactory treatment options prompting is necessary to conduct further clinical trials.
1 Merrem Meronem meropenem is a carbapenem demand for new and better therapies.
anti-bacterial used for the treatment of serious In addition, three intranasal vaccines are infections in hospitalised patients.
ouR FoCuS being developed for the prevention of lower FluMist Influenza Virus Vaccine Live, Intranasal Our key marketed products respiratory tract illness caused by RSV and is a live, attenuated, trivalent influenza virus vaccine licensed in the US for active immunisation of people Merrem Meronem meropenem is a parainfluenza virus-3 PIV3 : MEDI-559 RSV, two to 49 years of age against influenza disease carbapenem antibiotic, which is active MEDI-560 PIV3 and MEDI-534 RSV-PIV3.
caused by influenza virus subtypes A and type B against most bacteria that cause serious We are conducting several Phase I and contained in the vaccine.
Merrem Phase I II studies for these vaccines alone 1 Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo is the leading carbapenem and has a growing and in collaboration with the US National Pharma Co. Ltd. share of the intravenous antibiotic market Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases because of its activity against bacteria resistant under a Co-operative Research and THERApy AREA WoRld mARKET mAT q3 08 to many other agents.
To meet the high and Development Agreement.
growing need for new and better therapies $ BILLION for resistant bacterial infections we have built INFluENZA vIRuS 35.5 ANTI-BACTERIALS an anti-bacterials discovery capability that 19.7 ANTI-VIRALS 21.5 OTHERS places AstraZeneca among the industry Influenza is the most common vaccineleaders with the capability to create novel preventable disease in the developed world.
According to World Health Organization estimates, seasonal influenza results in three RESpIRAToRy SyNCyTIAl vIRuS RSv to five million cases of severe illness and up The world Infection market is valued at $77 billion, with to half a million deaths globally each year, anti-bacterials accounting for approximately 46% and Approximately half of all infants are infected primarily among the elderly.
Rates of infection anti-virals for 25%.
with RSV during the first year of life and nearly are highest among children, with school-aged World demand for antibiotics remains high, due to escalating resistance and the increased risk of serious infections in both all children in the US have been infected by children significantly contributing to the spread immuno-suppressed patients and ageing populations.
the time they reach their second birthday.
Influenza also has socioApproximately half of all infants are infected with RSV during Unlike other viral infections, there is no economic consequences related to both the first year of life.
Seasonal inuenza results in three to five million cases of severe illness and up to half a million deaths complete and durable immunity created direct and indirect healthcare costs, including globally each year.
by RSV, so repeated infection is likely and hospitalisations, work absence and loss of common.
Premature babies earlier than 36 work productivity when either a caregiver or weeks gestational age, especially those less child is sick with influenza.
than 32 weeks or babies with chronic lung disease or congenital heart disease are at an ouR FoCuS even greater risk of contracting severe RSV Our key marketed products disease than full-term babies.
FluMist is the first live, attenuated nasally delivered vaccine approved in the US for the ouR FoCuS prevention of disease caused by influenza A Our key marketed products and B viruses in eligible children and adults, Synagis is used for the prevention of serious ages two to 49 years.
In 2008, the US Centres lower respiratory tract disease caused by RSV for Disease Control and Preventions Advisory in children at high risk of the disease.
It was Committee on Immunization Practices voted the first monoclonal antibody MAb approved to expand recommendations for routine in the US for an infectious disease and since seasonal influenza vaccination to include all its launch in 1998 it has become the standard school-age children up to the age of 18 years of care for RSV prevention.
Synagis remains as soon as feasible but no later than the the only immunoprophylaxis in the marketplace 2009 2010 influenza season.
During the year, ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 60 ouR FINANCIAl pERFoRmANCE 2008 2007 2006 2008 compared to 2007 2007 compared to 2006 Growth due Growth due CER to exchange CER to exchange CER Reported CER Reported Sales growth effect Sales growth effect Sales growth growth growth growth $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % Merrem 897 97 27 773 121 48 604 13 16 20 28 1 Synagis 1,230 612 618 618 n m n m n m n m 1 FluMist 104 51 53 53 n m n m n m n m Other 220 54 4 270 12 11 271 20 19 4 Total 2,451 706 31 1,714 780 59 875 41 43 89 96 1 Acquired in June 2007. we began rolling out the international TuBERCuloSIS TB FluMist sales were $104 million for the full year.
marketing plan for our nasal spray influenza In contrast to 2008, all of 2007 FluMist sales of vaccine.
The first milestone was the filing of TB remains a worldwide threat and is $53 million were realised in the fourth quarter a market authorisation application to the newly diagnosed in over eight million people as a result of the timing of regulatory approvals European Medicines Agency in late 2008. worldwide every year.
It is one of the greatest for the new formulation and expanded label.
causes of death from infectious disease in HEpATITIS C vIRuS HCv the developing world.
pERFoRmANCE 2007 Reported performance HCV infects an estimated 170 million people ouR FoCuS Infection sales grew by 96% to $1,714 million worldwide and the current market for HCV As part of our commitment to making from $875 million in 2006, driven by the therapy exceeds $2 billion annually.
However, a contribution to improving health in the inclusion of seven months of Synagis and therapy for the strains that predominate in the developing world, we are working to find FluMist sales and an increase in Merrem sales US and Western Europe require 12 months a new, improved treatment for TB.
treatment and produces a durable cure in only dedicated research facility in Bangalore, India 50% of patients.
Key opinion leaders expect that is focused on finding a treatment for TB Performance CER growth rates the current standard of treatment interferon that will act on drug-resistant strains, simplify Infection sales grew by 89%, after excluding plus ribavirin to change to a form of the treatment regime current regimes are the effect of exchange.
CER growth of 20% combination therapy involving one or more complex and lengthy, meaning many patients from Merrem, with sales of $773 million, and new mechanism of action direct-acting give up before the infection is fully treated the inclusion of Synagis and FluMist were anti-virals and there are several small and large and be compatible with HIV AIDS therapies the principal drivers of this growth.
Sales of pharmaceutical companies with varying HCV TB and HIV AIDS form a lethal combination, Synagis totalled $618 million for the period pipelines focused on such therapies.
A future each speeding the others progress.
Over 80 post-acquisition of MedImmune, with $480 paradigm of combinations of anti-virals as scientists in Bangalore work closely with million arising in the fourth quarter.
Synagis standard care offers the opportunity for our infection research centre in Boston, US sales are highly seasonal, with the majority of several new therapies to be widely used.
as well as with academic leaders in the field, sales recorded in the fourth and first quarters.
and they have full access to all AstraZenecas ouR FoCuS platform technologies, such as high Sales of FluMist were $53 million for the full In the pipeline throughput screening and compound libraries.
year, all of which were recorded in the fourth Projects in development include AZD7295, It is a complex area of research, but we hope quarter.
As with Synagis, there were no a novel HCV compound, currently in Phase II.
to have identified a candidate drug for testing corresponding sales in the prior year period.
in man within the next two to three years.
SEpSIS Sales of Merrem increased by 20% to FINANCIAl pERFoRmANCE 2008 2007 $773 million, with strong growth in the US Sepsis is a life-threatening condition resulting sales up 32% to $149 million and Western from uncontrolled severe infections, which pERFoRmANCE 2008 Europe sales up 20% to $307 million.
affects an estimated three million people Reported performance a year worldwide.
Few industry pipelines are Total Infection sales increased on a reported focused on the development of products basis by 43% to $2,451 million as a full year specifically for registration for the treatment of Synagis and FluMist sales were taken in of sepsis or septic shock.
the Group for the first time, and Merrem sales enjoyed another year of good growth.
ouR FoCuS In the pipeline Performance CER growth rates The development programme for CytoFab, Infection sales were up 41% at CER.
For the our potential treatment for severe sepsis full year, Synagis sales were $1,230 million.
licensed from Protherics, continues in Phase II Sales in 2007 were $618 million, but this development.
CytoFab has the potential to only reflected sales since the acquisition of be one of a limited number of medicines MedImmune in June 2007.
Worldwide sales of specifically developed for such patients.
Synagis in the fourth quarter were $506 million, a 5% increase over the same period in 2007 when the product was included in sales.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
