64 ONCOLOGY 2008 IN BRIEF ouR STRATEGIC oBJECTIvE Zoladex is approved in 120 countries.
It is approved for the treatment of prostate cancer, Arimidex sales up 4% to $1.86 billion and is the We aim to build on our position as a world breast cancer and gynaecological disorders.
leading branded hormonal breast cancer therapy leader in cancer treatment through continued In non-metastatic prostate cancer, Zoladex in the US, Japan and France.
growth of Arimidex, further launches and is the only luteinising hormone-releasing Casodex sales $1.26 billion, down 12%.
Expiry of line extensions of newer products, such as hormone LHRH agonist shown to improve EU marketing exclusivity in 2008.
Faslodex, and the successful introduction overall survival both when used in addition Zoladex sales $1.14 billion, down 3%.
of novel therapeutic approaches currently in to radical prostatectomy and when used Results from three Phase III Zactima trials in development, including both small molecule in addition to radiotherapy.
The 10-year non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC showed and biological drugs, targeted at high follow-up results of a study for the European that Zactima, in combination with standard chemotherapy, brings clinical benefits to unmet need.
Organisation for Research and Treatment patients with previously treated NSCLC.
of Cancer confirmed the long-term survival Results from the Iressa Phase III INTEREST study CANCER benefits of Zoladex when used as adjuvant to underpin a marketing authorisation application in radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced the EU and the pan-Asian IPASS study met its ouR FoCuS prostate cancer.
primary objective showing superior progressionfree survival for Iressa compared with two Our key marketed products chemotherapies in clinically selected patients.
During 2008, our breast cancer treatment, In breast cancer, Zoladex is widely approved ZD4054 progressed into Phase III development Arimidex maintained its position as market for use in advanced breast cancer in for hormone-resistant prostate cancer.
leader in sales of branded hormonal agents, pre-menopausal women.
In a number of Registration trials ongoing of Recentin in first with approximately four million patient years countries, Zoladex is also approved for line colorectal cancer and recurrent of clinical experience.
This success is largely the adjuvant treatment of early stage preglioblastoma multiforme.
based on the extensive long-term efficacy menopausal breast cancer as an alternative ouR mARKETEd pRoduCTS and safety results of the ATAC study, which to and or in addition to chemotherapy.
showed Arimidex to be significantly superior Zoladex offers proven survival benefits for Arimidex anastrozole is an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of breast cancer.
to tamoxifen at preventing breast cancer breast cancer patients with a favourable recurrence during and beyond the five-year tolerability profile.
Casodex bicalutamide is an anti-androgen therapy for the treatment of prostate cancer.
Breast cancer recurrence is defined as loco-regional recurrence, distant Competition in the LHRH agonist market is Zoladex goserelin acetate implant, in oneand three-month depots, is an LHRH agonist for the recurrence or contra-lateral breast cancer.
expected to increase in Europe during 2009, treatment of prostate cancer, breast cancer and with the anticipated launches of generic certain benign gynaecological disorders.
Arimidex continues to be the leading branded goserelin.
This follows the announcement of Iressa gefitinib is an EGFR-TKI that acts to hormonal therapy for new patients in the US, the approval of generic goserelin one-month block signals for cancer cell growth and survival Japan and France, and is also approved in depot in Germany in December.
in non-small cell lung cancer.
a number of markets in Europe for a switch Faslodex fulvestrant is an injectable oestrogen indication for patients who have already Iressa is approved in 36 countries and is receptor antagonist for the treatment of breast cancer, with no known agonist effects, that received two to three years of tamoxifen.
the leading epidermal growth factor  the oestrogen receptor.
tyrosine kinase inhibitor EGFR-TKI in the Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate remains a widely Faslodex, now approved in more than 60 Asia Pacific region where it continues to be prescribed breast cancer treatment outside the US.
markets, offers an additional hormonal therapy marketed for pre-treated advanced NSCLC.
Ethyol amifostine is used to help prevent certain for patients with hormone-sensitive, advanced Based on data from the Phase III INTEREST side effects of specific types of chemotherapy and breast cancer, delaying the need for cytotoxic study comparing Iressa with docetaxel, a radiotherapy that are used to treat head and neck chemotherapy.
It is a once-monthly injection marketing authorisation application for Iressa and ovarian cancer.
approved for the second-line treatment of has been submitted to the European Abraxane paclitaxel protein-bound particles for hormone-receptor positive, advanced breast Medicines Agency.
injectable suspension albumin-bound for the 1 treatment of breast cancer.
Outside the US, we have various distribution Casodex is used as a 50mg tablet for the and marketing arrangements for branded THERApy AREA WoRld mARKET mAT q3 08 treatment of advanced prostate cancer, and Ethyol.
As of June 2008, our two main as a 150mg tablet for the treatment of locally distribution partners are Pinnacle Biologics $ BILLION advanced prostate cancer.
European sales for Western Europe, Turkey and Israel, 17.7 CHEMOTHERAPY 13.2 MONOCLONAL ANTIBODIES declined due to generic erosion following and Schering-Plough International for Rest 8.8 HORMONAL THERAPIES patent and or marketing exclusivity expiries in of World.
Sales growth continued in Japan, where Casodex is available as an 80mg tablet Clinical trial developments and is approved for all stages of prostate Results from the Phase III pan-Asian IPASS cancer.
In the US, the FDA granted an study evaluating the efficacy of Iressa as The world market value for cancer therapies is $46 billion additional six months paediatric extension first-line treatment of NSCLC, were also and is growing strongly.
An increasing number of large pharmaceutical companies as providing marketing exclusivity in the US to announced.
The IPASS study exceeded its well as biotechs have a stated ambition to build their business April 2009. primary objective, demonstrating superior in oncology.
In the last several years there has been a substantial increase of clinical trial activity across all the major tumours and sub-types increasing pressure on innovator companies to deliver best in class or first in class therapies.
According to IMS, value growth in oncology will continue at double digit compound annual growth rates.
This is well above growth 1 In November 2008, we entered into an agreement with rates for other therapy areas which makes oncology, despite Abraxis under which Abraxis re-acquired exclusive market pressures, an attractive area for investment.
rights to market Abraxane in the US.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIRECtORs REPORt 65 ouR FINANCIAl pERFoRmANCE 2008 2007 2006 2008 compared to 2007 2007 compared to 2006 Growth due Growth due CER to exchange CER to exchange CER Reported CER Reported Sales growth effect Sales growth effect Sales growth growth growth growth $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % Casodex 1,258 161 84 1,335 74 55 1,206 12 6 6 11 Arimidex 1,857 69 58 1,730 151 71 1,508 4 7 10 15 Zoladex 1,138 31 65 1,104 39 57 1,008 3 3 4 10 Iressa 265 8 19 238 1 2 237 3 11 Faslodex 249 25 10 214 18 10 186 12 16 10 15 Nolvadex 85 5 7 83 8 2 89 6 2 9 7 Abraxane 64 2 62 44 18 3 3 244 244 Ethyol 28 15 43 43 n m n m n m n m Other 10 1 1 10 1 1 10 10 10 Total 4,954 109 244 4,819 359 198 4,262 2 3 8 13 progression-free survival PFS for Iressa overall survival OS were seen, although In early 2008, our HORIZON III Phase II III compared with two chemotherapies these did not reach statistical significance head-to-head study of Recentin with carboplatin paclitaxel in clinically selected and the data are still immature.
Importantly, with chemotherapy versus Avastin patients.
AstraZeneca is consulting with the studies also showed that adding Zactima chemotherapy in patients with first-line relevant health authorities regarding the to chemotherapy controlled the symptoms of metastatic CRC progressed directly into IPASS data.
Further Phase II trials are lung cancer better than chemotherapy alone, Phase III.
Patient recruitment was subsequently continuing to evaluate the potential benefits allowing patients to maintain their quality of completed for both HORIZON III and of Iressa in NSCLC and other EGF receptorlife for significantly longer.
HORIZON II, our Phase III study of Recentin driven tumours.
with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy ZEST, which evaluated the efficacy of Zactima alone.
The Phase III REGAL trial in rGBM In the pipeline monotherapy versus erlotinib, did not meet comparing Recentin monotherapy versus Zactima vandetanib is a potential new oral the primary objective of demonstrating lomustine - Recentin began enrolling anti-cancer therapy, which has a unique a statistically significant prolongation of PFS patients in the fourth quarter of 2008. anti-cancer profile through two clinically for Zactima.
However, Zactima and erlotinib proven mechanisms.
It blocks the development showed equivalent efficacy for PFS and OS Following the announcement that the National of a tumours blood supply anti-angiogenesis in a pre-planned non-inferiority analysis.
Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trial and blocks the growth and survival of the We plan to file a regulatory submission in the Groups NCIC CTG Recentin BR24 NSCLC tumour itself anti-EGFR.
Zactima also inhibits second quarter of 2009 following discussion trial would not be progressing straight into RET-kinase activity, an important growth with regulatory agencies for combination Phase III, we worked in close collaboration driver in certain types of thyroid cancer.
Full results from studies ZODIAC, with the NCIC CTG to understand the BR24 ZEAL and ZEST will be presented at an data further and to assess the potential of During 2008, we announced results from international medical congress in 2009.
Recentin in this disease area.
Subsequently two Phase III clinical studies of Zactima in the NCIC CTG announced it would now combination with chemotherapy agents, Results from the Phase III ZETA study in investigate Recentin at 20mg plus docetaxel ZODIAC and pemetrexed ZEAL, hereditary and sporadic medullary thyroid carboplatin paclitaxel versus carboplatin and one monotherapy clinical study ZEST in cancer are expected in the second quarter paclitaxel alone in the BR29 study, which is pre-treated advanced NSCLC.
The observed of 2009. expected to start recruitment in early 2009. safety profile in these three Phase III studies was consistent with previous studies with The anti-cancer activity of Zactima continues Encouraging Phase II data for Recentin Zactima in NSCLC.
to be evaluated in NSCLC and other tumour from completed and continuing studies to types, including colorectal, glioma, head and investigate renal, rGBM, ovarian and prostate Results from the ZODIAC and ZEAL studies neck, breast and prostate cancers.
cancers were also presented in 2008. showed advantages for Zactima in combination with standard chemotherapy, compared to Recentin cediranib is a highly potent and ZD4054 is an oral once-daily potent and chemotherapy alone.
The addition of Zactima selective-inhibitor of vascular endothelial cell specific endothelin A-receptor antagonist in to chemotherapy prolonged PFS, the primary growth factor VEGF receptor signalling in Phase III development.
Data from Phase II endpoint, which achieved statistical solid tumours, which inhibits all three VEGF studies suggested that ZD4054 10mg has significance in the ZODIAC study, but not in receptors irrespective of activating ligand, the potential to increase median overall the smaller ZEAL study.
Clinical benefits were survival time by approximately seven months and is suitable for once-daily oral dosing.
It is seen in secondary endpoints.
Both studies currently in Phase III development in first-line in men with metastatic hormone-resistant showed that adding Zactima to chemotherapy colorectal cancer CRC and recurrent prostate cancer HRPC, with the benefit of significantly improved objective response rate, glioblastoma rGBM.
a generally well-tolerated side effect profile which is a measurement of tumour shrinkage.
The Additionally, positive trends in prolonging Phase III ENTHUSE studies are investigating ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 66 efficacy in metastatic HRPC, both as patients suffering from certain lymphomas Faslodex sales were up 12% with a 5% monotherapy and in combination with and leukaemias.
Exclusive rights to develop increase in the US and 18% in other markets.
docetaxel, and in non-metastatic HRPC.
and commercialise blinatumomab in North America have been granted from Micromet.
pERFoRmANCE 2007 In December 2008, we ceased our Reported performance collaboration with Infinity Pharmaceuticals for The US Phase I programme with Oncology sales increased by 13% to reach the development and commercialisation of blinatumomab was suspended during 2008 $4,819 million in 2007, compared with Infinitys drug candidates IPI-504 MEDI-561 in order to make appropriate modifications $4,262 million in 2006. and IPI-493 for the treatment of cancer and to the dosing regimen based on preliminary related conditions.
This decision was taken results from the EU studies.
Performance CER growth rates after reviewing the potential opportunity for Oncology sales grew by 8% at CER.
Arimidex these projects and to take account of FuRTHER INFoRmATIoN sales reached $1,730 million, up 10%.
In the competing R&D investment priorities.
US, sales of Arimidex rose by 13% to In April 2008, Sun Pharmaceuticals launched $694 million.
Total prescriptions for Arimidex Our early oncology pipeline includes a range generic amifostine in the US.
In response, increased nearly 5.3% compared with 1.3% of novel compounds that target signalling we extended an agreement with Bedford growth in the market for hormonal treatments pathways believed to be pivotal in cancer cell Laboratories to launch an authorised generic for breast cancer.
Arimidex sales in other growth, invasion DNA repair and survival, amifostine for oncology in the US.
We have markets increased by 8% to $1,036 million.
with nine products in Phase II and 15 others ceased all active promotion of branded Ethyol Sales for the full year were up 6% in Western in Phase I development.
Phase II data from in the US.
We have an active infringement Europe and increased 9% in Japan.
AZD6244, a potent MEK inhibitor licensed action against Sun Pharmaceuticals regarding from Array BioPharma, showed biological certain Ethyol patents.
Casodex sales increased by 6% to activity in lung cancer and melanoma and $1,335 million.
Sales in the US for the full studies will now focus on its use in combination Abraxane, discovered, developed and year were up 1% to $298 million.
Sales in with standard and other novel therapies, owned by Abraxis, uses a novel technology other markets, which accounted for more rather than its development as monotherapy.
to deliver paclitaxel for the treatment of than 75% of product sales, were up 8%, Phase II studies with the  cancer.
During 2008, we co-promoted on 6% growth in Western Europe and 13% polymerase PARP inhibitor AZD2281 have Abraxane in the US under an agreement sales growth in Japan.
started and will initially focus on BRCA-mutated with Abraxis.
In November 2008, we entered breast and ovarian cancer as well as other into an agreement with Abraxis under which Iressa sales were unchanged for the full year.
cancers where DNA repair could be defective.
Abraxis re-acquired exclusive rights to market Sales in Japan increased 4% for the year: Abraxane in the US.
Under the agreement, sales in China were up 24%.
The dual-specific Src Abl kinase inhibitor, the board of Abraxis parent ended the AZD0530, has shown a dramatic effect on Co-Promotion Agreement.
Upon termination, Faslodex sales increased 10% to $214 million biomarkers of cell motility and bone resorption Abraxis will pay AstraZeneca a $268 million for the full year, on growth of 3% in the US and has started Phase II studies in ovarian fee on 31 March 2009. and 18% sales growth in other markets.
cancer with others to follow.
Among the compounds from the early portfolio continuing FINANCIAl pERFoRmANCE 2008 2007 in development are AZD4877, a novel inhibitor of cell cycle: AZD7762, a tumour-selective pERFoRmANCE 2008 chemosensitiser: and AZD8931.
AZD1152, Reported performance an aurora kinase inhibitor, has shown activity Sales in Oncology increased by 3% on a in acute myelogenous leukaemia and will reported basis to $4,954 million up from commence Phase II III studies in 2009.
We are also developing potential new cancer treatments using biological approaches with Performance CER growth rates highly defined molecular targets for patient Sales in the Oncology therapy area were populations with unmet medical needs.
Arimidex sales were up 4% to $1,857 million.
In the US, Arimidex sales CAT-8015 is an immunotoxin fusion protein were up 9% to $754 million.
In other markets, that targets CD22, which is a receptor sales increased by 1% to $1,103 million.
expressed on the surface of a wide variety of B-cell malignancies.
CAT-8015 has orphan Casodex sales decreased by 12% to $1,258 drug designation for hairy cell leukaemia in million, with sales in the US down by 2% and the US and EU.
In 2008, the enrolment for sales in other markets down by 15%.
studies continued in the CAT-8015 Phase I development programme.
Iressa sales for the year were up 3% as growth in China and other Emerging Markets more Blinatumomab MEDI-538 is a recombinant than offset the 3% decline in sales in Japan.
single-chain bi-specific T-cell engager BiTE molecule that is being studied for use in certain ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
