70 OTHER BUSINESSES ASTRA TECH ApTIum oNColoGY Astra Tech is engaged in the research, For more than 25 years, Aptium Oncology development, manufacture and marketing has been developing and managing of medical devices and implants for use hospital-based outpatient cancer centres in healthcare, primarily in urology, surgery in the US.
Its distinctive and comprehensive and odontology.
It has a leading position in approach to cancer care incorporates all several countries in Europe and is expanding outpatient oncology and ancillary services in its operations in key markets, particularly in a single facility for maximum patient comfort the US, Japan and South East Asia.
All product lines showed continued good Ownership of Aptium Oncology gives us a sales growth in 2008.
In pursuit of its growth unique window to the provider sector of the strategy for Astra Tech Dental, the sales and US oncology market and, through Aptium marketing organisation for dental implants Oncologys network of over 160 physicians, was further expanded during the year.
Despite access to many opinion leaders in the field of the downturn in the world economy, which oncology who can help shape early phase negatively impacted business in the US, drug development decisions.
It is also involved strong sales growth was achieved in major in clinical trial delivery for a number of our European countries as well as North America pipeline products and provides scientific and Astra Tech increased its market share in advice and staff training for oncology teams.
The economic slowdown is expected to continue to adversely impact In 2008, Aptium Oncology continued to demand in 2009. perform well in its cancer centre management business with positive profit and cash flow In March 2008 a Regional Office for South contributions.
Focused on growth, Aptium East Asia was established in Malaysia, in Oncology continued to invest in sales and order to provide an improved support and marketing.
The resulting expansion of its service to our customers in the region.
consultancy business is creating new Atlantis, which was acquired in 2007 and has opportunities for management relationships provided Astra Tech with a new platform for in new markets in the US, with growing development within digital dentistry is offering interest from international sources.
an important opportunity for continued growth for the dental implants product line.
Clinical research is an integral part of care During the year a European manufacturing delivery at Aptium Oncologys affiliated facility for Atlantis products was built at the cancer centres.
In 2008, the company companys headquarters site in Mlndal.
established the Aptium Oncology GI Cancer Production started in October to supply Consortium, bringing together eight leading all European markets.
US academic institutions that will collaborate to speed the process of finding and testing The Astra Tech Training and Education active new compounds for patients with Program has been further developed and in gastrointestinal cancers.
combination with its state-of-the-art Centre for Training and Education at its headquarters, advanced international education programmes and seminars are now being offered to existing and potential customers.
Further investments have been made in R&D, clinical research and new production facilities to strengthen the product portfolio.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
