ADDITIONAL INfOrmATION COrPOrATE INfOrmATION 197 hISToRy ANd dEvElopmENT The quorum for meetings of the Board of ACTIoN NECESSARy To ChANgE ThE RIghTS oF ThE CompANy Directors is a majority of the full Board, of oF ShAREholdERS whom at least four must be Non-Executive In order to vary the rights attached to any AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in England Directors.
In the absence of a quorum, the class of shares, the consent in writing of the and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the Directors do not have power to determine holders of three quarters in nominal value of Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited compensation arrangements for themselves the issued shares of that class or the sanction company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys or any member of the Board.
of an extraordinary resolution passed at a registered number is 2723534 and its general meeting of such holders is required.
registered office is at 15 Stanhope Gate, The Board of Directors may exercise all the London W1K 1LN telephone 44 0 20 powers of the Company to borrow money.
From February 1993 until April Variation of these borrowing powers would Annual general meetings and other general 1999, the Company was called Zeneca require the passing of a special resolution meetings, as from time to time may be Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, the Company of the Companys shareholders.
required, where a special resolution is to changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
be passed or a Director is to be appointed All Directors must retire from office at the require 21 clear days notice to shareholders.
The Company was formed when the Companys AGM each year and may present All other general meetings require 14 clear pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty themselves for re-election.
chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical not prohibited, upon reaching a particular Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. age, from submitting themselves for election For all general meetings, a quorum of two In 1999, the Company sold the specialty or re-election.
shareholders present in person or by proxy, chemical business.
Also in 1999, the Company and entitled to vote on the business merged with Astra AB of Sweden.
In 2000, Within two months of the date of appointment, transacted, is required.
it demerged the agrochemical business and Directors are required to beneficially own merged it with the similar agribusiness of Ordinary Shares in the Company of an Shareholders and their duly appointed Novartis AG to form a new company called aggregate nominal amount of $125, which proxies and corporate representatives are Syngenta AG.
currently represents at least 500 shares.
entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
The Company owns and operates numerous RIghTS, pREFERENCES ANd RESTRICTIoNS lImITATIoNS oN ThE RIghTS To owN ShARES R&D, production and marketing facilities ATTAChINg To ShARES There are no limitations on the rights to worldwide.
Its corporate headquarters are The share capital of the Company is divided own shares.
into 2,400,000,000 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of $0.25 each and 50,000 mEmoRANdum ANd ARTIClES Redeemable Preference Shares with a nominal oF ASSoCIATIoN value of 1.00 each.
The rights and restrictions attaching to the Redeemable Preference objECTS Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary As is typical of companies registered in Shares as follows: England and Wales, the Companys objects, which are detailed in the Memorandum of The Redeemable Preference Shares carry Association, are broad and wide-ranging no rights to receive dividends.
and include manufacturing, distributing and trading pharmaceutical products.
The holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices Any amendment to the Companys Articles of, attend or vote at general meetings of Association requires the approval of except in certain limited circumstances.
shareholders at a general meeting of They have one vote for every 50,000 the Company.
dIRECToRS On a distribution of assets of the Company, The Board has the authority to manage the on a winding-up or other return of capital business of the Company, through powers subject to certain exceptions, the holders such as authorising the Company to allot and of Redeemable Preference Shares have re-purchase its shares.
However, subject to priority over the holders of Ordinary certain exceptions, Directors do not have Shares to receive the capital paid up on power to vote at Board meetings on matters those shares.
in which they have a material interest.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the Company has the right to redeem the Redeemable Preference Shares at any time on giving not less than seven days written notice.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
