54 CARDIOVAsCULAR 2008 IN BRIEF ouR STRATEGIC oBJECTIvE atherosclerosis indication in the US which is not limited by disease severity or restricted to Crestor sales up 26% to $3.6 billion and Backed by over 40 years experience, patients with coronary heart disease.
Crestor is now approved in every EU country.
AstraZeneca is a world leader in cardiovascular Crestor study demonstrates significant reduction CV medicines.
We aim to build on our Atacand, first launched in 1997, is approved in major cardiovascular events 44% compared strong position, focusing on the growth areas for the treatment of hypertension in over 100 to placebo in men and women with elevated of atherosclerosis hardening of the arteries, countries and for symptomatic heart failure in hsCRP but low normal cholesterol levels.
thrombosis blood clotting, diabetes and over 70 countries.
Angiotensin II antagonists Atacand sales up 10% to $1.5 billion.
are the fastest growing sector of the global Worldwide collaboration with Bristol-Myers hypertension market.
Available as a once Squibb to develop and commercialise dapagliflozin expanded to include Japan.
HypERTENSIoN, ATHERoSClERoSIS a day tablet, launches of the 32mg dosage ANd dySlIpIdAEmIA strength outside the US continued during US submission for fixed dose combination of Crestor and Abbotts Trilipix, for the treatment the year, and this dosage is now available of mixed dyslypidaemia, anticipated for third High blood pressure hypertension and in most Established Markets.
In July 2008, quarter 2009. abnormal levels of blood cholesterol we sought approval in Europe for two dose Toprol-XL US sales down 70% for the full year.
dyslipidaemia are well known to damage the strengths of Atacand Plus candesartan arterial wall and thereby lead to atherosclerosis.
cilexetil hydrochlorothiazide which is a fixed ouR mARKETEd pRoduCTS CV events driven by atherosclerotic disease combination of Atacand and the diuretic 1 remain the leading cause of death in the hydrochlorothiazide HCTZ, indicated for Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is a statin for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and hypercholesterolemia, western world.
Lipid-modifying therapy, the treatment of hypertension in patients and to slow the progression of atherosclerosis.
primarily statins, is a cornerstone of treating who need more than monotherapy.
2 Atacand candesartan cilexetil is an angiotensin II atherosclerotic risk.
Within the lipid-modifying antagonist for the first-line treatment of hypertension market, generics are taking a significant share Clinical trial developments and symptomatic heart failure.
of the market and it is anticipated that generic GALAXY, our long-term global clinical research Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate is a once atorvastatin will be available late 2011.
Recent programme for Crestor investigating links daily tablet for 24-hour control of hypertension and studies of some competitor products created between optimal lipid control, atherosclerosis for use in heart failure and angina.
uncertainty about clinical efficacy leading and CV morbidity and mortality, has completed Tenormin atenolol is a cardioselective betato reduced sales of these products, whilst a number of studies involving over 69,000 blocker for hypertension, angina pectoris and other cardiovascular disorders.
AstraZenecas study see below provided patients in over 55 countries.
3 positive data on the effect of rosuvastatin.
Zestril lisinopril dihydrate, an ACE inhibitor, is used for the treatment of a wide range of cardiovascular Data from the latest study, JUPITER, published diseases, including hypertension.
ouR FoCuS in November 2008, demonstrated that Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist for the Our key marketed products Crestor 20mg significantly reduced major CV treatment of hypertension and angina.
Since its launch in 2003, our statin, Crestor, events defined in this study as the combined 1 has continued to gain market share, based on risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, arterial Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd. 2 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals Industries Ltd. its differentiated profile in managing cholesterol revascularisation, hospitalisation for unstable 3 Licensed from Merck & Co. Inc. levels and its unique recent label indication angina, or death from CV causes by 44% for treating atherosclerotic disease.
Following compared to placebo among men and women new approvals during 2008 in Germany, with elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein THERApy AREA WoRld mARKET mAT q3 08 Spain, Poland, Norway and Malta, Crestor hsCRP and other risk factors but low to is now approved in every EU country.
Results also showed $ BILLION that for patients taking Crestor, the combined 51.7 HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE Less than half of the people thought to risk of heart attack, stroke or CV death was 34.9 ABNORMAL LEVELS OF BLOOD CHOLESTEROL have high levels of low-density lipoprotein reduced by nearly half, risk of heart attack 26.1 DIABETES cholesterol LDL-C bad cholesterol get was cut by more than half, risk of stroke 21.8 THROMBOSIS diagnosed and treated and of those people, was cut by nearly half and total mortality was 20.9 OTHER only about half reach their physicians significantly reduced by 20%.
Crestor 20mg recommended cholesterol target using existing was well tolerated in nearly 9,000 patients CV is the single largest therapy area in the global treatments.
Crestor is the most effective statin during the course of the study.
There was no healthcare market.
World market value of $155 billion.
in lowering LDL-C and the majority of patients difference between treatment groups for major CV disease remains the greatest risk to life for most adults, reach their LDL-C goals using the usual 10mg adverse events, including cancer or myopathy.
accounting for 17 million deaths worldwide each year.
In the US, 21 million people suffer from diabetes and two in five starting dose.
Crestor also produces an There was a small increase in physician people with diabetes still have poor cholesterol control, one in increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol reported diabetes consistent with data from three have poor blood pressure and one in five have poor HDL-C good cholesterol, across a range other large placebo controlled statin trials.
At its usual 10mg starting dose, Crestor has been shown, versus placebo, GISSI-HF, an investigator sponsored study to reduce LDL-C by up to 52% and raise published in September 2008, evaluated HDL-C by up to 14% with eight out of 10 Crestor 10mg and placebo in a heart failure patients reaching their lipid goals.
population and confirmed the results of our CORONA study in showing no difference In the US, Crestor is also approved for use as between the treatments in the primary an adjunct to diet for slowing the progression endpoints of death or CV hospitalisation in of atherosclerosis in patients with elevated patients with heart failure, over and above cholesterol.
Crestor is the only statin with an optimised heart failure treatment.
In both belonging to the novel class of sodiumstudies, outcome events appeared to be The number of people affected by Type 2 glucose cotransporter 2 SGLT2 inhibitors.
driven primarily by heart muscle failure rather diabetes continues to grow, driven by obesity It is selective and designed to be used both as than ischemic events where statins would be in western markets.
Type 2 diabetes is a monotherapy and in combination with other expected to have an effect.
chronic progressive disease and patients therapies for Type 2 diabetes.
Phase IIb data often require multiple medications to control demonstrated that, when compared with a Ongoing studies of Crestor include SATURN, their condition.
There are a number of placebo, 12 weeks treatment with dapagliflozin which is designed to measure the impact established oral generic and branded classes, improved blood glucose parameters, resulted of Crestor 40mg and atorvastatin Lipitor such as sulfonylureas and thiazolidinediones in weight loss and was well tolerated in patients 80mg on the progression of atherosclerosis TZDs, however, newer classes, such as with Type 2 diabetes.
An extensive Phase III in high-risk patients and is expected to report oral dipeptidyl peptidase-IV DPP-IV are programme is ongoing.
AURORA, an outcomes study in entering the market successfully by offering patients with end stage renal disease is effective blood sugar control and improved Our activities in the GKA glucokinase expected to present data by mid 2009. tolerability.
Several new classes of drugs activator area continued during 2008, are in development in this area.
The safety and clinical studies in Phase II are ongoing.
The clinical programme DIRECT investigating of anti-diabetic drugs continues to be an The GKA mechanism of action induces the effect of Atacand up to 32mg dosage on important focus of regulatory agencies and insulin release from the pancreas and reduces retinopathy in hypertensive and normotensive additional patient safety requirements for glucose output from the liver, with marked diabetic patients completed in 2008 but failed new medicines can be anticipated.
blood glucose reducing effects in situations to meet the primary endpoint.
were published in September 2008. ouR FoCuS In 2007, AstraZeneca and Bristol-Myers Squibb We also progressed our AZD4017 11-HDS In the pipeline BMS announced the collaboration on a inhibitor project into early clinical testing We continue the search for the next major worldwide basis excluding Japan to develop which aims to increase insulin sensitivity therapy to reduce atherosclerotic risk.
and commercialise two compounds discovered and thereby induce better glycaemic control In collaboration with Abbott, we are developing by BMS saxagliptin and dapagliflozin being with potential beneficial effects also on body a fixed dose combination of Crestor and studied for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes.
Abbotts Trilipix and are anticipating a US The development and commercial strategy submission in the third quarter of 2009. for the two compounds is agreed jointly We have stopped work on cannabinoid with BMS.
In December 2008, AstraZeneca receptor 1 inhibitors because the The combination of Crestor a statin and and BMS announced the extension of their tolerability profile of these inhibitors was Trilipix a fibrate is a potential new approach collaboration to include dapagliflozin in Japan.
to helping patients with mixed dyslipidaemia achieve their treatment goals using a single During 2008, AstraZeneca and BMS submitted In July 2008, AstraZeneca and Columbia capsule targeting all three major blood lipids: a New Drug Application to the FDA and University Medical Center announced a LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglycerides.
Study received the validation of a Marketing strategic research collaboration to develop results presented in 2008 showed that the Authorisation Application to the European novel therapeutics for Type 2 diabetes and combination of Crestor and Trilipix provides Medicines Agency for saxagliptin Onglyza.
The research will focus on discovering greater benefit across multiple lipid parameters Onglyza was specifically designed to be mechanisms and identifying new biological than monotherapy, with significantly improved a selective inhibitor with extended binding targets for successful and commercially HDL-C and triglycerides compared to statin to the DPP-IV enzyme, with dual routes of viable treatments for these diseases.
therapy alone, and significantly improved clearance.
Phase III data published during LDL-C compared to Trilipix alone.
2007 and 2008 showed improved glycaemic control when assessed as a monotherapy, We have stopped work on cholesterol as well as when assessed in combination absorption inhibitors because of failure with metformin, sulfonylureas and TZDs.
to meet target product profiles.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 56 ARRHyTHmIA ANd THRomBoSIS FuRTHER INFoRmATIoN Toprol-XL and authorised generic sales of the drug in the US were down 70% for the full Atrial fibrillation AF is the most common In December 2007, we filed patent year to $295 million.
For the full year, Seloken cardiac arrhythmia.
Rhythm-control therapy infringement actions against seven generic sales in the Rest of World were up 1% to to control the symptoms of AF is dominated drug manufacturers in the US following $512 million.
by generic amiodarone, which is effective at receipt of notices of their intent to market maintaining patients in normal heart rhythm, generic copies of Crestor before the 2016 US sales for Atacand for the full year increased but very poorly tolerated.
There remains an expiry of our licensed patent covering the 1% to $262 million.
Sales in other markets unmet need for a safe and tolerated therapy active ingredient in Crestor.
In July 2008, were up 12% to $1,209 million, on a 10% with effective symptom relief.
Two competitor we filed a patent infringement action against increase in Established Markets and an 18% products are in late development for use in AF Teva Pharmaceuticals in the US following increase in Emerging Markets.
and recent data from an outcome study of one receipt of its notice of its intent to market of them versus placebo in AF patients showed generic copies of Crestor before the 2016 pERFoRmANCE 2007 clinical benefit in addition to symptom relief expiry of our licensed patent covering the Reported performance the first time for an anti-arrhythmic agent.
These eight cases CV sales rose by 9% from $6,118 million in are proceeding as a consolidated action in 2006 to $6,686 million in 2007.
Continued Patients surviving an acute coronary event US District Court, District of Delaware.
strong growth from Crestor more than offset are at increased risk from further thrombosis the significant declines in Seloken Toprol-XL.
and treatment guidelines advocate anti-platelet Also in the US, Teva Pharmaceuticals therapy.
New guidelines issued in 2007 by Tevas Israeli parent company filed a patent Performance CER growth rates the European Society of Cardiology for the infringement lawsuit concerning Crestor on CV sales grew by 5% at CER.
Crestor sales treatment of acute coronary syndrome ACS, 6 October 2008.
Teva alleges that Crestor increased by 33% to $2,796 million.
In the have highlighted the negative consequences tablets infringe a recently re-issued Teva US US, Crestor sales for the full year were of drug induced bleeding in conjunction with patent that claims stabilised pharmaceutical $1,424 million, a 24% increase over 2006. the treatment of ACS, reinforcing the need for compounds.
Total prescriptions in the US statin market new anti-thrombosis drugs with acceptable increased 8% for the year: Crestor prescriptions bleeding risk.
AstraZeneca has full confidence in its Crestor were up 22%.
Sales outside the US for the product and the intellectual property protecting full year increased 45% to $1,372 million, During the year, two new anti-coagulants it, and will vigorously defend and enforce it.
nearly half the total worldwide sales for the dabigatran and rivaroxaban were approved product.
Sales were up 26% in Western in Europe for use in prevention of deep vein Further information is set out in Note 25 to Europe with good growth in France and Italy.
thrombosis in conjunction with orthopaedic the Financial Statements on page 148.
No Phase III data are yet available for the ability of new anti-coagulants to prevent FINANCIAl pERFoRmANCE 2008 2007 Global sales of Seloken Toprol-XL fell by 22% strokes in AF, the major chronic indication to $1,438 million.
US sales of the Toprol-XL for anti-coagulants, without the risks and pERFoRmANCE 2008 product range, which includes sales of the repeated monitoring of warfarin or other Reported performance authorised generic were down 30% for the vitamin K antagonists.
CV sales were up 4% as reported to full year, as the full range of dosage strengths $6,963 million 2007: $6,686 million.
Strong were subject to generic competition from ouR FoCuS growth from Crestor, fuelled by the promotion August 2007.
Sales of Seloken in other markets In the pipeline of the atherosclerosis indication and increased were up 5% for the full year as a result of Brilinta ticagrelor AZD6140, the first reversible, sales of Atacand offset the continuing growth in Emerging Markets.
oral, adenosine diphosphate ADP receptor significant declines in Seloken Toprol-XL.
antagonist, is being developed to reduce Atacand sales in the US were unchanged the risk of blood clots and thrombotic events Performance CER growth rates for the full year whilst sales in other markets in patients diagnosed with ACS.
Ticagrelor CV sales were unchanged from 2007 increased 12%.
is currently being studied in the Phase III at CER.
Crestor sales increased by 26% PLATO clinical trial, involving over 18,000 to $3,597 million.
US sales for Crestor for the Continued small declines were seen in Zestril ACS patients in 43 countries, to determine full year increased by 18% to $1,678 million.
down 10% to $295 million and Plendil down if it is superior to clopidogrel for reducing the Crestor total prescription share in the US 7% to $271 million, with general global falls risk of thrombotic events in ACS patients.
statin market increased to 9.9% in December compensated by increases in discrete markets.
2008 from 8.6% in December 2007, and was The effectiveness of AZD0837 an oral, direct the only branded statin to gain market share.
thrombin inhibitor in preventing strokes and Crestor sales in the Rest of World were up other embolic events in AF patients will be 34% for the full year to $1,919 million, over half studied in more than 35 countries, using of global sales for the product.
Sales were up a once-daily extended release formulation that 16% in Western Europe to $836 million and provides sustained anti-coagulation effect 93% in Japan driving sales growth in the throughout the dosing interval.
We anticipate Established Markets and the Rest of World starting these Phase III studies in 2009. up 33% in total.
Sales in Emerging Markets increased by 41%.
Our lead compound in the treatment of AF is AZD1305, a combined ion channel blocker, which has progressed into Phase IIa testing in both the IV and oral form.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
