Critical Accounting Estimates The Group prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS For mobile businesses where the first five years of the ten year management plan as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS as adopted are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long term growth rate into by the European Union, the application of which often requires judgements to perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: be made by management when formulating the Groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are required to adopt those accounting policies the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and most appropriate to the Groups circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the long term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten of the the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often required For mobile businesses where the full ten year management plans are used for in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or the Groups value in use calculations, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported results or net been determined as the lower of: asset position of the Group should it later be determined that a different choice would be more appropriate.
the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions discussed management plan.
below to be its critical accounting estimates and, accordingly, provides an explanation of each below.
For non-mobile businesses, no growth is expected beyond managements plans for the initial five year period.
The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the Groups disclosure of significant IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note 2 Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant accounting policies.
rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly affect the Groups impairment evaluation and, hence, results.
Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures with the Companys Audit Committee.
The Groups review includes the key assumptions related to sensitivity in the cash flow projections.
Impairment reviews The following changes to the assumptions used in the impairment review would Asset recoverability is an area involving management judgement, requiring have led to an impairment loss being recognised in the year ended 31 March 2008: assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using cash flow Increase Decrease projections which have been discounted at an appropriate rate.
In calculating by 2% by 2% the net present value of the future cash flows, certain assumptions are required bn bn Discount rate 0.3 to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters, as noted below.
1 Budgeted EBITDA 0.2 2 Capital expenditure IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of indefinite lived assets and, for finite lived assets, to test for impairment if events or Long term growth rate changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not Notes: be recoverable.
Group management currently undertakes an annual impairment 1 Represents the compound annual growth rate for the initial five years of the Groups approved test covering goodwill and other indefinite lived assets and also reviews finite financial plans.
2 Represents capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue in the initial five years of the lived assets and investments in associated undertakings at least annually to Groups approved plans.
consider whether a full impairment review is required.
Assumptions Business combinations There are a number of assumptions and estimates involved in calculating the net Goodwill only arises in business combinations.
The amount of goodwill initially present value of future cash flows from the Groups businesses, including recognised is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value managements expectations of: of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
The determination growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, and amortisation: on managements judgement.
timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: uncertainty of future technological developments: Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite lived long term growth rates: and intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including the selection of discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
goodwill, are not amortised and could result in differing amortisation charges based on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite lived intangible assets.
The Group prepares and internally approves formal ten year plans for its businesses and uses these as the basis for its impairment reviews.
Management On the acquisition of mobile network operators, the identifiable intangible uses the initial five years of the plans, except in markets which are forecast to assets may include licences, customer bases and brands.
The fair value of these grow ahead of the long term growth rate for the market.
In such cases, further assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated years will be used until the forecast growth rate trends towards the long term by the asset, assuming no active market for the assets exist.
The use of different growth rate, up to a maximum of ten years.
assumptions for the expectations of future cash flows and the discount rate would change the valuation of the intangible assets.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 85 Vodafone Financials Critical Accounting Estimates continued On transition to IFRS, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business Capitalised software Combinations, retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements The useful life is determined by management at the time the software is acquired to the large number of business combinations completed by the Group from and brought into use and is regularly reviewed for appropriateness.
For computer incorporation through to 1 April 2004 exceeded any potential benefits.
Goodwill software licences, the useful life represents managements view of expected arising before the date of transition to IFRS, after adjusting for items including benefits over which the Group will receive benefits from the software, but not the impact of proportionate consolidation of joint ventures, amounted to exceeding the licence term.
For unique software products controlled by the Group, 78,753 million.
the life is based on historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events, which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
If the Group had elected to apply the accounting for business combinations retrospectively, it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill and Historically, changes in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the increase in licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax liabilities Groups amortisation charge.
Property, plant and equipment Intangible assets, excluding goodwill Property, plant and equipment also represent a significant proportion of the asset Other intangible assets include the Groups aggregate amounts spent on the base of the Group, being 13.1% 2007: 12.3% of the Groups total assets.
Therefore, acquisition of 2G and 3G licences, computer software, customer bases, brands and the estimates and assumptions made to determine their carrying value and related development costs.
These assets arise from both separate purchases and from depreciation are critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
acquisition as part of business combinations.
Estimation of useful life The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives critical to the Groups financial estimate of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at the position and performance.
Increasing an assets expected life or its residual value would result in a reduced depreciation charge in the Consolidated Income Statement.
At 31 March 2008, intangible assets, excluding goodwill, amounted to 18,995 million 2007: 15,705 million and represented 14.9% 2007: 14.3% of the The useful lives of Group assets are determined by management at the time the Groups total assets.
asset is acquired and reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation of future events, Estimation of useful life which may impact their life, such as changes in technology.
Furthermore, network The useful life used to amortise intangible assets relates to the future performance infrastructure is only depreciated over a period that extends beyond the expiry of the assets acquired and managements judgement of the period over which of the associated licence under which the operator provides telecommunications economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
The basis for determining the services, if there is a reasonable expectation of renewal or an alternative future use useful life for the most significant categories of intangible assets is as follows: for the asset.
Licences and spectrum fees Historically, changes in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the The estimated useful life is, generally, the term of the licence, unless there is a Groups depreciation charge.
presumption of renewal at negligible cost.
Using the licence term reflects the period over which the Group will receive economic benefit.
For technology Cost capitalisation specific licences with a presumption of renewal at negligible cost, the estimated Cost includes the total purchase price and labour costs associated with the useful economic life reflects the Groups expectation of the period over which the Groups own employees to the extent that they are directly attributable to Group will continue to receive economic benefit from the licence.
The economic construction costs, or where they comprise a proportion of a department directly lives are periodically reviewed, taking into consideration such factors as changes engaged in the purchase or installation of a fixed asset.
Historically, any changes to economic lives have not been material is involved in determining the appropriate internal costs to capitalise and the following these reviews.
For the year ended 31 March 2008, internal costs capitalised were 245 million 2007: 244 million and represented approximately 5% 2007: Customer bases 6% of expenditure on property, plant and equipment and computer software.
The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the average economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn rates.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the estimated useful life and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Historically, changes to the estimated useful lives have not had a significant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
86 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Taxation Arrangements with multiple deliverables In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the arrangement The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and consideration is allocated to each deliverable based on the fair value of the deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily individual element.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly sold on a tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been reached with standalone basis, after considering volume discounts where appropriate.
the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or Deferral period cash flow variances.
See Financial Position and Resources on page 54.
Customer connection fees, when combined with related equipment revenue, in excess of the fair value of the equipment are deferred and recognised over the The complexity of the Groups structure following its geographic expansion makes expected life of the customer relationship.
The life is determined by reference the degree of estimation and judgement more challenging.
The resolution of to historical customer churn rates.
An increase in churn rates would reduce the issues is not always within the control of the Group and it is often dependent expected customer relationship life and accelerate revenue recognition.
on the efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in Historically, changes to the expected customer relationship lives have not had which the Group operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
a significant impact on the Groups results and financial position.
Payments in respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be Any excess upgrade or tariff migration fees over the fair value of equipment substantial differences between the tax charge in the Consolidated Income provided are deferred over the average upgrade or tariff migration period Statement and tax payments.
This time period is calculated based on historical activity of customers who upgrade or change tariffs.
An increase in the time period would Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement include extend the period over which revenue is recognised.
a provision in respect of an enquiry from UK HMRC with regard to the CFC tax legislation see note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, potential tax Presentation losses in respect of a write down in the value of investments in Germany see note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and litigation with the Indian tax When deciding the most appropriate basis for presenting revenue or costs of authorities in relation to the acquisition of Vodafone Essar see note 32 to the revenue, both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated and its business partners are reviewed to determine each partys respective role in Financial Statements in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best the transaction.
estimation and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of principal, revenue is recognised regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could differ from on a gross basis.
This requires revenue to comprise the gross value of the the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
transaction billed to the customer, after trade discounts, with any related expenditure charged as an operating cost.
Recognition of deferred tax assets The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more likely Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of an agent, revenue is recognised than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the future, on a net basis, with revenue representing the margin earned.
against which the reversal of temporary differences can be deducted.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised.
Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not resulted in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Revenue recognition and presentation Revenue from mobile telecommunications comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime charges, messaging, the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, including data services and information provision, fees for connecting users of other fixed line and mobile networks to the Groups network, revenue from the sale of equipment, including handsets, and revenue arising from the Groups partner network agreements.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 87
