Directors Statement of Responsibility Financial statements and accounting records The Companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, Company law of England and Wales requires the directors to prepare financial accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary permit the affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, and that receipts and expenditures the directors are required to: are being made only in accordance with authorisation of management and the directors of the Company: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
state whether the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU: Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, has inherent state for the Company Financial Statements whether applicable UK accounting limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or standards have been followed: and overriding of the controls and procedures, and may not prevent or detect prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or because the degree of compliance with the policies The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which or procedures may deteriorate.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial Management has assessed the effectiveness of the internal control over financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU IAS reporting at 31 March 2008 based on the Internal Control Integrated Framework, Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for taking Commission COSO.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Management has not evaluated the internal controls of Vodacom Group Pty Limited Vodacom, which is accounted for using proportionate consolidation Directors responsibility statement and the conclusion regarding the effectiveness of internal control over financial The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: reporting does not extend to the internal controls of Vodacom.
Management is unable to assess the effectiveness of internal control at Vodacom due to the fact the Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as that it does not have the ability to dictate or modify its controls and does not have issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view the ability, in practice, to assess those controls.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and Key sub-totals that result from the proportionate consolidation of Vodacom, performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with whose internal controls have not been assessed, are set out below.
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Vodacom 2008 m Neither the Company nor the directors accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent that such liability could arise Total assets 1,093 Net assets 400 under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined Revenue 1,609 Profit for the financial year 260 in accordance with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Management is not required to evaluate the internal controls of entities Disclosure of information to auditors accounted for under the equity method.
Accordingly, the internal controls of these entities, which contributed a net profit of 2,876 million 2007: 2,728 Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, there is million to the profit 2007: loss for the financial year, have not been assessed, no relevant audit information as defined by Section 234ZA of the Companies except relating to controls over the recording of amounts relating to the Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and the directors have investments that are recorded in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware During the period covered by this Annual Report, there were no changes in the of that information.
Companys internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness of the internal Going concern controls over financial reporting.
After reviewing the Groups and the Companys budget for the next financial year, Based on managements assessment, management has concluded that the and other longer term plans, the directors are satisfied that, at the time of internal control over financial reporting was effective at 31 March 2008. approving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Companys internal control over financial reporting, as at 31 March 2008, has been audited by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public Managements report on internal control over accounting firm, who also audit the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
Their audit report on internal controls over financial reporting is on page 84. financial reporting As required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management By Order of the Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Group.
Stephen Scott Secretary 27 May 2008 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 83
