Vodafone Governance Board of Directors and Group Management 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Directors and senior management 4.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 49, joined the Board in July 2005.
Andy joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK The business of the Company is managed by its board of directors the Board.
operating company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for Vodafones Biographical details of the directors and senior management at the date of this Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
In 2002, he was appointed Chief report are as follows: Financial Officer of Verizon Wireless in the US and is currently a member of the Board of Representatives of the Verizon Wireless partnership.
Prior to joining Board of directors Vodafone, he was Group Finance Director at East Midlands Electricity Plc.
Andy Chairman holds a bachelors degree in Industrial Economics from Nottingham University 1.
Sir John Bond, aged 66, became Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc in July and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
2006, having previously served as a non-executive director of the Board, and is Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Sir John is a nonDeputy Chairman and senior independent director executive director of Ford Motor Company, USA, and A. P. Mller Mrsk A S 5.
John Buchanan, aged 64, became Deputy Chairman and senior independent and is a director of Shui On Land Limited Hong Kong SAR.
He retired from the director in July 2006 and has been a member of the Board since April 2003. position of Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in May 2006, after 45 years He retired from the board of directors of BP Plc in 2002 after six years as Group of service.
Other previous roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and director Chief Financial Officer and executive director, following a wide-ranging career with of The Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and HSBC North America the company.
He was a member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Holdings Inc.
Previous non-executive directorships include the London Stock Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc, a non-executive Exchange, Orange plc, British Steel plc and the Court of the Bank of England.
director of AstraZeneca PLC and senior independent director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Arun Sarin, Chief Executive, aged 53, became a member of the Board in June 6.
Dr Michael Boskin, aged 62, became a member of the Board in June 1999 1999.
He was appointed Chief Executive in July 2003.
Arun joined Pacific Telesis on completion of the merger with AirTouch Communications, Inc. and is Chairman Group in San Francisco in 1984 and has served in many executive positions in of the Audit Committee.
He was a director of AirTouch from August 1996 to June his career in telecommunications, which spans more than 20 years.
He has been a Professor of Economics at Stanford University since 1971 director of AirTouch Communications, Inc. from July 1995 and was President and and was Chairman of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers from February Chief Operating Officer from February 1997 to June 1999.
He was Chief Executive 1989 until January 1993.
Michael is President and Chief Executive Officer of Officer for the Vodafone United States and Asia Pacific region until 15 April 2000, Boskin & Co. an economic consulting company, and is also a director of Exxon when he became a non-executive director.
He has served as a director of Mobil Corporation, Shinsei Bank Limited and Oracle Corporation.
He will retire The Gap, Inc.
The Charles Schwab Corporation and Cisco Systems, Inc. and is from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008. a non-executive director of the Court of the Bank of England.
He will retire as Chief Executive at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008.
Alan Jebson, aged 58, joined the Board in December 2006.
He retired in May 2006 from his role as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings Plc, 3.
Vittorio Colao, Deputy Chief Executive and CEO of the Groups Europe a position which included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
During a region, aged 46, joined the Board in October 2006.
He spent the early part of long career with HSBC, Alan held various positions in IT, including the position of his career as a partner in the Milan office of McKinsey & Co working on media, Group Chief Information Officer.
His roles included responsibility for the Groups telecommunications and industrial goods and was responsible for recruitment.
international systems, including the consolidation of HSBC and Midland systems In 1996, he joined Omnitel Pronto Italia, which subsequently became Vodafone following the acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
He originally joined HSBC as Italy, and he was appointed Chief Executive in 1999.
He was then appointed Head of IT Audit in 1978 where, building upon his qualification as a chartered Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southern Europe for Vodafone Group Plc in accountant, he built an international audit team and implemented controls in 2001, became a member of the Board in 2002 and was appointed to the role the Groups application systems.
He is also a non-executive director of Experian of Regional Chief Executive Officer for Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa Group plc and McDonald Dettwiler in Canada.
In 2004, he left Vodafone to join RCS MediaGroup, the leading Italian publishing company, where he was Chief Executive until he rejoined Vodafone.
He will become Chief Executive at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008.
Audit Committee Nominations and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee 62 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 8.
Nick Land, aged 60, joined the Board in December 2006.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp, aged 63, has been a member of the purposes of relevant legislation, he is the Boards appointed financial expert on Board since May 2000.
He is a former Chairman of the Board of Management the Audit Committee.
In June 2006, he retired as Chairman of Ernst & Young LLP of DaimlerChrysler and one of the principal architects of Daimler-Benzs merger after a distinguished career spanning 36 years with the firm.
He became an with Chrysler in 1998.
He became Chairman of Daimler-Benz in 1995.
Jrgen audit partner in 1978 and held a number of management appointments before continues to hold the position of Non-Executive Chairman of Mercedes-Benz of becoming Managing Partner in 1992.
He was appointed Chairman and joined the South Africa Limited and is a non-executive director of the South African Coal, Oil Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young Global LLP in 1995.
He is a non-executive and Gas Corporation SASOL, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA, Switzerland director of Royal Dutch Shell, Alliance Boots, BBA Aviation and the Ashmore Group.
Jrgen is Chairman Emeritus of the Global Business He also sits on the Advisory Board of Three Delta, is Chairman of the Practices Coalition on HIV AIDS and holds South Africas highest civilian award, the Order Advisory Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales of Good Hope, conferred upon him by President Nelson Mandela.
He will retire and of the Board of Trustees of Farnham Castle, and is a member of the Finance from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 29 July 2008. and Audit Committees of the National Gallery.
Luc Vandevelde, aged 57, joined the Board in September 2003 and is 9.
Simon Murray CBE, aged 68, joined the Board in July 2007.
His career has Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is a director of Socit Gnrale been largely based in Asia, where he has held positions with Jardine Matheson, and the Founder and Managing Director of Change Capital Partners LLP, a private Deutsche Bank and Hutchison Whampoa where, as Group Managing Director, equity fund.
Luc was formerly Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Carrefour SA, he oversaw the development and launch of mobile telecommunications networks Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Chief Executive Officer of Promodes, in many parts of the world.
He remains on the Boards of Cheung Kong Holdings and he has held senior European and international roles with Kraft General Foods.
Limited, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA, Macquarie HK Limited and Orient Overseas International Limited and is an Advisory Board Member of the China 13.
Anthony Watson, aged 63, was appointed to the Board in May 2006.
He also sits on the Advisory Board of Imperial Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management College in London.
Limited, a position he had held since 2002.
Previously he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer, having been Managing Director of AMP Asset Management 10.
Anne Lauvergeon, aged 48, joined the Board in November 2005.
She is and the Chief International Investment Officer of Citicorp Investment Management Chief Executive Officer of AREVA Group, the leading French energy company, from 1991 until joining Hermes in 1998.
He is Chairman of Marks & Spencer having been appointed to that role in July 2001.
She started her professional Pension Trust Ltd, the Strategic Investment Board in Northern Ireland and the career in 1983 in the iron and steel industry and in 1990 she was named Asian Infrastructure Fund.
He is also a non-executive director of Hammerson Plc Adviser for Economic International Affairs at the French Presidency and Deputy and Witan Investment Trust Plc, and was formerly a member of the Financial Chief of its Staff in 1991.
In 1995, she became a Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, Reporting Council.
subsequently joining Alcatel Telecom as Senior Executive Vice President in March 1997.
She was responsible for international activities and the Groups 14.
Philip Yea, aged 53, became a member of the Board in September 2005. industrial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
In 1999, she was He is the Chief Executive Officer of 3i Group plc, having been appointed to that appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AREVA NC.
Anne is currently role in July 2004.
Prior to joining 3i, he was Managing Director of Investcorp and, also Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Safran, a member of the Advisory from 1997 to 1999, the Group Finance Director of Diageo plc following the merger Board of the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS and a non-executive director of Guinness plc, where he was Finance Director, and Grand Metropolitan plc.
previously held non-executive roles at HBOS plc and Manchester United plc.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 63 Vodafone Governance Board of Directors and Group Management continued Executive Committee Steve Pusey, Chief Technology Officer, aged 46, joined Vodafone in Chaired by Arun Sarin, this committee focuses on the Groups strategy, financial September 2006 and is responsible for all aspects of Vodafones networks, structure and planning, succession planning, organisational development and IT capability, research and development and supply chain management.
The Executive Committee membership comprises the Prior to joining Vodafone, he held the positions of Executive Vice President executive directors, details of whom are shown on page 62, and the senior and President, Nortel EMEA, having joined Nortel in 1982, gaining a wealth managers who are listed below.
of international experience across both the wireline and wireless industries and in business applications and solutions.
Prior to Nortel, he spent several Senior management years with British Telecom.
Members of the Executive Committee who are not also executive directors are regarded as senior managers of the Company.
Frank Rovekamp, Group Chief Marketing Officer, aged 53, was appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee in May 2006.
He joined Paul Donovan, Chief Executive Officer, EMAPA, aged 49, was appointed to this Vodafone in 2002 as Marketing Director and a member of the Management position in May 2006.
He joined Vodafone UK in 1999 as Managing Director Board of Vodafone Netherlands and later moved to Vodafone Germany as Chief Commercial and became Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Ireland in 2001.
Marketing Officer and a member of the Management Board.
Before joining In January 2005, he became Chief Executive Officer, Other Vodafone Vodafone, he held roles as President and Chief Executive Officer of Beyoo and Subsidiaries, managing 15 markets in which Vodafone operated.
Paul has over Chief Marketing Officer with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines.
He is a trustee of The 16 years experience in the telecommunications and IT industries, gained at Vodafone Group Foundation.
Apple Computer, BT and Cable and Wireless, as well as Vodafone.
He began his career in sales and marketing at the Mars Group before becoming Marketing Stephen Scott, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, aged 54, was Director at Coca-Cola and Schweppes Beverages.
appointed to this position in 1991, prior to which he was employed in the Racal Group legal department, which he joined in 1980 from private law practice in Warren Finegold, Chief Executive Officer, Global Business Development, London.
He is a director of the Companys UK pension trustee company and of aged 51, was appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee ShareGift the Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited and is a director and trustee in April 2006.
He was previously a Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank of LawWorks the Solicitors Pro Bono Group.
and head of its technology team in Europe.
He is responsible for business development, mergers and acquisitions and partner networks.
Strategy Board The Strategy Board meets three times each year to discuss strategy.
This is Terry Kramer, Group Strategy and Human Resources Director and Chief attended by Executive Committee members and the Chief Executive Officers of Staff, aged 48, joined Vodafone in January 2005 as Chief of Staff and was of the major operating companies and other selected individuals based on appointed Group Human Resources Director in December 2006.
Terrys role Strategy Board topics.
was recently expanded to include Vodafone Group Strategy.
Prior to his appointment, he was Chief Executive Officer of Q Comm International, a publicly Other Board and Executive Committee members traded provider of transaction processing services for the telecommunications The following members also served on the Board or the Executive Committee industry.
He also worked for 12 years at PacTel AirTouch Communications in during the 2008 financial year: a variety of roles including President AirTouch Paging, Vice President Human Resources-AirTouch Communications, Vice President Business DevelopmentLord Broers was a member of the Board, the Audit Committee and the AirTouch Europe and Vice President & General Manager-AirTouch Cellular Nominations and Governance Committee until the conclusion of the AGM on Southwest Market.
Prior to that, he was an Associate with Booz Allen & 24 July 2007.
Terry is a trustee of The Vodafone Group Foundation.
Alan Harper was Group Strategy and New Business Director and was a member of the Executive Committee until 1 September 2007.
Simon Lewis, Group Corporate Affairs Director, aged 49, joined Vodafone in November 2004.
He previously held senior roles at Centrica Plc including Managing Director, Europe, and Group Director of Communications and Public Policy.
Prior to that, he was Director of Corporate Affairs at NatWest Group and the Head of Public Relations at S. G. Warburg plc.
He was President of the Institute of Public Relations in 1997 and is a Visiting Professor at the Cardiff School of Journalism.
In 1998, he was seconded to Buckingham Palace for two years as the first Communications Secretary to The Queen.
He is Chairman of the UK Fulbright Commission and a trustee of The Vodafone Group Foundation.
64 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008
