Vodafone Business Vodafone Business Products and Services Vodafone offers voice, messaging, data and fixed broadband services through multiple solutions and supporting technologies to deliver on its total communications strategy.
The advancements in 3G networks and download speeds, handset capabilities and the mobilisation of internet services, have contributed to an acceleration of data services usage growth.
Group service revenue is still predominantly generated by voice Analysis of Group service revenue % services, though these services as a percentage of revenue are slowly declining as price competition and regulatory pressures 2008 2007 increase in many markets and the contribution of data grows.
At the forefront of the Groups total communications strategy are 4 4 3 3 initiatives targeted at providing propositions to customers that 2 2 replace traditional fixed line providers, as well as developing new and innovative ways for customers to enjoy the benefits of mobility, with the aim to increase the proportion of Group 1 1 service revenue that is generated by data and fixed line services.
So that customers can utilise the services that Vodafone offers, 1 Voice 75% 1 Voice 77% many different tariffs and propositions are available, targeted 2 Messaging 12% 2 Messaging 12% at different customer segments and adapted for any localised 3 Data 7% 3 Data 5% customer preferences and needs.
These propositions often 4 Fixed line 6% 4 Fixed line 6% bundle together voice, data, messaging and, increasingly, fixed services so that customers can experience all the different services that Vodafone has to offer.
Typically, customers are classified either as prepay or contract customers.
Prepay customers pay in advance and are generally not bound to over 140 of Vodafones largest multinational customers with minimum contractual commitments, while contract customers consistent levels of service, support and commercial terms usually sign up for a predetermined length of time and are worldwide, by taking specific responsibility for managing these invoiced for their services, typically on a monthly basis.
As different tariffs and propositions are launched, the Group is Over the last year, VGE launched a number of new products increasingly leveraging the positive experiences in one market to and services, including, in July 2007, the launch of Vodafone provide initiatives across the Group.
Offers with strong customer Applications Service, a service hosted by Vodafone and available appeal and commercial benefit are being quickly adapted and in ten countries, enabling companies to mobilise applications rolled out to other markets.
An example includes a range of such as SAP, Siebel and Salesforce.
com to a choice of mobile Out of Credit solutions for prepay customers, through which devices.
VGE has also developed a globally consistent pricing Vodafone provides temporary credit to a customer which is structure for global business customers and has launched a then repaid when the customer next tops-up.
Reverse charging new voice roaming tariff that can be used for both domestic and capabilities have also been introduced across most markets.
international voice usage that is available across five European These facilities are very popular with prepay customers and markets.
A data roaming package has also been developed have been launched in most European markets.
that is simple, predictable, capped and available across ten European markets.
The experience gained in the Groups more mature markets is also being used to develop more sophisticated offers across the Having traditionally been a key player in the provision of emerging markets, many of which have a very high percentage corporate and small and medium enterprises SME voice of prepay customers, and Vodafone is leveraging established solutions in many markets, Vodafone is increasingly offering bonus and reward prepay pricing mechanisms, which incentivise tailored and innovative solutions for small business and higher usage and spend at an individual customer level.
Many of these offers use the capabilities already developed for larger companies and provide The Group is also growing usage and account penetration in the benefits such as virtual private network services and Vodafone business segment.
Vodafone Global Enterprise VGE provides Wireless Office solutions to much smaller entities.
Summary of Group products and services at 31 March 2008 Number of markets available Partner Number of 1 Europe EMAPA markets customers Vodafone at Home 8 3 4.4 million Vodafone Wireless Office 9 5 3.0 million Vodafone Passport 11 3 3 17.5 million Vodafone live!
Internet on your mobile 9 2.0 million Vodafone Mobile Connect data card or Vodafone Mobile Connect USB modem 11 8 25 2.7 million Note: 1 Customers are presented on a controlled fully consolidated and jointly controlled proportionately consolidated basis in accordance with the Groups current segments.
24 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Voice revenue Voice services Innovative tariffs continue to make Many different tariffs and propositions are available, up the largest portion targeted at different customer segments and adapted 24,879m of the Groups revenue.
for any localised customer preferences and needs.
The Group has 2007: 22,268m, 2006: 21,304m undertaken a wide Voice roaming range of activities Roaming allows users to make and receive calls using to stimulate growth a mobile network in the country they are visiting.
in voice usage in the A roaming tariff, Vodafone Passport, enables customers past year.
to take their home tariff abroad.
Voice minutes usage growth for the Groups 1 principal mobile markets Voice Vodafone At Home Outgoing A range of offers designed to introduce billions of minutes Vodafone into the household as a total 106.9 87.9 70.9 Fixed communications provider.
Location Vodafone Office A series of products and services designed to meet all business customers communications needs.
Voice services Incoming voice Incoming Revenue from voice services, earned when customers make and Incoming voice revenue is generated when a Vodafone mobile billions of minutes receive calls, is classified primarily as outgoing voice, incoming customer receives a call from a user on another fixed or mobile 40.8 37.4 35.1 voice and voice roaming.
In addition, the Group is delivering on network.
Fees classified as incoming voice revenue are generally customers total communications needs and driving greater not charged to the Vodafone customer receiving the call but, voice usage through offering integrated fixed location based rather, the telecommunications company that routed the call communications services.
Outgoing voice These fees are generally based on termination rates determined The fees charged to a Vodafone mobile customer who initiates by local regulators.
Due to regulation in many markets it has been a call are classified in outgoing voice revenue.
Despite price the trend for these rates to fall in recent years, and for the year pressures in many markets due to the competitive environment, ended 31 March 2008 incoming voice revenue generated 14% of increased outgoing voice usage generated from the success of the Groups total service revenue.
This has declined from 15% and the wide range of tariffs and propositions on offer and the overall 17% in the previous two financial years respectively.
For further Note: 1 Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK increase in the customer base in the Group has led to outgoing details see Additional Information Regulation on page 147. voice revenue staying relatively stable as a proportion of Group service revenue.
Voice roaming When travelling abroad, roaming allows Vodafones customers to Propositions relating to voice services feature heavily in the use the Groups services on a mobile network in a country they tariffs and promotions that the Group offers its customers.
The Group continued to expand its roaming coverage particular, the development of a range of unlimited value offers and services during the 2008 financial year.
The focus was to has been particularly appealing to customers and has stimulated drive customer satisfaction through greater value, transparency voice usage growth.
An example includes free weekend calling, and simplicity across Vodafones roaming propositions.
which had strong customer acceptance in markets such as the UK, Germany and Ireland.
These offers increase customer Vodafones flagship roaming tariff, Vodafone Passport, enables engagement with their mobile phone and Vodafone services customers to take their home tariff abroad, offering greater in general, driving a broader increase in usage.
price transparency and certainty to customers when they are roaming.
While abroad, customers can make calls using their domestic tariff, in some cases including free minute bundles, and receive calls at no charge for a one-off connection fee per call.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 25 2008 2008 2007 2007 2006 2006 Vodafone Business Vodafone Business Products and Services continued Customer usage patterns continue to show that, on average, or alternatively in several markets unlimited calling to fixed line Vodafone Passport customers both talk more and pay less numbers for a fixed subscription has been introduced, providing per call when abroad.
Customer research also indicates that a strong incentive for customers to use their mobile rather than Vodafones customers have a greater preference for Vodafone their fixed line in the home environment.
Passport over the regulated roaming rates, which has been substantiated by the relative uptake of the two propositions The development of Vodafones total communications capability, since the summer of 2007. including the increasing availability of fixed broadband in many markets, will widen the range of services which can now be Vodafone Passport was not directly affected by regulation offered as part of the Vodafone At Home portfolio.
relating to roaming prices introduced by the European Union in June 2007.
However, by 31 August 2007, all of Vodafones Vodafone Office 12 European markets had reduced the price of their Vodafone Vodafone Office is the umbrella name for a series of products World tariff in order to comply with the regulation.
and services designed to meet all business customers communications needs.
Fixed location based services The Group is delivering on customers total communications Vodafone Wireless Office provides companies the opportunity needs and driving greater voice usage through offering integrated to embrace the benefits of mobilising their workforce and reduce communications services.
their number of fixed desk phones, facilitating the transfer of voice minutes from the fixed to the mobile network.
The solution Vodafone At Home includes a closed user group tariff, allowing employees to call Vodafone At Home comprises a range of offers designed to each other for a flat monthly fee.
In Germany, Spain, Greece, Italy introduce Vodafone into the household as a total communications and Portugal, the offer has been expanded to include location provider.
Vodafone At Home voice propositions offer customers based office zone charging, giving preferential rates when the opportunity to satisfy their communications needs through calling from an office location.
Additionally, in some markets, one operator and with a single device.
geographic numbers have been introduced, enabling further fixed to mobile substitution.
Continued progress has been made to drive customer uptake of Vodafone At Home voice services with an option for at home Additionally, the Group is actively promoting fixed line telephony calling now available in most of the Groups European markets.
to business customers in six controlled markets, in line with its These take the form of either zonal tariffs, through which total communications strategy.
customers can call for a reduced rate when in their home area, Messaging revenue All of the Groups SMS mobile operations Allows customers to send and receive 4,079m offer messaging simple text messages.
services, which allow 2007: 3,587m, 2006: 3,289m customers to send and receive messages using mobile handsets and various other devices.
Messaging MMS Allows customers to send and receive SMS usage for the Groups multiple media, such as pictures, music, 1 principal mobile markets sound, video and text.
Billions of messages 62.1 48.9 44.6 Messaging services MMS messaging All of the Groups mobile operations offer messaging services, MMS messaging, offering customers the ability to send allowing customers to send and receive messages using and receive multiple media, such as pictures, music, sound, mobile handsets and various other devices.
video and text, to and from other compatible devices, is also available in all Group mobile operations.
MMS usage SMS messaging experienced a 15.8% growth in the 2008 financial year across SMS messaging allows customers to send and receive simple text the Group through improved service quality, value focused messages and experienced usage growth of 38.9% in the year pricing and a broader portfolio of devices.
ended 31 March 2008, driven by improved marketing analytics Note: 1 Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK to support best practice sharing and value focused pricing.
26 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 2008 2007 2006 Data revenue The Group offers Vodafone live!
a number of products Offers a combination of browsing, Google search, full track and services to music downloads, games and television services.
2,180m enhance customers access to data services, 2007: 1,428m, 2006: 1,098m including Vodafone Data roaming live!
for consumers, Provides access to the Groups services in the country a as well as a suite of customer is visiting.
The Group continued to improve the products for business simplicity and value for money offered to data customers.
users consisting of Data Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards, Mobile applications internet based email Vodafone Email Plus, Windows Mobile Email from Vodafone solutions and and BlackBerry from Vodafone provide customers with Vodafone Office.
wireless access to business and internet based email solutions.
Vodafone Mobile Connect Provides simple and secure access to existing business systems such as email, corporate applications, company intranets and the internet for customers on the move.
Data services Vodafone strengthened its global games portfolio by offering Two million The Group offers a number of products and services to enhance popular titles such as Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 from Konami.
Internet on customers access to data services.
These include services The game was launched simultaneously across markets with supporting access to the internet via laptops and PCs and access extensive marketing and advertising through different mediums, Your Mobile to the internet, music, games and television services through the including in-console game Vodafone brand advertising.
user access and user experience continues to be improved by at 31 March 2008 embedding a selection of the latest games onto handsets.
Internet on Your Mobile During the 2008 financial year, Vodafone introduced Internet Mobile TV is available in 21 controlled and jointly controlled on Your Mobile, which offers a combination of easy to use and markets with an average of 20 channels offered.
Video content secure customer browsing, Google search, a tariff for unlimited is sourced both locally and internationally in order to provide browsing and integrated services from leading internet brand value for money to customers and ensure that the offering partners.
Customers can now use their mobile to access and reflects the unique culture and attitudes of specific countries.
update their profile on the social networks of their choice, view Vodafone has local agreements with broadcasters, such as the or upload YouTube videos from their mobile, buy or sell items on BBC, ZDF, RAI, Pro-Sieben, Channel 4 and RTL.
Internationally, eBay and check locations on Google Maps.
To date, this service content is sourced from HBO, Fox, NBC Universal, Warner has been fully launched in Germany, Italy, Spain, the UK, Greece, Brothers, UEFA Champions League, Vodafone McLaren the Netherlands, Portugal, Ireland and France.
Two million Mercedes and MTV.
Vodafone now has a monthly average customers were benefiting from this service at 31 March 2008. of 850,000 customers subscribing to Mobile TV.
The Group has been developing its presence in the converging Data roaming communications and PC space by signing instant messaging When travelling abroad, roaming allows Vodafones customers to partnerships with Yahoo!
Instant messaging enables use the Groups services on a mobile network in the country they users to communicate to one or more friends through interactive are visiting.
Vodafone continued to improve the simplicity, price sessions using a dedicated and easy interface.
These services predictability and value for money offered to customers for data are primarily available in the more mature markets, such as roaming services.
For Vodafone Mobile Connect users, Vodafone Germany Italy, Spain, the UK, the Netherlands, Portugal and complemented the monthly roaming bundle launched in 2005 France.
Vodafone also partnered with Microsoft to develop a with a daily roaming tariff, appealing to both the regular and less communications service for the PC, presented at the Cebit frequent international travellers alike.
At 31 March 2008, the exhibition in March 2008. monthly and daily tariff was available in nine of Vodafones European markets.
Vodafone will continue to support the growth of Vodafone live!
music, games, television services data roaming services through simple, easy to understand pricing.
Throughout the 2008 financial year, the Group continued to improve the customer experience for music, games and television Mobile applications offerings available through Vodafone live!.
There has been an increasing demand for handheld solutions that allow real time access to email, calendar, address book and The full track music downloads service was significantly other applications.
Vodafone Email Plus, Windows Mobile improved by the launch of a new mobile and PC music player.
Email from Vodafone and BlackBerry from Vodafone provide The service allows Vodafones customers to search for music, business customers, ranging from small start up companies to artists pages and previews from a catalogue of more than 750,000 multinational corporates, with wireless access to their business songs, including some of the worlds greatest artists through and internet based email solutions.
agreements with Universal Music, Sony BMG Music Entertainment, EMI, Warner Music and independent record labels.
Additionally, Vodafone Mobile Connect Vodafone has exclusively distributed and promoted Madonnas The Vodafone Mobile Connect offering allows laptop and PC single 4 minutes in a number of markets, including the UK, users access to the internet and to business customers systems Spain, Italy, Greece, France, Turkey, India and Australia.
such as email, corporate applications and company intranets via Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards, or Vodafone Mobile Connect USB modems.
These are discussed in more detail on page 29.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 27 Vodafone Business Vodafone Business Products and Services continued Fixed line revenue To assist customers in Fixed services meeting their total An increased number of fixed broadband offerings allow 1,874m communications needs the Group to assist customers in meeting their total and to provide communications needs.
2007: 1,580m, 2006: 1,391m additional revenue streams to the Group, Vodafone has diversified and expanded the services Mobile advertising it provides.
Vodafone has been extending its business model to generate revenue from advertising by partnering with advertising specialists in individual markets.
Fixed and other Business managed services Vodafone is developing new ways of enabling business customers to mobilise and increase the efficiency of their workforce.
Over one Fixed services Business managed services During the 2008 financial year, Vodafone pursued the As part of the total communications strategy, Vodafone is billion advert development of fixed broadband services in many of the Groups offering our business customers solutions which meet impressions markets, in order to provide customers with data and fixed voice a wider variety of their communications needs, and also solutions to meet their total communications needs, mainly developing new ways of enabling them to mobilise and increase in the year to 31 March 2008 through Digital Subscriber Line DSL technology.
As a result, the efficiency of their workforce.
Vodafone is at the forefront of fixed broadband active lines have increased to 3.6 million at the market in a number of these solutions, including: 31 March 2008, up from 2.1 million active lines one year earlier.
secure remote access a service enabling customer In December 2007, Vodafone completed the acquisition of employees to access their network through their laptop, Tele2 in Italy and Spain Tele2, which had almost 800,000 on the move, both while in their home country and fixed broadband customers.
Vodafone branded consumer fixed when roaming: and broadband offers were also launched in Greece, the Netherlands, applications many software programs have been developed Portugal, New Zealand and Egypt during the 2008 financial year.
for use on mobile devices and Vodafone can integrate these into the customers mobile portfolio.
These applications can Business fixed broadband offers have been recently launched in satisfy many needs, such as: the Czech Republic and in Italy, while a fixed broadband WiMax enabling a workforce to have up to date sales offer was launched in Malta.
information fully aligned across the business and available at any time, anywhere: and Other services providing workforce scheduling to mobile employees Mobile advertising which can be updated centrally and in real time, ensuring The Group has been extending its business model to generate the customer can satisfy all their own customer needs revenue from mobile advertising by partnering with advertising quickly and efficiently.
Vodafone introduced mobile advertising in nine markets and the core capabilities continue to These solutions open up a new revenue stream for Vodafone be developed, such as WAP banners and messaging formats, as by providing an end to end solution, integrating these into well as more sophisticated targeting offers.
the customers infrastructure and subsequently managing the service.
A critical area of activity required to grow the market is the development of common standards that can be adopted by all market participants.
Vodafone is taking a leading role in this activity, which has achieved its first results: Banners for WAP display formats have been defined by the Mobile Marketing Association MMA : Messaging format definition activity has recently commenced: and Agreement was reached in the UK between Vodafone, O2, Orange, T-mobile and Hutchison to progress an inter-operator standard for mobile advertising in the 2008 calendar year.
28 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Enables customers Handsets to utilise the services A wide ranging handset portfolio covering different that Vodafone offers.
customer segments, price points and a variety of designs.
Devices Vodafone Mobile Connect Provides simple and secure access to the internet and to business customers systems such as email, corporate applications and company intranets.
Devices Vodafone branded device portfolio 10 million branded To enable customers to utilise the services that Vodafone offers, In the 2008 financial year, Vodafone offered nine consumer handsets shipped the Group also offers a wide range of devices to access those handsets under its own brand and shipped over 10 million services, such as handsets, the Vodafone Mobile Connect card with devices in over 30 markets.
On 21 May 2007, Vodafone in the year to 31 March 2008 3G broadband and the Vodafone Mobile Connect USB modem.
announced the Vodafone 125 and Vodafone 225, the first ultra low cost handsets under the Vodafone brand, providing Handsets operating companies and partner markets with the lowest cost The Groups operating companies and partner markets benefit mobile phone ever launched by the Group.
The Vodafone 125 from a wide ranging handset portfolio, covering different and Vodafone 225 played an important role in supporting the customer segments, price points and an increasing variety of Vodafone brand launch in India.
During the 2008 financial year, Vodafone launched Vodafone 720 and the Vodafone Mobile Connect USB Modem 75 new models, ranging from handsets for core voice services were introduced.
The Vodafone Mobile Connect USB Modem up to premium multimedia devices.
The handset portfolio and the Vodafone 720 have won the iF design award, which was also expanded into the entry segment to better address recognises the best product design in the world and is run emerging markets and the prepaid market in Europe.
In May by the International Design forum in Hanover, Germany.
2008, Vodafone signed an agreement with Apple to sell the iPhone in ten markets Australia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Business portfolio Greece, Italy, India, Portugal, New Zealand, South Africa and Vodafone continues to expand the business portfolio.
Vodafone and Apple are working together to introduce Two exclusive devices were introduced for the business customer: the product in each market during the 2009 financial year.
the Palm Treo 500v and the BlackBerry Curve 8310 Smartphone.
Both of these devices are designed to offer a Vodafone live!
portfolio blend of business grade email combined with Vodafone live!
Vodafone continues to drive 3G penetration and increased the sales consumer services, such as Google Maps, internet browsing share of 3G handsets as a percentage of total phones sold up to 53% and instant messaging.
In addition, the BlackBerry 8100 series for the year ended 31 March 2008.
With the launch of the exclusive and the BlackBerry 8110 series continue to create strong Sony Ericsson V640i and an exclusive Mobile Internet variant of the market demand.
The broadening of the Nokia E series range Nokia 6120c, Vodafone also pushed HSDPA into the mid-tier price increasingly drives sales in the business segment, and has segments to provide 3G broadband experience for the mass market.
capability to leverage the consumer relevant services deployed Sales of handsets that support HSDPA represented 26% of total 3G in the Nokia N series.
handset sales for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Vodafone Mobile Connect The introduction of the new Internet on Your Mobile services The Vodafone Mobile Connect card with 3G broadband offers was supported with a selection of 15 consumer handsets.
These enhanced speeds which can be up to 7.2 Mbps downlink and up have been customised for the internet experience on mobile to 2.0 Mbps uplink by utilising HSPA technology.
handsets, including the three high-end devices Nokia N95 8GB, Sony Ericsson W910i and Samsung SGH-F700V QBowl.
Built-in 3G broadband from Vodafone is now available across a portfolio of 44 laptop models.
Vodafones partners Acer, Dell, Open Operating System OS devices are now playing a strong HP and Lenovo fit a Vodafone SIM at point of manufacture into role in supporting an application-centric service delivery model.
laptops which include a built-in modem and collaborate with In September 2007, Vodafone and its partners announced Vodafone in sales and marketing activities.
the first two devices launching under the Microsoft Windows Mobile collaboration, the Palm Treo 500V and the Samsung The Group has a range of Vodafone Mobile Connect USB modems SGH-i640V, as well as a range of S60 devices from Nokia and with exclusive designs, including USB sticks, all benefiting from Samsung.
Sales of Open OS devices represented 23% of 3G plug and go software.
Their ease of use and attractive designs devices sales for the year ended 31 March 2008. support their deployment through consumer channels.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 29
