Vodafone Business Brand and Distribution Vodafones products and services are available directly, via Vodafone stores and country specific Vodafone websites, and indirectly via third party service providers, independent dealers, distributors and retailers, to both consumer and business customers in the majority of markets under the Vodafone brand.
BrandZ UK ranking Customer strategy and management Marketing and brand Vodafone endeavours to ensure that customer needs are at the Brand and customer communications centre of all of the Groups actions.
The Group seeks to use its Vodafone has continued to focus on delivering a superior, st 1 understanding to deliver relevance and value to each customer consistent and differentiated customer experience through and communicate to them on an individual, household, community its brand and communications activities.
A new Marketing In the BrandZ most powerful brands or business level, with the ultimate aim of encouraging customers Framework has been developed and implemented across th ranking.
to stay with Vodafone for longer and use and promote the Groups the business, which includes a new vision of expanding the services more.
Groups category from mobile only to total communications to be the communications leader in an increasingly connected For this reason, the Group has created a Global Customer Value world.
Brand and customer experience continues to implement Management team to support operating companies with their Vodafones promise of helping customers make the most aim to engage with customers directly through a data driven of their time.
The brand function has also developed a approach, linking all the elements of customer interactions to methodology to develop competitive local market brand deliver exceptional service and consistency in the Groups positioning, with local brand positioning projects now approach while financially optimising decisions made via a implemented in 12 markets.
branded customer experience across all touchpoints.
Recent examples of this include: rollout of a consistent and innovative To enable the consistent use of the Vodafone brand, a set of store design to eight countries, successful trial of an innovative guidelines has been developed in areas such as advertising, handset based self service solution and creation of a global retail, online and merchandising, all including detail on how to training academy for customer facing staff.
make the brand work across every touchpoint.
Since June 2006, eight markets have implemented the global retail design.
Vodafones customer knowledge driven organisation aims to make the most of its deep customer understanding by approaching In September 2007, Vodafone welcomed India with the Hutch is customers with the most appropriate product through a channel now Vodafone campaign.
The migration from Hutch to Vodafone they enjoy at a time that is best for them.
This approach firmly was one of the fastest and most comprehensive brand transitions places Vodafone as an organisation that listens to customers, in the history of the Group, with 400,000 multi brand outlets, delivers value and enhances their experience.
over 350 Vodafone stores, over 1,000 mini stores, over 35 mobile stores and over 3,000 touchpoints rebranded in two months, Vodafone continues to use a customer measurement system with 60% completed within 48 hours of the launch.
called customer delight to monitor and drive customer satisfaction in the Groups controlled markets at a local and Vodafone regularly conducts Brand Health Tracking, which is global level.
This is a proprietary diagnostic system, which designed to measure the brand performance against a number Customer Delight Index tracks customer satisfaction across all points of interaction of key metrics and generate insights to assist the management with Vodafone and identifies the drivers of customer delight of the Vodafone brand across all Vodafone branded operating and their relative impact.
This information is used to identify companies.
This tracking has been in place since 2002 and 73.1 any areas for improvement and focus.
provides continuous historical data against key metrics in all 19 Vodafone branded operating markets.
Each operating 2007: 70.6, 2006: 69.9 During the 2008 financial year, further econometric tools were company manages a study that complies with the standards developed and employed to better quantify the commercial and methodology set by Vodafone Group Insights.
An external impact of improved customer experience by linking customer accredited and independent market research organisation feedback directly to business performance.
Results from the provides global coordination of the methodology, reporting study are used to generate the Customer Delight Index CDI, and analysis.
As a result of these activities the Vodafone brand is which is one element of Vodafones short term incentive plan now ranked number 11 in the BrandZ Top 100 global brands list, GSTIP, thereby directly linking employee remuneration with recently published in The Financial Times, with an estimated customer satisfaction performance.
The CDI result for the 2008 value attributable to the brand of 18.7 billion.
financial year was 73.1 points on a 100 point scale, which was 2.0 percentage points ahead of the average competitor.
For the 2008 financial year, Vodafone brand preference among its own users reached 81.9%, up 2.0 percentage points on the previous financial year, and a performance level that is 1.0 percentage point higher than its closest competitors.
In addition, the brand consideration among non-users of the brand has increased in the 2008 financial year to 33.5%, 1.8 percentage points above its market share.
22 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 Sponsorships Distribution Number of directly Vodafones global sponsorship strategy has delivered a strong Direct distribution owned stores set of results across all Vodafone markets.
Central sponsorship Vodafone directly owns and manages over 1,150 stores.
These agreements, including the UEFA Champions League and the title stores sell services to new customers, renew or upgrade services sponsorship of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes F1 team, have for existing customers, and in many cases also provide customer 1,150 supported multiple business objectives and enabled Vodafone to support.
A standard store format, which was tested in 2006, was provide customers with differentiating brand and product rolled out in 11 markets during the 2008 financial year.
footprint is constantly reviewed in response to market conditions which resulted in, for example, Vodafone opening a further The strong performance of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes F1 90 stores in Spain and 21 stores in Romania during the year.
team during the 2007 season enabled Vodafone to maintain a Additionally, all stores in India were rebranded as Vodafone and dominant presence in one of the worlds most popular annual over 40 stores were refurbished to the Groups standard format.
Vodafone successfully integrated the sponsorship into a wide variety of business activities including The Group also has 6,500 Vodafone branded stores, which sell communications, events, content and the launch of three Vodafone products and services exclusively, by way of franchise bespoke handsets.
In Vodafones first year as a sponsor of the UEFA Champions The internet is a key channel to promote and sell Vodafones League, Vodafone became recognised as a leading sponsor of products and services and to provide customers with an easy, the competition Source: TNS Soccerscope, May 2007 and used user friendly and accessible way to manage their Vodafone this association to showcase a variety of products and services services and access support.
As a result, a specific Group wide in a manner designed to build greater affinity with football fans programme is currently being rolled out across all controlled across all relevant territories.
markets, in order to ensure Vodafone websites have state of the art online capabilities and provide the customer with an In January 2008, Vodafone became a global partner of the excellent and consistent online experience.
Laureus Foundation, which tackles various social challenges worldwide through a programme of sports related community Additionally, in most operating companies, sales forces are development initiatives.
This agreement complements in place to sell directly to business customers and some Vodafones long standing relationship with sport and aims consumer segments.
to help Laureus to use sport as a catalyst for inspiring positive social change.
Indirect distribution The extent of indirect distribution varies between markets but To maintain a relevant and strategic role for global sponsorship may include using third party service providers, independent Number of branded stores investments, Vodafone is continually reviewing the portfolio to dealers, distributors and retailers.
maintain pace with business and customer needs.
On this basis, Vodafone has decided to discontinue the UEFA Champions League The Group hosts MVNOs in a number of markets.
These are 6,500 sponsorship at the end of the 2008 9 competition and increase operators who buy access to existing networks and resell emphasis in global music opportunities.
Musics broad appeal that access to customers under a different brand name and and product relevance provides a host of new and exciting proposition.
Where appropriate, Vodafone seeks to enter opportunities for the business and the Groups customers.
mutually profitable relationships with MVNO partners as an additional route to market.
During the past year new relationships established include Asda in the UK, Euskaltel in Spain and Carrefour in Italy.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2008 23
