10 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW ESAB ABOUT ESAB ESABs comprehensive range of welding consumables includes electrodes, cored and solid wires, and fluxes.
ESABs welding equipment ranges from small retail applications and users to large plant in the energy and shipbuilding sectors.
ESABs sales are split broadly evenly between the developed economies of Western and Northern Europe and North America, and the developing economies of Central, Eastern and Southern Europe, South America and Asia.
ESAB derives over 80 per cent of its sales from welding consumables and equipment and the remainder from cutting and automation solutions.
ESABs manufacturing facilities are located predominantly in low-cost locations, in particular in Central and Eastern Europe, South America and Asia.
ESAB has invested in new capacity in China to meet the needs of domestic customers as well as supplying other parts of the world.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 11 ESAB is a world-leading international welding and cutting company.
It formulates, develops, manufactures and supplies consumable products and equipment for use in the cutting and joining of steels, aluminium and metal alloys.
Revenue for the year was 1,259.8 million 2007: 970.8 million, 2008 HIGHLIGHTS ESAB spread broadly equally between developed and emerging markets, an increase of 29.8 per cent.
2008 2007 Increase m m % ESAB achieved an operating profit before exceptional items in 2008 of 148.6 million 2007: 126.6 million, an increase Welding 1,042.2 813.1 28.2 Cutting and automation 217.6 157.7 38.0 of 17.4 per cent.
Revenue 1,259.8 970.8 29.8ESABs cutting and automation business achieved excellent growth whilst also increasing margins and finished 2008 with a strong order book in automation.
Welding 122.7 112.5 9.1 Cutting and automation 25.9 14.1 83.7 During the year ESAB made two acquisitions: Operating profit Romar Positioning Equipment Pte Limited Romar, before exceptional items 148.6 126.6 17.4 a leading Singaporean designer, manufacturer and distributor of handling and positioning equipment for use in automated welding applications: and Share of profits of associates post tax 3.1 3.0 the factory, plant and certain other assets of Linkweld, providing additional capacity for the manufacture Capital expenditure 49.7 40.0 of MAG wire spools in Europe.
Depreciation 16.2 11.2 ESABs restructuring will result in a headcount reduction Operating margin 11.8% 13.0% of some 940 people, representing about 10 per cent of the workforce and the closure of two factories, and is expected Average number of employees 9,372 7,860 to generate annualised savings of around 30 million.
ESAB STRATEGY ESAB WILL: Growth of demand for welding and cutting products is expectedenhance its market leadership through brand recognition, to exceed the rate at which the consumption of steel is growing.
new technology and enhanced customer service: Furthermore, as economies mature, they become more steelact as a consolidator in the global welding industry, using intensive, which suggests that steel consumption will grow acquisitions to strengthen market positions, enter new at a rate in excess of GDP.
Whilst most forecasters expect steel markets and improve its technology base: consumption to fall in 2009 and to be flat in 2010, growth is expected to resume over the medium term.
Process conversionleverage its global footprint through establishing the move away from electrodes to continuous processes manufacturing facilities in locations which best suit the is expected to continue, particularly in emerging markets, needs of the market: and resulting in stronger growth in demand for solid and flux cored achieve growth through increasing volumes in developing wires than for higher margin electrodes.
The increased use of markets and through range expansion, especially continuous processes will mean more opportunity for ESABs into high-end technology products, in established welding equipment, and the shortage of skilled welders is likely developed markets.
to increase the opportunity for automated welding solutions where ESAB will continue to grow its business.
The mediumterm outlook for the welding industry is also strengthened by further major developments expected to take place in energy, oil and gas and infrastructure around the world.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 12 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW ESAB CONTINUED WHAT DOES THE ESAB BRAND STAND FOR?
The ESAB brand is one of the strongest brands in the global welding and cutting market.
The brand is underpinned by its Swedish heritage and its solutions-orientated products are seen to be of high quality, consistent and easy to use.
ESABs position as the global welding and cutting authority provides a strong platform on which to develop its brand further and to defend its market positions against less-qualified competitors.
As part of its brand development programme, ESAB has established a world class process centre in Sweden responsible for building, harnessing and disseminating application knowledge and capabilities to ESAB customers.
These process centres are being rolled out globally.
Overview of performance In 2008, ESAB generated sales of 1,259.8 million 2007: ESAB achieved a highly creditable outcome for the year, with 970.8 million, an increase of 29.8 per cent, and operating revenue and operating profit strongly ahead of 2007, albeit profit of 148.6 million 2007: 126.6 million, an increase generally assisted by currency movements.
In the key area of 17.4 per cent.
of welding consumables, which accounts for some 70 per cent Out of the total sales growth of 29.8 per cent, 8.9 per cent came of its sales, ESAB achieved total volume growth of 9.1 per cent, the welding business consumables and standard equipment, compared with the total volume of steel consumed worldwide 3.0 per cent from the cutting and automation businesses, which is estimated to have fallen by 1.2 per cent in the year.
5.0 per cent from acquisitions, and 12.9 per cent from currency This suggests that ESAB has continued to win market share.
movements, in particular the weakening of sterling against the ESABs margins fell by some 120 basis points, reflecting euro and, more latterly in the year, the US dollar.
As noted continuing process conversion from electrodes to welding wire above, the total volume of welding consumables sold increased and changes in the geographic mix of sales, and also the effects by 9.1 per cent during the year.
of the economic slowdown in the final quarter of the year.
The cutting and automation business produced an excellent In the first three quarters of 2008, ESAB generated markedly result for the year, with sales up 38.0 per cent and the operating higher revenues than the comparable period in 2007 driven margin improving by 300 basis points to 11.9 per cent.
At the by increased volumes of welding consumables.
Revenues also end of the year, ESABs order backlog for engineered automation increased due to price increases which were implemented as equipment stood at about nine months, which was broadly ESAB sought to recover higher input costs, in particular the in line with the level at 30 June 2008 and which gives good price of steel.
ESAB was able to meet high levels of demand visibility for 2009.
At the same time, the order book for cutting for its products, in particular in Europe, due to the increases represented just over three months of sales, which is typical in capacity which it undertook from mid-2006 and which were for the business, although order intake has slowed.
The flexibility within ESABs global supply model was demonstrated by product being Industries and segmentation manufactured in ESABs new factories in China to meet The welding and cutting of steel and other metals takes place demand in Europe.
Although steel remains by far the most widely used metal, high performance alloys are being Also within the ESAB welding business, the standard equipment increasingly used to construct sections of ships, offshore business grew significantly in the first three quarters of 2008. platforms and in the automotive industry.
The new equipment factory in China opened during the year to supply a middle market range of welding equipment mainly Major global end-user segments are: to customers in Asia.
the energy sector, which includes the oil and gas industries, Activity levels in certain key end-user industries, particularly in electricity generation and transmission and renewable energy, the automotive sector, dropped sharply in October as economic is the largest user of welding consumables and equipment.
This led to reduced Many applications, such as the construction of electricity demand for ESABs welding consumables and equipment, generating plants, including nuclear, are extremely stringent in particular solid welding wire and standard equipment, as in their specifications for the welding consumables which distribution channels and end users fide-stocked in response they use.
Wind towers are a rapidly growing sub-segment to lower demand and in anticipation of lower steel prices.
of the energy sector, the construction of which requires In response, ESAB undertook a restructuring exercise to advanced automation equipment and uses relatively high reduce its manned capacity which is described below.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 13 ESAB REVENUE BRIDGE Revenue grew by 29.8 per cent in 2008, reflecting buoyant 1,400 conditions in the first three quarters of the year and a sharp fall Welding 1,300 in demand in Europe and North America in particular in the final Cutting and quarter of the year.
1,200 automation 1,100 Of this increase, the welding business consumables and standard Acquisitions equipment contributed 8.9 per cent and the cutting and automation 1,000 Exchange business contributed 3.0 per cent.
The acquisitions of an additional 900 shareholding in ESAB India during 2007 and of Romar and Linkweld 800 in 2008 contributed a further 5.0 per cent of growth.
700 Foreign exchange differences make up the balance of 12.9 per cent 600 2007 2008 of the revenue growth, principally as a result of the euro, other European currencies and the US dollar strengthening against sterling over the year.
infrastructure construction, where welding plays an The WSA has estimated that, excluding China, worldwide important role in the fabrication of infrastructure such as production of steel was 827.7 mmt 2007: 856.2 mmt, the construction of sewerage systems and light rail networks.
Apart from China, only the Middle In contrast, relatively little welding is used in the construction East recorded an increase in production.
In Europe and North of residential or commercial buildings.
America, production is estimated to have fallen by 5.6 and 5.5 per cent respectively.
the transport segment includes automotive original equipment manufacturers OEMs, most of which require The WSA has yet to issue any forecast for steel production or technically demanding welding solutions for use within their consumption in 2009 due to the current economic uncertainty.
This segment However, analysts generally believe that, excluding China, also includes off road vehicles such as excavators, dumpers worldwide consumption and production of steel will fall by and agricultural equipment, as well as rail vehicles, all of which around 10 per cent in 2009 compared with 2008, with a greater generally require high levels of welding.
relative fall in the first half of 2009 than the second half.
In comparison, the measures taken by ESAB since the fourth shipyards, which are amongst the largest and most demanding quarter of 2008 will reduce its manned capacity by some users of both welding and cutting products.
ESAB supplies 16 per cent in respect of consumables and some 20 per cent welding and cutting products to shipyards in Europe, South in respect of equipment.
America, the USA and certain countries in Asia including, through its associated company ESAB SeAH, South Korea.
The sharp decline in the demand for welding consumables which took place in the fourth quarter of 2008 was most In addition, welding takes place in many other industries where marked in solid welding wire, reflecting falling demand from steel is used which supply many types of consumer durables the automotive industry and other applications which use and light industrial goods.
As well as original manufacture, repair automated mass production.
Demand for certain other types and maintenance applications are also important components of welding consumable has suffered smaller reductions: some of overall demand.
of these products are often used in larger capital projects, Industry overview like shipbuilding, or in repair and maintenance.
Demand Competitive environment Demand for welding and cutting products is determined largely ESAB operates in a competitive environment, consisting by the consumption of steel and, to a lesser but growing extent, of a relatively small number of companies that operate on of other metals, such as aluminium and advanced alloys.
a multinational basis and a much larger number of smaller Whilst the World Steel Association WSA provides statistics companies which operate in regional or product niches.
in the production of steel, it does not regularly produce statistics ESAB estimates that it has a 12 per cent share, by value, for the consumption of steel.
It has estimated that world of the global welding and cutting markets.
ESAB believes that production of crude steel in 2008 was 1,329.7 million metric it gained market share during 2008 due to successful product tonnes mmt, a decrease of 1.2 per cent compared with 2007. innovation, as new capacity came on stream and as it increased The decline in production reflected steady growth in the first its sales presence in certain locations where it was previously eight months of the year and sharp declines in the final quarter.
China is the largest producer of steel but accounts for only Globally, ESAB is the leading supplier of welding consumables.
around 3 per cent of ESABs revenues.
Accordingly, ESAB It is one of only two worldwide, full service welding and cutting management typically considers the demand environment companies and is the clear industry leader outside North for ESAB products by reviewing worldwide production and America where it ranks behind the two market leaders.
consumption of steel excluding China.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Revenue m 14 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW ESAB CONTINUED CUSTOMER FOCUS ESAB has adopted customer focus as its key strategic intent.
This has involved placing the customer at the centre of its decision making processes and transforming its organisation to meet the needs of the customer.
This resulted in a new management operation model, new product management and R&D processes and a revised supply chain infrastructure in its key geographies.
As an early sign of appreciation by its customers, ESAB was awarded the 2008 Frost & Sullivan Global Welding Consumables Award for Customer Service Excellence.
ESAB expects to maintain and progressively strengthen its Exceptional costs of 6.2 million were incurred in 2008 in market share.
ESAB believes that factors such as its brand, relation to the announced restructuring and further costs of technology, product portfolio, certifications, distribution network 3 million to 4 million are expected to be incurred in the first and financial strength will enable it to win market share from quarter of 2009.
The measures being taken are expected to competitors in the current market environment.
It aims to be result in annualised cost savings in the region of 30 million.
a consolidator in the relatively fragmented worldwide welding ESAB supply chain industry and will look to make acquisitions which increase Manufacturing locations its geographic strength, provide entries to markets where ESAB has manufacturing facilities in each of the regions ESAB is currently under-represented or give access to new in which it operates.
technologies, provided that the terms of the acquisition are expected to be value accretive for Charter shareholders.
ESAB has made considerable progress in relocating and concentrating its manufacturing facilities in low cost locations ESAB restructuring within each region, in particular the great majority of welding Due to the worsening global economic conditions, which first consumables manufactured and sold in Europe are had an impact on the business during the fourth quarter of manufactured in Central Europe.
2008, ESAB has conducted a thorough review of its capacity and cost base.
From mid-2006, ESAB invested in additional manufacturing capacity, principally in China, Central Europe and South In repositioning itself for lower levels of activity, ESAB has America.
This programme reached its conclusion during 2008. benefited from the flexibility built into its business model over As referred to above, two factories, in Sweden and Finland, recent years at the time the business was growing strongly.
Global capacity for the This flexibility, which included the use of temporary staff and manufacture of welding consumables now amounts contractors and additional shifts and overtime, has enabled to 680,000 tonnes annually.
it to respond rapidly to lower levels of demand.
ESAB will continue to invest in its manufacturing facilities Since October, ESAB has reduced manned capacity for in 2009 at a rate which is likely to exceed the depreciation consumables by approximately 16 per cent globally and for charge, with an emphasis on operational improvement and equipment by 20 per cent in Europe and North America.
ESAB will continuously review its reductions have been achieved through the elimination of shifts manufacturing operations to ensure that capacity is aligned and overtime and through workforce reduction.
In order to bring with global demand and located in the most appropriate stock levels into line with forecast demand for the first quarter locations to meet such demand.
of 2009, production was largely suspended at most plants in Europe during December.
Raw materials The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of welding For ESAB as a whole, possible headcount reductions of consumables are various grades of steel and to a lesser extent, 940 people spread broadly across the global activities of the aluminium alloys, chemicals and minerals, most of which business representing approximately 10 per cent of the workforce are normally available on the open market.
However, certain at the end of the third quarter were identified.
Of these, of ESABs more specialised welding wires require bespoke 635 people had left the business by the end of 2008 and orders from steel mills.
it is expected that the remainder will have left by the end of the first quarter of 2009.
The first three quarters of 2008 saw unprecedented increases in the price of steel and periodic shortages: during this time, As part of this process, the flux plant at Gothenburg in Sweden, ESAB was able to procure the steel which it required without which was at the end of its useful life, and the small solid wire its production being interrupted.
During the fourth quarter, plant in Finland have been closed.
steel prices showed a general decline as the market moved to being over-supplied.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 15 NEW TELESCOPIC WELDING CRANE BOOM During 2008, ESAB launched an innovative telescopic welding crane boom to provide its customers with a cost-effective and space efficient solution.
The apparatus consists of a three piece telescopic boom, constructed so as to minimise the space needed behind the boom and maximise reach in front, which is able to position the welding head with the accuracy required for top quality welding.
The telescopic boom was developed following a detailed market study.
This market driven approach, which combines customer needs with ESABs design skills, has delivered a uniquely proficient product that can increase customer productivity materially.
In the case of welding equipment, automation and cutting, the A number of industries require stringent certification for most significant items purchased are electronic components, welding consumables before allowing their use for certain copper and aluminium alloys.
ESAB holds comprehensive certifications across its product range.
Whilst energy costs are less significant than raw material costs in ESABs own manufacturing process, they are significant A key business objective has been to ensure that ESABs costs in the production of steel, aluminium and copper, and customers enjoy the full benefit of its accumulated welding therefore indirectly impact upon the cost of goods sold.
In support of this, ESAB has established a network of process centres throughout the world where Human resources ESABs experienced welding engineers combine the businesss ESAB recognises that human resources are a key part of knowledge with its broad range of welding and cutting products its supply chain.
ESABs policy is to attract, train and retain to develop the optimal solution for each customer.
appropriate management resources and shop floor personnel within the Group.
Use is made of temporary or contract ESAB: revenue by destination workers, particularly to cope with periods of higher demand.
ESABs revenue by destination is summarised in the table With the changing demand patterns seen through the year, below.
During 2008, ESAB once again experienced sales and in particular the sharp decline in demand experienced growth in all five regions.
in the fourth quarter and the continuing volatility seen in 2009 In 2008, ESABs sales were split broadly equally between the to date, ESAB will keep manning levels under review in all parts developed economies of Western and Northern Europe and of its organisation to ensure that they remain appropriate.
North America and the developing economies of Central, Intellectual property Southern and Eastern Europe, Asia and South America.
ESAB has accumulated large amounts of intellectual property which represents one of its principal competitive advantages and a major barrier to competitors seeking to enter its markets.
ESAB: REVENUE BY DESTINATION Welding consumables and welding and cutting equipment Increase are generally technologically advanced products: for example, at constant exchange a key component of every welding electrode or cored wire is the 2008 2007 Increase rates formulation of the electrode coating or cored wire filling which m m %% differ according to the welding application.
With its history Europe 594.7 474.8 25.3 9.9 going back over one hundred years, ESAB has developed North America 238.6 213.4 11.8 3.7 many unique formulations to suit particular welding applications, South America 198.0 137.2 44.3 30.3 China 36.4 24.7 47.4 32.4 which are generally protected by international patents.
Rest of world 192.1 120.7 59.2 48.9 The manufacturing process knowledge which ESAB has Total 1,259.8 970.8 29.8 16.9 developed is also critical to achieving optimal product characteristics, as well as maximising production efficiency, from which the customer benefits through superior products and lower manufacturing costs.
ESAB is continuing to develop all aspects of its welding and cutting expertise through its research facilities in Sweden and elsewhere in the world which together employ 257 people.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 16 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW ESAB CONTINUED WIND TOWERS Wind towers are a rapidly growing sub-segment of the electricity generating industry.
ESAB has established itself as a world leader in the supply of cutting and welding solutions to this global industry, supported by its global footprint and its unique ability to offer a wide range of cutting and welding equipment and welding consumables.
Vestas, one of the worlds leading wind tower suppliers, chose ESAB as its strategic full service cutting and welding products supplier for its new Colorado, USA facility, with a contract value of some US$22 million.
This contract win also highlights ESABs ability to follow and service its global customers.
Regional markets The region produced another strong performance in 2008, Europe with revenue for all principal product lines up against the prior Europe remains ESABs most important region, where it is the year, due to volume growth and price increases and also due leading welding company.
Europe as a region accounted for to foreign currency movements.
The region experienced 47.2 per cent of ESABs total revenue during the year.
ESABs softening demand towards the end of 2008, later than sales to customers in the more developed Western and Northern the economic downturn experienced by North America Europe continued to broadly match sales to customers in the and Europe.
emerging markets of Central, Eastern and Southern Europe.
China The first three quarters of the year saw strong growth in sales ESABs sales to customers in China were 36.4 million by volume and value across most regions.
The slowdown 2007: 24.7 million, an increase of 47.4 per cent with strong in the fourth quarter was most marked in Russia and various sales growth to the energy industry.
ESAB opened a consumables factory in Weihai and an The translational effects of the appreciation of European equipment plant next to its existing consumables factory in currencies against sterling improved reported sales and profits, Zhangjiagang.
The equipment plant will develop a mid-market although these were partly offset by adverse transactional effects.
range of welding equipment for both domestic supply and for export throughout the rest of Asia and also further afield.
Sales of consumables and equipment to the energy sector, in particular wind tower production, remained strong throughout 2008 saw a continuation on ESABs dual strategy of its the year.
The cutting and automation business performed well facilities in China supplying product both to the domestic with significant increases in revenue, operating profit and margin.
However, as worldwide demand for welding consumables dropped in the fourth quarter of the In July, ESAB acquired the factory, plant and certain other year, the amount of product exported by ESAB factories assets of Linkweld, which have provided ESAB with additional in China for customers in Europe reduced considerably.
capacity to manufacture MAG wire spools in Europe.
This will support the development of ESABs presence in the solid wire ESAB is still in the early stages of establishing itself in China.
It is determined to continue to build on its strategy that ensures it is able to supply products from its Chinese factories to Asia North America and globally that are well positioned for customers in those ESAB recorded sales in North America of 238.6 million markets and with an appropriate cost base.
2007: 213.4 million, an increase of 11.8 per cent, benefitting partly from the strength of the US dollar against sterling.
Rest of world Asia Pacific excluding China Most industries which ESAB serves in North America, such In 2008, ESAB produced another strong performance in the as energy and naval shipbuilding, remained strong throughout region which reflected increased sales to ESABs key end-user the first half of the year.
However, as the economy as a whole segments, particularly in Indonesia, Malaysia and Australia.
deteriorated in the second half of 2008, ESAB experienced During the year, ESAB received approval from the Japanese a slowdown in demand.
authorities for certain products to be exported to Japan.
In October, ESAB signed a contract to supply welding, cutting In April, ESAB completed the acquisition of Romar Positioning and automation equipment to one of the worlds leading wind Equipment Pte Limited Romar, a leading Singaporean tower manufacturers, Vestas Wind Systems.
The contract designer, manufacturer and distributor of handling and positioning is worth some US$22 million.
There has been strong demand equipment for use in automated welding applications, in particular for ESABs scarfing machines for use in the steel industry, and for customers in the energy industry.
This acquisition has given the current order book for these machines goes out to 2010.
EASB a much increased presence in a rapidly growing part South America of the welding equipment market.
ESAB has a strong market presence in Brazil and Argentina which goes back for over 50 years.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 17 India During the year, ESAB India, in which ESAB holds a 56 per cent shareholding, increased its market leadership and again produced strong growth in revenue and operating profit from both its consumables and equipment businesses.
Generally, market conditions remained strong with a slight softening in demand during the fourth quarter.
Middle East and Africa In the Middle East, ESABs revenue delivered another year of growth in 2008, led by increasing sales to the energy, construction and infrastructure sectors.
Africa has been identified as an area where ESAB is under-represented and going forward increased efforts are being made to expand ESABs presence in the region.
Associated undertakings ESABs share of the post tax profits of associates was 3.1 million 2007: 3.0 million.
ESAB India was accounted for as an associate until September 2007, from which time it became a subsidiary.
ESABs only remaining associated undertaking is ESAB SeAH Corporation, situated in South Korea, of which ESAB owns 50 per cent.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
