DIRECTORS AND OTHER REPORTS DIRECTORS REPORT 39 The Directors present their report, together with the audited Association and each being eligible will offer himself for financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008. re-appointment at the AGM.
Scheme of Arrangement Further details regarding the Companys procedures for On 22 October 2008, Charter International plc, a public company the appointment of Directors can be found on pages 45 limited by shares, incorporated in Jersey and tax resident in the Nominations Committee, 45 Board Balance and Republic of Ireland the Company, became the ultimate holding Independence and 46 Re-appointment.
The Board of company of Charter plc the former holding company of the Directors, which is responsible for the management of the Charter Group, pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement under business, may exercise all the powers of the Company subject Sections 895 to 899 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys that was approved by the High Court of Justice in England and Memorandum and Articles of Association and any special Wales and the shareholders of Charter plc the Scheme.
resolution of the Company passed at a general meeting.
The Directors have the power to issue and buy back shares Pursuant to the Scheme, ordinary shares, having a nominal in the Company, as well as to grant options over or otherwise value of 0.02 each, of Charter plc Charter plc Ordinary dispose of, unissued shares in the Company, to such persons, Shares were exchanged for ordinary shares, having a nominal at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
value of 0.02 each, of the Company Charter Ordinary Shares, on a one-for-one basis.
Upon the Scheme of Arrangement ESAB Holdings Limited, Howden Group Limited and The ESAB becoming effective, Charter plc re-registered as a private Group Inc. subsidiaries of the Company, are party to arms limited company and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the length consultancy agreements with Unipart Logistics Limited Company.
The Charter Ordinary Shares carry substantially the Unipart Logistics for the provision of lean manufacturing and same rights as the Charter plc Ordinary Shares carried prior other consultancy services to ESAB Global, Howden Global and to the Scheme.
Further information on the terms of the Scheme Anderson Group Inc. respectively.
John Neill, a Non-Executive is set out in the Prospectus published by the Company on Director of the Company, is currently Group Chief Executive 8 September 2008, which can be viewed on the Companys of the Unipart Group of Companies.
The total charges paid website at www.
to Unipart Logistics during the year amounted to 2.7 million 2007: 2.4 million.
The amount payable to Unipart Logistics Charter was incorporated on 14 March 2008.
2008, being the effective date of the Scheme, the Company had not commenced trading or made any profits or trading losses.
ESAB Romania Trading SRL, a subsidiary of the Company, supplied Hoeganaes Corporation Europe SA, a wholly-owned Activities and review of operations subsidiary of GKN plc, Hoeganaes Europe with welding rod A review of the activities and operations of the Company and material for a value of Romanian new leu 5,864.
The amount its subsidiaries, is given in the Chairmans statement on page 5, receivable from Hoeganaes Europe at 31 December 2008 was the Chief Executives statement on pages 6 to 9 and the nil.
In 2007, Hoeganaes Europe supplied powdered metal to Business and Financial Review on pages 10 to 35.
These are ESAB Mor Kft, a subsidiary of the Company, for a value of incorporated by reference into and form part of this report.
approximately 11,800 and ESAB Kft, a subsidiary of the Business and Financial Review Company, supplied Hoeganaes Europe with welding rod The Business and Financial Review is a review of the material for a value of 2,783.
The amount payable to development, and the operational and financial performance, Hoeganaes Europe at 31 December 2007 was nil.
of the business during the year ended 31 December 2008 and Hoeganaes Corporation Hoeganaes, a wholly-owned contains a description of the principal risks and uncertainties subsidiary of GKN plc, supplied powdered metal to two facing the business.
subsidiaries of the Company, being the ESAB Group Inc and ESAB Mexico SA fide CV, with a total sales value of US$2.8 million Profits 2007: US$2.1 million.
The amount payable to Hoeganaes The profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 158.7 million at 31 December 2008 was US$0.1 million.
between these companies is on an arms length basis and in the Dividends ordinary course of trade.
Grey Denham, a Non-Executive The Directors intend to declare a final dividend for the year Director of the Company, is Company Secretary and Group ended 31 December 2008 of 14 pence per ordinary share 2007: Director Legal and Compliance of GKN plc but has no 12 pence per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 7 pence day-to-day involvement in the management of Hoeganaes Corp per ordinary share was paid in respect of the six months ended or Hoeganaes Europe.
The Directors intend to declare the final dividend immediately prior to the Annual General Meeting No other Directors had any interest in contracts with the of the Company the AGM on 29 April 2009, which will Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the period other be paid on 5 May 2009 to those shareholders on the register than service contracts and indemnity agreements.
Directors at the close of business on 14 April 2009. interests in the ordinary shares of the Company as well as details of their remuneration and service contracts can be Directors found in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 55.
The names and brief biographical details of the Directors and Key Management of the Company appear on pages 36 to 38.
Messrs Careless and Deeley were appointed to the Board of the Company on 16 July 2008, with the remaining Directors being appointed on 27 August 2008.
The Non-Executive Directors resigned as Directors of Charter plc on 22 October 2008 when the Scheme became effective.
As the AGM will be the Companys first Annual General Meeting, all Directors will be retiring by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles of CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 40 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Settlement with City Index Creditor payment policy On 7 February 2006, the Company announced that it had The creditor payment policy of the Company and its settled its legal proceedings against City Index in respect of subsidiaries is to settle amounts due to creditors in accordance losses incurred as a consequence of certain unauthorised with agreed terms.
The policy provides that local practice must payments having been made by a former employee.
The Board be observed in the countries in which they operate and that is aware that, following the settlement with the Company, City standard payment terms in each country may also be varied Index sought to continue to pursue claims for contribution against by negotiation with individual suppliers.
The Company had certain current and former Directors of the Company and against no trade creditors at the year end.
A motion for summary judgment is to Charitable and political contributions be considered by the House of Lords on 13 May 2009.
During the year the Company and its subsidiaries donated Corporate governance 121,000 2007: 90,000 to charities of which 13,000 2007: A review of the Companys application of the principles 8,581 was to charities in the United Kingdom.
Within the and provisions of the Combined Code can be found on pages United Kingdom, donations were made in the year to support 44 to 47. charities working in education nil 2007: 500, medical research support 10,350 2007: 4,806 and community Directors indemnities support 2,650 2007: 3,275.
There were no political Each of the Directors has been granted an indemnity by the donations made during the year 2007: nil.
Company, to the extent permitted by applicable law, in respect of certain liabilities that may arise as a result of the Director Research and development acting as a Director or employee of the Company or an associated The Company and its subsidiaries continue to place strong company.
Under the terms of each indemnity, the relevant emphasis on research and development to meet the changing Director is indemnified against liability to third parties excluding needs of the markets they serve.
Research and development among other things the liability to pay criminal fines and expenditure, which excludes engineering and production regulatory penalties and certain other liabilities.
In relation to support costs, totalled 13.2 million 2007: 9.2 million for the any third party claim, the Company may loan funds to a Director year of which 8.8 million 2007: 6.3 million has been charged to allow him to fund his legal costs.
Any such loan must be to the income statement for the year and 4.4 million 2007: repaid by the Director if the Director is convicted of an offence, 2.9 million has been capitalised as intangible assets.
judgment is given against the Director or the Directors application Share capital structure for relief is refused by the court.
Share capital Financial instruments As at 26 February 2009, the Company had 166,751,581 fully The financial risk management objectives and policies paid ordinary shares of 0.02 each in issue which are listed on of the Company including interest rate, currency and credit the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has a single class risk are outlined in note 21 to the Companys consolidated of shares.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Annual General Meeting The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are The Companys first Annual General Meeting will take place contained in the Articles of Association, a copy of which can be at 2 p. m. on 29 April 2009 at Fitzwilliam Hall, Fitzwilliam Place, obtained upon request to the Company Secretary.
The notice of AGM the Notice can be found may only be changed by a special resolution passed at a general in a separate circular to shareholders.
The Notice sets out details meeting of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled of the resolutions that will be proposed at the AGM as well to receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at any general as explanatory notes giving the background and reasons meeting of the Company, except as described below.
Voting Employees On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present has one The Companys policy is to encourage effective communication vote and on a poll every member who is present has one vote and consultation between employees and management.
for every 0.02 in nominal amount of his shares.
Where shares Subsidiaries develop their own consultation and communication are held jointly, the vote of the shareholder who first appears on procedures as part of their employment practices.
Further details the register of members in respect of the share shall be conclusive.
can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report At any general meeting, a poll may be demanded by shareholders on pages 32 to 35 of the Business and Financial Review.
who are present and entitled to vote when i not less than five The Company and its subsidiaries are equal opportunities such shareholders make such a demand: ii any shareholders employers and seek to attract, develop, deploy and reward represent not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all prospective and present employees solely on the basis of merit, shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting: or iii any regardless of gender, ethnic origin, religion or sexual orientation.
shareholders represent not less than one-tenth of the total paidIn addition, the Company and its subsidiaries give full and fair up share capital.
Holders of ordinary shares also have various consideration to applications for employment made by disabled rights to appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be members people, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Should of the Company or, where appropriate, a corporate representative, employees become disabled during employment, they would to attend and vote on their behalf.
Further details about the be considered for any necessary retraining and available work right to appoint a proxy or a corporate representative are set within their capabilities.
For the purposes of training, career out in the Notice.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders development and promotion, disabled employees are treated in respect of monies unpaid on their shares.
If any call is not in the same way as other employees.
complied with, the Directors may serve a notice requiring payment with interest and expenses.
Failure to comply with CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS AND OTHER REPORTS 41 this may result in forfeiture of any share the subject of the between 1%-3%.
Irish resident or ordinarily resident notice.
The Company has a lien on any share which is not shareholders of the Company will be subject to the income levy fully paid.
on dividends paid on the Company's shares and on dividends paid under the IAS.
Voting restrictions No member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, Section 3.2 of Part 4 of the Prospectus refers to proposals to be entitled to vote at a general meeting either personally or by extend the availability subject to certain conditions of tax proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership credits in respect of dividends from non-UK resident companies in relation to meetings of the Company, if any call or other sum to UK resident individuals owning 10 per cent or more of the presently payable by him to the Company in respect of such issued shares of such companies.
The UK Government has shares remains unpaid.
Further, a shareholder is not, unless the recently announced that these measures are to take effect from Directors otherwise determine, entitled to attend or vote at any 6 April 2009. general meeting if the shareholder has failed to comply with a Please note that neither the statements made above nor the notice under the Articles an Article 16 notice to investigate statements contained in the Prospectus constitute tax advice.
interests in the Companys shares within 14 days.
If you are in any doubt as to your tax position you should consult your own professional adviser.
Dividends and other distributions Subject to the provisions of Jersey Companies Law, the The profit for the year ended 31 December 2008 was 158.7 million Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends up to 2007: 144.8 million.
The Directors intend to declare a final the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Board may, if dividend for this year of 14 pence per ordinary share 2007: authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Company, offer any 12 pence per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 7 pence holder of shares excluding treasury shares the right to elect per ordinary share was paid in respect of the six months ended to receive a dividend in the form of fully-paid ordinary shares.
The intention is for the dividend to be Subject to the provisions of Jersey Companies Law, the Board paid on 5 May 2009 to those shareholders on the register at the may authorise the payment of dividends of such amount and on close of business on 14 April 2009. such dates as they think justified by the financial position of the Company.
Transfer restrictions The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any If a shareholder who holds at least 0.25 per cent in nominal value share which is not a fully-paid up share and refuse to register of the ordinary shares is in default of an Article 16 notice, then any transfer in favour of more than four persons jointly.
the Directors may also withhold the payment of any dividend The Directors may also refuse to recognise any instrument to and restrict the transfer of shares held by that shareholder.
of transfer unless it is in respect of any one class of share, Payments of dividends is lodged at such place as they may determine and, where Following the Scheme, the Board passed a resolution appropriate, is accompanied by any relevant share certificates approving the Income Access Share arrangements IAS.
and such other evidence as they may reasonably require to show These arrangements mean that shareholders are able to elect the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
The Directors may whether they receive their dividends from a company resident also suspend transfers where a shareholder has failed to comply for tax purposes in the Republic of Ireland or, instead, under with an Article 16 notice, in the manner noted above.
the IAS arrangements from a company resident for tax purposes Certain restrictions on transfers of shares may from time to in the UK.
time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider Where no election has been made to receive dividends under trading laws and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial the IAS, dividends paid by the Company will be treated as Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company having an Irish source and may, subject to the availability of require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys exemptions, be paid subject to Irish Dividend Withholding Tax.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on Where an election has been made to receive dividends under the transfer of securities.
the IAS, dividends will instead be paid from a UK tax resident company Charter Limited and will be treated as having a UK Securities carrying special rights source.
Dividends paid under the IAS will not be subject to Without prejudice to any special rights which have been UK Withholding Tax.
conferred on any shareholders, any share of the Company may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other special rights Copies of the income access election form are available on or subject to such restrictions as the Directors or the shareholders the Companys website at www.
No shares have been issued that carry any For a general summary of some of the tax implications of special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
receiving dividends with an Irish source from the Company, Variation of rights or dividends with a UK source under the IAS, please see Subject to the provisions of Jersey Companies Law and to any Sections 2 and 3 of Part 4 Taxation of the Prospectus rights attached to existing shares and except in the case where which was issued by the Company on 8 September 2008 there is only one holder of the issued shares of a class of the Prospectus.
Please note that references in the Prospectus shares, in which case any and all of the rights attached to that to New Charter are references to Charter International plc and class of shares may be varied only with the consent in writing references to New Charter Ordinary Shareholders are of that holder, rights attached to any class of shares may be references to Shareholders of Charter International plc.
A copy varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than of the Prospectus is available on the Companys website at: two-thirds in nominal value of the issued shares of that class www.
calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or Section 2.3 of Part 4 of the Prospectus deals with the Irish tax with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate treatment of dividends received.
With effect from 1 January general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such 2009, the Irish Government has introduced an income levy of separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 42 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy Powers in relation to the Company issuing or buying back not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of its own shares the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
In connection with the Scheme, resolutions were passed on 27 August 2008 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal Amendment of Articles of Association amount of 1,111,327.61, as required by the Companys Articles Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles other than those relevant securities allotted for the purposes of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of the Scheme and its associated arrangements up to an of Association may be amended by a special resolution aggregate nominal amount of 3,680,881.12.
That authority of the Companys shareholders.
will apply until the conclusion of the AGM.
At the AGM Appointment and replacement of Directors shareholders will be asked to grant a further authority to allot Shareholders may, by special resolution, set out regulations relevant securities i up to a nominal amount of 1,111,677, or provisions according to which the Directors must abide.
The and ii comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount Directors shall be not less than two in number.
The Company of 2,223,354 after deducting from such limit any relevant may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum and or maximum securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way number of Directors.
A Director shall not be required to hold any of a rights issue, the allotment authority, such allotment shares in the Company.
Directors may be appointed by the authority to apply until the end of next years Annual General Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director Meeting or, if earlier, until 30 June 2010. appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors Annual General Meeting of the Company and is then eligible for power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in connection re-appointment.
The Board or any committee authorised by the with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors of 166,751. to hold any employment or executive office for such period and on such terms as they may determine and may also revoke A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the Directors or terminate any such appointment.
authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 16,675,158 At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, any Director ordinary shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices who has been appointed by the Board since the last Annual which may be paid.
General Meeting, or who held office at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at Major shareholders either of them, or who has held office with the Company, other As at 26 February 2009, the Company had received the than employment or executive office, for a continuous period following notifications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure of nine years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting, and Transparency Rules of the FSA the DTR.
shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment % of issued by the members.
The Company may by ordinary resolution Date of Direct indirect No.
of shares share capital notification Shareholder interest voting rights voting rights remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers 08 07 08 JP Morgan Indirect 8,362,250 5.02 Chase & Co to resign and the Board resolve to accept such offer: ii his 13 08 08 Legal & General Direct 6,936,296 4.16 resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he is Group plc or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the 16 01 09 Standard Life Direct 7,243,353 4.344 Board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent Investments Ltd Indirect 2,785,085 1.670 without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board Total 10,028,438 6.014 whether or not an alternate director appointed by him attends 20 01 09 Lloyds Bank Direct 1,786,424 1.071 for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his Group plc Indirect 6,580,806 3.946 office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with Total 8,367,230 5.017 his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being 03 02 09 Jupiter Asset a Director: vii he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Management Ltd Indirect 16,647,082 9.983 provisions of Jersey Companies Law: or viii he is removed Notifications received by Charter plc prior to the effective date of the Scheme.
from office pursuant to the Companys Articles.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Jersey Companies Law and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets present and future and uncalled capital and subject to the Jersey Companies Law to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS AND OTHER REPORTS 43 Significant agreements Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors The Company acts as guarantor in respect of a 75 million So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Multi-Currency Revolving Facility Agreement dated 3 information that is, information needed by the Companys September 2008 between HSBC Bank HSBC and Charter Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which Central Finance Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
This the Companys Auditors are unaware, and each Director has contains a change of control provision which, if triggered, could taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a restrict further utilisations and or require the repayment of all Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit outstanding utilisations.
In such circumstances HSBC may also information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are call for cash collateral for outstanding utilisations under aware of that information.
separate documentary credit facilities provided to two Auditors subsidiaries of the Company of 40 million and US$ 20 million A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as respectively.
Auditors to the Company and a further resolution to authorise Similar provisions are contained in smaller credit facilities the Board to fix the Auditors remuneration will be proposed that Charter Central Finance Limited has entered into with at the AGM.
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, Bank of China UK By order of the Board Limited and Barclays Bank plc.
James R Deeley The Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan contains provisions Director that allow outstanding awards to vest in certain circumstances 26 February 2009 upon a change of control of the Company.
Conditional awards made pursuant to the Charter International plc Deferred Registered office: Bonus Plan will automatically vest on a change of control 22 Grenville Street of the Company.
Further details concerning the above can St Helier be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 55.
Jersey JE4 8PX Registered in Jersey Number 100249 Rights under the employee share schemes Under the rules of Charter International Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Charter International Deferred Share Bonus Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
As at 26 February 2009, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited as trustee of the Charter Employee Trust holds 0.018 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company on trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and managers of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares have been waived by the Trustee.
Corporate social responsibility CSR The Companys report on CSR, including its approach to health and safety, social, environmental and other related environmental issues, can be found on pages 32 to 35 of the Business and Financial Review.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
