18 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW HOWDEN ABOUT HOWDEN Howdens core products include centrifugal and axial fans, air and gas rotary preheaters and compressors.
Howdens fans and heaters are integral parts of the coal-fired boiler and emission control systems used by the power industry.
Howden also makes significant sales to the oil and gas, mining, iron and steel and other process industries.
Howdens sales are split broadly equally between the developed economies of Europe and North America, and emerging economies, in particular China, the rest of Asia and South Africa.
During 2008, Howden acquired a manufacturing presence in South America, which is seen as an important growth market.
Howden derives approximately one-quarter of its revenues through aftermarket sales, which benefit from its extensive installed product base.
As Howden has increasingly concentrated on the higher value-added parts of its activities, the manufacture of non-performance critical components has progressively been outsourced to sub-contractors in low cost locations.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 19 Howden is a world-leading international applications engineer.
It designs, manufactures, installs and maintains air and gas handling equipment for use in the power, oil and gas, petrochemical and other industries.
Revenue for the year was 627.2 million 2007: 480.3 million, 2008 HIGHLIGHTS HOWDEN an increase of 30.6 per cent.
Howden achieved operating profit of 73.1 million 2008 2007 Increase 2007: 57.6 million, an increase of 26.9 per cent.
m m % New equipment 465.0 358.8 29.6Operating margin was broadly maintained at around Aftermarket 162.2 121.5 33.5 12 per cent.
Revenue 627.2 480.3 30.6 Howdens order book was a year-end record of 499.3 million 2007: 416.7 million, an increase of 19.8 per cent.
A record Order book 499.3 416.7 19.8 110 million of orders extend beyond 12 months.
Howden achieved aftermarket sales of 162.2 million Operating profit 73.1 57.6 26.9 2007: 121.5 million.
Aeolus, a leading Brazilian designer and manufacturer of Share of profits of associates industrial fans with a strong presence in the pulp and paper, post tax 0.1 0.2 cement and ethanol markets, was acquired.
A sales office is being established in the Middle East.
Capital expenditure 14.1 8.1 Depreciation 4.6 3.4 Operating margin 11.7% 12.0% Average number of employees 3,856 3,334 HOWDEN STRATEGY HOWDEN WILL: A significant part of Howdens business is the supply ofbuild upon its world-leading position as an applications equipment to the electricity supply industry, most particularly engineer, which designs, manufactures, installs and maintains for use in coal-fired generating plant.
Demand for energy is performance critical components for air and gas handling: expected to continue to grow and coal is expected to maintain, maintain and enhance its position in all those regions where if not increase, its share of electricity generation.
Even though there is expected to be significant new build of coal-fired there may be an easing of the rate at which new generating generating capacity and emission control equipment: plant is being constructed whilst financial conditions remain difficult, it is still anticipated that the global stock of coal-fireddevelop further its position in the oil and gas and generating capacity will almost double by 2030.
In addition, petrochemicals industries, in particular in the compressor significant amounts of generating capacity, especially in Europe business: and North America, are becoming life-expired and will require enhance its presence in other industries where its replacement.
Demand for emission control products due to technology and expertise can be used to advantage: increasingly stringent government regulation will also create demand for Howden products.
Increasing demand for Howdencontinue to develop its aftermarket business, including products is expected from the petrochemical and oil and gas through the increased installed base following recent high industries, although recent reductions in the price of oil, as well levels of new equipment sales: and as financing issues, may put a brake on this investment over look to grow the business by acquisitions that will strengthen the short term.
its market position and improve its technology base.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 20 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW HOWDEN CONTINUED HOWDEN REVENUE BRIDGE Out of total sales growth of 30.6 per cent in 2008, the new build 650 segment contributed 14.2 per cent driven by sales of products for New build use in generation and emission control equipment in the electricity 600 Aftermarket supply industries in particular in North America, Europe and China, Acquisition 550 and from the oil and gas and mining sectors in other regions.
Exchange 500 The aftermarket segment contributed 6.1 per cent, reflecting an increase in retrofitting and servicing and the emergence 450 of the Chinese aftermarket.
The acquisition of Aeolus added 400 a further 0.9 per cent.
The remaining 9.4 per cent came from currency movements.
350 2007 2008 Overview of performance of which 8.7 per cent was due to currency factors, which Howden achieved another set of excellent results in 2008 was a record year-end level.
Orders booked in the year were with sales of 627.2 million 2007: 480.3 million, an increase 659.0 million 2007: 542.4 million, an increase of 21.5 per of 30.6 per cent 21.2 per cent at constant exchange rates.
cent, with orders from customers in the power and oil and gas The results achieved by Howden in 2008 reflected increased industries Howdens key end-user segments remaining strong, demand for Howden products for use in generation and whilst there was some weakening in new orders by customers emission control equipment in the electricity supply industries in the metals, mining and cement industries.
in particular in North America, Europe and China, and from As at 31 December 2008, outstanding orders from customers the oil and gas and mining sectors in other regions.
Trading in Europe and China amounted to 134.2 million and in the second half of 2008 was particularly strong, with sales 114.3 million respectively, compared with 107.9 million and and operating profit at record levels and an operating margin 90.3 million respectively as at 31 December 2007.
Outstanding in excess of both the first half of the year and 2007 as a orders from customers in North America amounted to whole.
Sales were spread broadly evenly across Europe, 122.3 million, compared with 143.3 million as at 31 December North America, China and the rest of the world principally 2007, a decrease of 14.7 per cent.
The order book to the rest South Africa, Australia, South America and the rest of Asia.
of the world amounted to 128.6 million 2007: 75.2 million, Out of the total sales growth of 30.6 per cent, 14.2 per cent an increase of 71.0 per cent.
came from sales of original equipment, 6.1 per cent from the The order book at 31 December 2008 included some 389 million aftermarket, 0.9 per cent from acquisitions, and 9.4 per cent from for delivery in 2009 and 110 million for delivery in 2010 currency movements, in particular arising from the appreciation or beyond.
Whilst the impact of order delays in the current of the US dollar, euro and Chinese renminbi against sterling.
economic and financial conditions has not been material, Howdens compressor business, which sells predominantly the above figures reflect a small number of orders which to the oil and gas industry, continued to make progress during have been cancelled or deferred from 2009 to 2010.
Revenue and order intake were at record levels in the Products and segmentation first three quarters of the year with the oil price hitting all time Howden designs, manufactures, installs and maintains highs.
Despite the falls seen in the oil price in the final quarter heavy duty fans, preheaters and compressors.
The fans of the year, order intake remained at reasonable levels.
Howden and preheaters are used mainly in the generation of electricity is focusing on other areas where its compressor technology by coal-fired power stations, both in combustion and the can be put to good use, such as wastewater treatment.
Other applications are in the steel, 2008 operating profit was 73.1 million 2007: 57.6 million, mining and cement industries.
an increase of 26.9 per cent 15.8 per cent at constant Howden compressors are mainly used by the oil and gas and exchange rates.
For the year as a whole, the operating margin petrochemical industries: other applications are in refrigeration, of 11.7 per cent was down by 30 basis points compared to the nuclear industry and the treatment of waste water.
The margin was appreciably higher in the second half of the year 12.1 per cent compared with the first 11.1 per cent : Howden is continually seeking to improve its range of skills this reflected the higher level of sales in the second half.
During 2008, a higher pressure axial fan blade was developed to satisfy the market demand for a superior Aftermarket sales in 2008 were 162.2 million 2007: 121.5 million performance fan able to be retrofitted within existing physical an increase of 33.5 per cent.
The new blade profile produces greater flow and in China is continuing to gain momentum.
Operating profit pressure rise within a given fan diameter.
Orders have been won also increased.
for power plants in eight countries.
Howden is also developing Order book an extended range of reciprocating piston compressors to The strength of Howdens order book, which was maintained expand its offering to the oil and gas and petrochemical industries throughout the year, meant that Howdens trading was as well as meeting the longer-term requirements for the hydrogen comparatively unaffected by the deterioration in economic generation market.
A new business has been formed, Howden and financial conditions in the final quarter of the year.
Water Technology A S, to promote and supply the Howden range of turbo compressors for wastewater treatment, a growing global As at 31 December 2008, the order book stood at 499.3 million market for new equipment and aftermarket services, estimated 31 December 2007: 416.7 million, an increase of 19.8 per cent to be in the region of 240 million per annum.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Revenue m OUR BUSINESSES 21 HOWDEN ORDER BOOK m As at 31 December 2008, Howdens order book stood at 600 499 million 2007: 417million, an increase of 19.7 per cent Europe and a year-end record.
Orders booked in the year were 659 million, 500 North America an increase of 21.5 per cent over 2007.
China 400 As at 31 December 2008, outstanding orders from customers Rest of the world 300 in Europe, North America and China amounted to 134.2 million, 122.3 million and 114.3 million respectively.
The order book 200 to the rest of the world amounted to 128.6 million.
100 The order book at 31 December 2008 included orders worth 389 million for delivery in 2009 and 110 million for delivery 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec in 2010 or beyond.
2006 2007 2008 The great majority of Howdens products are bespoke to Over the short term, orders for Howden equipment may an individual customers specifications.
Order lead times be delayed by the shortage of credit and general economic are typically 9 to 18 months, generally being shorter in China conditions.
This includes various power generation projects in and longer in Europe and North America.
China, where demand for power fell markedly in the final quarter of 2008, and the USA.
However, new coal-fired plants are being In 2008, the total market for Howden products is estimated built in India where the government has ambitious targets to at 2.5 billion, including aftermarket, of which the power, increase the availability of electricity.
Other emerging economies petrochemical and oil and gas industries were the in South East Asia are utilising new coal-fired plants to meet largest components.
Industry overview Delays in legislation and uncertainty over government policy Demand have also caused delays in orders being placed.
Governments Demand for new Howden equipment is strongly influenced by in Western Europe and North America generally recognise the the construction of new coal-fired power stations, environmental need to replace life-expired plant with new coal-fired plant, legislation in particular as it relates to restrictions on emissions although uncertainty over the strategy for carbon reduction is from coal-fired power stations and other heavy industrial plant somewhat slowing this market at present.
Over the short term, and the construction of new refineries, steel plant and cement this may lead to programmes to extend the life of existing plant, factories.
As with many capital goods industries, the aftermarket which represents a potential opportunity for Howdens represents an important part of the total market.
Howdens order book gives it good visibility over its 2009 Governmental regulations stimulate demand for a number of revenue.
Its orders for delivery in the current year represent Howden products, particularly in the environmental protection a significant percentage of budgeted 2009 new equipment sector where Howden supplies equipment for use in processes sales and one which is comparable to previous years.
To date, which reduce atmospheric pollution generated by coal-fired the global economic slowdown has had relatively little impact power stations and industrial plant.
In the USA, the re-instatement on Howdens trading which is continuing to experience high of the Clean Air Interstate Rules CAIR is likely to support new levels of activity.
activity for emission control equipment.
EU legislation on NOx In addition to fulfilling these orders, a principal objective for reduction from large power plants to meet a 2016 deadline is Howden in 2009 is to maintain a strong order book throughout also creating a market for Howden emission control products.
the year which will impact its revenue in 2010.
Howden compressors are mainly sold into the oil and gas Howden continues to believe in the fundamental long-term and petrochemicals industries, in particular for use in refineries strength of the demand for its products from the power and related applications.
The steep decline in the oil price seen generation industry, its largest end-user segment.
Overall, in the third quarter of 2008 and the slowdown in the growth the demand for electricity is expected to continue to grow in oil consumption are creating uncertainties over future capital at a rate in excess of global GDP, and coal is generally expenditure projects in oil exploration and refining.
Presently, expected to at least maintain, if not increase, the percentage the majority of projects approved before the global economic of generation for which it accounts.
slowdown do not appear to be affected, although it is not clear how many new projects will be approved if the oil price remains Demand for Howden products will arise from the construction around its current level.
of new generating plant, which is expected to take place primarily in the developing world and which is expected to The aftermarket is Howdens single biggest opportunity for average 57 GW per annum for at least the next 20 years: from growth.
Each delivery of new equipment creates a potential the construction of generating plant to replace life-expired aftermarket revenue stream over the operating life of the equipment, primarily in the developed world where it is equipment which is typically 30 to 40 years.
The aftermarket estimated that some 800 GW of coal-fired generating capacity in China is seen as offering significant opportunities for is currently over 30 years old and will progressively fall due for Howden, as equipment delivered during the last few years replacement: and from the fitting of emission control equipment reaches the point where major servicing is required.
to new and existing generating plant.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 22 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW HOWDEN CONTINUED ACQUISITION OF AEOLUS In August 2008, Howden completed the acquisition of Aeolus Industria e Comercio Ltda, a leading Brazilian designer and manufacturer of industrial fans, with strong positions in the pulp and paper, cement and ethanol markets.
The acquisition has enhanced Howdens position in Brazil and provided Howden with its first manufacturing facility in the South American region.
The integration of Aeolus has proceeded well and the business has continued to perform strongly under Howdens ownership.
Howden management remains vigilant to any softening of and practices and is delivered in partnership with Glasgow demand and will adjust its manufacturing capacity accordingly.
So far around 100 engineers from Howden has worked extensively to ensure that its growth in 14 different countries have graduated.
recent years has been built on flexible supply chains, including Intellectual property the extensive use of sub-contractors, and relatively low Technology and the Howden brand are key parts of Howdens levels of fixed cost.
With the visibility of a strong order book, supply chain.
Howden continues to invest in research and Howden will be able to respond pro-actively to any slowdown product development in order to maintain its position of in order intake: this may include keeping relatively more technology leadership in its principal product areas.
Howdens work in-house in order to maintain the loading of its own brand is recognised worldwide and is seen as representing manufacturing facilities.
engineering excellence, customer service, global reach, Competitive environment technology leadership and quality.
Howden has strong positions in the specialised markets that Regional overview of performance it supplies, particularly in heavy-duty fans and rotary heat Howdens revenue by destination is summarised in the table exchangers where it is the clear world-leader.
In 2008, Howden achieved significant growth in sales of the five leading worldwide suppliers of process gas screw to customers in North America and South America and reported compressors for use in the oil and gas industry: together these a strong performance in the other regions in which it operates.
manufacturers are believed to represent around 85 per cent of the market.
As in previous years, Howden has maintained a general balance between sales to customers in developed and Howdens share of the aftermarket varies between regions.
In some locations, such as Africa, where Howden supplied a high proportion of the original equipment, and Australia, where recent new build activity has been low, its share HOWDEN: REVENUE BY DESTINATION is relatively high.
Increase Howden supply chain at constant exchange Manufacturing 2008 2007 Increase rates m m %% Howden has principal manufacturing centres in each of its major markets of Europe, China and North America and other North America 181.5 114.8 58.1 48.0 manufacturing facilities exist to serve the local markets in South Europe 165.3 140.6 17.6 8.8 China 136.6 114.1 19.7 4.1 Africa and South America through the recent acquisition of South America 30.3 15.4 96.8 82.5 Aeolus.
Equipment is generally produced in the same region Rest of world 113.5 95.4 19.0 17.7 as the customer is located, although Howden does export product between regions, for example from its manufacturing Total 627.2 480.3 30.6 21.2 facilities in Europe and in China to North America.
Howden makes extensive use of a global network of subRegional markets contractors to manufacture non-performance critical components.
North America In 2008, the number of man-hours subcontracted is estimated Sales to customers in North America increased to 181.5 million, to have slightly exceeded in-house man-hours.
an increase of 58.1 per cent 48.0 per cent at constant Human resources exchange rates, driven by the continuing programmes to A key component in Howdens supply chain is the quality upgrade emission control equipment.
Notable revenue growth and quantity of its engineers.
Howdens engineering resources was also achieved in the aftermarket and in sales of new include 300 graduate engineers at its locations in China, which equipment for the mining industry.
has considerably increased Howdens engineering capabilities in this location.
In the summer of 2008 Howden opened As at 31 December 2008, around one-half of the order book The Howden Academy in Glasgow which gives new engineers was represented by utility projects with the balance from other an effective introduction into Howdens products, applications sectors, including petrochemical and mining.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUR BUSINESSES 23 GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN Renfrew Howdens supply chain is a key component in maintaining and improving its competitive strength globally.
The supply chain comprises Howdens own factories, which have increasingly Naestved Belfast specialised in the manufacture of performance critical components, and a network of sub-contractors, predominantly situated in low Weihai Cartagena Camden HBI cost areas such as Eastern Europe, Thailand and China.
Monterrey Bangkok Howdens growth in recent years has been built on flexible supply chains and relatively low levels of fixed cost, part of this has been achieved through the increasing use of sub-contractors.
Sydney Howden works very closely with its sub-contractors to ensure that their standards and working practices meet those required by Howdens own manufacturing facilities.
At the end of 2008 Howden opened a new element packaging South America facility in Mexico, which will mainly focus on the upgrading and South America is an important growth market for Howdens enhancement of the power generation installed base and site products.
Howdens principal market in the region is Brazil, service activities.
where it enhanced its presence in August through the acquisition of Aeolus Industria e Comercio, a leading designer and Europe manufacturer of industrial fans in the region.
The acquisition Revenue in Europe increased by 17.6 per cent to 165.3 million has provided Howden with its first manufacturing base in the reflecting increased sales of Howden fans and other products region and should assist Howden to further develop its to customers in the power and other industrial sectors and presence in the South American market.
Howden also saw strong demand for ventilation fans used in tunnels and mining applications during Sales were 30.3 million in 2008 2007: 15.4 million, an increase the first half of the year.
of 96.8 per cent of which 28.6 per cent was attributable to the acquisition of Aeolus.
As noted above, Howden BC Compressors Howden Compressors Limited, in which Howden reacquired won a significant order to supply compressors to a major full ownership in late 2006, continued to perform above customer in the oil and gas industry in Brazil.
The acquisition has provided significant synergies with existing Howden Compressor companies and Howden Rest of the world has invested in new machining for the company to build on Africa this growth in the coming years.
Order intake at Howden BC Howden Africa Holdings Limited HAHL, in which Howden has Compressors in France reached record levels in 2008, with a holding of some 55 per cent, achieved increased sales driven the companys largest order to date being received from the by equipment and aftermarket sales to the power and the state owned Brazilian integrated oil and gas company for mining sectors in South Africa.
22 hydrogen booster reciprocating compressors for clean fuel In 2008, HAHLs order bookings were a record 84 million, facilities in eight refineries.
an increase of 62 per cent, reflecting the companys Howden continues to build a presence in the important Russian participation in the Eskom new build and refurbishment market where its first orders have been booked.
Further programmes and other environmental control projects.
opportunities have been identified in the power, tunnels, mining Other and oil and gas sectors, subject to the deteriorating financial Howdens sales in the Middle East have benefitted from high conditions in the Russian economy.
levels of investment in the oil and gas sectors.
Howden also China is establishing a Middle East sales office.
Sales to China recovered from the anticipated slowdown Howdens presence in India continues to develop with in 2007 to reach 136.6 million for the year, an increase the opening of a second sales office in Delhi and with the of 19.7 per cent over 2007. appointment of a number of sales and engineering personnel In addition to a recovery in sales to the power industry, Howdens in the region.
Compressor orders have been won and Howden sales benefitted from its recent programme of product continues to believe that the power market there offers expansion in China, including the opening of the compressor significant future potential.
factory in Weihai towards the end of 2007.
This has achieved Associated undertakings higher than expected sales to the petrochemical industry.
In 2008, Howdens share of the post tax profits of a nonThe Chinese aftermarket business progressed well during the trading associated undertaking amounted to 0.1 million year and, whilst it remains comparatively small, is ahead of plan.
Following the disposal of HAHLs holding Overall the Chinese aftermarket remains a large growth in Pump Brands Pty Limited in 2007, Howden no longer opportunity for Howden.
has any associated trading undertakings.
CHARTER INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
