34 DIRECTORS REPORT CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Directors Report The directors present their annual report, together with the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company, for the year ended 31 October 2008.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are the design, manufacture and sale of energetic material products and countermeasures.
Business review The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director on pages 2 to 17, together with the Business Review and the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 18 to 31, provide a review of the Groups business development, performance and position during and at the end of the financial year: its strategy and likely future development: key performance indicators: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Further information regarding financial risk management policies and financial instruments is given in Note 24 of the financial statements.
Details of signi cant events since the balance sheet date are contained in Note 39 of the financial statements.
Results and dividends The pro t attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year was 41.2 million 2007: 32.1 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 25p per ordinary share, which together with the interim dividend of 10p per ordinary share paid in August 2008 gives a total for the year of 35p 2007: 25p.
The final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25 March 2009, and accordingly has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Directors and their interests The present directors are shown on pages 32 and 33.
Dr D J Price, Mr P A Rayner, Mr D R Evans and Mr K C Scobie will be retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be offering themselves for re-election.
Details of the service contracts between the Company and Dr Price, Mr Rayner and Mr Scobie are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 43.
Mr Evans does not have a service contract with the Company.
None of the directors had a bene cial interest in any contract of signi cance to which the Group was a party during the year ended 31 October 2008.
Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Substantial shareholdings At 20 January 2009 the following substantial holdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company had been noti ed to the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Name % Interest Standard Life Investments Ltd 6.44 Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13 JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.94 AXA S. A and its group of companies 4.84 3.97 Legal and General Group PLC Employees Details of the Groups employment policies are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 30.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations amounting to 29,306 2007: 9,875 were made during the year.
No political donations were made during the year 2007: nil.
Policy on payment of suppliers It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group companies should agree appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with suppliers.
These will range from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts.
Creditor days of the Group as at 31 October 2008 amounted to 60 days 2007: 62 days.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT 35 The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan the PSP The following conditional awards were made under the PSP during the year: Number of Total number of participants Date of award shares awarded receiving awards 23 Jan 2008 98,771 24 The Chemring 1998 Executive Share Option Scheme the 1998 ESOS No options were granted during the year.
Options over 127,798 ordinary shares were exercised during the year.
Additional information is set out in Note 32.
The Chemring Group 2008 UK Sharesave Plan the UK Sharesave Plan On 1 August 2008 options were granted over 51,416 ordinary shares.
During the year options on 241 shares lapsed.
No options were exercised during the year.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan On 16 September 2008 options were granted over 6,953 ordinary shares.
The Chemring Group PLC Share Based Incentive Scheme the ESOP No options were granted during the year and there were no options outstanding under the ESOP at 31 October 2008.
Approach to share ownership The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the future success of the Group.
The UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase Plan were both launched during the year, following approval at the Annual General Meeting held on 20 March 2008.
The Board is currently considering the establishment of similar schemes for employees in Group companies outside of the UK and the US.
Share capital and shareholder rights General The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares of 5p each and preference shares of 1 each, which are fully paid up and quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Full details of the movements in the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the financial year are provided in Note 27 of the financial statements.
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at any general meeting of the Company and to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise these rights.
At a general meeting, every shareholder present in person, by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by corporate representative has one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll has one vote for every share held.
To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice of meeting can give a time, which must not be more than 48 hours before the meeting, by which shareholders must have entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply such information within 14 days after the service of the notice, then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote at a shareholder meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law, for example insider trading law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Holders of the preference shares have the right on winding-up to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares, the sum of 1 per share together with any arrears of dividends.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
36 DIRECTORS REPORT CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Directors Report CONTINUED Issue of shares Under the provisions of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act the Board is prevented from exercising its powers under the Articles of Association the Articles to allot shares without an authority in terms of the Act contained either in the Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders in general meeting.
The authority, when given, can last for a maximum period of five years, but the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at each Annual General Meeting.
Such proposal is set out as resolution 9 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Section 89 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares for cash may not be made unless the shares are first offered to existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in accordance with the terms of the Act.
In accordance with general practice, to ensure that small issues of shares can be made without the necessity of convening a general meeting, the Board proposes that advantage be taken of the provisions of section 95 of the Act to not apply the Acts pre-emptive requirements.
Accordingly, a special resolution set out as resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be proposed which, if passed, will have the effect of granting the directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital free of the requirements of section 89 of the Act.
No issue of these shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without prior approval of the shareholders in general meeting.
Purchase of own shares During the year the Company purchased 160,000 2007: 150,000 of its ordinary shares.
At 31 October 2008, the Company held a total of 310,000 ordinary shares in treasury representing 0.9% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 November 2008.
All purchases of ordinary shares were by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Further details can be found in Note 30 of the financial statements.
A special resolution set out as resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, to renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in the resolution.
The directors believe that it is advantageous for the Company to have this exibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
The directors of the Company will consider holding repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution as treasury shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional exibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satis ed that a purchase would result in an increase in expected earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulations to prepare the Group accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report, which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors con rm that suitable accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, have been used in the preparation of the financial statements, and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT 37 Directors Responsibility Statement We con rm to the best of our knowledge that: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and pro t and loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive, the Review by the Finance Director, the Business Review and the Corporate Responsibility Statement, which are cross-referred from the Directors Report, include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Provision of information to auditors Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report con rms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Close company provisions As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor has there been any change in that respect since 31 October 2008.
Auditors On 1 December 2008, Deloitte & Touche LLP changed its name to Deloitte LLP.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 March 2009, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 20 January 2009 Signed on behalf of the Board S L Ellard COMPANY SECRETARY
