Biographies of Directors and Senior Management Non-Executive Directors David White, aged 65, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, spent 18 years of his career at Cater Allen Holdings PLC where he was from 1985 Deputy Chairman and Managing Director and from which he retired in 1997.
He was Non-Executive Chairman of Edge Properties plc until its sale in 1998 and is currently Non-Executive Director of Church House Trust plc.
Jonathan Short, aged 46, Non Executive Director, Founding Partner and CIO of Internos Real Investors LLP a pan-european real estate investment management business.
From 2000 to 2007 he was CEO Merchant Banking-Europe for Pramerica Real Estate Investors running a series of pan-european property opportunity funds.
From 1983 to 1999 he worked in investment banking in the City for Warburgs, Barings and Lazard.
He also sits on the Board of Great Portland Estates plc as a Non-Executive Director and is a Trustee of the Urban Land Institute.
Philip Burks, aged 49, Non-Executive Director, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Philip was the Groups Property Director until 30 March 2007, at which date he stepped down to become a Non-Executive Director.
David Ross, aged 42, Non-Executive Director, qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co.
In 1991 he co-founded and is currently Deputy Chairman of The Carphone Warehouse Group plc, Europes leading mobile communication retailer.
He is currently Chairman of National Express Group plc and a Non-Executive Director of Cosalt plc and is a Board Member of the Olympic Lottery Distributor.
In 2006 he was appointed Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery and is the Sponsor for Havelock Academy in Grimsby.
Executive Directors Nicholas Vetch, aged 47, Executive Chairman, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc, which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Mr Vetch is also Non-Executive Director of Blue Self Storage S. L a self storage operation in Spain.
James Gibson, aged 47, Chief Executive Officer, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
He is a chartered accountant having trained with Arthur Andersen & Co. where he specialised in the property and construction sectors, before leaving in 1989.
He was Finance Director of Heron Property Corporation Limited and then Edge Properties plc which he joined in 1994.
Edge Properties was listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Adrian Lee, aged 42, Operations Director, was previously a senior Executive at Edge Properties plc, which he joined in 1996.
Prior to that he was a corporate financier at Lazard for five years, having previously qualified as a surveyor at Knight Frank.
John Trotman, aged 30, Chief Financial Officer, is a Charted Accountant and former Senior Manager at Deloitte & Touche LLP, where he specialised in the real estate sector and self storage.
On leaving Deloitte in 2005, John worked for a subsidiary of the Kajima corporation involved in the large Silvertown Quays regeneration project.
He joined Big Yellow on 25 June 2007, and was appointed to the Board on 25 September 2007.
Senior Management Biographies Michael Cole, aged 42, Financial Controller and Company Secretary, joined Big Yellow in May 1999.
Prior to that he was Finance Director at Pulse Train Technology, a market research software specialist whom he joined in 1988 and qualified with CIMA in 1992.
Paul Donnelly, aged 54, Corporate Social Responsibility Manager joined Big Yellow in August 2007 and is an Associate Member of the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment.
Paul was previously the Sustainable Development Manager at Crest Nicholson PLC.
Prior to that he was also Environmental Manager at John Laing PLC.
Stuart Grinnall, aged 33, IT Manager, joined Big Yellow in July 2000.
He is a systems engineer with several years experience developing IT solutions for growth companies and NHS Hospital Trusts.
Nigel Hartley, aged 44, Construction Director, joined Big Yellow in January 2000.
He is a chartered surveyor with over 17 years experience in the construction industry, both overseas and in the UK, principally in the retail and industrial sectors.
Cheryl Hathaway, aged 42, Human Resources Controller, joined Big Yellow in March 2000, having previously been employed as a Human Resources Manager within the Harrods Group.
Prior to this she worked for Debenhams in a variety of human resources roles, both within head offices and stores.
Chris Herbert, aged 53, Construction Manager, joined Big Yellow in September 1999, having previously worked for Leslie Clark, a Construction Consultancy, for 10 years.
Prior to that he spent 10 years as a contracts project manager with John Lelliot Building Contractors.
Nicola Jordan, aged 41, Retail Operations Manager, joined Big Yellow in March 2003, having previously been employed as an Area Manager with Superdrug for 5 years.
Prior to this she has held operational roles with Little Chef & Travelodge and Victoria Wine.
David Knight, aged 44, Estates and Facilities Manager, was previously an Estates Manager at Whitbread which he joined in 1997.
Prior to this he was Group Facilities Manager at Central Transport Rental Group Plc formerly Tiphook Plc having previously qualified as a surveyor at Edwin Hill.
Rob Strachan, aged 38, Head of Sales & Marketing, joined Big Yellow in February 2006, having previously been employed as International Marketing Manager for Upper Crust.
Prior to this he was Marketing Manager for Caffe Ritazza, and is qualified with the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Andrew Watson, aged 39, Property Director, joined Big Yellow in October 2000 having previously worked as a property acquisition surveyor for McDonalds Restaurants.
Prior to that he was an acquisitions surveyor for Victoria Wine, having previously qualified as a chartered surveyor at Herring Baker Harris.
Tom Wilcockson, aged 51, International Franchise Director, joined Big Yellow in July 2007.
He has over 16 years experience of international franchising, having previously played a key role in the international success of both Bhs and Early Learning Centre.
