Portfolio Description: Out-of-Town Retail Meadowhall, Sheffield Value 1.5billion 1.5million sq ft retail and leisure Site area 191acres of which 74 acres undeveloped 213 shop units, 10 anchor stores, 11 screen Warner Village cinema, 25 speciality kiosks, 23 mall kiosks 34 restaurants and cafes including Oasis food court seating for some 3,300 Meadowhall 25 million visitors per annum 800,000 per week at peak time Direct access to junction 34 of M1 motorway Free parking for over 12,000 vehicles On-site transport interchange with bus, train and supertram services Meadowhall remains one of the largest and most successful www.
co. uk shopping centres in the UK a prime super regional centre in a densely populated catchment area.
The two-level, fully enclosed mall with excellent transport links continues to be attractive to both retailers and customers, with Anchor stores: 18 new retailers having taken space over the last year.
Bhs The major refurbishment programme has now completed and Boots the reconfiguration of the ex-Sainsburys space to create the new Debenhams Gallery mall is also complete.
This reconfiguration has created two H&M new MSUs totalling 140,000 sq ft let to Next and Primark and an House of Fraser additional 12 shop units, 11 of which are let, with the remaining Marks & Spencer one under offer.
Elsewhere in the scheme Topshop have recently Next upsized from 17,000 sq ft to over 40,000 sq ft. Primark The centre continues to win awards, winning 10 in the last Sports World year including a BCSC Purple Apple Marketing Award for Strategic WH Smith Marketing Campaign and a number of environmental, training Freehold and learning awards.
100% owned Meadowhall has taken significant steps to reduce its Rent passing 78m pa environmental impact, including collection of rainwater for Average rent 58.47 per sq ft landscaping and cleaning.
Meadowhall is also producing significant Weighted average lease term results in the area of waste management.
In the year ending March including breaks 13.3 years 2008 the proportion of waste the shopping centre has recycled has increased to 46%.
As part of this waste management process, Meadowhall became the first UK shopping centre to develop an on-site Resource Recovery Centre, in 2005, to sort and send materials for recycling.
In addition to these environmental benefits, the Resource Recovery Centre has provided job opportunities for adults with learning difficulties, where they have been successful in running the facility without the support of their carers.
The Source at Meadowhall provides training, development and conference services.
Since opening in 2003 it has improved the retail related skills of more than 1,000 mostly local people of all ages and backgrounds, improving their confidence and qualifications and helping Meadowhall and other Sheffield retailers to recruit appropriate staff.
The British Land Company PLC 45
