Valuation Certicate Valuation The Directors The Properties have been valued on the basis of Market Value The British Land Company PLC in accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards.
This is an York House internationally recognised basis and is defined as: 45 Seymour Street London The estimated amount for which a property should exchange W1H 7LX on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing 16 April 2008 wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
Dear Sirs No allowance has been made for expenses of realisation or for any taxation which might arise, and our valuations are expressed The British Land Company PLC exclusive of any Value Added Tax that may become chargeable.
Valuation as at 31 March 2008 Our valuations reflect usual deductions in respect of purchasers costs and, in particular, full liability for UK Stamp Duty as applicable Basis of Instruction at the valuation date.
In accordance with the terms of our appointment as External Valuers The properties have been valued individually and not as part of to The British Land Company PLC, we have valued the freehold and a portfolio.
leasehold properties detailed below, as at 31 March 2008, for We are of the opinion that the aggregate Market Value of your balance sheet purposes and inclusion in your financial accounts.
interests in the properties, as at 31 March 2008, was: The properties are predominantly held for investment and in some instances held for development or in the course of development 10,466,238,070 or occupied by the Company.
Ten Billion, Four Hundred and Sixty-Six Million, Two Hundred and We have excluded from this Report those properties held by Thirty-Eight Thousand and Seventy Pounds.
way of Joint Ventures or through Limited Partnership arrangements.
These valuations have been prepared in accordance with the The valuations are categorised as follows: RICS Valuation Standards, 6th Edition, issued by The Royal Long Part freehold Short Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Freehold leasehold part leasehold leasehold A Held as investments Compliance and Independence owner-occupied 9,081,647,220 620,125,000 16,850,000 5,730,000 We can confirm that: B Held for Knight Frank LLP is appointed by The British Land Company PLC development 50,885,850 121,000,000 as External Valuers, as defined by the RICS Valuation Standards.
C In the course of Knight Frank LLP was appointed in the role as valuer in development 570,000,000 September 2005.
These valuations have been undertaken under Total value 9,702,533,070 741,125,000 16,850,000 5,730,000 the overall supervision of the joint signatories, who have been responsible for this instruction since that time.
Included within the aggregate are a number of negative values In relation to Knight Frank LLPs preceding financial year, the amounting to minus 150,000 One Hundred and Fifty Thousand proportion of the total fees paid by The British Land Company Pounds.
These have been deducted from the positive values to PLC the Company and its joint venture partners to the total arrive at the net aggregate figure.
fee income of Knight Frank LLP was substantially less than 5%.
Certain properties are held on very long leases, for terms of We recognise and support the RICS Rules of Conduct and have approximately 999 years at fixed peppercorn or nominal rents.
established procedures for identifying conflicts of interest.
For categorisation purposes these have been included in the freehold categories.
Short leasehold properties are classified as having less than 50 years unexpired.
60 The British Land Company PLC Valuation Certificate Valuation Certificate Valuation Procedures and Assumptions Our valuations assume that the properties would, in all respects, The properties were inspected during the last 12 months.
be insurable against all usual risks including terrorism, flooding and As agreed, our valuations are based on measurements which rising water table at normal, commercially acceptable premiums.
have been provided by the Company and which were carried out in For properties in the course of development, we have reflected accordance with The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Code the stage reached in construction and the costs remaining to be of Measuring Practice.
In some cases the areas provided are as spent at the date of valuation.
We have had regard to the contractual agreed with the tenants following rent review or letting.
liabilities of the parties involved in the developments and any cost Our valuations assume that the properties have good and estimates that have been provided by professional advisors to the marketable titles and are free of any undisclosed onerous burdens, projects.
For recently completed developments we have taken no outgoings or restrictions.
We have not seen planning consents account of any retentions, nor made allowance for any outstanding and, except where advised to the contrary, have assumed that the development costs, fees, or other expenditure for which there may properties have been erected and are being occupied and used be a liability.
in accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no outstanding statutory notices.
General Conditions We have not read all documents of title or leases and, for the This Report and our valuations therein have been prepared on the purpose of our valuations, have accepted the details of tenure, basis that there has been full disclosure of all relevant information tenancies and all other relevant information with which we have and facts which may affect them.
been supplied by the Company.
When considering the covenant Our report and valuation is for the use only of the party to whom strength of individual tenants we have not carried out credit it is addressed and no responsibility is accepted to any third party enquiries but have reflected in our valuations our general for the whole or any part of its contents.
If our opinion of value is understanding of purchasers likely perceptions of tenants financial disclosed to persons other than the addressees of this report, the status.
We have, in addition, discussed with the Company any bad basis of valuation should be stated.
If it is proposed to publish the debts or material arrears of rent and have considered this figure, the form and context in which the figure is to appear should information in arriving at our valuations.
be approved by us beforehand.
We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the properties, nor to test the services, but have reflected in our Yours faithfully valuations, where necessary, any defects, items of disrepair or outstanding works of alteration or improvement which we noted during the course of our inspections or of which we have been advised.
Our valuations assume the buildings contain no deleterious materials and that the sites are unaffected by adverse soil conditions, except where we have been notified to the contrary.
R J S Johnson BSc, MRICS R D Norman MRICS We have not carried out any investigation into past or present Partner Partner uses of either the properties or any neighbouring land to establish Commercial Valuations Commercial Valuations whether there is any potential for contamination from these uses or sites to the subject properties.
We understand that the Company For and on behalf of Knight Frank LLP has established procedures for the inspection of newly acquired 20 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HZ properties to be carried out with particular reference to environmental matters, and that any such matters identified receive appropriate attention.
Unless we have been provided with information to the contrary, we have assumed that the properties are not, nor are likely to be, affected by land contamination and that there are no ground conditions which would affect the present or future uses of the properties.
The British Land Company PLC 61 efficiency Drive At the Teesside Shopping Park at Stockton-on-Tees, the free shoppers bus service eases congestion and saves thousands of car journeys each month.
