Financing Policy Interest rate management British Lands nancing To manage exposure to interest rate fluctuations the Board determines a range for the proportion of projected debt to be policy is to enhance equity maintained at fixed or capped rates of interest.
At present the target returns through strategic is 85% subject to a 5% tolerance either side over a rolling three to five year time horizon.
With financing raised at both fixed and leverage while maintaining variable rates, derivatives primarily interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired interest rate profile.
The use of derivatives a risk-averse debt structure.
is managed by the Board of British Land Financing Limited and its Derivative Sub-Committee.
The Groups exposure to each derivative A loan to value ratio across the entire business counterparty is monitored on a regular basis, as are their external in the range of 45-55% is currently targeted, credit ratings.
subject to the Boards view of the market, the prospects of the portfolio and its recurring Foreign currency management The Groups policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or cash flows.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The currency risk on overseas investments is hedged via foreign currency denominated The principal objectives under this policy are to: borrowings and derivatives.
minimise the cost of capital through a mix of debt and When attractive terms are available to do so, the Group equity finance: borrows in freely available currencies other than Sterling.
The raise debt from a variety of sources and maintain a spread Group fully hedges its foreign currency risk on such borrowings of maturities, including longer-term financing supported through derivatives.
by committed income under long leases: maintain significant committed undrawn loan facilities, Liquidity and cash management to support current and future business requirements: and The Group maintains undrawn revolving bank facilities to provide actively manage financial risks, including interest rate, financial liquidity.
These can be drawn repaid at short notice without foreign exchange, liquidity and counterparty risks.
additional expense, reducing the need to hold liquid resources in cash and deposits.
This minimises costs arising from the difference The Funds and Joint Ventures are financed separately, without between borrowing and deposit rates, while reducing credit recourse to the Group see pages 37 to 39, as required by exposure.
Deposits are placed as necessary to optimise the rate their individual business plans and based on similar risk of return, subject to the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Profit and loss account and balance sheet management Liability management The Group monitors its current and projected financial position Liability management is not a profit centre no speculative using several key internally generated reports: cash flow, borrowing, transactions are undertaken.
The Groups debt and derivative debt maturity and derivatives schedules.
The Group also undertakes positions are continuously reviewed to meet current and sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions expected debt requirements.
and movements in interest rates on the key balance sheet, liquidity The Group maintains a balance between longer-term and and profitability ratios.
Short-term financing is principally raised through bilateral and syndicated revolving bank facilities, which can be repaid at will without penalty and redrawn again when the need arises.
All bank facilities are unsecured and on standard covenant terms to maintain operational flexibility.
Medium to longerterm financing comprises public and private bond issues, including private placements and securitisations.
Financing risk is spread by using a variety of types of debt.
The maturity profile is managed by spreading the repayment dates and extending facilities.
56 The British Land Company PLC Financing Policy
