High levels of occupancy, rental value growth and rental income growth are strong indicators that our prime properties are in demand.
Compared with our valuers assessment of market rents at the Key performance indicators nearest date to rent reviews, the rent increases achieved on average The leading indicators measuring our performance against the key were 7% higher, reflecting good out-turns for those negotiations.
elements of our objectives and strategy are: We successfully achieved a top quartile position for customer satisfaction, an important feedback from our many tenants.
British IPD On valuation measures total shareholder return and total Year to March 2008 Land Benchmark return the higher level of gearing compared with our peers has 1 Occupancy rate 97.9% 92.7% worked to the detriment of performance in the current year and this Like-for-like rental value ERV growth 6.2% 4.0% in turn is reflected in a lower relative ranking on returns to second Like-for-like rental income growth 5.7% 2.5% and third place over a five-year horizon.
Portfolio capital return, per IPD 11.5 % 13.2 % On income measures, we retain strong leadership over a three Rent review settlements versus ERV 7% above and five-year time horizon and despite a 23.3% increase in earnings Customer satisfaction survey per share, we were ranked second over a one year view.
REAL SERVICE Best Practice Index Top quartile 1 99.2% including accommodation subject to asset management initiatives and under offer Risk management Financial Performance Indicator One year Three Years Five Years British Land generates returns to shareholders through long-term 1 Total shareholder return investment decisions requiring the Company to evaluate British Land 38.2 % 6.5% 20.0% opportunities arising in the following core areas: 2 Peer group 27.8 % 7.5% 18.2% demand for space from occupiers against available supply: FTSE Real Estate Index 33.3 % 6.8% 19.8% differential pricing for premium locations and buildings: Ranking in peer group 5 3 2 alternative use for buildings: 3 Total Return demand for returns from investors in property, compared to British Land 18.1 % 10.7% 12.8% other asset classes: Peer group 1.0 % 14.7% 13.3% economic cycles, including their impact on tenant covenant Ranking 5 5 3 quality, interest rates, inflation and property values: 4 Earnings per share growth price differentials for capital to finance the business: British Land 23.3% 25.2% 14.4% legislative changes, including planning consents and taxation: and Peer group 18.4% 9.4% 6.6% construction pricing and programming.
Ranking 2 1 1 1 Total shareholder return represents growth in share price plus dividends per share These opportunities also represent risks, the most significant being assuming reinvested changes to the value of the property portfolio.
This risk has high 2 Average of major peers Land Securities, Hammerson, Liberty and SEGRO visibility to senior executives and is considered and managed on a some differences in year ends 3 Total return pre-exceptional represents growth in adjusted, diluted net asset value continuous basis.
Executives use their knowledge and experience per share plus dividends per share to knowingly accept a measured degree of market risk.
4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items, profits on asset The principal business risks, which are predominantly external, disposals and revaluation gains Source: Datastream, company reports are summarised in the following table.
These and other risks are identified within British Lands formal The high levels of occupancy, rental value growth and rental income risk management process, which defines risk areas and includes growth are strong indicators of our continued selection of prime a risk scoring methodology based on the assessed impact of the properties that are in demand, and that this converts over time into risk event and the likelihood of its occurrence.
The principal risks growing profits.
identified are considered and reviewed at various stages in the Our outperformance at a capital level versus IPD is encouraging, process, culminating in consideration of and discussion by the reflecting again the prime nature of the portfolio.
However, clearly Executive Directors, the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal prime property is not immune from market forces and so the capital procedures to mitigate risks are the focus of assurance work return is negative.
performed by the Groups Internal Audit function.
36 The British Land Company PLC Business Review
