site on which we are developing The Broadgate Tower a distinctive environment for some of the worlds largest corporations and leading professional practices.
Each building provides efficient working space of the highest standard while providing flexibility to allow occupiers to change floor layouts or install new technology.
A wide range of retail outlets and excellent public transport connections contributes to Broadgates appeal to our customers: Regents Place, NW1, at the north of the West End, valued at 702m.
A distinctive mix of five buildings provides nearly 1 million sq ft of office accommodation, complemented by Tim Roberts Head of Offices public spaces, retail and leisure elements, with significant public transport links: Office Sector The Willis Building, EC3, a 496,000 sq ft office development recently completed by British Land.
The 28 storey building Leadership in London Offices occupies a prime City site opposite Lloyds of London and is 5.4 billion invested let to the Willis Group: and York House, W1, a development completed by us in early 2007 Our strategy for the offices portfolio is to concentrate on prime providing 90,000 sq ft of offices with adaptable and efficient assets in the City and West End of London where there are floor plates, fully let within a year of its completion.
favourable supply and demand imbalances, fuelled by increasing occupational density and steeply rising building replacement costs.
Asset management Despite recent credit market turbulence, Londons global position We have worked hard during the year to add to performance.
as a business centre is well established and we consider London is Sales of 828m have been achieved at an average net the right place to be over the medium term.
equivalent yield of 5.0% net initial yield of 3.1%, primarily aimed Our customer focus is on providing the right accommodation to at managing our weighting in the City at this point in the cycle.
meet the requirements of the financial and business services based 1.1 million sq ft of lettings and lease regears, including notable in the capital.
We build on this by offering best in class property pre-lets at our City office developments recently completed or management, from estate services through to development of new due for completion during 2008, and achieving record rents at accommodation.
Proactive asset management aims to tailor what Broadgate, Regents Place and York House.
we offer to customers changing needs.
Rent reviews in respect of over 1 million sq ft across the office In allocating and recycling our capital we recognise that the portfolio have been agreed since March 2007, settled at well office market is cyclical.
We manage our exposure accordingly above ERV and producing an 11% increase in rent.
These include and, in anticipation of the current point in the cycle, have sold some agreement since the year end of a package of rent reviews, including 2.7 billion of office investments over the last three years, taking elements of lease variation, in respect of 450,000 sq ft in three advantage of the previously strong market to achieve sale prices buildings at Finsbury Avenue, Broadgate, to show a 1.8m ahead of valuation.
After offsetting this by purchases and per annum uplift equivalent to around 4 per sq ft. development spend, we made a net disinvestment over that period Our office development activity during the year has both of some 1.2 billion, overall boosting our performance.
fide-risked and realised profits from the programme.
We have As a result, our office portfolio weighting in the City has been completed three City projects this year: Ludgate West, managed at 77% and increased in the West End to 21%.
201 Bishopsgate and Basinghall Street, together 745,000 sq ft of The reshaping leaves us with a well positioned prime London office accommodation, generating significant profits on cost.
office portfolio: In addition to the success in letting these projects mentioned 4.5 million sq ft in the City: above, we have achieved sales of the completed Ludgate West and 1.5 million sq ft in the West End: Basinghall Street, such that 70% of the London office development investments over 99% occupied: projects with completions in 2007 and 2008 have already been weighted average lease length of over 11years to first break : pre-let or sold.
valued on the basis of a net equivalent yield of 5.8%: The Broadgate Tower will complete later this year.
The office 9% reversionary income in addition to rent-frees and accommodation remaining available to let in the Tower and at minimum uplifts : 201 Bishopsgate together with the 8,000 sq ft available at an average rent of only 45 per sq ft, against an average Broadgate represents in the region of just 5% of our office portfolio.
headline ERV of 51 per sq ft, so we expect to achieve The Ropemaker and Osnaburgh Street developments details of value added rental growth: and which are shown in other sections of this report are on schedule for our investment in the Canary Wharf office estate, completion in 2009, producing high quality buildings in both the City through our shareholding in Songbird Estates.
We are also pleased to have received a resolution to grant planning consent for 501,000 sq ft of offices and residential The principal assets within the office investment portfolio are: Broadgate, EC2, the premier 4 million sq ft City of London office at the North East Quadrant, Regents Place, a project which will further assist in our ambition to have a balance in the office portfolio estate, valued at 2.7 billion.
Broadgate comprises 15 office buildings plus the recently completed 201 Bishopsgate and the between the City and the West End.
28 The British Land Company PLC Business Review Business Review London employment growth expected to resume in 2010 400 1,200 375 1,100 350 1,000 325 900 300 800 2001 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 2012 Financial LHS Business Services RHS Source: CEBR An artists impression of Osnaburgh Street development Investment market It is positive that this will be based on low current vacancy rates for The first half of 2007 saw high levels of investment activity in offices, Grade A accommodation in the West End and in the City, both at with yields at relatively low levels.
Later in the year, turnover slumped 2.6%, a level which is well below the 10-year average.
Also, take up and there was little activity as investors reviewed their positions in in the first quarter of 2008 was at a reasonable level and enquiries the changing financial market conditions.
Prime yields moved out indicate a continuing level of occupier interest.
some 100 bps, reflecting views of increased risk factors across most Accordingly, it is unlikely that we will see a repeat of occupier assets.
The early part of 2008, our Q4, saw some activity return to the market conditions and vacancy rates seen in London offices during market and yield compression has slowed.
In these market conditions, it 2002 3, since the majority of customers are operating in offices was no mean feat for us to carry out sales across the year of 828m at full occupancy and with limited scope, at present, for release and overall nearly 4% above March 2007 valuation.
by them of accommodation in the market.
In addition, the new The direction and size of yield movements going forward is accommodation produced from developments not yet started is uncertain as sentiment continues to be volatile, in respect of both the likely to be curtailed, as the financial market turmoil and reduced credit market and the occupier market which are the main determinants.
availability of debt, together with rising construction costs, will On a positive note, significant pools of capital are seeking investment reduce their viability.
opportunities in London offices, including from overseas.
Investors This limitation on supply, coupled with the forecast pick-up generally see the sharp increase in yields as a buying opportunity in City employment is producing a more encouraging outlook for and share our belief in the prospects for prime offices over the 2010 onwards.
medium term, due to Londons competitive advantages in attracting So we have a reasonably positive outlook for the occupier market financial and business services.
The growth in these sectors, and in the medium term, although in the short term we do expect letting so their requirement for the best office accommodation, is likely to incentives to increase and there are the first signs in the City of outstrip overall levels of growth in the economy.
And prime London headline rents softening.
offices offer significant investment liquidity.
As to occupier preferences between City and West End locations, Secondary assets will be at greater risk of higher levels of affordability will become an issue for some whose first preference outward yield shift.
Investors will analyse the relative risk weighted would be the core West End.
Rents there are at a high, in the region returns and prospects of prime versus secondary, including of double the rents for fringe West End and City.
Occupiers are likely refurbishment voids and reletting costs required.
to reconsider their requirements for such central West End positions British Lands office portfolio is prime and offers strong cash and perhaps look at moving to the City or mid-town locations.
flows, valued on a gross initial yield, topped up for rent-free periods British Lands office portfolio has very high occupancy levels, and minimum rental uplifts at first review, of 5.8% in the City and of 99.7% in the City and 99.8% in the West End, including the small 5.2% in the West End.
amounts of accommodation we have subject to asset management initiatives and under offer.
As noted above, 70% of our 2007 8 Occupier market completions of London office developments have been pre-let or During this current year demand from office occupiers is expected sold, and we have limited areas available for letting.
Employment in the financial and business services developments are well spread both as to timing and between the sectors is estimated by CEBR to fall by around 2% in 2008 9 City and West End.
and then grow again by c. 3% per annum through to 2012.
Vacancy On this sound base we will continue to concentrate our efforts, rates for London offices are expected to rise in the short term as in a market where competition for occupiers will be tighter, on developments under way are completed over the next couple of providing the best space to the market.
We are well positioned years, at the same time as the phase of weakening occupier demand.
to ride out this cycle and we remain positive regarding Londons competitive advantages as a global financial and services centre.
The British Land Company PLC 29 Number of employees 000s Long-term Strategy The structural frame is assembled at the Ropemaker development: up to 30% of new steel is made from scrap.
When finished 50% of Ropemakers roof space will be green roof encouraging biodiversity, and the building is expected to achieve an Excellent BREEAM rating.
