Superstores portfolio British Lands share 1.3billion Total value 2.4 billion 94 superstores Located across England, Wales and Northern Ireland 89% of stores larger than 40,000 sq ft Average store size 64,000 sq ft Total floor area 6 million sq ft Tesco, Formby Total site area 542 acres British Lands investment in superstores represents 9.4% of the Tenants: total portfolio.
Morrisons Safeway We are the largest owner of UK superstores, other than the 2 stores operators themselves.
Sainsburys 41stores The increasingly restrictive regulatory and planning environment, Somerfield 15 stores coupled with a highly competitive occupational market maintains Tesco 35 stores occupier preference for long-term secure leases and maintains Waitrose 1store demand tension leading to rental growth.
20 stores 100% owned British Land has formed two strategic joint ventures with Tesco 74 stores owned 50% in and Sainsburys: working with the operators themselves helps align joint ventures our business strategies to maximise the value of our assets.
Our Rent passing, most recent joint venture, BL Sainsburys Superstores Limited, was British Lands share 66m pa formed in March 2008 and included 39 superstores across the UK to Average rent 20.70 per sq ft a total value of 1.2 billion.
British Land will retain the management Weighted average lease term to on behalf of the Joint Venture.
break and expiry 20.3 years During the year we have funded two further extensions for properties in ourTesco joint ventures totalling 25,000 sq ft and we currently have a further three store extensions under negotiation.
In total we have enlarged our superstore portfolio by 750,000 sq ft over the period of our ownership.
In addition to the superstores portfolio described here, British Land, either directly or through joint ventures, owns a further 11 food stores, predominantly let to Somerfield.
These are below the 25,000 sq ft threshold for our superstore classification.
While we recognise that this traditional market classification by size for superstores is becoming less important as most of the operators are now taking on smaller units in order to grow market share, these smaller units are currently included in our in-town portfolio.
Additionally British Land owns a further 28 units let to food retailers, on retail parks and shopping centres, totalling some 1.5 million sq ft, which are included in the valuation of our retail parks portfolio.
44 The British Land Company PLC Portfolio Description: Out-of-Town Retail
