Business Review Risk: Principal Mitigations: Property Market Market pricing and other changes such as those caused by Regular investment appraisals assess prospects and identify properties for disposal where justified the current credit crunch affecting property value, including: Change in investor and occupier demand Upward only long leases on good quality well-located buildings Letting risk on speculative development Occupier led development strategies with a phased pipeline of projects Environmentally unsustainable buildings New developments built in line with a formal Sustainability Brief Tenant default Spread of tenants with strong financial covenants and regular covenant review process Debt and Financing Reduced availability or increased cost of finance Sufficient lines maintained for spending commitments Gearing covenants constraints Leverage regularly reviewed Covenant headroom maintained Counterparty credit risk Spread of sources and maturities of facilities Adverse interest rate movements Active interest rate management policy with high level of hedging Currency exchange movement Foreign currency assets financed by matching currency borrowings Development Poor control of design and construction programme Contractor performance closely monitored within project management process Construction cost inflation Regular monitoring against budget and forecasting of project costs Early procurement strategy Contractor failure leading to cost overruns and programme delays Contractor financial covenant reviewed Overall development exposure regularly reviewed Reputation Health and safety Health and Safety Policy and defined responsibilities and reporting throughout the Group Non-compliance with regulation Independent compliance auditing programme People Retention of key staff Career development and succession planning for key executive positions Key man insurance Remuneration structure reviewed and benchmarked Financial Administration Loss of REIT status due to non-compliance with requirements Quarterly re-forecast and review of balance of business tests Overseas fiscal compliance and execution risk Central review and oversight Professional local advice and administration obtained Compliance reporting Monetary fraud or accounting irregularity Access controls and dual payment signatories Extensive review of accounting procedures Although the Trust return for the year to 31December 2007 was Partnerships 17.3%, the three-year annualised return is 11.2% per annum.
At the British Lands net investment in Funds and Joint Ventures is 1,532m property level, without the effect of gearing, the portfolio returned 2007: 1,610m at 31 March 2008.
This investment is principally in 9.5% for the year, but this compares favourably with the IPD Retail three active funds and 14 active Joint Ventures, which hold in total Warehouse Quarterly Universe excluding HUT of 10.3% for the 6.9 billion 2007: 7.0 billion of properties in retail, offices and same period.
This is attributable to: development.
The Funds and Joint Ventures are financed by 3.3 billion rental value growth of the portfolio of 2.8% over the year 2007: 3.1billion of external debt, all of which is without recourse IPD Retail Warehouse Quarterly Universe 1.5% : and to British Land.
low vacancy rate at 1.3% IPD Retail Warehouse Quarterly The Funds provide British Land with interests in properties in our Universe 4.0%.
British Land acts as property adviser to the Funds and receives performance and management fees.
In the year to December 2007: the distribution yield has risen from 1.3% to 2.2%: and HUT there was a net repayment of debt of 250m following sales.
Hercules Unit Trust HUT was established in 2000 as a Jerseybased closed ended property unit trust with a fixed life to September At 31 December 2007, gearing had reduced to 31.5% of the 2010, subject to extension with consent of unitholders.
During the aggregate Trust value, well within the Trusts limit of 60%.
year, the unitholders approved proposals for the extension of the The secondary market has continued to be active, with no new Trust to 2020.
HUTs aim is to acquire and own retail warehouse and units issued in the year.
A total of 52,968 units were traded over the shopping park investment properties throughout the UK, with a view year with a total value of 86m.
The units traded at a discount of to providing an annual total return on the portfolio in excess of the 0.8% to their net asset value during the year.
IPD Retail Warehouse Quarterly Universe over the life of the Trust.
British Land is HUTs property adviser, and Schroder Property Managers Jersey Ltd is the Fund Manager.
The British Land Company PLC 37 HIF PREF Hercules Income Fund HIF was established in September 2004 Pillar Retail Europark Fund PREF was created in March 2004 as as a Jersey-based closed-ended property unit trust with a fixed a closed-end Luxembourg-based Fonds Commun fide Placement life of 10 years, subject to extension with unitholder consent.
to invest in out-of-town retail parks in the Eurozone and Switzerland Its objective is to target smaller retail park assets, and with an and in particular France, Spain, Portugal and Italy.
Including emphasis on a higher distributable yield.
outstanding contracted acquisitions, the portfolio reached The Trust return for the year to 31December 2007 was 13.5% 1.1 billion in value in autumn 2007 following the purchase of and the property return was 10.0% compared with the IPD Annual Nueva Condomina Shopping Centre, Murcia in conjunction with Retail Warehouse Universe of 9.7%.
HIFs loan to value is currently British Land.
In January 2008, five non-core assets, together with very low at 8%, which is considered appropriate in the current half of PREFs holding in Nueva Condomina, were sold in a portfolio market conditions.
transaction with a combined value of 300m.
In the year to December 2007: The annualised total return for the year to 31December 2007 one scheme was acquired: and was 9.3%.
Gearing at 31December 2007 remained at 58% but was two schemes were sold.
significantly reduced in early 2008 by the portfolio sale.
PREF gears up to 60% loan to value with debt provided by a syndicate of banks.
British Land is the property adviser, and Pillar Property The Investment Manager is BL European Fund Management LLP, in which British Land had a 70% interest, and which increased to Management Jersey Ltd is the Fund Manager.
Value Rent Finance BLShare BLInterest 1 Fund Portfolio m m m % m Hercules Unit Trust HUT Retail shopping parks 2,601 113 961 36.27 592 2 Pillar Retail Europark Fund PREF European retail parks 456 21 210 30.26 77 Hercules Income Fund HIF Retail warehouses 125 7 10 26.12 30 1 Annualised net rents 2 Will increase to 38.7% when committed new equity fully contributed The Joint Ventures provide British Land with access to desirable a new joint venture with the Universities Superannuation Scheme properties often off market and enable us to create further for the acquisition of a factory outlet centre in Whiteley Village, opportunities to deliver capital value.
A separate entity is formed near Fareham in Hampshire: for the purpose, controlled on a 50:50 basis by a board carrying The Scottish Retail Property Limited Partnership sold the equal representation from each partner.
The entities are able to East Kilbride Shopping Centre: and raise finance on the strength of their assets, usually with no support distributions to British Land from the Joint Ventures of a total from the partners, thereby significantly lowering the initial equity of 77m.
investments and enhancing returns on capital.
The enterprise is shared by the partners, over a specific agreed lifetime for Although some of the Joint Ventures have different year ends from the venture.
British Land, the accounting periods recognised are aligned to the Activity since 31March 2007 included: Groups March year end using management accounts, to assist the the formation of our new joint venture with J Sainsbury plc requirements of quarterly reporting.
in respect of a 1.2 billion portfolio of 38 Sainsburys stores Summary details of the principal Joint Ventures in which we and one Waitrose store: have a 50% share are shown opposite.
38 The British Land Company PLC Business Review
