retailer demand for smaller units in out-of-town shopping parks and we have been active in changing unit sizes extending or subdividing and providing imaginative new formats for customer services, perfecting the tenant mix, and including new and varied catering outlets.
We are the largest owner of UK superstores, other than the operators themselves.
The operators are gaining an increasing share of consumer expenditure through broadening product ranges, especially non food, while maintaining their customer appeal of convenience and accessibility.
In an increasingly restrictive planning Andrew Jones Head of Retail and regulatory environment, which is limiting new supply of these assets, the retailers are committed to full lease lengths of over 20 years.
The superstore investment profile of rental growth with Retail Sector secure income flow is an attractive element of the portfolio.
Leadership in Retail The Meadowhall shopping centre of 1.5 million sq ft is also an 7.7 billion invested important component of our out-of-town portfolio probably the best scheme of its kind in the UK with exceptionally strong ongoing 11.5 billion total property under management customer appeal.
We are building on these strengths, positioning Our strategy for the retail portfolio is determined by our customer-led Meadowhall for attractive low risk growth through active focus.
We have built good relationships with the larger retailers and management and ongoing refurbishment and development.
continue to aim to provide them with the right space in the locations they prefer.
This is being achieved through rigorous reshaping of the In-town 20% of the retail portfolio, 1.5 billion: retail portfolio and recycling of capital into selected assets with the six shopping centres, in total 2.2 million sq ft: best prospects, to enhance retailer mix and drive rental growth.
36 department stores, in total 5.6 million sq ft: Our prime portfolio has strong defensive qualities: 23 high street shops: and high occupancy of 99%: 11supermarkets.
an average lease length of 16 years unexpired: and 14% reversionary income: Our in-town shopping centres are located within large catchment an excellent position on which we can continue to apply populations, well anchored and generally the dominant retail our management.
scheme in the area, and of sufficient size to enable proactive asset management, including new income generating customer facilities Since March 2007 we have continued the repositioning of our portfolio, and possible future development.
The department stores are fully with 2.2 billion of sales of assets where we anticipated weaker let to Debenhams and House of Fraser with an average lease term potential for growth in market rental value or with few asset manageof over 30 years.
Income growth from these assets is underpinned ment prospects to enable us to create growth.
This is consistent with by provisions in the leases for guaranteed increases in rent: gross our strategy of making asset specific decisions on whether to buy, rents will increase by some 6m 14% over the next five years since sell or hold.
We are discriminating between individual assets: for the year end, continuing our refinement of the portfolio, we are example, not all out-of-town is expected to perform well and in-town continuing to sell stores where ERV growth is expected to be muted.
shopping centres and high streets have widely differing appeal.
Asset management Out-of-town 80% of the retail portfolio, 6.2 billion: Our active management has continued this year to drive rental 203 retail schemes, including the Superstores and growth.
We have achieved: Meadowhall shopping centre: 1.1 million sq ft of retail park lettings at 10% above ERV, including providing a total of 21 million sq ft: a high proportion in the second half of the year, and we have arranged in 1,761 retail units: and some 400,000 sq ft more under offer: with an average lease length to first break of 15 years.
450,000 sq ft of lettings at shopping centres, including over 240,000 sq ft at Meadowhall with a new flagship store for Our portfolio has a particular bias to out-of-town retail with Topshop and new lettings to New Look and Sportsworld: emphasis on retail parks with Open A1 planning use 82%.
Such use 171 rent reviews agreed at 4.6% above ERV and producing an classification permits a wide range of retail operations, from food to overall uplift in passing rent of 24%: fashion, and enables us to be flexible in offering asset management across the retail portfolio a 7.1% like-for-like income growth initiatives to deliver the size and configuration of trading space versus IPD of 3.5%, led by retail warehouse parks at 11%: and required.
We also aim to be responsive to changes in those 2.9% ERV growth overall compared to IPD of 2.1% requirements as the retailers amend their formats to meet their own and we will continue this intense focus on management in the customers preferences.
For example, there has been increasing current year.
26 The British Land Company PLC Business Review Business Review Occupier market The retailers are finding the current market challenging: sales overall are still growing but under pressure in a competitive trading environment where performance is mixed.
The bright spots at present are the food and entertainment subsectors, while DIY, furniture and electricals are having a tougher time.
The fashion market is rather fickle with retailers seeing markedly different results.
Occupational demand for bulky or solus retail warehousing is subdued and there is a greater supply of this space which will at best dampen growth prospects and quite possibly lead to rental value reductions.
In town units are also subject to thinner demand where greater supply from new shopping centre development, lease expiries and some tenant failures is eroding the supply demand tension.
Larger incentives to attract tenants and higher levels of voids are the result.
However, the best accommodation across all retail sectors will continue to attract customers.
Retailers continue Eastgate shopping centre, Basildon to adjust their requirements: migrating from the high street to out-of-town and right-sizing their accommodation in line with Investment market their changing business models.
Our objective is to stay in close The early part of the financial year saw considerable activity, when communication with the retailers and assist their strategies so we we contracted sales of 1.2 billion, before the onset of the credit all maximise performance.
market turmoil which effectively put the market into a no bid Going forward, outperformance will require continuing asset position while investors reassessed their positions.
Since the specific repositioning to reflect customer demand.
The potential for beginning of 2008 purchasers have started to return to the market, asset management initiatives will be the principal route to deliver particularly high net worth individuals and special purchasers, with rental growth and so improving asset values.
While the rental growth some selective activity from funds which have particular positions performance of our portfolio in our chosen subsectors has been to cover or are able to take advantage of opportunities.
However, ahead of IPD, having pursued our strategy of rebalancing the retail there is still considerable uncertainty in the market, and the flow portfolio this outperformance should become more visible over the of transactions is at much reduced levels as the lack of availability current year.
and or higher pricing of debt takes effect.
However, in our Q4 we Rental Growth outlook continues to favour Out-of-Town sold over 750m of retail assets included in the 2.2 billion total for the year.
4 These market conditions and resulting significant stock availability have contributed to all retail subsectors seeing outward 3 yield shift over the year.
Prime Open A1 out-of-town retail parks have been hardest hit, despite their better supply demand characteristics and rental growth prospects, since the same adjustment applied 2 to their lower starting yield level represents a larger percentage resultant mark down in value.
The similar level of yield shift which has been applied in the 1 market to both prime and secondary assets does not, in our view, reflect their different prospects.
While we expect some further degree 0 of outward yield movement in the market overall, this should apply Retail parks Superstores Solus units Shopping High street centres shops less to prime as investors reflect on pricing of the relative prospects Out-of-Town In-Town for growth and the downside risks of secondary assets, such as the Source: Property Market Analysis PMA supply demand dynamics with increased competition and reletting concerns.
And we note that initial yields are increasingly the primary concern as investors require certainty of income.
The market repricing may provide us with some acquisition opportunities: we shall continue to be involved in the market on a selective individual asset basis.
Prime is still the best place to be, although not immune from market uncertainties.
Prime retail has stronger occupational demand, better retailer trading, stronger tenant covenants, higher occupancy and longer leases.
The British Land Company PLC 27 ERV Growth % pa next 5 years
