Directors and Ofcers Sir David Michels 61 The British Land Company PLC Senior Independent Non-executive Director Sir David Michels was appointed a non-executive director of British Land Chris Gibson-Smith 62 BSc, PhD, MS in January 2003.
Until 2006 he was Group Chief Executive of Hilton Group Non-executive Chairman plc.
He is Deputy Chairman of Marks and Spencer Group PLC and a Chris Gibson-Smith joined British Land as a non-executive director non-executive director of Easyjet PLC, Strategic Hotels Capital, Inc. and in January 2003 and was appointed Non-executive Chairman in January Jumeirah Group.
He is also President of the Hilton in the Community 2007.
He is Chairman of the London Stock Exchange, a Trustee of Foundation and Chairman of the British Hospitality Association.
Arts and Business, a Governor of London Business School and a nonHe will retire from the Board at a date to be mutually agreed.
executive director of Qatar Financial Centre Authority.
Formerly he was a Group Managing Director of BP p. l. c. and until 2005 he was Chairman of Kate Swann 43 National AirTraffic Services Limited, a non-executive director of Lloyds Non-executive Director TSB Group plc and a past Trustee of the Institute of Public Policy Research.
Kate Swann was appointed a non-executive director of British Land in April 2006.
She is Chief Executive of WH Smith PLC.
Before joining Stephen Hester 47 BA WH Smith she had been Managing Director of Argos Ltd, within Chief Executive GUS plc, from 2000 and before that Managing Director of Homebase, Stephen Hester joined British Land as Chief Executive in November within J Sainsbury plc.
She began her career in marketing at Tesco 2004, from Abbey National plc.
At Abbey he was Chief Operating Officer, and went on to hold senior marketing roles with Homepride Foods, having joined in May 2002 as Finance Director.
For the previous 19 years Coca-Cola and Dixons.
he was at Credit Suisse First Boston, holding various Investment Banking roles until becoming Chief Financial Officer in 1996 then Global Head Robert Swannell 57 FCA of the Fixed Income Division.
He is Non-executive Deputy Chairman of Non-executive Director Northern Rock.
Amongst other interests he is a Trustee of The Royal Robert Swannell became a non-executive director of British Land in 1999.
He is Vice-Chairman of Citigroup Europe.
He is a non-executive director of 3i Group PLC, a member of the Industrial Development Advisory Board Andrew Jones 39 BSc Hons, MRICS of the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, and Head of Retail a member of The Takeover Appeal Board.
Andrew Jones joined British Land in July 2005 after the Companys acquisition of Pillar Property PLC.
He was appointed to the Executive Lord Turnbull 63 KCB, CVO Committee in August 2005 and elected as an executive director in Non-executive Director July 2006.
He joined Pillar in 1995, becoming an executive director Andrew Turnbull was appointed a non-executive director of the Company in 2002 with responsibilities for Retail Park investment and asset in April 2006.
He retired in July 2005 as Secretary of the Cabinet and management.
At British Land he is Head of Retail and is also Head of the Home Civil Service, 2002-05.
He was Permanent Secretary responsible for the Retail Fund advisory roles.
of HM Treasury, 1998-2004: and before that Permanent Secretary at the Department of the Environment, 1994-1998.
He entered the House of Graham Roberts 49 BA, FCA Lords in 2005.
He is a non-executive director of Prudential PLC, Frontier Finance Director Economics Ltd and a Council Member of the National Institute of Graham Roberts joined British Land in January 2002 as an executive Economic and Social Research.
He is Chairman of Brevan Howard director and was appointed Finance Director in March 2002.
He is also a part-time Adviser to the London Partners previously senior real estate partner at Andersen.
He is a member of Booz Allen Hamilton.
of the Management Board of EPRA, the European Public Real Estate Association.
Secretary Anthony Braine LLB, FCIS Tim Roberts 43 BSc Hons, MRICS Head of Offices Tim Roberts joined British Land in 1997, was appointed to the Executive Honorary President Committee in August 2005 and elected as an executive director in Sir John Ritblat FRICS, Hon FRIBA July 2006.
At British Land he was appointed Joint Head of Asset Sir John became Managing Director of British Land in1970 and Chairman Management in 2002 with responsibilities including investment sales in 1971.
He retired from the Board in December 2006 and was appointed and purchases.
He has responsibility for the Office and Other sectors Honorary President.
Before joining British Land he was a partner at Drivers Jonas, in the Investment Agency team.
Member of the Executive Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Clive Cowdery 45 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Non-executive Director Clive Cowdery was appointed a non-executive director of the Company in May 2007.
He is Chairman of Resolution Limited, a company first founded in 2003.
He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive of GEs European primary insurance operations.
Before joining GE in 1998 he co-founded Scottish Amicable J. Rothschild International Assurance.
He is also Chairman of the charity, The Resolution Foundation.
64 The British Land Company PLC Directors and Officers
