Business Review continued Customers Our diverse customer base is the focus of the asset management, customer service and leasing provided by B-Serv.
Our customers Top 20 tenant customers Our main tenant customers are shown below Sq ft % of total occupied rent roll 000s Number JVs at share JVs at 100% of units 1,300 units Royal Mail Group Limited 5.5% 764 6 Delifrance UK Limited 2.3% 254 5 Entertainment UK Limited in administration 2.0% 233 1 Kerry Group plc 1.9% 230 5 BSkyB Limited 1.7% 111 3 HJ Heinz Company Limited 1.6% 171 1 860 Wincanton plc 1.5% 489 1 customers Morgan Stanley UK Group 1.5% 246 1 CEVA Freight UK Limited 1.4% 130 1 1,000 Panavision Europe Limited 1.3% 141 5 occupational agreements Kuehne Nagel Drinkow Logistics Limited 1.2% 133 1 AK Worthington Limited 1.2% 366 4 Brake Bros Limited 1.1% 110 1 B&Q plc 1.0% 159 1 Expeditors International UK Limited 1.0% 97 1 Exel UK Limited 1.0% 135 2 H&M Hennes & Mauritz UK Limited 0.9% 86 1 British Airways plc 0.9% 165 1 In total we have approximately Our top 20 occupiers by rent 860 customers and around are listed to the right and overall Tetley GB Limited 0.9% 49 2 1,000 occupational agreements the portfolio is characterised in over 1,300 units.
by its diversity which has given Jack Wills Limited 0.8% 78 2 us a good degree of security and resilience.
uk B-Serv B-Serv is Brixtons wholly day-to-day issues relating essential to the success of leases aimed at streamlining owned subsidiary responsible to the leases in place at our the B-Serv business model.
the leasing process and for Asset Management and properties and assignments, Customer satisfaction levels fast-tracking the enquiry-toCustomer Service.
have been maintained at more occupation timescales.
than 80% over the last five Additionally, we offer bespoke B-Serv was established in 2001 Tenant retention is further years which compares to leasing solutions to any with the aim of further underpinned by the control of approximately 50% in 2001 occupier requiring these.
differentiating Brixton from its service charges.
Service charge immediately prior to the However, while some customers competitors by delivering not funds are made to work harder creation of B-Serv.
wish to price in features such only a first class property by a dedicated contract as shorter lease terms and product but also by creating management function which Customer Help Desk break options, many of the and building positive long term strives to achieve maximum At the heart of the B-Serv leases we grant are of a more relationships with our customers.
value from the services that are operation is the 24 hour, conventional nature and run for sourced to maintain our estates.
seven-days-a-week, terms in excess of 10 years.
Our focus on delivering high 365-days-a-year, Customer levels of customer satisfaction, The close interaction between Service Help Desk which Workplace Support a range of complementary the B-Serv Asset Management operates a freephone service B-Serv operates a Workplace business support services team and the customer base enabling B-Servs customers to Support service which is and quality properties should is a key aspect of increasing make easy and direct contact.
available only to occupiers continue to give us a customer satisfaction and The Help Desk dealt with of Brixton owned or managed competitive edge.
The service is about creating and maintaining We have developed a Customer Service Leasing working environments service culture throughout the B-Serv is committed to helping Providing customers with the and offering discrete services business and believe, in these our occupier customers by right properties on the right and comprises planned and economically challenging times, providing efficient working terms helps to attract and reactive maintenance, reactive this should aid our twin environments at the properties retain occupiers.
call-out support for objectives of increasing income we manage.
Each of our emergencies and construction from new lettings and reducing occupier customers is Our team of leasing surveyors refurbishment and t-out the level of lost income from supported by a dedicated works with prospective projects.
In 2008 Workplace occupiers leaving the portfolio Customer Service Manager customers from the initial Support served 185 distinct through lease ends, break CSM whose responsibility enquiry stage through to customers on nearly opportunities and insolvencies.
it is to help them with any agreeing and signing leases.
issues relating to property The key elements of the B-Serv leases, building maintenance In addition, and to give strategy are detailed below.
and the management of prospective customers easier facilities support services.
direct access to us we Asset Management launched a new dedicated By combining proactive asset Our CSMs have access to the Leasing Centre to handle management with service professional service skills within leasing enquiries.
The centre, charge control and high levels B-Serv and can utilise these operated by B-Serv, works of customer service, B-Serv to ensure our customers get alongside Brixtons retained drives income growth, the best from the space they agents.
Its aim is to make it customer satisfaction and lease from us.
The CSMs are easier for occupiers to lease tenant retention.
supported in their work by the space from Brixton and gives Contract Managers who look them direct access to our B-Servs asset managers are after the physical environment unique package of choice, responsible for managing and on our estates.
lease exibility and unrivalled negotiating the rent reviews customer service.
and lease renewals which Customer Satisfaction capture and increase income.
Maintaining a high level of We have also developed They also manage all the other customer satisfaction is a series of simple standard Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19
