Business Review continued Performance Rental Value Growth Development During 2008 we achieved rents during the year of 2.4% is 2.6% compared to IPDs UK During the first half of 2008 we on our lettings, rent reviews whereas at Heathrow we Annual Industrial Index of 1.0% completed our three remaining and lease renewals that were saw ERVs decrease by 3.2%.
developments that were on 3.2% in excess of our valuers The decline at Heathrow was site, being Greenford Park, applicable ERVs for the units mainly focused on the larger Our track record on recent X2 at Heathrow and Premier concerned.
This compares units within our portfolio.
The lettings means that in the Park at Trafford Park.
with an average enhancement transactional rental growth at absence of a prolonged of 3.7% per annum over the Park Royal and Heathrow was downturn we should be well Currently we have no last five years.
positioned to achieve income developments under alone outperformed the growth from our rent review construction on site and applicable ERVs by 3.7%.
To put our rental growth and lease renewal activities.
do not plan to commence performance into context, construction of any new During 2008 our valuers IPDs UK Annual Industrial The table opposite shows speculative developments marginally reduced our ERVs Index for 2008 shows rental our rent review prole over until market conditions by -0.2%.
Our average ERV the next five years based become more favourable.
Royal there was an increase growth over the last five years on current passing rent.
We continue to closely monitor local market prospects to determine when this may be.
In the meantime we are 6 pursuing negotiations for planning on our longer term schemes, such consents still remaining one of the main 5 barriers to entry to any competitor in the West London industrial market.
However, 4 we do have exibility in our development programme and we have a number of sites totalling some 86 acres where 3 we have existing planning or expect favourable resolution for development and where 2 we are actively seeking prelets.
Since 2005, we have completed 1.7 million sq ft 1 of developments of which approximately 50% are let producing income of 9.1m.
0 The ERV of the unlet developments is 9.5m of which 6.8m relates to the schemes completed between -1 October 2007 and April 2008.
% 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Our focus for 2009 will be Total % over valuers Brixton ERVs to generate additional % ERV growth: Brixton valuers ERVs new income from our % ERV growth: IPD UK Greater London Annual Industrial Index completed developments % ERV growth: IPD UK Annual Industrial Index and to secure prelets on % ERV growth: IPD UK South East Annual Industrial Index our undeveloped sites.
