Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for Percentage of Number of issued Ordinary the year ended 31 December 2008.
Name Brixton shares share capital Business of the Group Government of Singapore Investment The principal business of the Group, being the Company and its Corporation Private Ltd 27,040,135 9.95% subsidiary undertakings, within the meaning given by the Companies UBS Global Asset Management 18,804,402 6.92% Act 1985, is property investment and development, together with Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 13,747,623 5.06% the management of its properties.
A list of the Companys principal Legal & General Group Plc 11,122,369 4.09% subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2008 is given on Tameside MBC re Greater page 78.
Manchester Pension Fund 9,252,234 3.41% Business Review Goldman, Sachs & Co. 8,692,500 3.20% A comprehensive review of the development and performance of Barclays plc 8,675,0733.19% the Companys business including its key performance indicators for the year to 31 December 2008 and a description of the principal Annual General Meeting risks and uncertainties facing the Company are included in the The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, including date, time various reviews which precede this report.
Disclosures relating and location and the ordinary and special business to be conducted to Social, Employee and Environmental issues are contained will be sent to shareholders in due course.
under separate headings later in this report.
Purchase of own shares Dividends At the Annual General Meeting held on 24 April 2008, the Company An interim dividend of 4.9p per share has been paid on the Ordinary was authorised to purchase 27,066,963 Ordinary Shares.
At shares and the Directors are not recommending the payment of 23 April 2009 no shares had been purchased under this authority, a final dividend on the issued Ordinary share capital.
This makes a which will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
total dividend of 4.9p per share and represents a decrease of 64.0% over the total dividend per Ordinary share paid in respect of 2007.
Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Directors governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys The present membership of the Board is shown on page 31. shareholders for good corporate governance.
The Statement below Mark Moran was appointed as a Director on 7 March 2008 and describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied re-elected at the Annual General Meeting AGM held on 24 April to the Company and reviews the Companys compliance with the 2008.
All of the other Directors listed were in office throughout the Combined Code.
The Board has adopted a formal corporate year.
Tim Wheeler, who served on the Board from June 1997 and governance manual which is updated on an ongoing basis.
as Chief Executive from April 2000, resigned on 2 March 2009.
At the AGM, Nicholas Fry and David Scotland will retire by rotation and, Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
After due consideration of the Combined Code of the results of the performance evaluation, the Chairman and The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance with the revised the Board confirm that they are content that the performance of Combined Code the Code on Corporate Governance issued in the Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective June 2006. and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Company has, throughout the year, been in full compliance Neither Nicholas Fry nor David Scotland have service contracts with the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, with the Company.
with the exception of the point noted in the second paragraph of Details of Directors interests in the Companys shares are shown The workings of the Board and its Committees below.
The workings of the Board and its Committees Properties The Board An external professional valuation of the Groups properties on The Non-executive Directors comprise the majority of the Board and an open market basis was carried out as at 31 December 2008. are kept fully informed of all areas of the Companys activities so that The result of the valuation was a deficit of 673.4m after allowing they are able to participate fully in all aspects of the Companys for disposals and capital expenditure on properties and the valuation strategy and control.
has been included in the balance sheet.
Details of the valuation and movements in the Groups properties during the year are set out in Louise Patten is Chairman of the Board and Peter Dawson is the note 12 on page 55.
Chief Executive of the Company, having replaced Tim Wheeler on 2 March 2009.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are Substantial shareholdings separate and clearly defined.
David Scotland is the Senior At 23 April 2009 the following interests in voting rights had Independent Non-executive Director.
The current Non-executive been notified to the Company in accordance with the provisions Directors, being Louise Patten, Nicholas Fry, Stephen Harris, Mark of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Moran and David Scotland, are considered by the Board to be Services Authority: independent.
Non-executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms, as recommended by the Code, but are subject to election Issued Ordinary share capital 271,669,337. and re-election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and at least every three years thereafter.
The Non-executive Directors understand that the Board will not automatically recommend their re-election by shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Directors Report continued The biographies of the members of the Board appear on page 31.
Remuneration Committee These demonstrate a range of experience of sufficient calibre to The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Scotland and bring independent judgement on the issues of strategy, performance, its current membership is set out on page 31.
The Report on resources and standards of conduct that is vital to the success of Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 37 to 43. the Company.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Company.
A statement of Directors Relations with shareholders responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The various reviews on pages 4 to 30 include a detailed review of page 44 and a statement on going concern is set out on page 35. the business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue The Board meets regularly reviewing financial performance, ensuring with, and presentations are made to, existing and prospective adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major institutional shareholders.
acquisitions and disposal possibilities and reporting to shareholders.
The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors The Chairmen of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are Committees are normally available at the Annual General Meeting distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at of Board meetings.
The Directors may take independent professional the Annual General Meeting will be detailed in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which will be sent to shareholders in due advice in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
The Board indicates the level of proxies lodged on each During the year there were six Board meetings, three meetings resolution and the balance for and against the resolution after it of the Audit Committee, two meetings of both the Remuneration has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Committee and the Nomination Committee, all of which had full attendance.
Internal control A Board self assessment evaluation was carried out during the year The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Companys which covered structure and content of Board meetings and all system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such Board processes and communication channels.
The results of a system can only provide reasonable assurance and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed the evaluation were considered at a meeting of the Board.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Separate meetings were also held between the Chairman and business objectives.
the Non-executive Directors to evaluate the Executive Directors performance and between the Non-executive Directors only It is a requirement of the Code that the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
controls and risk management, is reviewed by the Board.
Evaluations were also carried out during the year of the Audit, The Board carries out a review of significant business risks and Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the Companys The following Committees deal with the specific aspects of the system of internal control annually.
This review covers all controls, Companys affairs.
The Board has approved terms of reference including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk for these Committees and the Company has published these management.
The risks are identified by the Executive Directors terms on its website.
using their detailed knowledge of the Companys activities and of Audit Committee those areas of the property and financial markets which impact on The Audit Committee is currently chaired by Mark Moran and its its objectives.
The Board considers risk management and internal current membership is set out on page 31.
Mark Moran replaced control on a regular basis during the year.
There is an ongoing Nicholas Fry as Chairman of this Committee at the Annual General process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Meeting on 24 April 2008.
The Committee meets not less than faced by the Company.
No significant weaknesses have been twice a year and meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the identified during the year under review.
As the Company has a relatively small number of employees there is The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range a high level of senior executive involvement in the majority of business of matters including the half year and annual financial statements transactions.
The Company currently has three Executive Directors, before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls following the resignation of Tim Wheeler on 2 March 2009, who also which are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported sit on the 13 person Operations Board who manage the day to day to shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the activities of the business.
appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and The Groups internal control process accords with the Turnbull discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the guidance.
The Audit Committee may also meet with the The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, Companys valuers.
but has decided that because of the scale and focus of the Nomination Committee Company it is not justified.
However, it is a matter that is kept The Nomination Committee is chaired by Louise Patten and under regular review.
its current membership is set out on page 31.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition required of the Board, making recommendations on changes to and considering succession planning for Directors and other senior executives.
In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants are used to assist the process.
uk Going concern During 2008, a major review was carried out into how new The Groups cash flow forecasts show that it has adequate developments could be made more sustainable as part of an overall resources available to continue in operational existence for the review of the development process.
A new sustainability checklist foreseeable future.
In preparing these forecasts the Directors have for developments has been introduced which is split into three categories: easy wins, stretch targets and super stretch targets.
taken into account the following material risks and uncertainties: Additional sustainability criteria have been incorporated into the the potential breaches of various financing covenants if there design guide and standard base specification for developments.
are continued reductions in property valuations Further work will be carried out in 2009 to act on the the outcome of the review of all the options to provide additional recommendations.
An environmental checklist is also used financial flexibility including disposals of assets, debt for refurbishment projects.
renegotiations and an equity raising.
Brixton has continued to work with The Carbon Neutral Company Having taken into account these risks and uncertainties the to offset CO emissions from its own office energy use, business 2 Directors have concluded, based on the cash flow forecasts, travel and company publications.
A total of 255 tonnes of CO was 2 that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a offset in 2008.
Brixton is switching to a greener electricity tariff sourced from good quality Combined Heat and Power plants for going concern basis.
the electricity purchased for the common parts of its property Payment of suppliers portfolio.
By 31 December 2008, 70% of the estates with a The Board maintains a policy of paying suppliers promptly in landlords electricity supply had switched to the new tariff.
The accordance with the terms and conditions agreed with them.
remaining estates will be switched during 2009 once the current At the year end its trade creditors represented 22 days contracts expire.
Brixton has responsibility for the waste contracts at five multi-occupier estates and 27% of the total waste on these 2007: 18 days purchase.
On multi-occupier estates where Corporate responsibility occupiers are responsible for organising their own waste collections, Brixton is committed to being a socially responsible company.
Brixton is encouraging them to recycle by putting in place recycling It seeks to enhance relationships with stakeholders and manage facilities at these estates as well.
By the end of 2008, recycling key Corporate Responsibility CR issues such as climate change, facilities had been introduced at 31 of the 86 estates with a total of 430 tonnes recycled during the year.
Further recycling facilities will be health and safety and land contamination.
All the information published on CR is assured by WSP Environmental and their assurance statement can be found under A key environmental risk for Brixton is land contamination due to past industrial activities or fuel spillages.
Environment audits are carried out the CR section of our website.
The statement confirms that:- prior to the acquisition of new properties to identify any potential Brixtons 2008 Corporate Responsibility reporting provides a contamination.
During 2008 Brixton spent approximately 500,000 detailed and accurate representation of the progress that Brixton on costs associated with the investigation, monitoring and has made during the period 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2008. remediation of contaminated land.
It is evident sustainability is included in core business activities and is embedded into all operations with significant progress being Customers Brixtons goal is to be the landlord of first choice in its chosen achieved across the whole organisation.
Customer service is therefore a key priority for the business.
How we manage corporate responsibility Brixton has a CR Policy Statement plus a range of more detailed Customer Service Managers visit all customers regularly on average every six weeks and a 24-hour help desk is available.
We have policies to guide employees on specific aspects of CR.
established Customer Advisory Boards CAB within our core Steve Lee, Operations Director, is the Board member with overall markets of Heathrow, Park Royal and Trafford Park, Manchester.
He oversees Brixtons CR programme and We also carry out a Customer Satisfaction survey every two years provides an annual report to the Board on performance.
Brixtons and in our latest survey, we added some new questions on CR Committee coordinates implementation of the Companys environmental and sustainability issues.
To raise awareness of CR programme and meets on a quarterly basis.
It is made up of sustainability issues among our customers, we have produced managers with responsibility for the key CR issues and is chaired an Occupiers Guide to Climate Change and Sustainability which is by Steve Lee.
The Company sets annual targets to drive available on our website and we include regular energy saving tips forward improvement and progress is reviewed at the CR in our B-Serv newsletter and postcard campaign.
plan to use our customer briefings in our key markets Heathrow, Every employee at Brixton can play an important role in CR.
As part Park Royal and Trafford Park, Manchester to engage further with of their annual performance appraisal, employees are asked to our customers on sustainability issues.
consider how they can contribute to the Companys CR values.
Employees Brixton is included in the FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Brixton has an equal opportunities policy and monitors the diversity Disclosure Leadership Index which recognises the highest scoring profile of employees.
Women accounted for 38% of staff and 21% companies in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
of managers as at 31 December 2008.
Environment All employees receive an annual performance appraisal and training is Brixton recognises that a key sustainability challenge for the business provided to help employees develop their skills and reach their is climate change, since the construction and running of buildings potential.
Brixtons Code of Conduct sets out the standards expected has a significant carbon footprint.
It has therefore produced a guide from employees and forms part of the employment contract.
to climate change and sustainability for its employees and a similar Local communities guide for occupiers of Brixton owned and managed properties.
Brixton supports community organisations local to its property portfolio as well as various charities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Directors Report continued The Companys main community partner in 2008 was the charity is an important consideration in their selection.
Construction activities Wooden Spoon which makes donations to support specific projects.
A are managed in accordance with the requirements of the donation of 30,000 was made to a Wooden Spoon project for children Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007. with special needs helping to provide physical training equipment All employees share responsibility for maintaining a safe workplace for strength and conditioning at a special needs school in Hounslow.
and health and safety training is part of the induction programme for In 2008, a major sponsorship deal was agreed with the Henley all new employees.
Additional health and safety training is provided Business School at the University of Reading.
Working with the for any Brixton employees working on or visiting construction sites.
Reading Real Estate Foundation RREF, a registered charity which The Company is pleased to report that there were no work-related lost provides financial support for real estate education at the University, time accidents for employees in 2008 2007: nil.
Brixton has committed to provide 300,000 over the next three years with the first instalment to be paid in early 2009.
This will help fund Charitable donations the new business school building which will include a dedicated During the year the Group made contributions of 157,000 centre for the Department of Real Estate & Planning.
Within this new 2007: 79,000 to UK charitable organisations.
building, Brixton will be the sponsor of both the main lecture theatre Political donations and the MSc Seminar Room which will be known respectively as The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none the Brixton Lecture Theatre and the MSc Seminar Room.
were made during the year.
Brixton allows employees to take one day off work per year for volunteering.
Employees gave 24 work days in support of community Disclosure of information to the auditors projects during 2008.
The Company also matches money raised by So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving employees for charity up to an agreed maximum.
A payroll giving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its scheme was established in 2006. report, of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries of Brixton takes great care to be considerate towards neighbours and fellow Directors and the Groups auditor, each Director has taken works hard to keep sites and estates tidy.
All contractors on new all the steps that he she is obliged to take as a Director in order to development major refurbishments are required to sign up to the have made himself herself aware of any relevant audit information Considerate Constructors Scheme.
and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Business partners Brixton seeks to build long term relationships with a small number Directors indemnities of best in class business partners.
An annual Supply Chain Award The Company has the power to indemnify Directors in accordance with the provisions of its articles of association.
Accordingly the is given to Brixtons partner of the year.
Directors have the benefit of appropriate qualifying third party Brixtons pre-qualification questionnaire for new business partners indemnity provisions, consistent with the applicable statutory includes an assessment of their approach to CR.
In order to provisions, in respect of costs incurred in defending and mitigating encourage continuous improvement, business partners are also civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings arising out of and in sent an annual CR questionnaire and the findings are discussed with connection with their position as Directors.
Appropriate Directors business partners in review meetings.
Within Brixtons estate services and Officers liability insurance is also in place for all Directors.
supply chain, a specific question on CR has been incorporated into the monthly performance assessment questionnaire.
During 2009, Auditors a CR question will also be added to the quarterly performance Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in assessment of refurbishment and construction business partners.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Further information is available in the Corporate Responsibility auditors to the Company and authorising the Directors to determine section on our website www.
their remuneration will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Health and safety Responsibility Statement The Board is committed to continuously improving the management The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: of health and safety.
An independent, external consultancy carries out an annual audit of health and safety at Brixton.
Their findings the financial statements give a true and fair view of assets, and recommendations are reported to the Board as part of its liabilities, financial position and profit loss: and annual review of health and safety.
An action plan is developed the management report includes a fair review of the development and implemented to deal with any issues identified during the audit.
and performance of the business and a description of the The Company has an established Health & Safety Management principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
System which sets out the Groups detailed policies and procedures.
By order of the Board Steve Lee, Operations Director, is responsible for implementation of the health and safety policy.
A Health and Safety Committee, chaired Richard Howell Company Secretary by Steve Lee and made up of managers from different areas of the 23 April 2009 business, meets four times a year to review health and safety policy and practice and to suggest improvements.
Regular risk assessments are carried out at all properties managed by B-Serv.
This includes vacant units and common areas of multi-let properties.
Appropriate action is taken to address any risks identified during these assessments.
Development, refurbishment and maintenance work at Brixton properties is carried out by independent contractors on our behalf.
We work closely with contractors on health and safety issues and a contractors health and safety record 36 www.
