Directors 75 D. G. Silverman, 39 Executive director R. A. Rayne, 60 Non-executive chairman The Hon R A Rayne joined the board in February 2007.
Mr Silverman joined the board in January 2008.
He is a chartered surveyor and is responsible for investment He has been on the boards of a number of public companies, including First Leisure Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc acquisitions and disposals.
and is currently chief executive officer of LMS Capital plc, a company listed on AIM.
He is also a non-executive director S. J. Neathercoat, 60 Senior independent director Mr Neathercoat is a chartered accountant.
He joined the board of Weatherford International Inc. an international oil services company quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, and was in March 1999 and chairs the audit committee whilst serving on the remuneration and nominations committees.
He is chairman chief executive officer of London Merchant Securities plc.
of London Medical Technologies plc and was previously a managing director of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
J. C. Ivey, 67 Non-executive deputy chairman A chartered accountant, Mr Ivey is a director of RWS Holdings R. A. Farnes, 63 Non-executive director plc and was formerly chief executive of The Davis Service Group plc.
He has served on the board since 1984 and Mr Farnes is a chartered surveyor.
He was previously the chairman of CB Hillier Parker and joined the board in chairs the nominations committee.
He chairs the remuneration committee and is a member of the audit and nominations committees.
J. D. Burns, 64 Chief executive officer Mr Burns has been a director of the company since 1984 S. A. Corbyn, 64 Non-executive director and has overall responsibility for group strategy, business development and day-to-day operations.
He is a non-executive Mr Corbyn was appointed to the board in May 2006.
Until December 2008, he was chief executive of Cadogan Estates, director of The Davis Service Group plc and a partner in The Pilcher Hershman Partnership, estate agents.
one of the principal private estates in London, and is a former president of the British Property Federation.
He is a member S. P. Silver, 58 Head of development of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees.
Mr Silver has overall responsibility for acquisitions, design and development projects.
He became a director in 1986 and is J. fide Moller, 61 Non-executive director Mrs fide Moller joined the board in February 2007.
She is a an honorary fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects.
He is also a partner in The Pilcher Hershman Partnership.
non-executive director of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc and Archant Limited.
Previously, she was managing director of C. J. Odom, 58 Finance director Carlton Communications Plc and a non-executive director of Cookson Group plc, BT plc, AWG plc, J Sainsbury plc and Mr Odom joined the board in 1988.
He is a chartered accountant and has overall responsibility for financial London Merchant Securities plc.
She is a member of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees.
strategy, treasury, taxation and financial reporting.
D. Newell, 66 Non-executive director N. Q. George, 45 Executive director A chartered surveyor, Mr George was appointed to the Mr Newell joined the board in February 2007.
Previously, he was senior partner of Hillier Parker May & Rowden, board in 1998.
He has responsibility for acquisitions and investment analysis.
chairman of the Europe, Middle East and Africa division of CB Richard Ellis Services Inc. a non-executive director P. M. Williams, 49 Executive director of London Merchant Securities plc and a past president of the British Council of Offices.
He is a member of the Mr Williams is a chartered surveyor and was appointed to the board in 1998.
His responsibilities include asset management audit, remuneration and nominations committees.
and supervision of refurbishment and development projects.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008
