Independent auditors report 86 Independent auditors report to the shareholders Our report has been prepared pursuant to the requirements of of Derwent London plc the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
No person We have audited the group and parent company financial is entitled to rely on this report unless such a person is a person statements the financial statements of Derwent London plc entitled to rely upon this report by virtue of and for the purpose for the year ended 31st December 2008 which comprise the of the Companies Act 1985 or has been expressly authorised consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not company balance sheets, the consolidated and parent accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for company cash flow statements, the consolidated and parent any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and company statements of recognised income and expense all such liability.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We Basis of audit opinion have also audited the information in the directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with International report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration the directors remuneration report and the financial statements report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the in accordance with applicable law and International Financial significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements information and explanations which we considered necessary and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial directors remuneration report to be audited are free from statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements and the part of the directors remuneration report irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration the group financial statements have been properly prepared report to be audited.
in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given Opinion in the directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
In our opinion: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if of the state of the groups affairs as at 31st December 2008 information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and of its loss for the year then ended: and other transactions is not disclosed.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 We review whether the corporate governance statement of the IAS Regulation: reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the the parent company financial statements give a true Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate companys affairs as at 31st December 2008: governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have been We read other information contained in the annual report and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial 1985: and statements.
This other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, the information given in the directors report is consistent the chairmans statement, the business review and the corporate with the financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 17th March 2009 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008
