Directors report 64 The directors report is continued from page 22. or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding Share capital any shares held as treasury shares.
As at 17th March 2009, the companys issued share capital comprised a single class of 5p ordinary shares.
Details of the The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, ordinary share capital and shares issued during the year can unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to be found in note 31 to the financial statements.
those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes, any resolution passed by No person holds securities in the company carrying special the company and other shareholders rights, shares may be rights with regard to control of the company.
issued with such rights and restrictions as the company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution Powers in relation to the company issuing or so far as it does not make specific provision as the board or buying back its own shares may decide.
Subject to the articles, the Companies Acts and The directors were granted authority at the last annual general other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal meeting held in 2008 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal of the board.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of this years annual general meeting.
At this years Voting annual general meeting, shareholders will be asked to grant an Every member and every duly appointed proxy present at a authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, of 1,680,119, and ii comprising equity securities up to a one vote and every member present in person or by proxy has, nominal amount of 3,360,238 after deducting from such upon a poll, one vote for every share held by him.
In the case of limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection joint holders of a share the vote of the senior shareholder who with an offer by way of a rights issue, section 80 authority, tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted such section 80 authority to apply until the end of next years to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for annual general meeting.
this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for cash in connection Restrictions on voting with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or 252,018.
A special resolution will also be proposed to renew class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or the directors authority to repurchase the companys ordinary other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum unpaid or if a member has been served with a restriction notice of 10,080,715 ordinary shares and sets the minimum and as defined in the articles of association after failure to provide maximum prices which may be paid.
the company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Substantial shareholders The company is not aware of any agreements between In addition to those of the directors disclosed on page 68, shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
the company has been notified of the following interests in the issued ordinary share capital as at 17th March 2009.
Restrictions on transfer of securities in the company Percentage There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Number of issued company, except: of shares share capital that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by Withers Trust Corporation 6,217,444 6.17 laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Withers Trust Corporation Ltd. pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services and James McCarthy 5,548,731 5.50 Authority whereby certain employees of the company Third Avenue Management Ltd. 5,083,433 5.04 require the approval of the company to deal in the Cohen & Steers Inc. 4,970,225 4.93 companys ordinary shares.
Lady Jane Rayne 4,093,838 4.06 Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 3,920,586 3.89 The company is not aware of any agreements between Standard Life 3,622,700 3.59 shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Legal & General 3,482,391 3.45 Fortis Investment Management 3,043,854 3.02 Variation of Rights Subject to the Companies Acts, rights attached to any class As trustees of Lord Raynes Will Trust.
of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued Amendment of articles of association shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles treasury shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution of association of the company, the companys articles of passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those association may be amended by a special resolution of shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an the companys shareholders.
adjourned meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 65 Significant agreements The board assesses the independence of the non-executive There are no agreements between the company and its directors with regard to the guidance on independence contained directors or employees providing for compensation for loss in code provision A.
3.1, and notes that Messrs Rayne, Ivey and of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover Neathercoat cannot automatically be deemed independent.
bid, except that, under the rules of the groups share-based The board is also aware that code provision A.
2.2 requires a remuneration schemes some awards may vest following a new chairman to be independent on appointment.
In accordance change of control.
Some of the groups banking arrangements with principle A.
6 of the code, the board has reviewed the roles are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
and performance of all directors and, amongst other matters, reconsidered the independence of the non-executive directors.
As a REIT, a tax charge may be levied on the company if it makes a distribution to another company which is beneficially entitled Having served in an executive capacity at London Merchant to 10% or more of the shares or dividends in the company Securities plc prior to the merger, Mr Rayne is not deemed or controls 10% or more of the voting rights in the company, independent.
However, in view of the significant contribution a substantial shareholder, unless the company has taken Mr Rayne makes as chairman of the enlarged board, the reasonable steps to avoid such a distribution being made.
board continues to consider that his position is justified.
The companys articles of association give the directors power to take such steps, including the power to: Mr Ivey is not deemed independent, having served on the board for more than nine years.
Again, the board considered identify a substantial shareholder: his expertise and the manner in which he carried out his withhold the payment of dividends to a substantial duties during the year and concluded that shareholders shareholder: and should have no concern that his independent judgement is in any way impaired.
require the disposal of shares forming part of a substantial shareholding.
Mr Neathercoat has also served as a non-executive director for more than nine years.
The board has therefore reviewed There is no person with whom the group has a contractual his independence and is of the view that he continues to show or other arrangement which is essential to the business strong independence in both judgement and in the performance of the company.
of his duties as a director.
This, together with the fact that he has no association with management that might compromise Fixed assets his independence, causes the board to conclude that he The groups freehold and leasehold investment properties remains independent.
were professionally revalued at 31st December 2008, resulting in a deficit of 597.1m, before deducting the lease incentive The directors also considered the composition of the board adjustment of 5.0m.
Additional information regarding the and continue to believe that it is suitably structured to satisfy basis of valuation is included in the risk management and the requirements of good corporate governance.
In addition, internal control section on page 69.
The freehold and during the year the nominations committee reviewed the leasehold investment properties are included in the group timing and other issues relating to potential changes to the balance sheet at a carrying value of 2,085.6m.
Further composition of the board with a view to ensuring in due details are given in note 18 of the financial statements.
course an orderly change process.
Post balance sheet events A formal schedule, which has been approved by the board, sets Details of post balance sheet events are given in note 42 out the division of responsibilities between the chairman, who of the financial statements.
is responsible for the effectiveness of the board, and the chief executive officer, who is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the business.
Mr Neathercoat is the senior independent Corporate Governance director.
Biographies of the directors are given on page 75.
Compliance The board supports the principles of good governance and The board is responsible for setting the companys strategic believes that the company has, except as noted, complied aims, ensuring that adequate resources are available to meet with the main and supporting principle of the Combined Code its objectives and reviewing management performance.
The on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting formal list of matters reserved for the full boards approval is Council and which is appended to the Listing Rules of the maintained and reviewed periodically.
The full board met six Financial Services Authority.
The company has not complied times during the year and six meetings are scheduled for 2009. with code provision A.
2.2, concerning the independence of the Extra meetings will be arranged if necessary.
Additionally, the chairman on appointment.
The companys position is described executive board, which consists of the executive directors met in the following section.
A number of other code provisions 11 times in 2008.
The board is provided with comprehensive were not applicable in the current year.
papers in a timely manner to ensure that the directors are fully briefed on matters to be discussed at these meetings.
The board At the start of the year, the board comprised Mr Rayne, Since 1993, the board has maintained a number of board the non-executive chairman, five executive directors, committees.
The terms of reference of each committee are Messrs Burns, Silver, Odom, Williams and George and available on the groups website.
Set out below are details of six non-executive directors, Mrs fide Moller together with the membership and duties of the three principal committees.
Messrs Ivey, Neathercoat, Farnes, Corbyn and Newell.
On 2nd January 2008, Mr Silverman was appointed to the board as an executive director.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 66 Nominations committee Remuneration committee The committee comprises of Mr Neathercoat, Mr Corbyn, Mr Ivey is chairman of this committee which consists of all of the non-executive directors, except the chairman.
Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell under the chairmanship of Mr Farnes.
It is responsible for establishing the companys The committees responsibilities include identifying external candidates for appointment as directors and, subsequently, remuneration policy and individual remuneration packages for the executive directors.
There were four meetings of the recommending their appointment to the board and, if requested, making a recommendation concerning an appointment to the committee in 2008.
The report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 76 to 83. board from within the company.
The committee also carries out the annual appraisal of the performance and effectiveness Audit committee of the board and its three committees.
The committee met only once during the period under review.
The report of the Mr Neathercoat chairs this committee which is served by Mr Corbyn, Mr Farnes, Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell.
nominations committee is on page 85.
The committee is responsible for considering the application of financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
The committee met four times during 2008.
The report of the audit committee is on page 84.
Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Full Executive Remuneration Audit Nominations board board committee committee committee Number of meetings 6 11 4 4 1 Executive directors J. D. Burns 6 11 S. P. Silver 5 10 C. J. Odom 6 10 P. M. Williams 6 10 N. Q. George 6 11 D. G. Silverman 6 11 Non-executive directors R. A. Rayne 5 J. C. Ivey 6 1 S. J. Neathercoat 6 4 4 1 R. A. Farnes 6 4 4 1 S. A. Corbyn 6 3 3 1 D. Newell 6 4 4 1 J. fide Moller 5 4 3 1 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 67 Performance evaluation The office of a director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers During 2008, the nominations committee carried out a formal to resign and the board resolve to accept such offer: ii his appraisal of the performance of the board and its committees.
resignation is requested by all of the other directors and all The remuneration committee performed appraisals of each of the other directors are not less than three in number: iii he of the executive directors, as part of the salary review process.
is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and The performance of the chairman was evaluated by the the board resolves that his office be vacated: iv he is absent non-executive directors under the chairmanship of the senior without the permission of the board from meetings of the board independent director.
All of the appraisals were conducted whether or not an alternate director appointed by him attends internally using questionnaires based on the guidance for six consecutive months and the board resolves that his contained in the Higgs Report.
office is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by a law from Appointment and replacement of directors being a director: vii he ceases to be a director by virtue of the The directors shall be not less than two and not more than Companies Acts: or viii he is removed from office pursuant 15 in number.
The company may by ordinary resolution vary to the companys articles.
the minimum and or maximum number of directors.
Other than as required by the remuneration committee, a director shall not If considered appropriate, new directors are sent on an external be required to hold any shares in the company.
Directors may training course addressing their role and duties as a director of be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the a quoted public company.
Existing directors monitor their own board.
A director appointed by the board holds office only until continued professional development and are encouraged to the next following annual general meeting of the company and attend those courses that keep their market and regulatory is then eligible for re-appointment.
The board or any committee knowledge current.
authorised by the board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold any employment or executive office for All directors have access to the services of the company such period and on such terms as they may determine and secretary and any director may instigate an agreed procedure may also revoke or terminate any such appointment.
whereby independent professional advice may be sought at the companys expense.
Directors and officers liability Appointment of a director from outside the company is on insurance is maintained by the company.
the recommendation of the nominations committee, whilst internal promotion is a matter decided by the board unless Powers of the directors it is considered appropriate for a recommendation to be Subject to the companys memorandum of association, requested from the nominations committee.
the articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the company by special resolution, the business of At every annual general meeting of the company any director the company will be managed by the board who may who has been appointed by the board since the last annual exercise all the powers of the company, whether relating general meeting, or who held office at the time of the two to the management of the business of the company or preceding annual general meetings and who did not retire not.
In particular, the board may exercise all the powers of at either of them, or who has held office with the company, the company to borrow money, to guarantee, to indemnify, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall assets present and future and uncalled capital and to issue retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment debentures and other securities and to give security for any by the members.
The company may by special resolution debt, liability or obligation of the company or of any third party.
remove any director before the expiration of his period of office.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 68 Directors The directors of the company during the year and their interests in the share capital of the company, including shares over which options have been granted, either under the executive share option scheme or the performance share plan, are shown below.
All of these interests are held beneficially.
There have been no changes in any of the directors interests Communication with shareholders between the year-end and 17th March 2009.
The company has always recognised the importance of clear communication with shareholders.
Regular contact with During the year, no options were exercised by directors and institutional shareholders and fund managers is maintained, no new options were granted to directors under the Executive principally by the executive directors, through the giving of Share Option Scheme.
A conditional grant of 286,975 shares presentations and organising visits to the groups property was made to directors under the Performance Share Plan assets.
The board receives regular reports of these meetings.
whilst 95,679 shares vested to the directors from an earlier The annual report, which is available to all shareholders, award at a zero exercise price.
The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the In accordance with the articles of association, Messrs Burns directors and, in particular, the chairman of each of the board and Williams and Mrs fide Moller retire by rotation and, being committees.
An alternative channel of communication to the eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, both having board is available through the senior independent director.
served on the board for more than nine years, Messrs Ivey and Neathercoat retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographies of all the directors are given on page 75.
Other than as disclosed in note 46, the directors have no interest in any material contracts of the company.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 69 Risk management and internal control G enerally the group selects contractors from a pool that The board recognises that risk is an inherent part of running are well known to it, and the financial information on these a business and that whilst it aims to maximise returns, companies is regularly reviewed.
If the insolvency of a major the associated risks must be understood and managed.
sub-contractor is seen to present a material risk to the critical Overall responsibility for this process rests with the board path of a project, specific strategies are implemented to whilst executive management is responsible for designing, mitigate the effect.
implementing and maintaining the necessary systems T hat a major tenant becomes insolvent causing a significant of control.
Key to this function is the groups risk register which is reviewed T he groups credit committee reviews the financial status formally once a year.
The register is initially prepared by the of all prospective tenants and decides on the level of security executive board which, having created the list of risks, collectively to be obtained, by way of rent on deposit, bank guarantees assesses the severity of the risk, the likelihood of it occurring etc.
for those tenants that are approved.
The groups asset and the strength of the controls over the risk.
This approach managers are proactive in collecting amounts due from tenants allows the effect of any mitigating procedures to be considered and maintain regular contact with tenants which enables recognising that risk cannot be totally eliminated and that some them to identify early signs of distress.
In the current economic activities incur inherent risk.
The register is then reviewed and environment, the group is investigating the option of insuring commented upon by the audit committee before being the rent of a limited number of key tenants.
considered and adopted by the full board.
Financial risks The risk register is divided into four parts: strategic risks, corporate T hat the group is unable to raise finance from its preferred risks, property risks and financial risks.
During this years review, sources.
which was conducted in December 2008, no unacceptable The groups five year strategic review and rolling forecasts residual risks were identified by the board.
Some of the more enables any financing requirement to be identified at an early significant risks, together with the controls that operate over stage.
This enables sources of finance to be identified and that part of the business, are set out below.
evaluated and, to a degree, the finance to be raised as and when market conditions are favourable.
Strategic risks That the groups strategy is not achieved due to adverse T hat the group breaches one of its financing covenants.
economic influences and or movements in the central All the groups secured borrowings contain financial London property investment or occupational market.
covenants based only on specific security not corporate The group carries out an annual strategic review covering ratios such as balance sheet gearing.
Treasury control schedules are updated each week whilst the groups rolling the next five years and prepares regular rolling forecasts for the next two years.
As part of both exercises, the effect forecast enables any potential problems to be identified at an early stage and corrective action to be taken.
that changing the various main underlying assumptions has on the key ratios is considered and the board can vary T hat the groups debt facilities become unavailable the groups short term objectives so as to best realise its or are not renewed.
The groups policy of maintaining The group develops long-term relationships with a small income from properties until a development starts gives the board flexibility in this regard.
number of banks and, where possible, arranges facilities that provide an excess over the requirement identified Property risks in the rolling forecast.
In their report to the directors, the independent valuers, CB Richard Ellis, whilst not qualifying their opinion of value, The systems that control the risks on the risk register form the groups system of internal control.
The effectiveness of have noted that the current volatility in the global financial system has created a significant degree of turbulence this system and the operation of the key components thereof have been reviewed for the accounting year and the period in commercial real estate markets across the world.
Furthermore, the lack of liquidity in the capital markets to the date of approval of the financial statements.
means that it may be very difficult to achieve a sale of property assets in the short term.
Internal audit The board has considered the need for an internal audit That the cost of the groups development schemes is function but continues to believe that this is unnecessary increased due to delays in the planning process.
given the size and complexity of the group.
When preparing appraisals for the groups proposed Going concern developments, potential delays on the schemes critical path are identified and the effect quantified.
If material, Having made due enquiries, the directors have reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to alternative solutions are evaluated.
The group uses advisers who are fully aware of the current planning requirements continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the board continues to adopt the going concern specific to the schemes location so as to reduce the risk of unforeseen delays.
basis in preparing the accounts.
That a contractor or major sub-contractor becomes insolvent causing a project to be delayed or otherwise adversely affected.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 70 For the first year, the percentage of waste recycling in Corporate responsibility managed properties has been recorded and in seven out Derwent London is committed to sustainable building design of twelve properties achieved 40% and above.
Awareness and contributing to the environment in which we operate.
of the importance of waste management has prompted During 2008, we focused on improving awareness and arrangements for our tenants to visit CORY, our main waste communication and strengthening policies with a series of collectors, which should help reinforce management staff seminars, the successful launch of a tenant interactive procedures and increase the percentage of recycled website and conducting a review with the aim of moving to waste, where the target for 2009 is 40% on all buildings.
an approach whereby environmental, social and economic issues are considered holistically throughout the property Energy data on managed buildings, that in some cases is only lifecycle and our wider business activities.
the landlord areas and in others the whole building, shows an increase in consumption and consequent carbon emissions Environment based on per square metre floor area.
However, due to the This is the third year of environmental reporting.
This section nature of our property portfolio, there are likely to be fluctuations provides a summary of the groups environmental performance on a year-on-year basis influenced by external environmental for 2008 and its key objectives for 2009.
The full environmental conditions and tenant behaviour.
Ongoing attention to improve report is available on the groups website.
energy performance, including Arups investigation at the three properties referred to above and feedback from energy Sustainability performance certificates, should result in improved data.
Derwent London strives to improve its approach to sustainability During 2008, changes in the timing of the heating system and and in 2008 commissioned a report by Arup to examine existing the installation of movement sensors on the lighting at Olivers policies which is being reviewed for implementation in 2009.
Yard has resulted in a saving of approximately 297 tonnes of We continue to focus on sustainable building design aspiring carbon dioxide.
At 4-5 Grosvenor Place, timing changes are to BREEAM Excellent rating with a minimum Very Good rating believed to be responsible for a 25% reduction in usage within on all major new building schemes, with vigorous reviews the common parts, resulting in carbon dioxide emission saving during the early stage of the design process focused on of approximately 104 tonnes over the year.
improving the energy performance of our buildings.
We see the interactive tenant website as an opportunity to Improving the performance of our assets is important to us and, improve energy awareness and communicate measures that with two-thirds of energy performance certificates produced impact on carbon emissions.
In 2008, a new contract from on managed buildings, a review will be shortly underway to Scottish and Southern Energy was negotiated to supply the implement measures to reduce energy consumption.
This contract supplies Climate Levy exempt in-depth investigation is in progress on the Johnson Building, electricity sourced from Good Quality Combined Heat and Olivers Yard and the Davidson Building.
Arup will be reporting Power GQCHP.
The production of more efficient energy by later this year on these three buildings identifying areas where this method as opposed to power stations results in carbon improvements can be made.
We see the studies at these three dioxide savings of approximately 30%.
buildings as having potential benefits to the wider portfolio.
Key Objectives 2009 Environmental Management Implement findings of the strategic review undertaken It is proposed that, in 2009, we shift our focus from environmental in 2008 by Arup integrating current environmental work to sustainable management, realigning existing environmental with an overall sustainability strategy.
policies and introducing a comprehensive framework for Set targets to achieve BREEAM Very Good rating managing sustainable issues at each stage of the property for new build projects.
A comprehensive framework for management is to be created dividing environmental management between projects Complete launch of tenant website, monitor and and assets with the aim of implementing the approach in 2010. review feedback.
Achieve a C rated Energy Performance Certificate Environmental Performance 2 on all new build projects above 3,000m.
The group is able to demonstrate a number of environmental improvements in 2008.
Continue to investigate energy observation measures at Olivers Yard, the Johnson Building and the Water usage in managed buildings has fallen and is now below Davidson Building.
With the aim of recycling rain water on E nsure all managed buildings have green travel plans.
all new projects and pursuing the installation of water meters on the remaining small number of managed buildings continued A chieve a 40% recycling rate in the properties for which improvement is expected.
Derwent London has control over waste management.
R egister all applicable projects with the Considerate Contractors Scheme and to achieve a score of 32-40.
Maintain less than 0.55 cubic meters per m water usage per annum for offices.
Continue to achieve target of 100% hardwood timber to be sourced from certified sources and work towards 100% certified sources for softwood timber.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 71 Social policy Customers Following the merger of London Merchant Securities and Good communication with our customers is vital for making sure Derwent Valley Holdings, 2008 was a year of integrating that we respond to their changing needs and circumstances.
the various policies and procedures to ensure that our This year we developed a tenant survey which has been sent customers, our suppliers and the communities that we to all of our managed properties at the beginning of 2009.
This operate within benefit from a consistent approach to the will provide valuable tenant feedback and enable us to make way that we do business.
We have also developed a customer web portal to improve the information that is provided At the same time, as the business has grown we have had to to tenants.
The web portal complete with customised content implement a more robust human resources HR system to for individual buildings will be rolled out from early 2009. ensure that we attract and retain the best talent for our business.
Maintaining safe and healthy working environments is vital Throughout this process our aim has been to retain the flexible, to ensure satisfied tenants and low vacancy rates across dynamic and pragmatic approach which has served us well our portfolio.
This year we undertook health and safety audits in the past.
This report provides an overview of some of the at all our managed properties, highlighting any instances of practical actions we have taken to meet the following objectives non-compliance and providing detailed reports of actions that were set out in last years annual report and accounts.
needed to remedy any issues.
We also carried out follow-up inspections to ensure that all recommended actions had been Customers addressed.
In the future, recording the number of instances of Derwent London will strive towards high quality customer non-compliance will become part of our annual management service through regular contact and by being receptive approach of health and safety and we will report our performance to their needs.
To assist with our performance in this regard, all property managers have been Derwent London will ensure that its customers are safe issued with a health and safety checklist to help them proactively in all managed buildings by maintaining high health and monitor the health and safety of their properties and address safety standards.
issues before they become a hazard.
We are pleased to report zero incidents at our managed properties during 2008 under the Employees Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Derwent London will provide training, support and Regulations RIDDOR.
development opportunities to all staff to help achieve company aspirations.
Our asset management team also undertook security Derwent London will attract and retain high calibre assessments across ten of our properties identified according employees by promoting equal opportunities and ensuring to risk.
Action plans were drawn up specific to each site, and a safe working environment.
tenants consulted to ensure their expectations were met and to explain any service charge impacts.
The majority of improvements, Suppliers ranging from consolidating security arrangements around a Derwent London will treat its suppliers fairly and with respect.
hub of properties to upgrading on site CCTV and entry systems to buildings, have now been implemented.
In future, we will Derwent London will ensure that its own corporate assess security issues through our annual tenant survey.
responsibility standards are also reflected in its supply chain by encouraging responsible procurement.
Governance The overall accountability for the delivery of these objectives rests with Mr Williams, who chairs the committee with responsibility for strategic direction.
Last year the committee set a number of internal targets.
Responsibility for ensuring that these targets were implemented was devolved to four working groups with relevant individuals from across the different operations of the business.
Our work has been supported by our strategic corporate responsibility advisors, Upstream Sustainability Services part of Jones Lang LaSalle who have attended all meetings to provide oversight, monitor progress and convey industry best practice.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 72 Employees Communities Our employees are our most important resource and we need Strong community links help us to address community concerns to ensure that they are fully supported and rewarded for their before they become a risk to our business.
Therefore, over the past year, we have moved been developing a more formal and consistent approach to towards a more formal performance management framework community consultation to incorporate communities views into that allows us to measure an individuals performance more our plans and decisions.
No communities are the same, so this consistently and objectively.
This approach saw a revised strategy will be used flexibly when it is approved in early 2009. and re-launched performance appraisal process, which was completed by 100% of employees.
All employees attended Our commitment to improving our links to communities is a training session ahead of their performance appraisal to also measured by an increase in donations to local London ensure they understood the process.
In 2008, Derwent London donated 8,125 will be developed further this year, with a mid-year review directly to charity, mainly to organisations concerned with being introduced in May 2009 to support staff in meeting childrens health and the arts, including Great Ormond Street their annual performance targets, and the introduction of Hospital and Sadlers Wells.
This compares with 3,000 360 degree feedback for senior managers.
As well as direct cash contributions, several Derwent London employees also donate their time and As part of the appraisal process all employee training needs expertise to a range of causes, for example, through our were identified.
Our centralised HR team will ensure that all ongoing links with the Teenage Cancer Trust.
The total cash these training needs are addressed during the year.
In line with value of time spent by our employees is 3,250, making a this, we also introduced a policy for study leave and external total of 11,375 donated to charitable causes.
training to ensure that all staff have the same opportunity to develop their skills.
We have also investigated a more formal approach to employee volunteering.
This not only provides benefits for the receiving The new HR team have also introduced some low cost additions organisations but also provides opportunities for our staff to to employees overall benefits package.
First, a sustainable develop new skills and see challenges from a new perspective.
travel policy was developed to encourage staff make the right choices for how they get into work.
This included initiatives This year we have decided to make our social targets public such as interest-free season ticket loans and a bike-to-work in line with industry best practice.
These can be viewed on the scheme.
A Give as You Earn GAYE scheme was also launched groups website, www.
Furthermore, we so that employees can maximise contributions to their preferred will be moving our approach to corporate responsibility forward charities.
At present, participation in some of these schemes by bringing our environmental and social agendas together is not as high as we had hoped and in the year ahead we will under the banner of sustainability.
be looking to encourage higher uptake of these benefits.
Disclosure of information to auditors Suppliers The directors who held office at the date of approval of this This year has been difficult for many of our suppliers given the directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, current economic situation.
Many of them are small businesses there is no relevant audit information of which the companys and, therefore, maintaining reliable cash flow is vital.
Our policy auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps in this regard is to pay our suppliers in accordance with agreed that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves terms of business and this year suppliers invoices were paid aware of any relevant audit information.
This is an improvement on last years average payment time of 24 days.
Auditors BDO Stoy Hayward LLP have expressed the willingness We are also committed to encouraging sustainable standards to continue in office and accordingly, a resolution to in our supply chain, and this year a question to gauge social re-appoint them and to authorise the directors to determine commitment was included as part of the supplier selection their remuneration will be proposed at the annual general process.
This will help us to understand more about how our meeting.
These are resolutions 9 and 10 in the notice suppliers address their own social impacts and how we can of meeting.
For instance, this year, we will be supporting our contractors to recruit locally for the projects they are working on.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report 73 Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph B Annual general meeting of resolution 12 would be limited to allotments by way of a The notice of meeting contained in the circular to shareholders rights issue only subject to the right of the board to impose that accompanies the report and accounts includes six necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, resolutions to be considered as special business.
fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
Resolution 11 will increase the companys authorised share The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual capital to 8,401,000 through the creation of 47,283,000 general meeting after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, new ordinary shares of 5p each.
This will enable the company the close of business on 27th August 2010. to take full advantage of the ability to allot ordinary shares under the authorities proposed in resolution 12.
Resolution 14 is proposed to renew the authority enabling the company to purchase its own shares.
This authority enables Resolution 12 will renew the authority of the directors the directors to act quickly, if, having taken account of all major under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot shares.
factors such as the effect on earnings and net asset value per Paragraph A of the resolution gives the directors authority to share, gearing levels and alternative investment opportunities, allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of such purchases are considered to be in the companys and 1,680,119 which represents about one third of the issued shareholders best interest while maintaining an efficient capital ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the structure.
The special resolution gives the directors authority company as at the latest practicable date prior to the to purchase up to 10% of the companys ordinary shares and publication of this document.
specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
In line with recent guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph B of the resolution gives the The Companies Act 1985 now permits the company directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection to hold any such repurchased shares in treasury, with with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,360,238, as to immediately cancelling them as had previously been reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued required under the relevant legislation.
Accordingly, if the under paragraph A of the resolution.
This amount before company purchases any of its shares pursuant to resolution any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of the 14, the company may cancel those shares or hold them issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares in treasury.
Such a decision will be made by the directors of the company as at the latest practicable date prior to at the time of purchase on the basis of the companys and the publication of this document.
As at the date of the notice of meeting, the company held no shares in treasury.
The directors have no present intention of issuing shares, except on the exercise of options under the companys The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary share option scheme or on the vesting of shares under the shares outstanding at 17th March 2009 was 1,208,556, companys performance share plan.
The authority will expire which represented 1.20% of the issued share capital at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting after the excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the company passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close of business were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares on 27th August 2010. permitted by this resolution, the options outstanding at 17th March 2009 would represent 1.48% of the issued share Resolution 13 is a special resolution, proposed annually, capital excluding treasury shares.
and will renew the directors authority under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
The resolution empowers the directors Resolution 15 will increase the total amount that may be paid in to allot or, now that the company may hold shares as treasury respect of directors fees to 500,000.
This was last increased shares as further described below, sell shares for cash in at the time of the acquisition of London Merchant Securities plc.
connection with pre-emptive offers with modifications to the requirements set out in section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
Resolution 16 is required to reflect the proposed The resolution further empowers the directors to allot or, in the implementation in August 2009 of the Shareholder Rights case of treasury shares, sell shares for cash, otherwise than Directive, which will increase the notice period for general on a pre-emptive basis, up to an aggregate nominal value meetings of the company to 21 days.
The company is of 252,018 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the currently able to call general meetings other than an annual issued share capital as at the latest practicable date prior general meeting on 14 clear days notice and would like to to the publication of this document.
The approval will be effective until the companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the directors that a similar resolution will be proposed.
confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
T. J. Kite ACA Secretary 17th March 2009 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2008
