40 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Directors Richard Peskin MA, LLM Toby Courtauld MA, MRICS Chairman, Non-Executive Chief Executive Joined the Company in 1967, appointed to the Board in 1968 and With MEPC from 1991 to 2002, joined the Group and appointed Chairman since 1986.
ANon-Executive Director of Royal & Sun to the Board in 2002.
A Non-Executive Director of Liv-ex and a Alliance, London Board, and formerly a member of the General member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Council of the British Property Federation and the Estates Forum and the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation.
Timon Drakesmith BSc, FCA Robert Noel BSc, MRICS Finance Director Property Director Formerly Group Director of Financial Operations at Novar plc, A director of Nelson Bakewell from 1992 to 2002, joined the previously with Credit Suisse and Barclays.
Joined the Group and Group and appointed to the Board in 2002.
Vice Chairman appointed to the Board in 2005.
Member of the Finance Committee of the Westminster Property Owners Association and a director of the British Property Federation.
Age 42. of New West End Company.
Neil Thompson BSc Hons, MRICS Development Director With Derwent Valley from 1996 to 2002 and previously with Legal & General.
Joined the Group in 2002 and appointed to the Board in 2006.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 Directors 41 Kathleen ODonovan BSc Econ, FCA Charles Irby FCA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees Chairman of Aberdeen Asset Management and a Non-Executive of Prudential and Trinity Mirror, member of the Audit Committee Director of North Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Trust of Arm Holdings and Chairman of the Invensys Pension Fund and QBE Insurance Group.
Appointed to the Board in 2004.
Previously a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member of the Audit Committee of the Audit Committee of the Court of the Bank of England and EMI Group and a Non-Executive Director of O2.
Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination and Audit Committees and Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Phillip Rose MA, FFin, FSI Jonathan Short BSc, ACIB Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer of Alpha Real Capital and a Non-Executive Founding partner and Chief Investment Officer of Internos Real Director of Hermes Property Unit Trust.
Head of Real Estate for Investors LLP, a pan european real estate investment management ABN Amro from 2002 to 2005 and formerly Chief Operating business.
Non-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group plc and an Officer of TrizecHahn Europe and Managing Director of Lend Lease Urban Land Institute Trustee.
Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Appointed to the Board in 2005.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
