PROPERTY MARKETS AND OUTLOOK INVESTMENT MARKET The problems within the international financial system which began 18 months ago are continuing to have a major impact on real estate markets.
There has been a substantial reduction in capital available for property investment, leading to much reduced transactional activity and falls in property values in the Groups principal markets, particularly following the collapse of Lehman Brothers and further instability in banking markets in the last quarter of 2008.
In the UK, the volume of transactions fell in 2008 by nearly 60%, compared with 2007.
The quarterly IPD all-property equivalent yield moved out 60 basis points over the first half of 2008 and a further 150 basis points in the second half to 8.2%.
Overall, market values both of retail and offices have now fallen by around 35% over the last 18 months.
In France, where the Group has nearly 40% of its portfolio, the volume of office investment transactions fell by around 15%.
There were very few transactions in respect of major retail assets.
Overall, yields for CBD Paris offices increased by around 85 basis points in the first six months of the year and by 90 basis points in the second six months to around 5.75%.
French retail yields increased by around 125 basis points over the year to 5.25%.
Offices in central Paris fell in value during 2008 by around 30%, whilst shopping centre values declined by around 8%.
Looking ahead, it appears likely that a recovery in property values will be dependent on capital being more widely available to investors.
With prime property yields now well in excess of nominal interest rates both in the UK and France, property now looks attractive compared with some other investment classes.
RETAIL OCCUPATIONAL MARKETS In the UK, consumer confidence showed a further fall in the year due to the worsening economic environment, rising unemployment and falling house prices.
This was reflected in lower consumer spending towards the end of the year with the more difficult trading environment putting pressure on retailers margins.
Whilst retail spending over Christmas was better than many had predicted, recent weeks have shown weaker trends and it is anticipated that this will continue in 2009.
In Hammersons own experience, a number of retailers are continuing to open new stores, particularly in large dominant centres where turnover levels remain robust.
Within Hammersons portfolio, rental values in our shopping centres remained stable and, in some cases, increased during 2008.
Incentives on mature centres have increased marginally with rent-free periods at an average of around six to nine months for new leases.
On the schemes completed more recently and developments, rent-free periods have increased to around 24 months.
In France, consumer spending is also falling.
However, with a higher savings ratio than in the UK, French retailers may be better placed than those in the UK.
So far there has been no evidence of the slowdown in consumption resulting in an increase in the number of retailers going into administration.
Reflecting more challenging economic conditions, French retailers have generally cut back on their expansion programmes, concentrating their store openings on prime locations.
Rental values have therefore remained stable or showed modest increases in the strongest shopping centres, including those in Hammersons portfolio.
For existing leases, the former basis of indexation a cost of construction index has been replaced by a new index based on CPI and retail sales.
The new rate of indexation from 1 January 2009 is 3.85%.
OFFICE OCCUPATIONAL MARKETS Reflecting the economic downturn and the problems in the banking and financial services sectors, take 2 up in central London fell by nearly 20% in 2008 to 1.1 million m. This coincided with an increase in supply, principally in the City, with the completion of new developments taking availability to 2 approximately 1.6 million m. The central London vacancy rate increased from 3% at the start of 2008 2 to 5.3% at the year end, with a City vacancy rate of 7.1%.
Rents in the City fell by around 20% to 54 ft in 2008.
Incentives also increased sharply with occupiers now seeking rent-free periods of around 24 months for a ten year lease.
With less exposure to the financial sector, demand for space in central Paris has been less affected than 2 in London.
Prime rents actually increased in the first half of 2008 to around 770 m, but fell in the 2 second half to around 720 m. For existing office leases the applicable rate of indexation from 1 January 2009 is 8.85%.
The relatively short duration of French office leases encourages turnover as occupiers seek to move to better quality or cheaper space and there is evidence now of some occupiers relocating to the suburbs.
Nevertheless, the vacancy rate in the CBD was still low at the end of 2008 at around 4% and little new space is coming onto the market from developments.
