FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY RETURNS RETURNS Our objective is to achieve a return on equity in excess of our cost of equity.
To achieve this return, we set hurdle rates for investment.
The hurdle rates are based on a minimum five-year internal rate of return and are adjusted according to the risk associated with each project and to reflect the cost of borrowing in euros where appropriate.
When appropriate, the returns that would be generated by buying in the Companys own shares are evaluated against the potential returns from property investment and development.
The table below provides information on the financial returns achieved in 2008 and compares them with appropriate benchmark indices.
The returns include those from joint ventures.
There is no benchmark for total portfolio returns which is comparable with Hammersons geographical portfolio allocation.
IPD data relating to the returns of the French property sector in 2008 will be available only after this Annual Report has been published.
Returns data for 2008 RETURN % BENCHMARK % UK portfolio capital return -25.8 UK IPD Universe capital -26.4 UK portfolio income return 4.4 UK IPD Universe income 5.4 UK portfolio total return -22.4 UK IPD Universe total -22.3 Total portfolio capital return -20.9 n a Total portfolio income return 4.1 n a Total portfolio total return -17.6 n a Return on shareholders equity -32.5 Estimated cost of equity See Note 1 Total shareholder return over one year -46.3 FTSE 350 real estate index over one year -43.6 Total shareholder return over three years p. a.
-17.7 FTSE 350 real estate index over three years p. a.
-18.9 Total shareholder return over five years p. a.
-1.6 FTSE 350 real estate index over fives years p. a.
-1.5 Note 1 In the current market conditions, it is not possible to calculate a reliable estimate of the cost of equity.
We estimate that over the longer term, our cost of equity will be around 8.0% More detailed analyses of capital and total returns by business segment are provided on pages 23 and 24 of the Business Review.
Hammersons UK portfolio produced a total return close to that of the IPD Universe in 2008.
The IPD Universe includes retail, office and industrial returns for all grades of property in the UK, although Hammerson does not invest in the industrial sector.
Hammersons capital return, although negative, was slightly better than the IPD Universe mainly because Hammersons London offices showed a smaller valuation decline.
Offsetting this, Hammersons income return was less than the IPD Universe reflecting the low yields of the prime properties in which Hammerson principally invests.
For the year ended 31 December 2008, Hammersons return on shareholders equity was -32.5%.
The income element of the return on shareholders equity will tend to be relatively low given the high quality of the property portfolio, as described above, and the fact that a number of developments had only just been completed.
In 2008 the capital return was negative due to the decline in value of the portfolio, reflecting the severe market conditions.
Total shareholder return for 2008 underperformed the FTSE 350 real estate index by nearly three percentage points.
Over the last five years, Hammersons average annual total shareholder return has been -1.6% compared with -1.5% for the real estate index.
