BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 John Nelson FCA, 5 Peter Cole BSc, 9 Anthony Watson CBE, BSc Chairman MRICS Econ, Barrister at Law, John Nelson, a Chartered Peter Cole, a Chartered ASIP, FSI Hon Accountant, was appointed Surveyor, joined the Tony Watson was appointed a Chairman in 2005 and is a Company in 1989 as a senior Non-Executive Director in member of the Remuneration development surveyor and 2006 and is a member of the Committee and Chairman of was appointed to the Board Remuneration and the Nomination Committee.
of the Company's UK Nomination Committees.
He He is the senior independent business in 1992.
He was is chairman of the Strategic non-executive director of appointed an Executive Investment Board Northern Kingfisher plc, a director of Director of Hammerson in Ireland, a member of the Cazenove Group Limited and 1999 and is Chairman of the Shareholder Executive J P Morgan Cazenove Group's UK business.
He is a Advisory Board, a nonHoldings and senior advisor to general council member and executive director of Witan Charterhouse Capital past president of the City Investment Trust PLC, Partners LLP.
Vodafone Group plc and Asian Infrastructure Fund Limited 2 John Richards BSc, 6 David Edmonds CBE, BA, and chairman of Marks & FRICS, Chief Executive D. Litt Spencer Pension Trust John Richards, a Chartered David Edmonds was Limited.
Surveyor, joined the appointed a Non-Executive Company in 1981 as a Director of Hammerson in 10 Simon Melliss BA, FCA development surveyor and 2003 and is a member of the Simon Melliss, a Chartered was appointed a Director of Audit Committee.
He acts as Accountant, joined the the Company in 1990.
He Chairman to the Hammerson Company in 1991 as group was responsible for the Pension Scheme Trustees.
financial controller, having Company's UK operations He is chairman of Wincanton worked in various financial from 1993 to 1998 and was plc, the Legal Services Board positions for other appointed Chief Executive of and NHS Shared Business companies, and was Hammerson in 1999.
He is a Services Limited and a nonappointed Group Finance director and junior vice executive director of William Director in 1995.
He is a president of the British Hill plc and Keele University member of the Committee of Property Federation.
Science and Business Park Management of Hermes Limited and a trustee of the Property Unit Trust and a 3 David Atkins BSc, MRICS Social Market Foundation.
non-executive director of David Atkins, a Chartered Whitbread PLC.
Surveyor, joined the 7 John Hirst BA, FCA, ACT, CCMI Company in 1998 and was appointed to the Board of the John Hirst, a Chartered Company's UK business in Accountant, joined the Board 2003.
He was appointed an as a Non-Executive Director Executive Director of in 2004 and is Chairman of Hammerson in 2007 and is the Audit Committee.
He is Managing Director of the chief executive of the Met Group's UK business.
In Office and chairman of addition, he is responsible for ASBISc Enterprises plc and a insurance and health and trustee of Epilepsy Research safety throughout the Group.
4 John Clare CBE, BSc 8 Jacques Espinasse BBA, John Clare was appointed a MBA Non-Executive Director of Jacques Espinasse was Hammerson in 1999.
He is appointed a Non-Executive the Senior Independent Director and member of the Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2007.
He Remuneration Committee is a non-executive director of and is a member of the Audit AXA Belgium, Maroc and Nomination Committees.
He is a non-executive director of Dyson James Limited and non-executive chairman of Cheapflights Limited and Dreams plc.
