BUSINESS FRAMEWORK LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK Hammersons operations are focused in the UK and France where planning regimes impose restrictions on new developments.
These restrictions are particularly onerous in the case of retail schemes, and limit the supply of new accommodation thereby benefiting owners of existing retail properties.
By contrast, permission to create new office buildings is generally easier to obtain, leading on occasion to more marked imbalances between supply and demand and resulting in greater fluctuations in rents and values.
From a developers perspective, the planning process can sometimes be uncertain and protracted.
In the UK, contracts for the lease of property are governed principally by the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954.
A typical lease is for a duration of 10-15 years, with rent payable quarterly in advance and with rent reviews at the end of each five year period.
Rent reviews are generally upward only whereby the rent will be increased to the market rent, unless the market rent is lower than the passing rent, in which case it will not change.
Tenants bear the responsibility for repairing and insuring the property.
The trend in the UK is for a more flexible approach by property owners, which may include shorter leases, rent which is related to a tenants turnover and monthly rents.
The Code du Commerce governs leases in France, where a typical lease is shorter than in the UK at around ten years and with the tenant often having the right to break the lease every three years.
Rent for the majority of leases is revised annually according to one of three official indices which are related to retail prices, retail sales, construction costs or composites of the three.
Rents may go up or down depending on the index.
Tenants have the right to renew their leases for a further term at the end of the lease.
Hammerson is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the UK and France.
In particular, our office and retail portfolio investment activities are subject to: Energy efficiency objectives Carbon emission reduction commitments Landfill regulations STRATEGY AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups strategy is established by the Board and set out in the Groups annual business plan which covers the following three years.
The strategy and associated action plans take into account the current and anticipated conditions in property markets.
A review of the property markets in 2008 and the future outlook is set out on page 13.
The Groups real estate strategy is supported by operational and financial strategies implemented within a risk management framework designed to identify and manage risk.
More details of these strategies are provided in the Business and Financial Reviews on pages 22 and 31 respectively.
A summary of the principal risks faced by Hammerson and how these are managed is set out on pages 14 and 15.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our management reporting systems provide financial and operational performance measures.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs which we believe are most important to the Groups performance are shown on page 16 and details of our financial and property returns are on page 18.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The impact of our business on the environment and our stakeholders, including employees and the communities in which we operate, is discussed on pages 19 to 21.
CONTRACTUAL RELATIONSHIPS Our principal contractual relationships are with occupiers, joint venture partners, managing agents and building contractors.
However, due to the number and diversity of the businesses with whom we deal, there are no individual contractual arrangements which are essential to the Groups business.
As part of our discussion of the security of Hammersons income stream, details of our largest occupiers by rental income are provided in the Business Review on page 27.
Allen & Overy, the law firm, is our largest occupier by rental income, and accounted for 9.4% of passing rent at 31 December 2008.
The income from this lease is included within net rental income for the UK City office segment in note 3A to the accounts.
