SENIOR MANAGEMENT FRANCE Christophe Clamageran Managing Director, France Christophe joined Hammerson France in March 2008 and assumed the role of Managing Director, France in October 2008.
He previously held senior property roles at BNP Paribas Real Estate, running office and residential development, and was head of the asset management division.
Jean-Philippe Mouton Director of Operations, France Jean-Philippe joined Hammerson in 2003 as Managing Director of Marketing & Valorisation.
In February 2006 he was appointed Director of Operations with responsibility for the management of the French portfolio.
Christophe Delaporte Director, Finance Christophe joined the Group in 2006 and was appointed as Director, Finance of the French office.
He previously worked in several US companies in the communications industry.
Marie-Franoise Cholin Director, Retail Leasing Marie-Franoise joined Hammerson in 1998 as Retail Leasing Manager.
She was appointed Director, Retail Leasing in 2004.
Prior to joining Hammerson, she worked at LSGI SCC, where she worked on letting new shopping centres.
Jean-Louis Coquand Director, Shopping Centres Jean-Louis joined Hammerson in 2004 as Development Director.
In June 2008, he was appointed Director, Shopping Centres and is responsible for shopping centre development and leasing.
Prior to joining Hammerson, he was Deputy Director at Sgc Klpierre and project manager at Meunier BNP Paribas.
Grald Ferezou Director, Acquisitions Grald joined Hammerson in 2006 and was appointed Director, Acquisitions in April 2008.
Previously he held roles with Arthur Anderson Corporate Finance and Nexity.
Michael Krief Director, IT Michael joined Hammerson in 2002 as MIS manager and was appointed Director of IT for France in 2004.
He is responsible for the maintenance and development of IT in the Paris office.
Valrie Petitbon Director, Marketing & Communication Valrie joined Hammerson in 2007 as Marketing & Communication Director, responsible for the marketing of shopping centres and projects, communications and non-rental income business development.
Previously, she spent several years at Concorde Hotel Group and Grand Optical.
Christophe Rigo Director, Human Resources Christophe joined Hammerson as Director, Human Resources in 2007.
Prior to this, he spent four years as Director of Human Resources at the real estate group Altarea-Cogedim.
