SENIOR MANAGEMENT UK James Aitchison Director of Taxation James has been Hammersons Director of Taxation for 11 years, having previously worked for another property company.
He is Chairman of the British Property Federation Tax Committee and played a leading role in the introduction of UK REITs.
Warren Austin Group Financial Controller A Chartered Accountant, Warren spent five years with Coopers & Lybrand in London before joining Hammerson in 1995.
At Hammerson he is responsible for financial reporting and internal control.
Warren is a member of the EPRA reporting and accounting committee.
Duncan Beardsley Group Treasurer Duncan joined Hammerson in 1996 as Group Treasurer and is responsible for raising finance and treasury risk management.
He also oversees the Groups investments in Value Retail.
Andrew Berger-North Director, Retail Parks Andrew joined Hammerson in 2003 and was appointed Director, Retail Parks in 2005.
A Chartered Surveyor, Andrew is responsible for all aspects of the retail parks portfolio, including acquisitions, disposals, development and asset management.
He was appointed to the UK Management Board in 2008.
Stephen Court UK Head of Retail Marketing & Commercialisation Stephen joined Hammerson in 2006.
He is responsible for increasing the scale and profitability of commercial revenues derived from consumer brands and for improving commercial effectiveness of business and consumer marketing across Hammerson's UK portfolio.
Robin Dobson Director, Retail Development Robin, a Chartered Surveyor, joined Hammerson in 1997 and has been involved in the project management and development of several of the Group's developments, including: Cabot Circus, Bristol: The Oracle, Reading: and Bullring, Birmingham.
He is also Chair of the CR Development Group.
Paul Edwards Head of Sustainability Paul joined Hammerson in 2007 and is responsible for Hammersons sustainability strategy and activities throughout the Group.
Paul previously worked overseas implementing sustainability programmes for Lend Lease and Arup.
He sits on the boards of the Better Building Partnership, National Skills Academies and London Sustainability Exchange.
Nick Hardie UK Finance Director Nick is a Chartered Accountant and joined Hammerson in 1995 and is on the UK Management Board.
He previously spent eight years at Marks & Spencer in a number of roles, including Treasury and Financial Planning.
Stuart Haydon Company Secretary Stuart joined Hammerson in 1992 and was appointed Company Secretary in 1996.
He is responsible for the Groups statutory obligations and corporate governance.
Prior to joining Hammerson he held company secretarial positions at companies in the financial sector.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 9 Lawrence Hutchings Director, Shopping Centre Investment Management Lawrence joined Hammerson in 2008 to manage the Groups UK shopping centre investments.
He has over 20 years of real estate experience having previously worked for Henderson Global Investors in Europe and for Westfield, AMP Shopping Centres, Schroders and Merlin in Australia.
He is a member of the UK Management Board.
Bruce Isles Director, Retail Development Bruce joined Hammerson in 2001 having previously been a partner of Donaldsons, Chartered Surveyors.
He is responsible for the UK city centre retail development pipeline.
Martin Jepson Managing Director, London Group Martin joined Hammerson in 2008.
A Chartered Surveyor, he is a member of the UK Management Board, responsible for the overall performance of the development and investment portfolio in London.
Previously he held positions with Howard Holdings, Taylor Woodrow Property Company and Delancey.
Sheila King Group Retail Leasing Director A Chartered Surveyor, Sheila joined Hammerson in 1994 from Capital Shopping Centres.
She is responsible for leasing across the UK portfolio.
She is also responsible for co-ordinating retail leasing and liaising with international retailers across the Group.
Sally Learoyd Group Human Resources Director Sally joined Hammerson in 2008 with over ten years experience as a HR director.
Sally's career spans the fields of travel, marketing services and pharmaceuticals.
She worked in client account management and a marketing services agency before turning to the field of Human Resources.
John Mulqueen Director, Investment Management, London Group A Chartered Surveyor, John joined Hammerson in 2003 from Liverpool Victoria Asset Management.
He was appointed Director of Investment Management within the London Group in February 2007.
Ryan Perryman Director, Information Systems Ryan joined Hammerson in 2007 as Business Systems Manager and was promoted to Director, Information Systems in October 2008.
Ryan is responsible for the day-to-day management of the UK IT Team and for the development and use of IT in the Group's business.
Vinod Thakrar Director, Project Management Vinod joined Hammerson in 1994 as Senior Project Manager on the refurbishment and extension of Brent Cross Shopping Centre.
More recently, Vinod has been responsible for delivering major retail and office developments including: Highcross, Leicester: Cabot Circus, Bristol: 125 Old Broad Street and 60 Threadneedle Street in London.
Andrew Thomson Director, UK Operations Andrew joined Hammerson in 1994 and was appointed to the UK Management Board in June 2006.
He assumed his current role in September 2007 and is responsible for the operations of the UK retail business.
