Corporate governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 30 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
M H Ronald CBE, BA, Independent Non-executive Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-executive Director BScEE, MScEE Chairman Appointed to the Board in 2003, Appointed to the Board as a Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as Warren Tucker, age 46, joined the Non-executive Director in 2002, Appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Deputy Chairman in Group as Chief Financial Officer and Peter Hooley, age 62, is a chartered Non-executive Director in 2007, Mark December 2007 and Chairman on is a chartered accountant.
Prior to accountant, and was Group Finance Ronald, age 67, was, until his retirement 7 May 2008, David Turner, age 64, joining, he worked at Arthur Andersen, Director of Smith & Nephew plc until at the end of 2006, Chief Operating is a chartered accountant and a Lazard, held senior finance positions mid-2006.
In July 2006, he was Officer of BAE Systems plc and Chief Non-executive Director of the at British Airways plc and was Deputy appointed Non-executive Chairman Executive Officer of BAE Systems Inc, Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
Group Financial Director of Cable and of BSN Medical Luxembourg Holdings its wholly-owned US subsidiary.
He was previously Chief Executive at Wireless plc.
Sarl, a group engaged in medical textile Previously he was Vice-President, Brambles Industries Limited between products.
Previously he was a program management with Litton 2003 and 2007 and Finance Director at 4.
A J Stevens BSc, CEng, Non-executive Director of Powell Industries and Chief Operating Officer the same company between 2001 and FIET, FRAeS Duffryn plc from 1997 to 2000.
Prior to that he was Group Finance Chief Operating Officer Chairman of the audit committee and Non-executive Director of ATK Inc and Director at GKN plc from 1994.
He was Appointed to the Board in 2003, Andy also a member of the nomination and DynCorp International Inc.
He ceased a Non-executive Director of Whitbread Stevens, age 52, joined the Group as remuneration committees.
to be Non-executive Chairman of BAE plc until 2006.
He is a member of the Managing Director of the Aerospace Systems Inc in January 2008.
He is a remuneration committee and is a Systems Group.
J S Patterson CBE, MBChB, senior adviser of Veritas Capital LLC member and Chairman of the qualified as a chartered engineer at FRCP, Fmed Sci and a management consultant.
Dowty Group and subsequently Independent Non-executive Director is a member of the nomination and became Chief Operating Officer of Appointed to the Board as a remuneration committees.
A E Cook CBE, BSc, Messier Dowty International before Non-executive Director in 2005, CEng, FRAeS joining Rolls-Royce as Managing John Patterson, age 61, qualified in 9.
M W Hagee Chief Executive Director, defence aerospace.
He was medicine in 1971 and obtained a Independent Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2001, Allan appointed Chief Operating Officer Membership now Fellowship of the Appointed to the Board as a Cook, age 59, joined the Group from of the Technology Divisions in Royal College of Physicians in 1974.
Non-executive Director in December BAE Systems where he was Group September 2005 and in March 2007 He joined ICI now AstraZeneca in 2008, Mike Hagee, age 64, was, until his Managing Director of programmes assumed responsibility for operational 1975 and in December 2004 was retirement in January 2007, a member and Managing Director of Eurofighter.
management, performance and profit appointed to the main Board as of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as the 33rd He was formerly Group Managing and loss accountability for the Group.
Executive Director responsible for Commandant of the United States Director of GEC-Marconi Avionics and development.
He retired as an Marine Corps.
Prior to that, he was the Chief Executive of Hughes Aircraft 5.
M Beresford CBE, executive of AstraZeneca in January Commanding General of the 1st Europe.
He is also President of MAMechSc, FIEE 2009 and will retire as a director of Marine Expeditionary Force.
In total, he AeroSpace & Defence Industries of Independent Non-executive Director that firm in March 2009.
He is a served in the U. S. military for more than Europe, Chair of the National Skills Appointed to the Board as a Director of the British Pharma Group 43 years and holds numerous military, Academy for Manufacturing, board Non-executive Director in 2004, and is a former President of the civilian, and foreign decorations, member of the Industrial Forum and Marcus Beresford, age 66, is Chairman Association of the British including the Bronze Star with Valor, board member of the UK Ministerial of Ricardo plc and was a NonPharmaceutical Industry, a former National Intelligence Distinguished Advisory Group for Manufacturing.
executive Director of Spirent PLC Non-executive Director of Amersham Service Medal, and Defense He is the immediate past president until late 2006.
He was an Executive PLC and a former member of the Distinguished Service Medal.
He is of the Society of British Aerospace Director of GKN plc from 1992-2002 supervisory board of the UK currently a Non-executive Director Companies Ltd.
He is a member of and Chief Executive from 2001-2002.
He is of Rackable Systems, IAP Worldwide the nomination committee.
He is the Senior Independent Director Chairman of the remuneration Services Inc, and Freedom Group, Inc. and is a member of the nomination, committee and a member of the He is a member of the nomination and audit and remuneration committees.
Cobham plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
