Corporate governance Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group and parent The Articles require Directors who have been appointed by the Board company financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended since the previous Annual General Meeting AGM or who have held 31 December 2008. office for three years or more since their previous appointment by shareholders or who, being non-executive, have held office for nine Business review years or more since their first appointment by shareholders, to retire The Chairmans statement on page 4 of the Annual Report together from office.
Accordingly, Peter Hooley and John Patterson will retire with the Chief Executives review on pages 5 to 6, the Business review from office at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will, together on pages 7 to 19, the Financial review on pages 20 to 25, the Principal with Mike Hagee, offer themselves for election.
None of these risks section on page 26 and the Corporate Responsibility section on Directors has a service contract with the Company.
pages 27 to 29 contain information that fulfils the requirements of the statutory business review and are incorporated in this Directors Subject to the Companys memorandum of association, Articles, UK report by reference.
The statutory business review is addressed only legislation and any directions given by resolutions of the Company, to shareholders and its purpose is to provide a review of the business the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The Directors and to explain the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary Shares and to make market purchases of Ordinary Shares.
These powers are exercised under Principal activities authority of resolutions passed at the Companys AGM.
Providing a suite of end-to-end avionics products, law enforcement and national security solutions, and satellite communication Directors indemnity arrangements equipment for land, sea and air applications: The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity Critical technology for network centric operations, moving information arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope around the digital battlefield, with customised and off-the-shelf which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. solutions for people and systems to communicate on land, sea and air: Providing safety and survival systems for extreme environments, Directors interests nose-to-tail refuelling systems and wing-tip to wing-tip mission None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any significant systems for fast jets, transport aircraft and rotor craft: contract during or at the end of the financial year particulars of which Delivering outsourced aviation services for military and civil customers are required to be disclosed by the Financial Services Authoritys worldwide through military training, special mission flight operations, Listing Rules.
outsourced commercial aviation and aircraft engineering.
Details of Directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe Dividends for shares are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages An interim dividend of 1.345p per Ordinary Share 2007: 1.22p was paid 40 to 46. in December 2008.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 3.61p per Ordinary Share 2007: 3.28p payable on 1 July 2009 to ordinary Corporate governance shareholders on the register as at 29 May 2009, making a total ordinary The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on dividend for the year of 4.955p 2007: 4.50p.
Board of Directors Share capital The current Directors are listed, together with short biographical Details of movements in the share capital of the Company during the notes, on page 31.
They held office throughout the year with the year are given in note 29 to the Group financial statements and note exception of Mike Hagee, who was appointed on 3 December 2008.
12 to the parent company financial statements respectively.
Gordon Page retired as Chairman on 7 May 2008 and as a Director on 17 November 2008.
At the AGM held on 7 May 2008 the Company was authorised to purchase up to 113,738,042 Ordinary Shares.
This authority will expire The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM.
Although no Ordinary Shares have in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles copies of which been purchased by the Company during the period from 7 May 2008 to can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by contacting the date of this report, a special resolution will be put to shareholders the Company Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved at the AGM to renew the authority to make market purchases of the by shareholders passing a special resolution.
The Directors and the Companys shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of Company in the latter case by ordinary resolution may appoint a the Company.
person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
32 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Corporate governance The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary Shares at 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus, save in certain cases, and Preference Shares are set out in the Articles.
a modified make-whole amount with respect to such principal amount together with accrued interest: Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the Under the US$700m short term acquisition facility agreement entered holders of any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights and into in January 2008, the Company must, in the event of a change of restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or control, repay within 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and if there is no such resolution or so far as the resolution does not make other sums owing: specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of Ordinary Shares Under the 50m facility entered into with Abbey in November 2008, are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, the Company must, in the event of a change of control, repay within to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and other sums owing: representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary Shares Under the US$75m facility entered into with RBS in December 2008, may receive a dividend and, on a liquidation, may share in the assets the Company must, in the event of a change of control, repay within of the Company.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and other sums owing.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary Shares may requisition a general meeting of the Post-balance sheet events include a US$75m facility, with BNP Paribas, a Company or the proposal of a resolution at an AGM.
US$75m facility, with Bank of America, and a US$50m facility, with UBS, all entered into in January 2009.
In February 2009, a further US$50m facility Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares was entered into with Barclays.
All these new facilities have change of On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder control repayment clauses.
of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled Under the FB Heliservices FBH shareholders agreement entered into in to vote has one vote for every 1 in nominal value of the shares of which November 2004, change of control of either the Company or its subsidiary he is the holder.
None of the Ordinary Shares carry any special rights holding shares in FBH, without the prior written consent of that other with regard to control of the Company.
FBH shareholder entitles the other FBH shareholder to purchase all of the Cobham Groups shareholding in FBH.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the Company Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws must seek approval for any material change in the shareholding of the or regulations: Company.
There is an ancillary Lease Agreement under which a change Pursuant to the Companys code for securities transactions including of control may result in the termination of the lease if such event is likely the requirement on the Directors and designated employees to obtain to have a material adverse effect on the Companys ability to perform its approval to deal in the Companys shares: obligations under the lease.
Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company Under the FSTA shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, a with information concerning interests in those shares.
change of control of the Company may result in a required sale of the Companys shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or Further information relating to change of control appears in the Directors voting rights.
remuneration report on pages 41 and 42 under the headings Bonus Co-investment Plan, Performance Share Plan and Executive Share Significant arrangements change of control Option Scheme.
The Company is party to the following significant agreements which contain provisions which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Employee share schemes rights of control of control of the Company: If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Share Incentive Plan the Plan will, on receipt of notice from the Company of Under the 300m seven year multi-currency credit agreement entered any offer, compromise, arrangement or scheme which affects shares into in July 2005, the Company must, in the event of a change of held in the Plan, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise control, repay within 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and of any voting rights attaching to the shares held by the trustee on their other sums owing.
Information relating to drawings at the year end is behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those shares.
contained on page 24 of the Financial Review: The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the Plan in Under the private placement of guaranteed senior notes of 2002 respect of which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote whereby US$225m was raised, the Company must, in the event of a in respect of any shares which are unallocated under the Plan.
change of control, offer to repay the notes.
Any prepayment shall be Cobham plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Corporate governance Directors report continued The trustee of the Cobham Employee Share Trust the Trust, which is Cobham is committed to equal opportunities for all of its employees.
used in connection with the Cobham Long-Term Incentive Plan, has the The Group aims to ensure that the workplace is free from discrimination: power to vote or not vote at its discretion in respect of any shares in the recruitment, selection and career development are based on Company held in the Trust.
competence and job requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion, or disability.
Cobham continues to monitor and Research and development improve its policies and practices to reflect the requirements of age The Group continues to invest in the important area of Research discrimination legislation.
With regard to employees who become and Development.
During the year the Group expended 70.5m disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, 2007: 55.0m on non-customer funded Research and Development.
to ensure that they can remain in employment wherever practicable.
The management of each Group business is responsible for identifying and carrying out suitable research and development programmes having The importance of employee development and training is recognised regard to particular market and product needs.
and Group businesses are required to encourage employees to take advantage of available and relevant training programmes and Further information on research and development appears on opportunities for advancement.
The Group encourages employee participation and consultation at Major interests in shares all levels and also the sharing of relevant business information.
Such As at 3 March 2009, being a date not more than a month prior to the an approach facilitates the development of new ideas and practices date of the AGM notice, the Company had been notified of the following that add value to the business, promotes team member commitment interests of 3% or more in the Companys Ordinary Shares: and helps to focus Company and employee expectations.
In-house newsletters, intranet, extranet and internet communications, Company Number Percentage at announcements, team meetings and suggestion schemes all play a part of shares date of notification in this process.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become Legal & General Group plc 80,416,727 7.05 shareholders in the Company through the Cobham Savings Related Newton Investment Management Limited 69,095,823 6.06 Share Option Scheme and the Cobham Share Incentive Plan.
Under the former, employees can acquire shares through the exercise of options Financial instruments granted at a 20% discount to market value with savings made over three, Note 26, 27 and 28 to the Group financial statements and note 11 to the five or seven years.
Under the latter, shares may be purchased out of parent company financial statements contain disclosures relating to the pre-tax income.
Corporate Responsibility People Information in relation to the Groups commitment to Corporate At the end of 2008, Cobham employed 13,036 people on five Responsibility including additional information in relation to continents with major population centres in the UK, France, North employment matters is set out on pages 27 to 29.
Creditors payment policy Across Cobham, implementation of organisational structures designed Payment is generally made by Group companies to their creditors in to support the Groups declared strategy of building its capabilities accordance with agreed terms of business provided that those terms across all functions continued with an emphasis on collaboration to have been met.
It is the policy of the Company that all invoices are paid better utilise resources and increase opportunities for personal and within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are professional development.
In support of this, succession planning was approved.
The total amount of the Companys trade creditors falling due carried out on a group wide basis for the first time in 2008, and over 60 within one year at 31 December 2008 represents 46 days 2007: 49 days high potential candidates have been enrolled in the Companys senior worth as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during development programme.
Specific development activities were also the year ended on that date.
undertaken by the Executive management group.
Strategic staffing initiatives across the Group were also supported and the graduate Post-balance sheet events resourcing programme introduced across Cobham in the UK was Note 38 to the Group financial statements contains information in extended to the USA.
respect of post-balance sheet events.
34 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Corporate governance Political and charitable gifts No contributions were made to political organisations.
The amount donated during the year for charitable purposes was 84,594 2007: 67,744.
Of this sum, donations in excess of 200 to UK charities were made to the value of 3,919 to armed services charities, 2,420 to health charities, 265 to rescue service charities, 2,500 to business enterprise charities and 3,683 to local interest charities.
Land and buildings Details of the carrying amount and market values of the Groups investment properties are as disclosed in note 16 to the Group financial statements.
Auditors and disclosure of information Each Director states that: So far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information: and The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday, 6 May 2009 at the offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
The Company arranges for the notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
By order of the Board Eleanor Evans Chief Legal Officer & Company Secretary 4 March 2009 Cobham plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
