Report of the Directors Board of Directors continued 53 Mike Hussey 42 Richard Akers 46 Executive Director Executive Director Appointed to the Board in Joined the Board in May 2005, September 2004 after joining the following his appointment as Group as Development Director in Managing Director, Retail 2002.
Previously Head of Leasing Portfolio in July 2004.
Joined and Marketing at Canary Wharf the Group in 1995 and previously Group.
Appointed Managing held the position of Head of Director, London Portfolio in Retail Portfolio Management.
A Director of New West End Company.
Sir Stuart Rose 59 Rick Haythornthwaite 51 Bo Lerenius 61 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Joined the Board as a Non-executive Appointed to the Board as a NonAppointed to the Board as a NonDirector in May 2003.
Chief executive Director in April 2008. executive Director in June 2004.
Executive of Marks & Spencer Chairman of Mastercard Inc. and Previously Group Chief Executive Group plc.
Previously Chief the Risk and Regulation Advisory of Associated British Ports Holdings Executive of Arcadia Group until Council and a partner at Star PLC and Chief Executive Of cer December 2002.
Chief Executive of Capital Partners Ltd.
Previously and Vice Chairman of Stena Line Booker PLC from 1998 until 2000.
Chief Executive of Blue Circle AB.
A Non-executive Director of Industries PLC and Invensys plc and G4S plc, Thomas Cook Group PLC a Non-executive Director of ICI plc.
Since Chairman of the Southbank Centre.
2007, Chairman of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce for the UK.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 54 Corporate responsibility July 2007 we were the only UK Our business activities have an company named as one of the worlds enormous in uence on the day-to-day 20 Most Sustainable Stocks by sustainablebusiness.
com lives of thousands of people across Online environmental E-Training the UK.
Our approach to corporate introduced for all staff Gunwharf Quays sends just 0.5% responsibility focuses on seven key waste to land ll areas where what we do and how On target to reduce CO emissions in 2 existing buildings by 10% before 2011 we do it has a particularly signi cant effect on the world around us.
We believe our customer service differentiates us from our peers.
Our aim We build relationships is to provide best in class levels of service with local government, so that occupiers and clients choose us as education partners, their business partner.
Our activities help to transform towns and cities throughout the UK.
We employ 1,700 people across the Group and aspire to be the property We are committed to taking every sectors employer of choice.
The reasonable step to ensure the health and wellbeing and professional development safety of our employees and anyone else of employees is central to our growth affected by our business activities.
How we build and run our buildings has a signi cant effect We work with suppliers whose values on the human and natural and approach mirror our own, helping We encourage a two-way dialogue with environment.
Innovation and us to ensure high standards are existing and potential investors and best practice procedures help us maintained and risks minimised.
We believe this to develop and manage creates a better understanding of our buildings to good environmental business and better business relationships.
