Report of the Directors Business review continued 45 Land Securities Trillium Successful launch and close of the 1.136bn Trillium Investment Partners fund Strong financial performance on existing contracts New business success in key strategic areas, including education and waste Acquisition and integration of AMEC Project Ian Ellis, Chief Executive Land Securities Trillium Investments PFI business We are the clear market leader in W e met important deadlines early, we won a number of property partnerships and Public Private substantial contracts and Partnerships PPP.
We help transform we closed the Trillium Investment Partners fund the performance of businesses and successfully.
We are now public services through long-term the market leader in property partnerships and PPP, partnerships that invest in, manage and we see good prospects and service property and community for further growth in both areas.
Our work enables organisations to transform workspace, enhance employees performance and create value for stakeholders.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 46 Business review continued Land Securities Trillium Our market Despite uncertainty in the economy, our markets are in good shape.
As UK market leader in property Chart 38 2 partnerships we are in a very strong position to compete for major opportunities as they arise.
Central and Existing portfolio by use million m local government are committed to achieving more ef cient use of assets and we believe this is likely to Health 0.6 create further market opportunities for us.
The PPP market is also strong.
Our focus here is on education, waste and local authority infrastructure, Other 0.4 all of which offer a pipeline of major opportunities.
Building Schools for the Future BSF is a 15-year government programme with 45bn committed for the upgrading of every secondary school in the country.
In waste, the government must address the UKs reliance on land ll by 2010 or face heavy penalties from the EU 10bn is one estimate of the investment needed to address this.
To date, 2bn has been committed to PFI in the waste sector and this has been matched by an equal amount from local authorities.
Meanwhile, the Government Ef ciency Review is requiring some 30bn to be realised from the sale of assets by central government departments and local authorities, and many are looking to partner with the Ofce 3.0 private sector to achieve this and to upgrade their estates.
We also see good potential revenue opportunities on the Continent.
With EU money moving towards Education 0.8 eastern Europe, more governments in the west are adopting PPP to procure and deliver social infrastructure investment.
In Continental Europe our initial focus is on acquiring investments in secondary market assets already in operation.
Our strategy We invest in and manage properties and facilities for a wide range of organisations across the public and Chart 39 2 private sectors.
We dont just supply better buildings we own, manage, develop and upgrade everything DWP contract growth and vacation 000m from individual properties to entire estates.
Government departments, international businesses, individual 2007 08 schools and many other organisations use our expertise to maximise the potential of their infrastructure for their business and their people.
2006 07 We create value by: 2005 06 Using our asset management skills and development expertise to improve performance and reduce risk 2004 05 for customers while growing our own business Increasing the scope, scale and value of our contracts with customers by forming excellent long-term 2003 04 relationships, earning trust and delivering major improvements Developing new and better ways to get the most from properties, workspaces and facilities Gaining access to new market areas and strengthening our leadership position by acquiring specialist -200 0 200 400 600 800 1000 businesses Acquisitions Supporting the growth of our pipeline of opportunities through Trillium Investment Partners acquiring TIES Vacations mature assets.
Our performance We delivered an underlying operating pro t of 129.1m 2007: 98.8m, signi cantly higher than last year largely due to our new contracts with Accor and Royal Mail and around 43.0m of non-recurring items.
On the DWP contract, which accounted for the majority of the non-recurring items, the anticipated decline in operating pro ts due to vacations did indeed materialise, but this was offset by us resolving a number of outstanding issues which allowed us to recognise additional pro ts of 31.3m.
Higher operating pro t contributions from DVLA and Norwich Union re ect the completion of major refurbishment works, while the DVLA contract has also bene ted from scope extensions.
Increased costs re ect the overhead associated with the former SMIF, IIC and AMEC teams.
Bid costs increased due to the high level of new business activity associated with our appointment as preferred bidder on both DTR and Kent BSF, and our involvement in Workplace 2010.
The successful launch and close of the Trillium Investment Partners fund and the sale of the Meter t asset has given rise to a pro t on disposal of 47.5m.
Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors Business review continued 47 Trillium Investment Partners This year we achieved a major success with the launch and close of the Trillium Investment Partners, 158.5m a 1.136bn fund that enables third party investors to gain exposure to our PPP contracts.
The launch of the fund attracted very strong interest, despite one of the weakest debt and equity Paid to acquire AMECs Project markets for some time, and the calibre of the equity partners is a testament to the strength and quality Investments Business.
of the assets and our business.
We have retained a 10% stake in the venture.
Trillium Investment Partners is now the largest investment vehicle of its kind focused on PPP contracts.
We intend to grow the fund to around 2bn over five years through the acquisition of mature PPP assets, such as schools and hospitals already in operation.
The fund will acquire these assets from Trillium, where Our partners in the Trillium Investment Partners fund: our market leading New Business division has already secured 240m of new opportunities.
The fund is HBOS plc, Victorian Funds Management Corporation of aiming to invest 200m every year for the next four years.
Australia, funds managed by Bank of Ireland, Transport A new division of Trillium, authorised by the FSA, will manage the fund and receive an annual for London Pension Fund, Lloyds TSB, London Pensions management fee.
Fund Authority and pension funds operated by Daily Mail General Trust plc.
AMEC PFI acquisition In November 2007 we completed the acquisition of AMECs Project Investments business, which included interests in seven signed PFI projects and one project at preferred bidder stage.
We paid 158.5m for the business, which provides us with a top quality portfolio of assets and a specialist team experienced across the complete PFI PPP process, from bidding to long-term management of investments.
This acquisition is now fully integrated into Trillium, and reinforced our position as a leader in PFI, transport and health sectors.
New business Property partnerships Defence Training Review Having won preferred bidder status in January 2007, Metrix our 50:50 joint venture with QinetiQ continues to work with the Ministry of Defence to create a new defence training academy at St Athan, South Wales.
This is one of the UKs largest PPP projects.
Workplace 2010 This is a 20-year contract to provide a full range of property outsourcing services for the Northern Ireland Civil Service.
Workplace 2010 includes a major five-to-seven-year programme to transform the Northern Ireland Civil Services of ce estate, improve working environments for staff and facilitate new ways of working, with the aim of delivering greater value for the taxpayer.
We are one of two final short-listed bidders.
We purchased this 12-acre site in 1998 through our contract with the DWP.
Since then we have paved the way for a transformation from outdated government buildings on brown eld land to a site with outline planning permission for 136 much-needed homes.
We sold the site in August 2007 for 32m 50% of the pro t is retained Took leaseback on site while Land set aside for by us, 50% enjoyed by our client.
we helped DWP relocate community hall Public access to Held public consultations natural habitat before submitting proposals no objections made Handed over ownership of gardens occupied under licence On-site nursery remained open during process Outline planning consent for residential development granted in 2005 Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Our t-out at the DWPs Caxton House of ces in London required us to relocate the Ministerial team and civil servants while we transformed the space to increase collaboration and exibility.
The tight nine-month turnaround was determined by the Parliamentary calendar, but we delivered on time.
Report of the Directors Business review continued 49 Land Securities Trillium PPP Education With Northgate Information Solutions, we were announced as Kent County Councils preferred bidder Table 42 for the first phase of its 1.8bn BSF programme.
Through this, we will enter into a new 600m public Trillium financial results private partnership with Kent County Council and Partnerships for Schools to refurbish or rebuild Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March secondary schools and help transform education in the Gravesham, Swale and Thanet districts by 2014.
2008 2007 m m Our success in Kent builds on our work across the UK, where we now own or manage 197 schools with 174,000 pupils.
This year we were also named as one of the two final short-listed bidders for the Contract level operating pro t DWP 94.3 81.0 Birmingham BSF programme, with a final decision expected in September 2008: and in April 2008 e4i Norwich Union 11.1 9.2 Education for Inverclyde a consortium comprising Trillium, Miller Construction, Cyril Sweett and FES Barclays 1.9 3.3 was named preferred bidder for the 80m Inverclyde Schools PPP project.
DVLA 3.7 1.7 Telereal II 15.5 16.1 Waste Accor 27.1 1.5 This year we secured our first major success in the fast-growing waste sector.
Working in partnership Royal Mail 4.1 with Norfolk Environmental Waste Services and Cyril Sweett Investments, we became preferred bidder BBC 9.2 2.8 for Norfolk Waste Management Contract A, a 25 year project to build and operate an Advanced Bid costs 11.9 2.8 Central and other costs 25.9 14.0 Mechanical Biological Treatment AMBT facility to treat and recycle solid waste.
AMBT facilities are Underlying operating pro t 129.1 98.8 considered effective and environment-friendly, and we are now demonstrating to other local authorities Net fide cit on revaluation that our solution in Norfolk can help them meet pressing EU environment and waste targets.
of investment properties 24.9 13.6 Thornton Hall Prison Pro t on disposal of properties 18.1 7.5 Working in partnership with Global Solutions Limited, in the Leargas consortium with McNamara Segment pro t 122.3 92.7 and Barclays Private Equity, we have been named preferred bidder for Thornton Hall, a 500m PFI prison near Dublin, Republic of Ireland.
Share of pro t loss from Investors in the Community IIC joint venture 0.1 3.0 Share of loss of Trillium Investment Partners Chart 40 associate 0.5 History of Trillium Pro t on sale of interest in Trillium Investment Partners discontinued operation 37.5 Pro t on sale of Meter t discontinued operation 10.0 Trillium established BBC and Telereal BT deals signed Norwich Union and Barclays signed Joint venture with IIC established DWP PRIME 20 year deal signed DWP deal extended to include TIES DVLA 20-year contract signed AMEC PFI portfolio acquired Trillium acquired by Land Securities Preferred bidder on DTR.
AMEC closed Accor and Royal Mail deals signed Acquisition of SMIF and remaining 50% of IIC Preferred bidder on Kent BSF and Education Norfolk waste This year, Investment in school facilities and PFI do Trillium Investment Partners fund closed they play a role in educational outcomes?, an independent KPMG report, stated that new PFI schools are improving Chart 41 pupil performance.
The Trillium business model New Business Serviced Accommodation Property and Asset Management PPP and Fund Management Operating Functions Support Functions Land Securities Annual Report 2008 Weve been helping to improve the quality of education and educational facilities at six schools in Leeds.
Our approach has created exible, ef cient and innovative spaces like a new centre at Primrose High School where pupils and local people can gain media training.
Report of the Directors Business review continued 51 Land Securities Trillium Property partnerships This was a very successful year for a number of our property partnership contracts with major long-term Chart 44 customers.
Key highlights included: DWP customer satisfaction % Department for Work and Pensions We achieved a customer satisfaction rating of 94% this year three percentage points better than last 2007 years level.
This is particularly impressive given the enormous scale of the portfolio, with some 1,300 2006 properties under management.
Notable successes also included the sale for development of the Hinchley Wood site.
2005 Norwich Union 2004 We completed a major three-year refurbishment of Norwich Unions headquarters this year three weeks ahead of schedule and on budget.
Our work has helped to transform the working environment.
2003 DVLA The major refurbishment of the main HQ of ces and a number of other sites were completed successfully, with the main HQ works handed over eight weeks early and on budget.
We also provided 01020 3040506070 80 90 100 a new print facility building in September 2007.
We continue to support DVLA with increased Percentage of customers satisfied or very satisfied with Trilliums service investment and services in its ongoing estates transformation project.
Satisfied Royal Mail Very satisfied Our contract with Royal Mail went live in March 2007, when we took over freeholds and the risk and management of 296 vacant and sublet leaseholds.
We have made good progress on the disposal of surplus space and have continued to evolve our relationship with Royal Mail.
Accor In May we completed the purchase of a further seven Ibis and Novotel hotels, bringing the portfolio owned to 29 hotels in London and across the UK.
The hotels are leased back to Accor on a turnover rent 94% basis and we maintain the structural fabric of each hotel.
Record DWP customer satisfaction score achieved this year Our outlook We are market leader in two sectors property partnerships and PPP both of which offer stable longterm cash ows and good growth prospects.
We have a well-rounded business with a strong supply of investment capital and a comprehensive range of services.
We have robust contracts, a strong new business pipeline and operate in market sectors driven by government investment and blue chip corporate activity.
8 weeks We see excellent prospects for continued growth in the short, medium and long term.
Early delivery of DVLA facilities Chart 43 Our history Property outsourcing 3 weeks DWP PRIME Inland Revenue Norwich Unionl Royal Mai DVLA additional deal signed STEPS deal signed deal signed deal signed works signed Early delivery of Norwich Union headquarters BT deal signed Barclays deal Accor acquisition signed BBC deal signed DVLA deal signed DWP TIES deal extended PPP PFI PFI policy First schemes Value of signed SMIF Canary BSF launched Trillium Trillium acquires PFI Table 45 announced by signed health deals reaches deal is first in acquires SMIF portfolios from PFI CO is first Trillium number of people by occupation UK government and prisons 10bn secondary market AMEC and UME listed PFI investor PFI funds listed by OGC refinancing HSBC and Babcock Trillium closes As at 31 March 2008 Total code issued Trillium Investment Partners fund Asset management 105 Call centre 68 Capital projects 139 Quality assurance 30 Facilities management 377 HR finance 115 Business development and commercial 95 Total 929 Land Securities Annual Report 2008 52 Board of Directors Paul Myners 60 Francis Salway 50 Martin Greenslade 43 Ian Ellis 52 Chairman & Non-executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Appointed to the Board in Joined the Group in October 2000.
Joined the Board as Group Finance Joined the Board in November September 2006 and Chairman Previously an Investment Director Director in September 2005.
An original member of in January 2007.
Member of the at Standard Life Investments.
Previously Group Finance Director the management team which set Court of Directors of the Bank of He was appointed to the Board of Alvis PLC and a member of the up Trillium.
Previously Chief England and Chairman of Guardian in April 2001.
Appointed Chief executive committee of Nordeas Executive of the investment Media Group plc, Tate, the Low Operating Of cer in January 2003 investment banking division and management division of Insignia Pay Commission and The Personal and Group Chief Executive in July Managing Director of its UK business.
Chief Executive Accounts Delivery Authority.
Also Vice President of the Also a Director of International of Land Securities Trillium.
a trustee of Glyndebourne and the British Property Federation.
Non-executive Director of Rok plc.
Alison Carnwath 55 Sir Christopher Bland 70 Kevin OByrne 43 David Rough 57 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board as a NonAppointed to the Board as a NonJoined the Board as a Non-executive Appointed to the Board as a Nonexecutive Director in April 2008 executive Director in April 2008.
Director in April 2002 and executive Director in September and as Chairman of Land Securities Group Finance Director of DSG appointed Senior Independent 2004.
Chairman of M F Global Inc Trillium Limited.
Group a NYSE Listed company and a Chairman of BT Group plc and Previously Chief Financial Of cer Director Investments of Legal and Non-executive Director of Man Chairman of the Board of Governors for Hemscott Publishing Group and General Group PLC until December Group plc.
An independent Director of the BBC.
Chairman of the Royal European Finance Director for The 2001.
A Non-executive Director of of PACCAR Inc. a Fortune 500 Shakespeare Company.
Xstrata Group PLC and Friends Company Listed on NASDAQ.
