22 Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Directors Company for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The names of the directors at the date of this report and their biographical details are given on pages 20 and 21.
Results and dividends Changes to the Board during the year were as follows: The consolidated income statement is set out on page 37 and shows a profit for David Verklin resigned on 21 April 2008. the financial year of 89.2m 2007: 93.3m.
An interim dividend of 0.96p Jerry Buhlmann was appointed on 2 June 2008. per ordinary share was paid on 26 September 2008 to ordinary shareholders.
John Napier was appointed on 30 June 2008.
The directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 1.54p per ordinary Lord Sharman retired on 17 July 2008. share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be payable Mainardo fide Nardis resigned on 5 September 2008. on 28 May 2009 to ordinary shareholders registered at 1 May 2009.
Robert Lerwill resigned on 27 November 2008.
The total dividend for the year will then amount to 2.50p per ordinary share Leslie Van fide Walle has advised the Board of his intention to step down as 2007: 2.30p.
a director at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The interests of the directors in the shares and share incentives of the Company Principal activity are shown in the remuneration report on pages 32 to 35.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company based in London.
Its subsidiaries and related companies provide a broad range of services Re-election of directors in the areas of media communications and market research.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Jerry Buhlmann and John Napier, The subsidiaries and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or having been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 17 to the parent company offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the two directors, Bernard Fournier and Daniel Farrar, formally due to be considered for re-election are retiring at the Review of business and future developments conclusion of the Annual General Meeting after nine and six years continuous A review of the business and likely future developments of the Group is given service respectively.
in the chief executives report on pages 4 and 5, the Aegis Media and Synovate Details of all the directors service agreements, including notice periods, are given operating reviews on pages 6 to 11 and the financial review on pages 12 in the remuneration report on page 30. to 17.
Those sections form part of, and are incorporated by reference within, this directors report.
Directors indemnities Financial instruments A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Articles of Association and Sections 232 and 234 of the Companies Act 2006, has been Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its granted by the Company to each of its directors.
Under the QTPIs the Company subsidiaries is given in Note 21 to the financial statements on pages 60 to 66. undertakes to indemnify each director against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory penalties and to pay directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the director is convicted or, in an Post-balance sheet events action that is brought by the Company, judgement is given against the director.
The directors are not aware of any significant post-balance sheet events that Directors who resign from the Board continue to have the benefit of the QTPI require disclosure in the financial statements.
for potential liability to third parties that occurred prior to their resignation.
Donations Substantial shareholdings The Groups policy with respect to charitable donations and the amounts donated At 18 March 2009 the Company had been notified of the following interests of are detailed on page 18.
3% or more in its ordinary shares, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number Supplier payment policy Shareholder of shares % The Company does not impose a formal code of payment practice on its Bollor Group 344,276,446 29.71 subsidiaries.
However, the Groups policy is to try to create relationships with Fidelity International 58,798,759 5.07 its suppliers such that they trust us and want to do business with us.
In selecting external suppliers we use competitive processes that are fair and transparent, and AXA Investment Managers 55,000,086 4.75 designed to maximise value and quality of service for our clients and ourselves.
TCS Capital Group 54,872,440 4.74 At 31 December 2008, the Group had 62 days purchases outstanding 2007: Legal & General Group 46,239,051 3.99 59 days.
The creditor day analysis is not applicable to the Company.
Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 24 to the financial statements on page 67.
The Company has one class of share capital that is divided into ordinary shares of 5p each and that carry no right to fixed income.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding, the transfer of shares or voting rights, which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Aegis Group plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 23 The Company may by special resolution remove any director before the Share capital continued expiration of his term of office.
A director automatically stops being a director if: The trustees of the Aegis Group Employee Share Trust AEST have agreed i he resigns: ii he offers to resign and the Company accept his offer: iii all of to waive any right to all or any future dividend payments on shares held the other directors at least three of them resolve to or sign a written notice within the AEST except in certain limited circumstances, none of which are requiring his resignation: iv he is or has been suffering from mental ill health: currently applicable.
Details of the shares held are set out in Note 25 to the v he is absent without permission of the Board for a continuous period of six financial statements.
The trustees of the AEST may vote or abstain from voting on months and the directors pass a resolution removing him from office: vi he shares held in the AEST in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vii he is prohibited account both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the AEST.
by law from being a director: or viii he ceases to be a director under legislation or is removed pursuant to the Articles of Association.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The directors are authorised to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a Significant agreements maximum nominal amount of 15,209,696.
No such shares have been issued The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties or allotted under this authority, nor is there any current intention to do so, save for to those agreements to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change shares to be issued to satisfy existing obligations.
This authority is valid until the of control of the Company: date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting at which time a resolution will be proposed to renew the authority as detailed in the accompanying circular.
450m multi-currency credit facility agreement dated 9 June 2006 as amended between, amongst others, the Company, The Royal Bank of The Company has not purchased, or created any charges over, its own shares in Scotland plc as agent and the financial institutions named therein as banks the year ended 31 December 2008.
The Company has not had the authority to the Facility.
On a change of control of the Company, unless the Majority allot shares without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Acts Banks as defined therein otherwise agree, all loans, letters of credit and or to purchase its own shares since the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
guarantees, together with all accrued interest and other sums payable under the agreement, shall be prepaid and, upon such prepayment being made, the total commitments of the banks under the Facility shall be cancelled and Amendments to Articles of Association reduced to zero.
Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made Note purchase agreements dated 28 July 2005 and 17 September 2007 in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by special resolution.
as amended, the Note Purchase Agreements pursuant to which notes A resolution to amend the Articles of Association will be put to the forthcoming amounting in aggregate to US$342m the 2005 Notes and US$125m Annual General Meeting.
The proposed changes derive from the Companies the 2007 Notes, together with the 2005 Notes, the Notes respectively Act 2006.
Details of the changes being proposed are set out in the were issued by the Company.
Each holder of Notes has an option, on a accompanying circular.
change of control of the Company, to require the Company to prepay the entire principal amount of the Notes held by that holder together with interest Appointment and replacement of directors accrued thereon and the Make-Whole Amount as defined in each of the Note Purchase Agreements.
With regard to the appointment of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
Employment policies The Company shall have no fewer than two and no more than 16 directors.
The Group operates throughout the world and therefore has developed Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by employment policies that meet local conditions and requirements.
These policies a resolution of the Board.
A director appointed by the Board may only hold are based on the best traditions and practices in any given country in which office until the following Annual General Meeting but is then eligible for election.
He she is not taken into account in determining the directors or the number Human rights, diversity and disability of directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
The Group has a series of human resources policies that require its employees to At every Annual General Meeting at least one-third of the directors must retire act respectfully and responsibly at all times.
These policies include policies on by rotation.
Where the number of directors is not divisible by three, the minimum human rights, diversity and disability.
number of directors to retire will be the number which is nearest to and less than We are committed to treating each employee and applicant fairly and equitably.
If there are fewer than three directors, they will all retire.
The directors Employment decisions are based on merit, experience and potential, without who will retire by rotation will be those who were in office at the time of the two regard to race, nationality, sex, marital status, age, religion or sexual orientation.
previous Annual General Meetings and did not retire at either of them.
If the We are committed to following the applicable labour and employment laws in number so retiring is less than the number required to retire, additional directors all of the jurisdictions where we operate.
The further directors to retire will be those who have been directors the longest since they were last elected to the Board.
If there are directors who were We believe that disabled people have the same rights as non-disabled people last elected on the same date, they can agree on who is to retire.
If they cannot to become, and continue to be, employees of the Group.
Wherever possible, agree, they must draw lots to decide.
At the Annual General Meeting at which we provide the same opportunities for disabled people as for others.
If any of our a director retires, shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to re-elect the employees become disabled we make every effort to keep them in the Groups director or to elect some other suitable person in his place.
employment, with appropriate training where necessary.
The only people who can be elected as directors at an Annual General Meeting Employee involvement are: i directors retiring at the meeting: ii anyone recommended by the directors: We have employee consultation processes throughout our business in accordance and iii anyone nominated by a shareholder.
The nominating shareholder must with local laws.
In addition, we update all of our employees on a regular basis be entitled to vote at the meeting.
He must deliver to the Company a letter stating with Group developments and progress through newsletters, internal publications, that he intends to nominate another person for election and the written consent senior management notes and face-to-face meetings.
of that person to be elected.
These documents must be delivered to the Company not less than seven and not more than 42 days before the day of the meeting.
24 Report of the directors continued Annual General Meeting Directors responsibilities The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Rutherford Theatre at the Institute The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, remuneration report of Physics, 76 Portland Place, London W1B 1NT on Friday, 22 May 2009 and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each Enclosed with this report is a circular containing a letter from the chairman to financial year.
The directors are required by the International Accounting shareholders and the formal notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
Standards IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly Auditors prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors to the Company and to authorise IAS 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial the directors to fix their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Directors confirmation Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the properly select and apply accounting policies: Companys auditors are unaware: and present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Going concern in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company development, performance and financial position and commentary on the Groups financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of financial results, its cash flows, liquidity requirements, borrowing facilities and a affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are summary of the Group principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the operating required to: reviews and financial review on pages 6 to 17 and elsewhere within the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: statements.
In addition, Note 21 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject and its exposures to liquidity risk and credit risk.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Board is satisfied that the Group balance sheet remains strong.
We remain The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose well-financed with considerable headroom under our current facilities and no major with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and refinancings are due until 2011. enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with The financial statements at 31 December 2008 show that the Group generated the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets a profit from continuing operations of 89.2m 2007: 93.3m with cash of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and generated from operating activities of 215.5m 2007: 136.2m.
The financial detection of fraud and other irregularities.
statements also show that at 31 December 2008 the Group balance sheet was The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate in a net asset position of 459.8m 2007: 306.3m with net current liabilities and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the of 3.2m 2007: net current assets of 36.4m mainly due to restructuring costs.
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ The Group has generated positive operating cash inflows from operations for each from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of the last five years to 31 December 2008.
By order of the Board The main factors contributing to these cash inflows are the retention and growth of the customer base, terms of trade with customers and suppliers and the continuing management of working capital balances within the Group.
The Board has John Ross concluded that no matters have come to its attention which suggests that the Group Company Secretary will not be able to maintain its current terms of trade with customers and suppliers.
18 March 2009 The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate that the Group has sufficient funding to operate within the level of its available facilities.
The Board has considered various alternative operating and funding strategies should these be necessary and are satisfied that revised operating and funding strategies could be adopted if and when necessary to maintain these levels of funding.
After making these enquiries, the Board is satisfied that the Group has the sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and for this reason: the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
