20 Board of directors John Napier Alicja Lesniak Chairman and interim chief executive Chief financial officer Age 66 Age 57 Member of the Remuneration Committee Alicja Lesniak joined Aegis and the Board in April 2007 as Group chief financial Member of the Nominations Committee officer.
Alicja is a chartered accountant who worked in a broad range of roles in marketing services agencies over the past 20 years, based in Europe and the US.
John Napier joined the Board in June 2008 and became chairman in July 2008.
Previous roles include worldwide CFO of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and CFO From December 2008, he took on the responsibilities of chief executive on an of BBDO EMEA where she served on the boards of both companies.
John is also chairman of the Royal SunAlliance Group, a position he has held since 2003.
John was chief executive of Hays plc from 1990 to 1998.
Prior to that he was chief executive of AGB, the market research and information company.
From 1998 he was chairman of Booker until its sale to Iceland in 2000, and chairman of Kelda from 1999 to 2008.
Daniel Farrar Bernard Fournier Non-executive director Non-executive director Age 48 Age 70 Member of the Remuneration Committee Senior independent director Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Daniel Farrar joined the Board in June 2003.
He is currently the CEO of Openlane of San Francisco, California.
Prior to this he was a general partner at Morgenthaler Bernard Fournier joined the Board in June 2000.
He was chief executive of Rank Xerox, Partners, a US buy-out group.
Daniel spent 16 years at GE Capital in senior which became Xerox Ltd, from 1989 to 1998, and chairman until December 2001, international roles, including president and CEO of GE Capital Fleet Services Europe.
having held senior management positions in France, the US and the UK.
A French A US national, Daniel is currently serving on the boards of WPI and Openlane.
national, Bernard is chairman of EDHEC, the largest business school in France.
Lorraine Trainer Leslie Van fide Walle Non-executive director Non-executive director Age 57 Age 52 Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Lorraine Trainer joined the Board in August 2005.
She has held a number of human Leslie Van fide Walle joined the Board in June 2003.
Since January 2007 he has resource leadership roles in international organisations, focusing on performance been group chief executive of Rexam, the consumer goods packaging company.
These include Citibank, the London Stock Exchange and Coutts, His previous roles include executive vice president of Shell Global Retail and then part of the NatWest Group.
She now runs a business in board advisory chairman of Shell Europe, and group chief executive of United Biscuits.
Previously he work and development.
She also has significant experience of working with arts held a number of senior international positions at Cadbury Schweppes and Danone.
organisations and the not-for-profit sector.
Leslie was born and educated in France.
