Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Directors Report continued Other Statutory Information Share Capital Directors Interests in Shares Authority was granted at the 2008 AGM for the Company to The Directors who were in office at 31 December 2008 and the purchase its own shares up to 10 per cent of the issued nominal beneficial and non-beneficial interests of these Directors and their capital.
No shares were repurchased in the year.
A resolution to families in the companys shares, are shown in the Remuneration renew this authority will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
Under the Report on pages 66 to 74. proposed authority, shares repurchased may be either cancelled or Save as disclosed in the Remuneration Report, no Director had any held in Treasury.
The authorised and issued share capital for the year holding or interest in the Companys shares or in any of the is set out on page 105.
Companys debenture or unsecured loan stocks, or unsecured bonds There is one class of share in issue and there are no restrictions on and no Director had a material interest in any contract, transaction or the voting rights attached to these shares or the transfer of securities arrangement with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries at, or in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company during the year ended 31 December 2008. carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Each Provisions on Change of Control share other than shares awarded under the Executive Share Plans There are a number of agreements which take effect, alter or carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company terminate upon a change of control, none of which are considered and does not carry the right to a fixed income.
Further details on the significant in relation to the Company.
The Companys share rights and restrictions attaching to the share capital are contained in schemes contain provisions which take effect in the event of a the Articles of Association.
The Directors are not aware of any change of control.
The provisions in relation to share schemes do agreements which limit the transfer of shares or curtail the voting not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of the rights attached to those shares.
Company than that created by the initial grant or award under the The Trustees of the Share Incentive Plan do not normally exercise relevant scheme.
their vote on shares held in trust for the purposes of the plan only Directors Indemnities upon the instruction of the participants in the plan.
The Trustees of Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company against any the Executive Share Plans do not exercise their vote on the shares liability, loss or expenditure incurred in connection with their duties, held in trust.
As at the date of this report, 81 per cent of the powers or office, to the extent permitted by statute.
The contracts of employment or letters of appointments of the The Directors require authority from shareholders to allot unissued Directors and employees of the Company do not provide for share capital of the Company and to dis-apply shareholders statutory compensation for the loss of office that occurs because of takeover.
Such authorities were granted at the 2008 AGM and resolutions to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
Substantial Interests in the Share Capital of the Company At 2 March 2009, the following major interests 3 per cent or more in the ordinary share capital had been notified to the Company: Direct Indirect Aggregate Shareholder voting rights voting rights voting rights Percentage Barclays Group 17,098,452 17,098,452 3.92% The AXA Group and its subsidiaries 16,537,376 2,812,633 19,350,009 4.43% Legal & General Group plc 17,048,580 17,048,580 3.90% Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 21,401,751 21,401,751 4.90% Issued capital at2 March 2009 436,720,892 Following the implementation of the Transparency Directive, Barclays Group currently discloses shares held within the group between Barclays Global Investors and Barclays plc.
The overall total being shown above.
Barclays Global Investors holds 9,214,837 disclosable shares and indirect voting rights: totalling 2.11%.
Barclays plc holds 7,883,615 disclosable shares and indirect voting rights: totalling 1.81%.
Other Statutory Information Payment of Suppliers Disclosure of Information to the Auditor It is the Groups payment policy, in respect of all suppliers, to settle Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms and report confirms that: conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders and suppliers so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit are made aware of these payment conditions.
Payment becomes due information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and when it can be confirmed that goods and or services have been provided in accordance with relevant contractual conditions.
The each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Groups trade creditors as a proportion of amounts invoiced by taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of suppliers represented 23 days at 31 December 2008 2007: 12 days.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the The Directors do not consider that there is any one supplier or Companys auditors are aware of that information.
person with whom the Company has a contractual arrangement which is essential to the business.
By order of the Board Auditors to the Company Elizabeth Blease A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company General Counsel and Group Company Secretary is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
