Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Directors Report continued 01.
Ins Reinmann Chevalier fide la Lgion dHonneur Directors Biographies Aged 51 Managing Director, Continental Europe Appointed a Group Executive Director on 1 November 2008.
She is responsible for the Continental Europe property 01.
Nigel Rich CBE Aged 63 portfolio.
Prior to joining SEGRO, she was Chairwoman and Chairman Chief Executive Officer of ICADE Emgp, CEO of ICADE Chairman of the Nomination Committee Eurogem, Business Property Market Director ICADE, CEO Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2006 and ICADE Tertial, and Managing Director ICADE.
Prior to became Chairman on 1 October 2006.
He is Chairman of ICADE, she held senior management positions with Xchanging Ltd, a Non-Executive Director of Bank of the responsibility for development, operations and corporate real Philippine Islands Europe plc, Matheson & Co Ltd, Pacific estate at Coprim.
She is a Member of the Royal Institution of Assets Trust and KGR Absolute Return PCC.
He was previously Chartered Surveyors.
Chairman of Exel PLC, CP Ships and Hamptons Group Ltd and, in his career, he was Managing Director of Hongkong Land and then Jardine Matheson.
David Sleath Aged 48 Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Group Finance Director Appointed as Group Finance Director on 1 January 2006.
Previously, he was Finance Director of Wagon plc, the 02.
Ian Coull Aged 58 international automotive engineering group from 1999 to Chief Executive 2005.
From 1982 to 1999, he worked for Arthur Andersen, Member of the Nomination Committee latterly as a partner and Head of Audit & Assurance for the Appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2003.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered the London Regional Board of Royal & SunAlliance and chairs Accountants in England and Wales and a Non-Executive the British Property Federations BPF REITs task force, having Director of Bunzl plc.
been President of the BPF from June 2005 until July 2006.
Prior to joining SEGRO, he was a Director at J Sainsbury plc and held Board and Senior Management positions at 05.
Ian Sutcliffe Aged 49 Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and Cavenham Foods.
He is a Managing Director, UK Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Appointed a Group Executive Director on 1 July 2008.
Previously he was a Director of Taylor Wimpey plc and Chief Executive of Taylor Wimpey UK and had held a number of senior international roles with Royal Dutch Shell plc, lastly as Vice President Retail for Shell Oil in the US.
He was also Retail Director of Shell UK.
Andrew Palmer Aged 55 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee and the Remuneration Committee Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 28 January 2004.
Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2001.
He is He is Group Finance Director of Legal & General Group plc Chairman of Interserve plc, Senior Independent Director of where he has held a number of financial and operational Standard Life plc and a Non-Executive Board Member of the roles in the asset management, insurance and international Office of Fair Trading Limited.
He is also a Board member and businesses.
He is Chairman of the Financial Regulation and former Chairman of the Centre for Policy Studies.
He was Taxation Committee of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
previously a partner with McKinsey & Company, Head of the He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Prime Ministers Policy Unit between 1995-97, Director of England and Wales.
Group Development at NatWest Group, a Non-Executive Director of The Corporate Services Group plc and Chairman of 10.
Christopher Peacock Aged 63 Smartstream Technologies Ltd.
Non-Executive Director Member of the Nomination Committee and the 07.
Stephen L Howard Aged 55 Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 28 January 2004.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of He is a Director of Howard fide Walden Estates Limited and a the Audit Committee member of the Advisory Board to The Landon Trust.
He was Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 16 May 2001. previously President and Chief Executive Officer of Jones Lang He is a Non-Executive Director of Balfour Beatty plc, holds LaSalle.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered memberships of the advisory councils of various private and Surveyors.
non-profit organisations, and is the Chief Executive of Business in the Community.
He was previously Group Chief Executive 11.
Thom Wernink Aged 63 of Cookson Group plc and then Novar plc.
Non-Executive Director Member of the Audit Committee and the Nomination 08.
Lesley MacDonagh Aged 56 Committee Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 23 May 2005.
Member of the Remuneration Committee He is a Non-Executive Director on a number of property and Appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2007. investment companies based in Continental Europe.
He was She is a Non-Executive Director of Bovis Homes Group and previously Chairman of the European Public Real Estate BDO Stoy Hayward LLP.
She was previously the worldwide Association and of Corio NV, a Netherlands-based property Managing Partner of Lovells LLP, the international law firm, a company with interests across Europe.
Governor of the London School of Economics, a member of the Property Advisory Group for the UK Government, and a Council Member of the Law Society.
