Portfolio Analysis Note Market Value 1 % of total Market Value Current gross income 2 Estimated rental value ERV 3 Shops Number Area sq.
ft % of current gross income 4 % of ERV 4 Vacancy rate by % of ERV 5 Average unexpired lease lengthyears 6 Restaurants Number and leisure Area sq.
ft % of current gross income 4 % of ERV 4 Vacancy rate by % of ERV 5 Average unexpired lease lengthyears 6 Offices Number of tenancies Area sq.
ft % of current gross income 4 % of ERV 4 Vacancy rate by % of ERV 5 Average unexpired lease lengthyears 6 Residential Number Area sq.
ft % of current passing rent % of ERV 4 Vacancy rate by % of ERV 5 Longmartin statistics include space under construction in the St Martins Courtyard scheme and unmodernised accommodation not part of the current scheme.
Basis of valuation at 30 September 2008 Overall initial yield 8 Overall equivalent yield 9 Tone of retail equivalent yield Tone of retail estimated rental values [ITZA per sq.
ft. ] Tone of restaurant equivalent yields Tone of restaurant estimated rental values [ per sq.
ft. ] Tone of office equivalent yields Tone of office estimated rental values [ per sq.
ft. ] Tone of residential estimated rental values [ per annum] Notes: 1 The Market Values at 30 September 2008 the date of 3 Estimated rental value ERV is the respective valuers valuation shown above in respect of the four Villages are, in opinion of the rental value of the properties, or parts thereof, each case, the aggregate of the market values of several reflecting the terms of the relevant leases or, if appropriate, different property interests located within close proximity which, reflecting the fact that certain of the properties, or parts for the purpose of this analysis are combined to create each thereof, have been valued on the basis of vacant possession Village.
The different interests in each Village were not valued and the assumed grant of a new lease.
Estimated rental as a single lot.
value does not reflect any ground rents, head rents or rent charges and estimated irrecoverable outgoings.
2 Current gross income includes total actual and estimated income reserved by leases.
No rent is attributed to leases 4 The percentage of current gross income and the percentage which were subject to rent free periods at the date of of ERV in each of the use sectors are expressed as a valuation.
Current gross income does not reflect any ground percentage of total gross income and total ERV for each rents, head rents or rent charges and estimated irrecoverable village.
outgoings at the date of valuation.
Estimated income refers 5 The vacancy rate by percentage of ERV is the ERV of the vacant to gross estimated rental values in respect of rent reviews accommodation within each use sector, on a village-by-village outstanding at the date of valuation and, where appropriate basis, expressed as a percentage of total ERV of each use sector estimated rental values in respect of lease renewals in each village.
The vacancy rate includes accommodation which outstanding at the date of valuation where the Market Value is awaiting or undergoing refurbishment and not available for reflects terms for a renewed lease.
occupation at the date of valuation.
The through effluxion of time.
Equivalent Yield shown for each Village has been calculated by merging together the cash flows and Market Values of each of the 7 Where mixed uses occur within single leases, for the different interests within each Village and represents the average purpose of this analysis the majority use by rental value has Equivalent Yield attributable to each Village from this approach.
10 The tone of rental values and yields is the range of rental 8 The initial yield is the net initial income at the date of values or yields attributed to the majority of the properties.
valuation expressed as a percentage of the gross valuation.
11 All commercial floor areas are net lettable.
All residential Yields reflect net income after deduction of any ground floor areas are gross internal.
rents, head rents and rent charges and estimated irrecoverable outgoings at the date of valuation.
