In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Note 3 of the Red Book, in undertaking our valuations, we have Valuers lotted together certain individual properties to form a separate property a Property or Properties in the summary manner we consider to be most likely to be adopted in the case of an actual sale.
We consider that lotting the report properties together on the basis reflected in our valuations would allow a purchaser to capitalise on the estate management advantages and opportunities Wholly owned portfolio available from such comprehensive ownership.
To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies properties and Properties is accounted In accordance with your instructions, we have for by properties and Properties situated in adjacent undertaken a valuation of the various commercial and or adjoining locations in four specific areas of the and residential freehold and long leasehold West End of London: Carnaby Street and its environs, property interests as at 30th September 2008 the Chinatown and the adjoining area immediately west date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby of Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in the Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited and Shaftesbury western part of Covent Garden and a block of properties Charlotte Street Limited, which are subsidiary to the east of the Central Covent Garden Piazza with companies collectively referred to as the its main frontage to Wellington Street.
These areas Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury PLC the are all dominated by retail and restaurant uses.
In our Company, as referred to in our Valuation Reports opinion, at the date of valuation, this particular unusual dated 14th November 2008 our Reports.
Our confluence of ownership and use characteristics may Reports were prepared for accounts purposes.
cause some prospective purchasers to regard parts All properties have been subject to external of the portfolio when combined as having a greater value inspections between August and November 2008 than the aggregate of the individual values of the and a number were subject to internal inspections.
combined properties and Properties which make up The valuations have been made in accordance with those parts.
the appropriate sections of the current Practice As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in Statements PS, and United Kingdom Practice undertaking our valuations, we have valued each Statements UKPS contained within the RICS property or Property separately, rather than valuing Valuation Standards, 6th Edition the Red Book.
the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
The valuations have been undertaken by External The total valuation figure below is the aggregated Valuers, qualified for the purpose of the valuations.
value of the separate properties or Properties within In accordance with UKPS 5.4, we are required to the various categories of tenure referred to below.
make certain disclosures in connection with this All valuations were on the basis of Market Value.
valuation instruction and our relationship with the We have assessed Market Value in accordance with Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
Our opinion of the Market Bareham is the signatory of our Reports.
This is the Value of each of the properties or Properties has fifth time that he has been the signatory of Reports been primarily derived using comparable recent addressed to the Subsidiary Companies.
DTZ market transactions on arm's length terms.
Debenham Tie Leung has been carrying out this The financial markets have seen significant turbulence valuation instruction for the Company, and now over the last year or so resulting in severe liquidity the Subsidiary Companies, for a continuous period shortages.
The turmoil in the credit markets had an since 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, we also immediate effect on the real estate investment market undertake valuations of certain of the properties resulting in some transactions failing or prices being referred to in our Reports for other purposes, such renegotiated downwards either in the period leading as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders up to exchange of contracts or by way of a last minute circulars.
In addition to valuation instructions, there price reduction coupled with a threat of withdrawal.
are other current or recent fee-earning relationships There has been a marked reduction in the volume of between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and certain of transactions.
Generally, there is greater volatility in the Subsidiary Companies or the Company itself.
the evidence generated by comparable transactions These relate to our appointment, until recently, as and in these circumstances there is a greater property and asset managers in respect of the degree of uncertainty than that which exists in a properties known as Wellington House 6-9 Upper more active and stronger market in forming an St Martin's Lane, 6-8 Shelton Street & 7-13 Mercer opinion of the realisation prices of property assets.
Street, 10 11, 12, 13 14, 16-19 & 20 Upper St Martin's Lane, 124, 125 126, 127 130 inc 1-3 Slingsby Place, Whereas transaction evidence underpins the 132 135, 136 137, 138 Beckett House, 140-142 & valuation process the definition of Market Value, 143 Long Acre, 1, 3-5 &15 17 Mercer Street, London including the commentary in Practice Statement WC2 all of which are owned by Longmartin Properties 3.2.
4 requires the valuer to reflect the realities of Limited, a joint venture company owned in equal the current market.
In this context valuers must use shares by the Company and the Mercers' Company : their market knowledge and professional judgement to our involvement in advising the Company and and not rely only upon historic market sentiment Longmartin Properties Limited in respect of landlord based on historic transactional comparables.
and tenant and other matters: to our involvement in We have not made any allowance for vendors sale advising the Company or some of the Subsidiary costs nor for any tax liabilities which may arise upon Companies in connection with the acquisition or the disposal of any of the properties or Properties.
disposal of certain properties and to our involvement We have made deductions to reflect purchasers on behalf of the Company or certain of the Subsidiary normal acquisition costs.
Companies in acting as letting agents in respect of certain of the office accommodation.
A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations and details of the sources of information DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly owned subsidiary are contained within our Reports.
"of DTZ Holdings plc the ""Group""."
In the Group's financial year to 30th April 2008, the proportion of We have measured certain of the properties, or parts total fees payable by the Company and the of properties, either on site or by scaling from floor Subsidiary Companies to the total fee income plans.
The Company, its managing agents or of the Group was less than 5%.
professional advisers have provided us with the floor areas of the remaining properties or parts of properties.
