REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their report and the audited financial The Group has a Directors' and Officers' liability insurance policy statements for the year ended 31 March 2008. which indemnifies the directors and officers against breach of fiduciary duty.
Principal activities The Group is engaged in property investment in the form of letting of The Companys Articles of Association were amended on 31 July 2007 business accommodation to small and medium sized enterprises to permit the Company to indemnify its directors, in certain located in London and the South East of England.
At 31 March 2008 circumstances, as permitted under the Companies Act 2006. the Company had seven active subsidiaries, four of which are engaged Following the amendment to the Articles, the Company has executed in the Group's core activities.
Details of the Company's subsidiaries a Deed Poll under which it will indemnify its directors, subject to are listed on page 83.
LI Property Services Limited procures certain limitations and as permitted by law, for liabilities incurred in insurance on behalf of the Group.
Workspace Management Limited connection with their appointment as a director and in certain acts as manager for all the Groups property investment companies.
circumstances fund a directors expenditure on defending criminal or Workspace Holdings Limited is an intermediate holding company.
civil proceedings brought against the director in connection with his position as a director of the Company or of any Group Company.
Business review The Business Review contains a detailed review of the business of the No director had, during the year, any beneficial interest in any Group, the development and performance of the Company during the contract significant to the Company's business, other than a contract year and at the year end and of its strategy and prospects, including of employment.
an analysis using Key Performance indicators.
Details of the directors shareholdings and options over shares are This information together with a description of the principal risks and provided on pages 48 to 52. uncertainties facing the Company, details of the Companys health and safety policies and its corporate responsibility activities can be Share capital and control found on pages 2, 8 to 23 and 25 to 35, which are incorporated into this Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out on page 77. report by reference.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
As at 31 March 2008, there were 174,313,887 Profit and dividends ordinary shares in issue.
The Groups loss after tax for the year attributable to shareholders amounted to 34.7m 2007: 193.4m profit after tax.
The directors Substantial shareholdings in the Company recommend the payment of a final distribution of 3.04p 2007: 2.76p, At 6 June 2008 the directors had been notified of the following making a total of 4.56p for the year 2007: 4.14p.
substantial shareholdings, amounting to 3% or more of the ordinary share capital of the Company: Land and buildings Shareholder % of share capital The Group's fixed assets include investment properties, of 994.3m 2007: 1,001.6m and owner occupied property of 2.0m 2007: ING 9.55% 2.0m.
Included in non-current assets is the Groups 15.7m 2007: Trefick IOM Limited 9.04% 18.5m investment in a joint venture.
This joint venture company F&C Asset Management 8.08% holds investment property totalling 169.3m 2007: 162.9m at the Trefick Limited 7.78% balance sheet date.
The Group's investment properties and those of Insight Investment 5.66% the joint venture have been independently valued by CB Richard Ellis, KBC Peel Hunt as principal 5.06% Chartered Surveyors, at 31 March 2008 at open market value.
Legal & General Investment Management 5.00% Rovida Asset Management 4.83% Directors Aegon Asset Management 3.98% The present directors of the Company are shown on page 37: with the APG Investments 3.15% exception of Mr G Clemett, they all held office throughout the year.
Donations Mr R M Taylor and Ms M Carragher resigned as directors of the The Group has made no political donations 2007: nil.
It has made Company with effect from 31 July 2007 and 12 October 2007 charitable donations of 120,086 2007: 119,975, principally through respectively.
Re-election of directors Health and safety Messrs H Platt and B Cragg retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer The Groups policy is to provide and maintain safe and healthy working themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held conditions, equipment and systems of work for all its employees and on 29 July 2008.
Mr G Clemett was appointed to the Board on 31 July to provide such information, training and supervision as they need for 2007 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, this purpose.
The Group accepts responsibility for the health and will retire at the Companys forthcoming annual general meeting, safety of other people, who may be affected by its activities.
and being eligible, will offer himself for re-election.
Whilst all employees of the Group have a responsibility in relation Of the directors proposed for re-election, Messrs Platt and Clemett to health and safety matters, certain staff have been designated have a service contract with the Company that is terminable by either workplace responsibilities or other co-ordinating responsibilities the Company or by them giving not less than 12 months notice throughout the Group, and ultimately, at Board level, the Chief in writing.
Reports on Health and Safety are made to each Board meeting.
Workspace Group PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Employment policies Annual General Meeting The Group aims to create a working environment in which every The 22nd Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at current or prospective employee is given equal opportunity in Magenta House, 85 Whitechapel Road, London E1 1DU on Tuesday selection, development and promotion.
A further explanation of the 29 July 2008.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual Groups people policies can be found in the Our People section of this General Meeting, which sets out the resolutions to be considered and report on page 24. approved at the meeting.
As well as more routine matters such as the renewal of authority to allot shares, to disapply pre-emption rights A Staff Forum has been established to improve communication and and to purchase own shares, resolutions are being proposed to adopt consultation with employees.
new Articles of Association to update the Companys current Articles primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought Employee share ownership trust about by the Companies Act 2006.
The resolutions are explained in a The Group operates an Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT letter from the Chairman which accompanies the Notice.
to purchase shares in the market for distribution at a later date in accordance with the terms of the 1993 and 2000 Executive Share Option Schemes.
Dividends are waived on shares held by the ESOT, By order of the Board except for shares held in respect of Invested Awards granted under Amanda Whalley the Companys Co-Investment Plan where shares are beneficially Company Secretary owned by the participants.
Participants who beneficially own Invested 6 June 2008 Shares may instruct the trustee of the ESOT to vote on their shares.
The Company may make a voting recommendation to the trustee regarding the remaining shares held in the ESOT.
Purchasing policies and payments The Group tries, wherever possible, to procure from within its own tenant base providing tenants are competitive on price and quality.
The Groups policy is that, unless agreed otherwise at the time of the transaction, its own payments to others for goods and services received are made on average one month of the date of invoice.
During the year to 31 March 2008 the Groups average payment term from the date of invoice was 31days.
The parent company has made no trade purchases.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Risk management The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are set out in note 18 to the financial statements and in the Corporate Governance section of this report on page 42.
Audit information As far as the directors are aware there is no relevant information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
The directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they will be reappointed is included as ordinary business at the Annual General Meeting.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39
