BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Pictured at Canterbury Court, SW9 From left to right Chris Pieroni, Patrick Marples, Graham Clemett, Angus Boag, Harry Platt, Antony Hales, John Bywater, Bernard Cragg, Rupert Dickinson.
Workspace Group PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Board of Directors Bernard Cragg BSc ACA The Executive Committee The responsibilities of the Executive Committee members include: Senior Independent The Executive Committee comprises Antony Hales CBE BSc Non-Executive Director the executive directors: Harry Platt, Harry Platt Non Executive Chairman Bernard Cragg 53 joined the Board Patrick Marples and Graham Clemett, Tony Hales 60, joined the Board in in June 2003.
He is Chairman of i-mate together with Angus Boag and Strategic management: investor relations: health & safety: staff: November 2002 and was appointed Plc, and a non-executive director of Chris Pieroni.
He is Mothercare Plc and Astro All Asia equal opportunities, remuneration and training and development.
currently Chairman of NAAFI Ltd and Networks PLC.
He retired as Chairman Angus Boag MSc CEng MICE British Waterways and a non-executive of Datamonitor Plc and as a nonDevelopment Director Graham Clemett director of International Personal executive director of Bristol & West plc Angus Boag 48 joined the Group in Finance Plc.
He was previously Chief in July and October 2007 respectively.
June 2007 as Development Director Finance: Company Secretarial: investor relations: energy and the Executive of Allied Domecq plc and a He was formerly Group Finance responsible for identifying and non-executive director of HSBC Bank Director and Chief Financial Officer implementing improvement and Groups IT strategy.
plc, Aston Villa plc and Reliance of Carlton Communications Plc and a regeneration opportunities within the Security Group PLC.
Chairman of non-executive director of Arcadia plc.
Prior to Patrick Marples Property acquisitions and disposals: the Nominations Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and joining the Group he was at Manhattan a member of the Remuneration and Loft Corporation for 12 years joining as property valuation issues.
Harry Platt MA MRTPI Nominations Committees.
Development Director and appointed Chief Executive as Managing Director in 2001.
Angus Boag Harry Platt 56 joined the Board as Rupert Dickinson MRICS Director and General Manager in April Rupert Dickinson 48 joined the Board Chris Pieroni BA MSc PhD Intensification and refurbishment of assets across the portfolio including 1991, became Managing Director in in August 2006.
He is Chief Executive of Operations Director April 1992 and Chief Executive in Grainger plc.
Rupert joined Grainger Chris Pieroni 50 joined the Group joint ventures : lead on social environmental and ethical issues.
He was Chief Executive plc in 1992, was appointed a Director as Operations Director in October of Harlow District Council between of the company in 1994 and Chief 2007.
He was previously at KPMG, Chris Pieroni 1983 and 1989 and before that Executive in October 2002.
Prior to specialising in real estate and Assistant Chief Executive at the joining Grainger plc Rupert was at infrastructure finance.
He began Maximising portfolio performance: occupancy, rent roll and estimated London Borough of Greenwich.
Prior Richard Ellis now CBRE where he his professional career teaching to joining the Group he was Operations worked for five years in commercial economics at Cambridge University.
rental value through asset management, lettings and marketing.
Director of Dixons Commercial development.
A member of the Audit, He joined Colliers Erdman Lewis in Properties Limited.
He is also a Remuneration and Nominations 1993, later becoming Chief Operating non-executive director of the Real Committees.
Chris was a non-executive Hotel Company plc.
director of Workspace Group from Patrick Marples MRICS 2000 until his retirement from the John Bywater FRICS Property Director Board in August 2006.
John Bywater 61 joined the Board in Patrick Marples 52 joined the Board June 2004.
He is Managing Director in November 1996 as Property Director of Caddick Developments Ltd, having responsible for the investment retired as an executive director of management of the Group's property Hammerson plc in March 2007.
He had previously worked as is a non-executive director of British a property consultant for the Group Waterways and the West Bromwich since 1987.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a Graham Clemett BSc ACA member of the Audit and Nominations Finance Director Committees.
Graham Clemett 47 joined the Board as Group Finance Director in July 2007.
Previously he was Finance Director, UK Corporate Banking at RBS Group PLC for a period of five years.
Prior to that he spent eight years at Reuters Group PLC, latterly as Group Financial Controller.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37
