Enterprise House, Hayes, UB3 Proposals to create a high value business centre and 70 apartments from existing industrial uses.
Workspace Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 12M SQ FT FROM INTENSIFICATION OVER FIVE YEARS REGENERATION As Londons economy grows intensification of land usage will increase.
20% of our properties have development potential over the next five years.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 REGENERATION Refurbishment and regeneration strategy Our strategy for adding value falls into two categories.
We reposition the type of space we offer to our customers by refurbishing existing buildings or we regenerate by redeveloping the site to create a greater amount of commercial space together with a range of other higher value uses.
At each of our sites we keep closely in touch with our customers in order to fully understand their business requirements and the business image they wish to portray.
This allows us to understand how we can best use any capital expenditure to refurbish or redevelop buildings to match our customers needs.
The success of this approach is demonstrated by our high levels of customer satisfaction and our continued growth in rental income.
One of our developments undertaken this year is described on the right.
Angus Boag, Development Director Pictured at Enterprise House, Hayes, UB3 Four planning consents achieved Two business centres in core portfolio developed refurbished 4 2 Two planning consents achieved 18 sites being progressed in Glebe joint venture for redevelopment 2 18 Acquired in February 2008, Enterprise House, Hayes right is a Grade II listed building of architectural interest dating from c. 1913.
Previously a gramophone factory and a part of the original EMI headquarters.
Located within easy reach of Heathrow and Paddington by public transport, this property offers great potential to create a high value business centre together with residential apartments.
Enterprise House, Hayes, UB3 130,000 sq ft purchased for 6.85m Five minutes walk to proposed Crossrail at Hayes Station Area of significant change and improvement Mixed use development proposed Industrial storage space to be repositioned to high value Business Centre Apartments to be created as part of our Enterprise House mixed use development Apartments to be created 70 Workspace Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Canterbury Court, SW9 Major redevelopment Kennington Park to provide new business centre.
Kennington Park was purchased as an industrial estate but we recognised the potential to reposition the site as a centre for small businesses in the creative sector.
The site is well served by public transport linking customers to the City and mid town.
The redevelopment of Canterbury Court at a total cost of 12.2m has provided a 100,000 sq ft business centre with a caf and glazed atrium as a focal point.
Emphasis has been placed on the sustainability of the new buildings with renewable energy being generated from helix windmills and photovoltaic cells.
The building opened for business in January 2008 and is already 40% let, recent lettings having been achieved at 30 per sq ft. Redevelopment of Canterbury Court 12m Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 REGENERATION continued Housing: Planning strategy Intensification will create much needed private, affordable and shared In addition to meeting our customers specific ownership homes close to areas of employment.
demands, Workspace is well placed to meet the Spending: social and environmental targets set by the Mayor of Spending by the new households will improve the local economy for London and Central Government.
In almost all cases planning policy dictates that employment on our Transport: sites is protected, but where there is the opportunity we are promoting Our sites are close to public transport as this is a key criteria in the mixed use employment led regeneration.
This will enable higher acquisition.
This is recognised as an important factor in ensuring the density schemes with uses such as residential private, affordable and success of high density mixed use schemes.
student accommodation together with improved and more valuable commercial space for our customers.
Sustainability: We are dedicated to creating sustainable mixed communities with a Local authorities will often resist mixed use development in areas critical mass of business and residential uses.
The energy demands designated for employment and as a consequence planning consent of such developments make it possible to provide efficient and is likely to take longer and require more complex justification than renewable sources of energy on site reducing the carbon footprint applications that comply in all aspects with local Unitary Development for our customers.
Our approach to obtaining planning consent is to emphasise the following benefits: Whilst the change from employment to mixed use represents a challenge with local authorities, our credibility as a provider of Employment: employment space and our understanding of the accommodation Existing properties often have low density accommodation needs of small businesses puts us in a good position to achieve a that no longer meets the requirements of the SME market.
Redevelopment would produce workspace better suited to current SME demands and increase the amount of employment on the site.
During the year, we have achieved planning consent for the following: Core Workspace Properties obtaining planning consent 2007 08 Property Existing Consent Increase Future strategy Thurston Road, SE13 46,433 sq ft 406 apartments, 6 times the existing Site to be sold 40,000 sq ft retail, floorspace 4,000 sq ft live workspace Aberdeen Works, N5 56,283 sq ft 72 apartments, 2 times the existing Residential site to 66,000 sq ft workspace floorspace be sold, Workspace to develop Business Centre 34,571 sq ft 106 apartments, 3 times the existing Site sold Parmiter Industrial Estate, E2 54 student studios, floorspace 27,000 sq ft mixed commercial uses 35,013 sq ft Extension of existing building 1.5 times the existing Workspace to develop Linton House, SE1 to create a total of 50,000 sq ft floorspace Business Centre workspace 1.
Wandsworth Business Village, SW18 Grand Union Centre, W10 One of the properties in the Glebe Joint An application for detailed planning Venture for which detailed consent has consent will be submitted in respect of this been obtained for the site to be developed.
property which is in the Glebe Joint Venture.
Workspace Group PLC 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Neil House, E1 Simple repositioning of existing building to produce new business centre Neil House comprising two adjacent buildings was purchased in October 2007.
The main building was configured as conventional offices, and is located close to our Whitechapel Technology Centre.
The building was achieving rents of 12 psf.
We recognise that the demand in this location is from small businesses where in excess of 20 psf could be achieved.
Currently, work is underway to reposition the building to suit our core customer base by dividing it into small units.
The refurbishment is costing 1m and work is scheduled for completion by July 2008.
Neil House scheduled for completion July2008 In addition, we submitted a planning application for our Greenheath received planning for alternative use, we will generally sell the sites Business Centre to provide 76,500 sq ft of new business space and or develop with a partner in a joint venture.
253 student housing units which we have agreed to sell to Unite plc.
In some cases, where we have a mixed use redevelopment, a In spite of planning officer recommendation for a grant of planning developer will return to us the new commercial space as part of the consent and Greater London Authority support for the scheme, overall development.
This model has been used at our Wharf Road the planning committee refused the application.
The decision scheme where United House will return 30,000 sq ft of new business is now subject to an appeal to the Secretary of State.
centre in July 2008 as part of a development including 82 apartments.
Business model for redevelopment Planning consents are valid for three years so we are well placed to Our property portfolio provides a rich range of opportunities for continue to derive income from those sites with consent whilst we regeneration over time.
Over a longer time horizon, we estimate that carry out a thorough analysis of the market and choose the timing a least half of the portfolio has redevelopment potential.
In addition of any development to suit prevailing economic conditions.
to the reprovision of new Business Centres more aligned to local customer demand, we are able to provide a range of other uses Glebe Joint Venture to generate the highest value.
These include student housing, The joint venture with Glebe was formed to promote development of residential, self-storage and budget hotels.
the 11 sites which were sold into the joint venture by Workspace in 2006.
Over the next five years, we have identified 18 properties where we Workspaces role in the joint venture is to asset manage the sites believe it is realistic to achieve planning consent and redevelop.
whilst they are prepared for development.
The majority of the Glebe joint venture sites are income producing and development will only Our business model for development is that, in general, we will only commence in suitable economic conditions.
undertake development ourselves where we intend to hold the properties for the longer term for commercial letting.
Where we have During the year, the joint venture has achieved planning consent on two sites: Glebe Joint Venture Properties obtaining planning consent 2007 08 Property Existing Consent Increase Future strategy 86,684 sq ft 206 apartments, 2.5 times the existing Site to be developed Wandsworth Business Centre, SW18 Detailed consent 84,000 sq ft workspace floorspace Grand Union Centre, W10 50,794 sq ft 145 apartments, 4 times the existing Application for Outline consent 110,000 sq ft workspace, floorspace detailed consent 11,000 sq ft retail Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
