Directors report The directors report is required to include a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2008 including an analysis of the development and performance of the Group during the year and the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as a Business Review.
The information which makes up the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the annual report, and also in the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report accompanying the annual report and accounts which is available on our website at www.
com, all of which are incorporated into this report by reference: n Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3 n Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 9 n Financial review on pages 10 to 13 n Safety, health and environment report on pages 14 to 19 n Principal risks and uncertainties as discussed in the Financial Review section on pages 10 to 13.
Principal activities of the Company and subsidiaries Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire, and providing central direction for a speciality chemical group with operations across the globe.
The Group carries out research and development activities in the main market it serves, further details of which can be find in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 9.
Profit and dividends The results for the year are set out on page 40.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.55p per share 2007: 10.8p.
If approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will amount to 19.75p per share 2007: 15.75p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 58.
Acquisitions and disposals Brief details of the acquisitions and disposals made by the Group during the year are set out below.
Further details appear in note 7 on page 56.
February 2008 Sale of the Groups 46.5% interest in Baxenden Chemicals Ltd to Chemtura Corporation May 2008 Sale of the Groups Chicago oleochemicals business to H. I. G. Capital LLC August 2008 Acquisition of Cognis GmbHs isostearic acid business Directors The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board of directors.
The Articles also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first annual general meeting AGM following appointment and all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, to submit themselves for re-election.
The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 20 and 21.
Martin Flower is required to retire by rotation and so will be standing for re-election at the AGM.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 25 to 32.
Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and service contracts, no director had any beneficial interest in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company, including share options, is shown in the directors remuneration report on page 30.
The directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions given by special resolution and to the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
Directors indemnities The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary which represent qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the directors or secretary may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
In addition such indemnities have been granted to other officers of the Company who are directors of subsidiary companies within the Group.
Since the end of the year the Company has granted an indemnity representing qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 to a paid director of the corporate trustee of the Groups UK pension schemes.
Share capital At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
22 Directors report Directors report Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report: n details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 68 and 71 n details of the employee share schemes are set out on pages 68 to 71.
Power to issue shares At the 2008 AGM, authority was given to the directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up to a maximum of an amount equivalent to the amount of its unissued share capital.
No such shares have been issued.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Both these authorities expire on the date of the 2009 AGM to be held on 29 April 2009 and so the directors propose to renew them for a further year.
The directors also intend to take advantage of the recent relaxation of the restrictions on directors seeking authority to allot shares of an amount in excess of one third of the Companys issued share capital to increase the authority in the case of a rights issue.
Last year the members also renewed the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
No purchases were made during the year.
The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2009 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
It is the Companys intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Further details of the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan can be found on page 82.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Significant contracts and change of control The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in the event of a change of control.
The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on participants rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Neither of the executive directors service contracts contain provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company which are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the Group.
The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Audit information The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Community Involvement Croda has a long tradition of engagement with its local communities which has enabled us to assimilate quickly our normal activities into the CSR agenda.
In this respect CSR has not been an adjunct to, but a core part of, our philosophy.
We aim to have a positive impact on the communities in which we are located.
With the global reach of our operations, this gives us the opportunity to interact with our neighbours in all parts of the world across a wide range of social circumstances.
A detailed report on activities is given in our CSR report, Our Responsibility and shows our continued focus on participation in education and local neighbourhood projects.
During 2008, our work with schools, colleges and universities included providing work experience, mentoring and career guidance, site visits and participating in national initiatives.
These more formal educational activities are enhanced by the many instances of individual help given by our employees volunteering to work in their local community schools assisting with lessons, sporting and arts events.
Engaging with local communities takes many forms, from the formality of European business Supervisory Boards and interaction with local government, through neighbourhood consultation and involvement such as that related to the wind turbine installation at Hull, to more ad hoc activities through our employee volunteer programmes and their activities to raise money for good causes.
Employment Policies Our responsibility is to provide our people with a workplace that is based on fairness, equality and mutual respect and which enables individuals to achieve their potential and contribute to the success of the business.
Key to our people management strategy is the ongoing attraction and retention of exceptional staff and the belief that employee development is integral to our success.
Having well established succession plans, together with development and training opportunities, enables us to fulfil our policy of internal promotion, particularly at senior management level.
This is underpinned by our graduate and apprenticeship programmes which attract high calibre talent to Croda.
In 2008, our established graduate programmes in Europe and America have been enhanced by our newly developed scheme in India with seven participants in its first year.
23 Directors report When internal moves are not possible we aim to recruit from our local communities whilst maintaining our high standards to ensure the company has skilled and motivated employees.
We train our line managers in assessment and interviewing techniques to ensure these standards are consistently and rigorously applied so that applicants to the business are treated fairly and the best people are recruited.
Individual performance is promoted through our objective setting and appraisal processes and the identification of development needs and related training.
In 2008, all levels of employees within the Group had opportunities to enhance their skills and knowledge, ranging from job skills and procedures to in-house management, leadership, personal skills and knowledge training to external specialist courses including executive development at leading international business schools.
On average, each employee participated in 21 hours of training development activity in 2008.
Our approach to reward policies has remained targeted at ensuring a sensible balance of employee retention and motivation whilst reflecting market position and sustainability.
We have a global Sharesave scheme in place with a high level of international take up over 55% of employees.
We provide pension schemes in most of the countries in which we operate and have approximately 70% of our employees worldwide in a company scheme.
Communication with our employees is vital for individual and business success and we actively look for employee feedback.
Listening and acting on the views and ideas of our people enables us to be innovative which is a core value within Croda.
Again we have a range of approaches including formal opinion surveys US, employee union consultation forums, cascade of information through line managers, local newsletters and our ever popular in-house magazine, CrodaWay.
We are always seeking ways to ensure that all are included in a genuine two way dialogue and our local management have this at the heart of their responsibilities.
It has long been our ethos that work should also be fun and we have encouraged informal events that enable people to relax and enjoy being together.
We, therefore, look for opportunities both in and outside of working time where our employees and sometimes also their families can take pleasure in social activities.
Supplier payment policy Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2008, the Group had an average of 44 days 2007 restated : 47 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
Charitable and political donations Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 57,000 2007: 73,000.
No donations were made for political purposes 2007: Nil.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on Wednesday, 29 April 2009 at 12 noon.
The notice of meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document issued to shareholders with this annual report.
Independent auditors Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Substantial shareholders As at 12 February 2009, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Ordinary shares % of share capital Nature of holding AXA S. A 6,709,097 4.93% Direct 0.76%, Indirect 4.17% Legal & General Group Plc 5,425,798 3.98% Direct By order of the Board Louise Scott Secretary 16 February 2009 24 Directors report
