DIRECTORS REPORT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 18 CONNECTING WITH OPPORTUNITY 1 Product development In 2008, we invested some $150 million in R&D on an underlying basis.
This represents around 21.6% of our total revenue, a proportion normal within an R&D intensive industry.
This investment has been focussed on the technologies relevant to the Connectivity Centre and associated ecosystems such as handsets and headsets: Bluetooth, Bluetooth low energy, FM, Wi-Fi, GPS and eGPS, UWB and audio signal processing: which focus we believe is unique in our sector.
The functionality of the Connectivity Centre is immediately apparent to any end customer, and thereby brings product differentiation and therefore competitive advantage to our customers.
In contrast, cellular baseband, although undoubtedly essential actually brings little, if any, end product differentiation.
CSR first identified and defined this concept and through our intelligent integration strategy now have many of the required technologies both as stand-alone chips and in combinations tailored for various market segments.
1 BLUETOOTH, FM, BLUETOOTH LOW ENERGY AND WI-FI Evolution of the Connectivity Centre ARE ALREADY KEY COMPONENTS OF PRODUCTS ALREADY Bluetooth, FM, Bluetooth low energy and Wi-Fi are already key FULLY DEVELOPED components of products already fully developed, with Bluetooth at the heart of and an essential component on which successful deployment of all other technologies depend.
These have been developed on 90nm and 65nm CMOS processes.
We are developing the Connectivity Centre further in a number of ways: csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 our r&d investment has been focussed on the technologies relevant to the connectivity centre and associated eco-systems James Collier, Chief Technical Officer 19 We expect to see GPS increase penetration rapidly over the High speed wireless data transfers.
The MusiCore products next few years, with the potential to become ubiquitous, whereas can connect directly to the bulk NAND Flash cards memory of it has hitherto been largely confined to driver navigation devices.
the phone or PMP, and we can take advantage of this to transfer To date, most GPS optimisations have been for vehicles and it is or synchronise files in an efficient manner without the bottleonly recently that most manufacturers have begun thinking about necks or power penalties of transfer via the applications the practicalities of adding useable GPS functionality to 2G and processor.
We have already demonstrated transfer speeds of 3G phones.
The recently announced BlueCore 7830 BT FM ten times the normal Bluetooth speed using our Wi-Fi with the GPS combination chip is specifically targeted to cellular phones.
developing Bluetooth AMP protocol, and one hundred times Several more, with significantly enhanced performance, are in using our UWB with the same AMP protocol.
Our UWB method development and we expect to be taping-out during 2009. is ten times faster than that of competitors Wi-Fi versions, while using only one tenth of the energy per bit transferred.
In performance terms, our GPS delivers competitive advantage Nonetheless we support and make chips for both Wi-Fi and by reducing the board area and cost of adding GPS to cellular UWB high speed enhancements, and can use the most phones.
Following the benefits derived from our acquisition appropriate in each use-case.
of the technologies and skills of Cambridge Positioning Systems by integrating with measurements made on the cellular network Advanced Technology.
During 2008 we analysed thoroughly infrastructure of mobile phone communication masts, we are the cost of the various functions described above for a variety able to provide fast fixes and extend coverage even inside of silicon geometries.
It is clear that all our devices are currently buildings.
This we believe to be essential before cellular on the optimum process.
Furthermore we have decided that operators deploy location based software in any meaningful 65nm is inappropriate for many products, being more costly manner.
for single standard devices and sub-optimal for larger combination devices.
This is a different conclusion to that Music playback has already grown to be a standard feature of made by competitors and stems from our designs being phones, but has usually been added as an afterthought to the in general smaller than theirs on the same process node.
applications processors or cellular baseband chips, resulting We have therefore decided to concentrate future process in current consumption and therefore battery life which is development on 40nm.
We have already taped-out test becoming unacceptable.
Since the Bluetooth and FM devices silicon on 40nm and have several projects and circuits under from CSR already contain an audio router and DSP capability it development during 2009. has been straightforward for us to add music decode, including DRM and HiFi quality audio to our chips.
This not only has size and cost advantages, it has reduced power consumption up James Collier to ten fold.
Additionally we have included the advanced noise Chief Technical Officer cancellation DSP which we have used successfully in headsets and car-kits for some years, further improving audio quality during normal voice calls.
Many enhancements have been made during 2008, and we anticipate developing further chips with advanced music and speech processing during 2009. csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008
