DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 40 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance The Board The Company supports the principles of corporate As at 2 January 2009, the Board comprised nine governance contained in the Combined Code on members, being the Chairman, Mr Ron Mackintosh, Corporate Governance which is appended to the four executive directors and four non-executive Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Of those in post as at 2 January 2009, six directors, including Mr Mackintosh had served The Board is accountable to the Companys throughout the year.
The four executive directors in office shareholders for good governance.
The Company has at 2 January 2009 were Mr Joep van Beurden, Chief complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Executive Officer, Mr Will Gardiner, Chief Financial 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance other Officer appointed 18 June 2008, Mr James Collier, than the provision relating to the composition of the Chief Technical Officer and Mr Chris Ladas, Operations Board and the balance of executive and non-executive Director appointed 1 January 2008.
The four nondirectors over the period 1 January 2008 to executive directors, each of whom is considered 29 September 2008.
With the appointment to the independent of management were Mr David Tucker, Board on 1 January 2008 of Mr Chris Ladas, the number Mr Anthony Carlisle, Mr Sergio Giacoletto and of executive directors became greater than that of Mr Andrew Allner appointed 1 October 2008. non-executive directors.
As explained in the Corporate Governance report for the 2007 Annual Report, the Mr Paul Goodridge stood down from the Board on Board considers that Mr Ladas extensive experience, 29 February 2008. both as Senior Vice President, Operations in the Group since 2000 and senior executive roles in other Mr Mackintosh has served as Chairman of the Board semiconductor companies contributes to the balance since May 2007 and as a non-executive director of the of skills and experience of the Board as a whole.
In the opinion of the Board, In the period from Mr Goodridge standing down as on each of his appointments as a non-executive director an executive director on 29 February 2008, through to and as Chairman, Mr Mackintosh was independent of the appointment of Mr Gardiner as an executive director management.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Mackintosh on 18 June, the composition of the Board fulfilled the is able to devote the necessary time commitments to provisions of the Combined Code.
the role of Chairman of the Board.
During 2008, the Board conducted a search for an Mr Tucker is the Senior Independent Director.
Until he additional non-executive director through external stood down from the Board, Mr Goodridge was the consultants.
The Board believes that it was appropriate director responsible for health and safety within the to ensure that a rigorous process was applied to the Group.
On his appointment to the Board, Mr Gardiner selection of an additional non-executive director.
became the director responsible for health and safety.
This process culminated in the appointment on The directors possess diverse business experience in 1 October 2008 of Mr Andrew Allner.
The Board is spheres complementary to CSRs activities, as well as satisfied an appropriate balance was in place in the other sectors.
Biographies of the directors are shown interim period to enable the Board to perform its on page 39.
Mr Brett Gladden served as Company responsibilities effectively.
The statements as follows describe how the Company The Board meets regularly during the year as well as has applied the principles identified in the Combined on an adhoc basis as required by time critical business Code.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective and proper management and control of the Company and Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
Its primary roles are to determine and review Company strategy and policy, consider acquisitions and disposals, assess requests for major capital expenditure and give consideration to all other significant financial matters.
This process is undertaken following discussions in conjunction with senior executive management, who in turn, are responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on the progress being made in meeting the objectives.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 41 The Chairman ensures that the Board functions The Board met 11 times during the year and the effectively, overseeing the timely and effective provision attendance of each of the directors is shown on page 45. of information to the Board and that the business of the Board is properly conducted.
A comprehensive file of During the year, the Board undertook a formal process briefing papers and a meeting agenda is provided for of performance evaluation.
Each director completed a each director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary, taken by the Board, in conjunction, where appropriate, covering a wide range of matters associated with the with the recommendations of its Committees and advice activities and conduct of the Board and its Committees.
from external consultants and executive management.
The process was conducted without reference to external agencies.
A detailed summary of the responses The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse was prepared by the Company Secretary which was business, financial and technical experience, details of considered by the Board as an agenda item in which are summarised on page 39 and they each play December 2008 led by the Chairman.
a full role in the consideration of matters brought before the Board.
This includes considering, approving and The overall conclusion was that the Board and its monitoring performance against the strategic objectives Committees were performing appropriately.
of the Group through detailed reviews conducted at Board level.
Strategic objectives are determined each The Chairman holds regular meetings with all the year and this assessment incorporates a two day offsite directors individually.
In addition, prior to the year end, meeting attended by the Board and the executive the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive leadership team that report to the CEO.
directors to discuss the performance of the executive directors which concluded that they were each In accordance with the provisions of the Combined performing well.
Code, consideration has been given to the independence of all the non-executive directors.
In October 2008, the non-executive directors, led The Board considers all the non-executive directors by the Senior Independent Director, met in the absence to be independent of management and free from any of the Chairman to appraise the performance of business or other relationship that could materially Mr Mackintosh as Chairman.
The non-executive interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
directors concluded that he had performed well.
The division of responsibilities between the nonIn accordance with the Companys Articles of executive Chairman and Mr van Beurden, CEO, is Association, all directors are required to retire and submit sufficiently clear in the opinion of the Board that it themselves for re-election at least once every three is not required that they be formally documented.
It is the policy of the Board that non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
The CEO has day-to-day responsibility for the Group The directors performance is assesed throughout the and has reporting to him executive management who term.
An appointment may, if performance is in turn are responsible for the performance of discrete satisfactory, be extended for a further period not commercial and operational activities of the Group.
Non-executive directors should includes management teams responsible for reviewing not generally serve for more than nine years.
the implementation of established objectives and assessing performance of particular functions against During 2008, the letter of appointment for Mr Carlisle fell those objectives.
Representatives from these teams in due for review following the completion of his initial three turn attend and report to a weekly executive leadership year term of appointment.
His letter of appointment has forum which includes the executive directors.
The CEO been extended for a further three year term.
also meets regularly with the managers and leaders in various established forums that fit with the operational cycles of the Group.
The CEO formally reports at each meeting of the Board on salient matters arising from the execution of his responsibilities.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued On appointment, all directors are advised that they have In accordance with the Combined Code, the duties of 42 access to the advice and services of the Company the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
Secretary and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek These are available from the Company Secretary and independent professional advice in the furtherance of can be found on the Companys website, www.
their duties, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
As Membership of the Committees is shown on page 39. part of their induction, the directors are provided with a The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each detailed file explaining their role and duties, in addition to of the Committees.
background information on the Company and Group as well as the function and recent deliberations of the Board Remuneration Committee and its committees.
In addition, where appropriate, Mr Sergio Giacoletto is the Chairman of the meetings with advisers to the Company and Board are Remuneration Committee, which position he has held arranged to assist in briefing a director on appointment.
The other members of the Directors are also provided with information and Committee at 2 January 2009 were Messrs Allner, assistance in the event of any change in their role.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of The principal function of the Committee is to establish Association, directors are granted an indemnity from the and review the terms and conditions for the executive Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of directors, and the overall policy framework for the liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their remuneration of other senior executives and the Group duties in their capacity as directors to the Company.
The Committee met three times during the indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent year and the attendance of its members is shown in the that a director is proven to have acted fraudulently or table on page 45. dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of legal action against the directors The report to shareholders on how directors are and officers.
remunerated, together with details of individual directors remuneration are shown on pages 50 to 61.
Communications with shareholders Principally via the executive directors, the Company Nomination Committee seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination with its major shareholders through regular meetings Committee, which position he has held since and presentations following announcements of each 2 May 2007.
The other members of the Committee at quarters results.
During the year, Mr Mackintosh 2 January 2009 were Messrs Allner, Carlisle, Giacoletto participated in a number of these meetings.
The Senior Independent Director, Mr David Tucker, is The Committee meets as appropriate to consider available to meet institutional shareholders should there appointments to the Board and to consider succession be unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention.
planning at senior levels within the Company.
The Board is also appraised of discussions with major The Committee reviews the composition of the Board, shareholders to ensure that executive and non-executive particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience directors consider any matters which might be raised by and terms of office and seeks to ensure that both those shareholders and to enable all directors to executive and non-executive directors have the understand shareholders views.
This includes feedback necessary skills and attributes for the future success from the meetings attended by executive directors and of the Group.
the Chairman, in addition to reports from the Companys advisers on their engagement with shareholders on The Committee retains external search consultants as behalf of the Company.
appropriate and during 2008 engaged Russell Reynolds to assist in the appointment of a new Chief Financial Although the non-executive directors are not asked to Officer, which culminated in the appointment of meet with the Companys shareholders as a matter of Mr Will Gardiner to the Board on 18 June 2008.
Russell course, their attendance at the Annual General Meeting Reynolds were also engaged during 2008 to assist in a is required.
Corporate information is also available on search and appointment process for an additional the Companys website, www.
This culminated in the appointment of Mr Andrew Allner to the Board on Committees of the Board 1 October 2008.
The Board has three committees, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination.
During the year, the Chairman and On appointment, all non-executive directors undertake each of Mr Tucker, Mr Carlisle and Mr Giacoletto were that they will have sufficient time to meet the role members of the Remuneration and Nomination expected of them.
Mr Mackintosh attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
Following his appointment During 2008, the Committee met once formally to to the Board, Mr Andrew Allner became a member of the discuss the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
and as part of a formal meeting of the Board to consider the appointment of Mr Allner as a non-executive director.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 Audit Committee Deloitte LLP have been the Companys auditors since 43 Mr David Tucker is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, July 2002 and the cost, scope and effectiveness of the a position he has held since January 2004.
The other audit are reviewed regularly.
During 2008, the members of the Committee at 2 January 2009 were Committee commissioned an internal review of the Messrs Allner, Carlisle and Giacoletto.
Mr Mackintosh, effectiveness of the external auditors and concluded Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the that Deloitte LLP should be recommended for reCommittee by invitation.
The experience and expertise appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
of the members of the Committee are summarised on page 39.
The attendance of its members is shown in the The Committee reviews all proposed announcements to table on page 45.
The Committee met four times during be made by the Group to the extent they contain financial the year and reported its conclusions to the full Board.
The Committee also monitors and reviews The Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer, the the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, Chief Financial Officer, the Internal Auditor and senior accounting policies and practices, risk management representatives of the external auditors to attend procedures and compliance controls, as well as the meetings as appropriate to the business being statement on internal controls before they are agreed considered.
In addition, the Committee has the right to by the Board for each years annual report.
invite any other employees to attend meetings where this is considered to be appropriate.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function, approving the annual The Committee is responsible for the development, internal audit plan, and thereafter reviewing reports implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on the results of internal audit work which has been on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and conducted.
These reports also up-date the Committee effectiveness of the auditors.
The Committee monitors on the progress in addressing any recommendations the conduct of the statutory audits of the consolidated that have been made arising from the audits which have reports and financial statements.
consideration of the areas of focus of the audits in conjunction with the external auditors and assessment The Chairman of the Committee attends the Companys of their findings and recommendations, where relevant.
Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised concerning the The Committee recommends the appointment and Committees activities.
re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and considers the scope of their audit work, the terms Internal control of their appointment, their fees and the cost Philosophy and policy effectiveness of their work.
The objective of the directors and senior management is to safeguard and increase the value of the business and During 2008, as part of its formal business, the assets of the Company.
Part of this objective requires the Committee met on four occasions with the external development of relevant policies and appropriate internal auditors.
On two occasions the Committee also controls to ensure proper management of the held separate meetings with the external auditors at Companys resources and the identification of risks which no executive director or employee of the which might serve to undermine them.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups In relation to the appointment of external auditors and in system of internal control and for reviewing its order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, effectiveness.
The systems and processes established the Committee has a policy of permitted services which by the Board are designed to manage, rather than details the services that can be provided by the Groups eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives auditors and those services which require specific and provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance approval by the Committee.
The policy also details against misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated services that the Groups auditors are not permitted responsibility for the review of practices and procedures to provide.
The policy was reviewed and revised in to the Audit Committee.
The policy has been complied with management, in conjunction with external advisers are throughout the year.
responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of current systems on which they report to The Committee is aware of and has approved the the Audit Committee.
audit and non-audit services which have been provided during 2008 by the Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Those non-audit services concerned advice on tax matters which was considered to be appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding this work, Deloitte LLP have retained objectivity and independence during the year.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Audit Committee reviews the findings to ensure Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify that 44 the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes ongoing practices within relevant parts of the Group implemented by senior management.
This includes comply with current policies.
In addition, policies are discussions with senior management of the Group themselves reviewed against best practice and in order and consideration of reports that have been submitted.
to take appropriate account of developments both within These findings are in turn regularly reviewed and or external to the Groups business operations.
As an discussed by the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that example steps are ongoing to embed internal control this process accords with the internal control guidance and risk management further into the operations of the for directors set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Group and to deal with areas of improvement which Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code come to managements and to the Boards attention.
and that through its interface with management, the Board is aware of the major risks facing the Group and During 2008, as part of a rolling programme of assessing the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks, tax exposures in each jurisdiction in which the Group has so far as is possible.
The risk evaluation process has a presence, a formal review of the Groups standing and been the subject of review during 2008 and a revised business practices in conjunction with local tax process adopted which reflects the changing nature regulations was undertaken in Japan and Korea.
of the business in particular following the strategic This assessment, which was supported by external review completed earlier in 2008.
A risk evaluation consultants was followed by seminars in each territory process has been implemented throughout 2008 and to inform local management of appropriate practices to was in place up to the date of approval of the Annual ensure continued compliance with the Groups policies Report and financial statements.
The review concluded that the operations were compliant with local tax regulations.
A report was Managing risks provided to the Audit Committee detailing the results of The Board confirms that the actions it considers the review and that report was considered at a formal necessary have been or are being taken to remedy meeting of the Committee.
such failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the system of internal As explained in the Directors Report Business Review control.
This has involved considering the matters on pages 28 and 29, the Group has a treasury policy for reported to it and developing plans and programmes the placement of cash deposits with financial institutions.
that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The policy is reviewed annually and was most recently considered at a meeting of the Committee in October A summary of the structures and processes in place 2008.
The review considered amongst other aspects to identify and manage risks across the Group are set of the policy, the requirement for the Groups cash to out below.
be spread amongst multiple counter-parties and the minimum credit ratings required to be met to allow the Risk profiling Group to make a deposit with each counter-party, in There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate addition to the authorities required to manage the risks faced by the Group, through the conduct of regular movement of funds.
Management also keeps the Board meetings by the Groups senior management, and appraised on the placement of funds and the steps engagement of external consultants where in the opinion being taken to safeguard the Groups cash resources.
of the Groups Senior Management this is considered appropriate.
Findings are reported to the Audit The Group has a formal whistle-blowing policy Committee together with recommended actions for which was last up-dated during 2006 and has been managing the risks and a timetable for implementation.
The policy The assessment of prioritised risks is refreshed on a provides information on the process to follow in the regular basis to reflect changes to the business and any event that any employee feels it appropriate to make observations or proposals arising from events since the a disclosure.
Periodically the Committee ensures that last review.
A schedule of the prioritised risks along with employees are reminded of the existence of the policy other management information is used to develop an and the Companys ability to respond appropriately overall assurance plan for the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an Controlling risk adequate basis for employees to make representations The Group has policies which address a range of key in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and business risks, including financial, treasury, health and proportionate investigation.
safety and the protection of intellectual property.
The policies are made available to relevant employees The Group carries out a programme of management through policy manuals, an intranet site and also via self-assessment over the status of key business risks employee briefings on specific topics as appropriate.
through formal reviews which consider the risks faced by the business, how these might be mitigated and who within the Group is responsible for implementing agreed actions.
Where appropriate, external advisers are appointed in order to support this process.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk Attendance at meetings 45 The actions arising from external and internal The table below shows the attendance of each of the assessments of risks are consolidated and during 2008 directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees the results were reported to the Audit Committee.
held during the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The Committee assesses the findings and proposed No.
of Meetings 11 4 3 1 actions for addressing residual risks and also advises J A J van Beurden 11 on areas for further attention.
A J Allner 2 1 2 J D Y Collier 11 Business continuity planning D D W Gardiner 5 During 2007 a project was initiated to refresh the P G G Goodridge 1 Business Continuity Plan for the Group.
The project has C A Ladas 11 been facilitated by the risk management practice of a R W Mackintosh 11 3 1 leading independent consultant.
Through workshops A E C G Carlisle 11 3 3 1 and one-on-one interviews, the potential significant risks S Giacoletto 11 4 3 1 were identified and an action plan established to enable D L Tucker 11 4 3 1 the Group to respond in the event that such a risk arose.
That plan was the subject of further work through 2008.
Annual General Meeting resolutions There is a programme of further reviews and testing The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General during 2009.
The findings and steps taken to date have Meeting to be held on 27 May 2009, together with been reported to the Audit Committee.
explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all Internal financial controls registered shareholders.
The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and reporting of financial performance and By Order of the Board assessing the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This includes Brett Gladden assessment of the Groups strategic direction, objectives Company Secretary and financial returns and the risks in achieving them.
9 February 2009 As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecasting process and regular business review meetings are also held involving senior management worldwide, at which the Groups overall performance is assessed.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Board at each meeting.
A summary of the key financial and non-financial risks inherent in the Groups business is given on pages 29 to 32 and 35 to 37.
These processes are supported by discrete reviews conducted by external advisers, as determined by the Committee, in addition to the routine audits.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls which were in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of signing the Financial Statements for the 53 week period ended 2 January 2009. csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008
