DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS 38 B BO OA AR RD O D OF D F DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 l Remuneration Committee n Audit Committee s Nomination Committee Motorola and Signetics.
Mr Ladas holds 3 James Collier 39 Chief Technical Officer, Co-founder a B. S. in Chemistry from Arizona State University, US.
He is also a member of Mr Collier has served as the Companys Chief Technical Officer since CSRs the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and a member of the Europe, establishment in April 1999.
Mr Collier is a co-founder of CSR.
Between 1984 Middle East and Africa Leadership Council of the Global Semiconductor Alliance and April 1999, Mr Collier held a number of executive and technical positions Formerly the Fabless Semiconductor Association.
Age 63. at Cambridge Consultants Ltd, where he formed the microelectronics group 7 Sergio Giacoletto l n s in 1987.
Prior to 1984, Mr Collier held 1 Ron Mackintosh l s Non-executive Director a number of executive and technical Chairman Mr Giacoletto was appointed a nonpositions at Schlumberger.
Mr Collier has Mr Mackintosh has served as a nonexecutive director of CSR on 4 January a degree in Physics from the University of executive director of CSR since May 2004 2007.
He is the Chairman of the Oxford.
Age 50. and was appointed Chairman with Remuneration Committee.
In December effect from 2 May 2007.
4 Anthony Carlisle l n s 2008, Mr Giacoletto retired from Oracle Mr Mackintosh is a non-executive director Corporation, where he had been executive Non-executive Director of software company Fidessa group plc.
Mr Carlisle was appointed a nonvice president of Oracle Corporation, Mr Mackintosh has held a number of Europe, Middle East and Africa and executive director of CSR in July 2005. senior executive positions in European Mr Carlisle is an executive director of also a member of Oracles executive technology companies.
Prior to joining Oracle in Citigate Dewe Rogerson Consultancy, and 2000 he was chief executive of where he is responsible for strategic 1997, Mr Giacoletto was President, Value Computer Sciences Corporations CSC Added Services at AT&T, before which consultancy and client services.
He has European business which had revenues over 30 years experience in marketing he spent 20 years with Digital Equipment of $2.5 billion.
He is also a former director Corporation in various senior management and communications, advising major of Gemplus SA, and the former chairman companies in the UK and internationally.
Mr Giacoletto has of each of Smartstream Technologies Ltd, served on multiple company boards and IT He holds a BA in Economics and is a Northgate Information Solutions plc and Fellow of the Institute of Public Relations.
In February 2009, also of Differentis, a privately owned IT Mr Giacoletto was appointed a nonAge 61. consultancy which he co-founded in July executive director of Logica plc.
5 Will Gardiner a Masters in Computer Science from the Chief Financial Officer University of Turin.
2 Joep van Beurden Will Gardiner joined CSR as Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer Officer in June 2008.
Prior to joining 8 David Tucker l n s Mr van Beurden was appointed Chief Non-executive Director, CSR, Mr Gardiner was Director, Finance Executive Officer of CSR on 1 November Technology and Enterprise at BSkyB plc, Senior Independent Director 2007.
Mr van Beurden has over ten years Mr Tucker joined CSR as a non-executive responsible for a 100 strong team which of experience in managing technology supported the technology platforms director in January 2004.
He is the companies in the US and Europe.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and across BSkyB and its enterprise division.
For the three years prior to joining CSR, Before its acquisition by BSkyB in 2006, the Senior Independent Director.
After 19 he was Chief Executive of NexWave Inc. years as an investment manager with M&G Mr Gardiner had since 2001 been CFO a provider of embedded software solutions of Easynet Group plc, a pan-European unit trusts, Mr Tucker retired as deputy for the consumer electronics market managing director in 1988.
Mr Tucker is broadband telecoms company.
Before joining NexWave, 1991 and 2001, Mr Gardiner held a a member of the Institute of Chartered Mr van Beurden held senior positions at Accountants in England and Wales.
number of senior roles within J P Morgans Canesta Inc. a fabless semiconductor investment banking division, specialising in Age 69. company, and Philips Components.
Whilst the telecoms and technology sectors.
at Philips, he was part of the executive 9 Andrew Allner l n s Mr Gardiner has a BA from Harvard team which established a successful Non-executive Director College and MA from John Hopkins consumer electronics joint venture with Mr Allner was appointed a non-executive University.
Prior to that, Mr van Beurden worked director of CSR on 1 October 2008. for five years for management and strategy Between 2004 and 2007 he was Group 6 Chris Ladas consultants McKinsey & Company.
Operations Director Finance Director at RHM plc, prior to which Mr van Beurden has also worked as a he was CEO of Enodis PLC.
He has held a Mr Ladas was appointed a director of the crude oil trader for Royal Dutch Shell in Company on 1 January 2008.
He has number of other senior executive positions Rotterdam and lectured in Physics and with Dalgety PLC, Amersham International served as CSRs Senior Vice President, Electronics at the University of Zambia.
Between PLC and Guinness PLC and is a former In January 2009, Mr van Beurden partner of Price Waterhouse.
January 1996 and May 2000, Mr Ladas was appointed a director of the Global served as the vice president of operations Mr Allner is presently a non-executive Semiconductor Alliance, a not-for-profit director and chairman of the audit at Micro Linear Corporation.
Prior to organisation supporting collaboration, 1996, Mr Ladas held several managerial committee at Northgate plc, a nonsupply chain integration and innovation executive director and chairman of the and technical positions at National in the global semiconductor industry.
Semiconductor, Fairchild, Harris, Sperry, remuneration committee at Marshalls plc, Mr van Beurden holds a Masters degree in and a non-executive director and chairman Applied Physics from Twente University of of the audit committee of The Go-Ahead Technology in Enschede, the Netherlands.
Mr Allner is a member of the Age 48.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Age 55. csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008
