DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION 46 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The directors submit their Annual Report and the Directors of the Board audited consolidated financial statements of the The directors who served during the year are explained Company and its subsidiaries for the 53 week period on page 40 of the Corporate Governance report.
Change of control Activities and business review All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions CSR is a leading developer and provider of single chip relating to a change of control of the Company following wireless solutions designed to support data and voice a takeover.
Outstanding options and awards would, communications between a wide range of products subject to satisfaction of applicable performance over short range radio links.
More detailed information conditions and certain rules of the particular schemes on the principal activities of CSR plc and its subsidiaries, normally vest and become exercisable on a change of together with a review of the businesses and a control in some cases subject to a pro-rata adjustment description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing reflecting the time elapsed since the month in which the the Group along with other information that fulfils the grant was made.
requirements of the Business Review are set out on pages 20 to 37.
The use of financial instruments is Share capital covered within the Directors Report Business Review.
The Companys ordinary shares with a nominal value Details of the subsidiaries and branches of the Company of 0.1p per share, are quoted on the London Stock are set out on page 99.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Conditional merger agreement Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained Following the year end, on 9 February 2009, the from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company entered into a conditional Merger Agreement Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary with SiRF Technology Holdings, Inc. SiRF under which shares.
No person holds securities in the Company SiRF will merge with CSR.
SiRF is a global leader in GPS location platforms.
Pursuant to the terms of the merger carrying special rights with regard to control of the agreement, SiRF shareholders will receive 0.741 of an Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements ordinary share in CSR for each SiRF share, which as at between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting close of business on 9 February 2009 values SiRF at rights.
Unless expressly stated to the contrary in the approximately 91 million $136 million.
The conditional agreement is subject to shareholder approval, as well as Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys other conditions customary in a transaction of this Articles of Association may be amended by special nature.
The Company will be sending documentation to resolution of the Companys shareholders.
shareholders setting out the rationale for the proposed During the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009, options merger and containing a notice of general meeting which sets out the timetable of the merger.
Assuming were exercised pursuant to the Companys share all conditions are satisfied, the Company expects the schemes.
The number of shares allotted and the merger would complete in the second quarter of 2009. consideration received in respect of such allotments are detailed in note 31 of the Financial Statements on page 92.
Financial results The Groups consolidated income statement, set out on page 64 shows a decrease to $65.2 million in underlying On 31 December 2008, the ABI issued revised operating profit compared to an underlying operating guidelines relating to directors power to allot and disapply pre-emption rights.
These changes, which profit in 2007 of $172.0 million.
Turnover showed a allow directors authority to issue new shares worth up decrease by 18% to $694.9 million from $848.6 million in 2007 and underlying diluted earnings per share were to two-thirds of a companys existing capital in the case $0.43 from $0.94 in 2007. of a compensatory rights issue without holding a shareholder general meeting, are reflected in Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting the Section 80 Authority.
In accordance with stated policy, no dividend will The directors propose Paragraph A of Resolution 9 in be paid in respect of the 53 weeks ended 2 January 2009 2007: nil.
the Notice of Meeting to renew the authority granted at the Annual General Meeting held in 2008 to allot equity Future development shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 44,442 representing approximately one third of the ordinary It remains the Boards intention to develop the Group shares issued as at the most recent practicable date.
through organic growth and selective acquisition.
csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 47 In addition, the directors propose Paragraph B of shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting to take advantage maximum of 13,332,657 ordinary shares being 10% of of the new ABI guidelines which enable companies to the Companys issued share capital as at the most recent authorise their directors to issue shares worth up to practicable date and also sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
two-thirds of the companys existing capital as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of Resolution 9 in the case of a The directors believe it is advantageous for the Company compensatory rights issue.
If approved at the to have the flexibility to make market purchases of its own forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this would shares.
In the event that shares are purchased, they would either be cancelled and the number in issue would represent in total an aggregate nominal value of 88,884.
This Section 80 Authority, if approved, will expire at the be reduced accordingly or, subject to the legislation earlier of 30 June 2010 the last date by which the referred to below, retained as treasury shares.
The Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2010 directors will only make purchases after consideration of or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be the possible effect on earnings per share, the long term benefits to shareholders and consultation with advisers.
In order to be able to issue new shares to the levels The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury now permitted under the ABI guidelines, the authorised Shares Regulations 2003 allow shares repurchased by share capital of the Company will need to be increased.
the Company to be held as treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of The directors are therefore proposing that the authorised share capital of the Company be increased to employee share schemes.
The Company currently holds 350,000,000 ordinary shares, with a nominal value of no shares in treasury.
The authority contained in the 0.1 pence per share, representing 350,000.
This is Special Resolution will expire at the earlier of 30 June an increase of 165,000,000 shares from the present 2010 the last date by which the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2010, or the conclusion authorised share capital at the date of this report.
of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2010 but it is The limited power granted to the directors at the Annual the current intention of the directors to renew this General Meeting held in May 2008 to allot equity shares authority annually.
for cash other than pro-rata to existing shareholders Notice required for shareholder meetings expires no later than 15 August 2009.
Subject to the terms of the Section 80 Authority, the directors The Shareholders Rights Directive is intended to be recommend Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting that implemented in the UK in August 2009.
The regulation this authority should be renewed so as to give the ability implementing this Directive will increase the notice period until the earlier of 30 June 2010 the last date by which for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other the Company must hold an annual general meeting in 2010, or the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to to be held in 2010 to issue ordinary shares for cash other preserve this ability.
In order to be able to do so after than pro-rata to existing shareholders, in connection August 2009, shareholders must have approved the with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the ordinary calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until share capital issued at the date of this report.
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is shares for cash other than pursuant to the Companys intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The employee share schemes and in connection with Company will also need to meet the requirements for completion of the terms for the merger of SiRF with CSR, electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
which will be the subject of a specific and separate resolution to shareholders at the general meeting referred to on page 46.
Employee Benefit Trust The CSR Employee Benefit Trust was established in 2007 The directors recommend that you vote in favour of to facilitate satisfying the issue of shares to employees within the Group on exercise of vested options under the Resolutions 8, 9 and 10 to maintain the Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any various share option plans of the Company.
issues to finance business opportunities should appropriate circumstances arise.
During 2008, the Trust acquired in the open market an aggregate of 3,222,813 ordinary shares in CSR plc.
This was satisfied through cash drawn down under the terms A Special Resolution will be proposed Resolution 11 in the Notice of Meeting to renew the directors limited of a Loan Facility Agreement established at the time of the authority last granted in 2008 to repurchase ordinary creation of the Trust entered into between CSR plc and csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued the Trust.
The details of each purchase of ordinary shares ordinary shares in the Company.
The foregoing holdings 40 40 48 in CSR plc is shown in note 26 to the Financial Statements do not include the ordinary shares held by the CSR on page 90.
The Trust holds a total of 4,689,580 ordinary Employee Benefit Trust in which the executive directors shares in CSR plc representing 3.5% of the issued share are potential beneficiaries as disclosed earlier.
capital at the date of this report.
Conflicts of interests As participants in the share options plans, the executive The Company has procedures in place to deal with directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries conflicts of interests and believes that procedures from the shares held by the Trust and are therefore are operated efficiently.
regarded for the purposes of the Companies Act as being interested in ordinary shares held by the Trust.
Payment of creditors The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers Directors when it enters into binding purchase contracts to Details of the directors of the Board who served during ensure that suppliers are made aware of terms of the year are contained on page 40.
The Company abides by these terms of directors in office at 2 January 2009 are on page 39. payment.
At 2 January 2009 the number of creditor days outstanding for the Company was 30 2007: 30 In accordance with the Articles of Association, the and for the Group was 64 2007: 54. directors retiring at the Annual General Meeting will be Mr Will Gardiner, executive director and Chief Financial Donations Officer and Mr Andrew Allner, a non-executive director The Company and employees support a number of as they have been appointed since the last meeting.
charities for a variety of causes.
For the period ended Being eligible, Mr Gardiner and Mr Allner offer 2 January 2009, the Company made charitable themselves for election.
There are no directors required donations totalling $20,979 which included $11,866 to stand for re-election under the Companys Articles in respect of donations towards the China earthquake of Association.
appeal, with the remainder being the Companys continued support of local charities.
The Company Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association a did not make any political donations during the year.
director shall retire from office and may offer himself for re-appointment when they have been appointed since Directors responsibility statement the last Annual General Meeting, held office in the The directors are responsible for preparing the preceding two annual general meetings and did not Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and retire at either of them or has been in office for a the Financial Statements.
The directors are required continuous period of nine years or more at the date by the International Auditing Standards IAS Regulation of the meeting.
to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Mr David Tucker, non-executive director, Senior Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit and have also elected to prepare financial statements Committee intends to stand down from the Board at for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in May.
law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act The interests of the executive directors in the options of 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
the Company are detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 60. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year Directors interests in shares the Companys financial position, financial performance The directors in office at 2 January 2009 and their and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation families had the under-mentioned interests in the of the effects of transactions, other events and ordinary shares of the Company.
conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and 2 January 28 December expenses set out in the International Accounting 2009 2007 Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Andrew Allner Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all Joep van Beurden circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by Anthony Carlisle 4,000 4,000 compliance with all applicable International Financial James Collier 1,014,911 1,014,911 Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: Will Gardiner Sergio Giacoletto 5,000 5,000 properly select and apply accounting policies: Chris Ladas 86,234 75,000 Ron Mackintosh 100,000 75,000 present information, including accounting policies, David Tucker 120,000 100,000 in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and There were no changes to the directors shareholdings between 2 January 2009 and 9 February 2009. provide additional disclosures when compliance with On 2 March 2009, Mr Collier acquired an additional the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to 382,002 ordinary shares on the exercise of share options.
enable users to understand the impact of particular This took Mr Colliers total shareholding to 1,396,913 csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008 transactions, other events and conditions on the Going concern 49 entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have considered The directors are responsible for keeping proper future cash forecasts and revenue projections, accounting records which disclose with reasonable based on prudent market data, in their consideration accuracy at any time the financial position of the of going concern.
Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of The Groups business activities, together with the factors fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of likely to affect its future development, performance and a directors report and directors remuneration report position are set out on pages 20 to 37.
The financial which comply with the requirements of the Companies position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position Act 1985. are described in the Business Review on pages 27 to 28.
In addition, note 33 to the Consolidated Financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and and integrity of the Companys website.
processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of the financial Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to preparation and dissemination of financial statements credit risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties which differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
could adversely impact the long term performance of the Group are discussed on page 35 to 37 in the Business Each of the persons who is a director at the date of the Review.
All of these matters have been taken into approval of this report confirms that: account by the directors in coming to their conclusions on going concern.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Management is currently of the opinion that the Group unaware, has adequate financial resources and a robust policy towards treasury risk and cash flow management.
The the director has taken all the steps that he ought to directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to have taken as a director to make himself aware of the manage its business risks successfully despite the relevant audit information and to establish that the current uncertain economic outlook and challenging Companys auditors are aware of that information.
During 2008, additional measures had been taken to safeguard cash and the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance cost reduction programmes and working capital with the applicable set of accounting standards, give management policies have been put in place which will a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial continue in 2009.
The directors consider that the Group position and profit of CSR and the undertakings has flexibility to react to changing market conditions as included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and a substantial proportion of the Groups costs are variable or discretionary and can be reduced or increased in line the report includes a fair review of the development with the needs of the business.
and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable consolidation taken as a whole together with a expectation that the Company and the Group have description of the principal risks and uncertainties adequate resources to continue in operational existence that they face.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual The directors, having prepared the Financial Report and Financial Statements.
Statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps they consider appropriate for the Auditors purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
Deloitte LLP are the Companys auditors and have expressed their willingness to continue in the office Substantial shareholdings of auditors and therefore, in accordance with Section As at 17 March 2009, the Company had received the 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for their following notifications of substantial interests 3% or re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming more in the total voting rights of the Company.
% of issued By Order of the Board ordinary share Disclosed holding capital Schroders Plc 16,100,819 12.08% The BlackRock Group 12,751,403 9.56% Brett Gladden Lazard Asset Management 8,552,425 6.41% Company Secretary Aberforth Partners LLP 7,454,010 5.59% 9 February 2009 Fidelity 6,665,681 5.00% Legal & General Group PLC and its subsidiaries 5,973,594 4.48% at 17 March 2009 csr plc annual report and financial statements 2008
