qxd 4 6 08 13:29 Page 14 Committed to service Household The household business has made steady have implemented a price increase to our of the East of England Co-operative progress.
Overall volumes were up 14% doorstep customers with effect from the Society for 4 million before working year on year reflecting the full year impact beginning of May 2008. capital adjustments.
This business of the Express Dairies business, which we In the middle ground business we consisted of 10 depots operating acquired in August 2006.
The integration successfully implemented a number of cost foodservice and doorstep rounds in East of Express Dairies has now been completed related price increases during the second Anglia.
These are being integrated into our and the administration office in Leicester half.
However, the unprecedented existing operations in that area.
was closed at the end of 2007. increases in raw milk costs during the year Trials of milk&more, our internet-based During the year we have continued combined with recent weak cream prices doorstep ordering service, have continued to invest in marketing and canvassing to resulted in one long-term supply contract to progress well.
Average revenue per existing and potential doorstep customers.
with a middle ground customer becoming customer continues to be significantly We relaunched our customer service onerous for the Group.
As previously above standard customers and retention offering under the Service and More announced an exceptional charge of rates in the trial areas are very strong.
banner and focused, in particular, on 4.4 million has been taken in the year As we progress through 2008 09 we will improving our customer retention rates.
ending 31 March 2008, reflecting expected extend the trials and will focus on improving These significant efforts have improved the losses on this contract from October 2007 the customer acquisition rate.
In addition underlying net annual decline rate in the through to the end of its term, based we are improving the systems within the doorstep business, which remains below on our current view of the market.
business to enable us to roll out the ability 7% despite the significant autumn price In February 2008, we completed the to order and pay over the Internet to most rise.
To offset further cost increases we acquisition of the dairy distribution business of our doorstep customers nationwide.
