qxd 6 6 08 03:43 Page 15 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 Operating review continued 15 Milk purchasing In a challenging year for Milk Purchasing, Dairy Crest passed on significant price increases to its dairy farmer suppliers and has continued to strengthen its relationship with them and their representatives.
The milk purchasing environment in the UK changed dramatically in 2007 08.
Higher world dairy commodity prices and lower UK supply led to unprecedented farm-gate milk price increases.
Various factors led to the significant spike seen in world dairy commodity prices.
Higher demand from developing nations and lower supply, resulting from poor weather in Australia were major influences.
At the same time UK supply, already fragile, was hit hard by increasing farm costs and a wet summer.
believe we have an industry-leading organic milk producers.
We have dedicated contract and will work with DCD and other resources managing this pool to ensure industry organisations, such as the National it continues to develop.
Farmers Union, to maintain this position.
Dairy farming remains a hugely Our contract improvement is just one challenging occupation.
Despite higher milk example of the benefits we achieve by prices, on-farm costs continue to rise.
The Milk Higher statutory environmental standards Purchasing team meets monthly with the are being implemented and it looks very DCD Board and maintains a dialogue about likely that milk quotas will be abolished this rapidly changing market.
These within the next few years.
To assist our milk meetings are supplemented by regular suppliers to achieve the increasing contact between DCD and other Dairy Crest regulatory requirements Dairy Crest employees, including Board members.
continues to fund the independent White Dairy Crest continued to build on our Gold Service.
We know our suppliers value strength of developing premium milk pools this service and we intend to continue with the major retailers.
We led the industry to develop it.
with our added value milk pools for In such a fast changing environment, Waitrose and Marks and Spencer and we effective communication with our suppliers is were pleased to work with Sainsburys to a priority and crucial in maintaining and create their Dairy Development Group.
This building the relationship we have established.
was launched in April 2007 and established Opportunities for getting together were a genuine partnership between Sainsburys, limited in 2007, with meetings and events Dairy Crest and supplying dairy farmers.
cancelled as a result of Foot and Mouth Sainsburys fund a premium milk price and Disease precautions.
However we started together we are working on various 2008 with a series of well-attended Taken together these two factors led to initiatives, including reducing the meetings for all our suppliers and our team around a 40% increase in the price we paid environmental impact of dairy farms of Direct Supply Managers continues to our suppliers for milk.
offer assistance and support at a local level.
To cope with the increasingly At the same time we continued to work We believe Dairy Crest is in a good competitive environment for milk with Waitrose and Marks and Spencer and position to compete for and develop purchasing we have also reviewed and the farmer groups supplying those retailers business based on the quality of its milk improved the contract we use to buy milk to explore opportunities to deliver additional supply and the importance it places on from our direct suppliers.
benefits that are valued by consumers.
past and future relationships with its Our contract gives incentives to our We have started a scheme with Waitrose supplying farmers.
suppliers to produce the type of milk the and the dairy farmers in their milk pool that business requires.
For example, a premium improves the habitat for wildlife on their is paid to suppliers who provide us with a farms.
This has been a great success with level supply.
During the year we have farmers and customers alike.
worked with Dairy Crest Direct DCD, the Organic milk sales continue to grow elected representatives of our direct and Dairy Crest is now firmly established suppliers, to improve our contract further in this market.
Our organic milk pool by increasing the options available to our continues to expand.
We give financial suppliers to earn a higher milk price.
These incentives for conventional milk producers changes benefit larger suppliers and those to switch to organic production and have who grow their milk supply to us.
We been successful in attracting established Our business drivers
