qxd 6 6 08 09:08 Page 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 12 Operating review continued Dairies The Dairies Division comprises Dairy Crests liquid products, ingredients and household operations.
Revenue is up 15% reflecting the full year impact of the Express Dairies acquisition and the benefit of price increases.
Profit on operations is up 17% reflecting the full year benefit of the acquisition and a Martin Oakes Executive Managing Director, Dairies Division strong market for dairy ingredients in the first half.
Despite a more challenging market for ingredients and higher milk costs in the second half the overall million 2007 08 2006 07 Change margin improved slightly to 3%.
The Group will continue to focus on improving Revenue 1,070.1 928.0 15% margins in this division principally through further efficiency improvements and Profit on operations 31.6 27.1 17% cost reduction programmes.
Margin 3.0% 2.9% Liquid Products and Ingredients The retail fresh milk market grew steadily Retailer brand flavoured milk sales were with sales up 1% by volume.
However the up 20% by volume and 32% by value.
This impact of significant retail price increases in reflects the full year benefit of a number the autumn meant that sales by value grew of business wins last year.
Organic milk Overall organic milk sales were down growth has slowed to 5% by volume and 23% by volume and 1% by value.
a decision to terminate the contract packing Dairy Crests fresh milk sales to major arrangements with Horizon last year.
This retailers grew ahead of the market.
Sales move has improved the overall profitability were up 3% by volume and 14% by value of our organic milk operations.
The Country year on year reflecting the significant price Life organic milk brand continues to make increases achieved to offset higher milk steady progress with sales rising 10% by costs.
We were pleased to be retained volume and 15% by value.
as a long-term supplier of fresh milk to As previously reported our dairy Morrisons following a supplier review.
ingredients operations benefited in the first We also achieved a small uplift in store half from strong worldwide markets for allocations with them from February 2008. dairy products.
In the second half higher Cost reduction has been a prime focus production levels, particularly in the US, in our manufacturing sites.
Following led to significant reductions in prices for a strategic review of our dairy operations most ingredients products.
These we closed our Totnes dairy in September reductions in the price of commodity 2007.
Existing production volumes were products have not led to milk cost successfully moved to our dairies at reductions due to concerns over long term Severnside, Foston and Hanworth.
Milk volumes from our benefits of this closure are now being suppliers have continued to be relatively delivered in full.
tight leading to lower than expected During 2008 09, as part of a wider ingredients volumes.
review of our manufacturing efficiencies, In December 2007 we acquired a 50% we will invest approximately 7 million in interest in Fayrefield FoodTec Limited two new regional distribution centres for FoodTec for 2.1 million.
FoodTec is the retail milk business.
This project will a Cheshire based business involved in reduce distribution costs, allow the dairy developing, manufacturing and marketing sites to improve efficiency and increase a range of added value food ingredients their overall production capacity.
and retail products for all areas of the food Frijj, our market leading fresh flavoured industry: especially for bakery ingredients, milk drink, performed well.
Sales were up functional dairy ingredients, hot beverages 1% by volume and 11% by value year on and savoury ingredients.
FoodTec has year with an improved level of profitability.
a strong focus on developing health-based Elsewhere we continued to make good products and benefits are already being progress with our potted cream and obtained from using this know-how across flavoured milk activities.
Potted cream sales the Dairy Crest range of products in both were up 10% by volume and 20% by value.
the Foods and Dairies divisions.
qxd 4 6 08 13:28 Page 13 Fresh taste cool flavours Our business drivers
