qxd 5 6 08 12:47 Page 41 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 Directors report 41 The directors of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company present their Marketplace risks twelfth annual report to shareholders together with the audited Consumer trends financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the It is possible that changing consumer trends may reduce the year ended 31 March 2008.
The purpose of the Annual Report is to appeal of some of the Companys businesses if those trends are provide information to members of the Company.
The Company, its not properly anticipated and action is not taken to address potential Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or issues at an early stage.
assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such Dairy Crest mitigates this risk in a number of ways.
First, the responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
It contains certain Company carries out market research and analyses consumer forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, trends.
This research is used to anticipate future customer trends performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, and, through new product development, to position itself to benefit these statements involve uncertainty since future events and from those trends.
An example of this has been the continuing circumstances can cause results to differ from those anticipated.
development of products focused on health described in the Chief The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information Executives review.
available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and except to the extent required by applicable regulations or by law, Our Household business operates in a declining market but the the Group undertakes no obligation to update these forwardCompany delivers market-leading productivity ratios, has looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be increasingly focused on non-milk sales product, has invested in construed as a profit forecast.
new customer propositions and invests in targeted marketing and canvassing activity to address the overall decline rate.
Except where required by subsequent legislation, this report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the There is an increasing consumer awareness of the need to protect Companies Act 1985 S234 and has been compiled for a year in the environment and Dairy Crest has long recognised that this is an which the Company was a parent Company.
As the Companys integral part of managing the business.
As well as initiatives to accounts are prepared as group accounts, this report is a reduce the carbon emissions from our manufacturing sites, Dairy consolidated report or group directors report.
It relates to the Crest is at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce Company and its subsidiary undertakings, which are included in the packaging waste.
More information on Dairy Crests approach to Companys consolidation.
As permitted by the Companies Act 1985 the environment can be found on page 19 of the Operating review.
S234 3, where appropriate, this report gives greater emphasis to the matters that are significant to the Company and its subsidiary Competition undertakings included in the consolidation, taken as a whole.
The Foods sector is highly competitive.
The Companys future financial performance would be at risk if it failed to compete As the 2007 08 financial year commenced after November 2006, strongly and lost market share to its competitors.
references to the Combined Code in this report are to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June 2006 Code.
Dairy Crest has a portfolio of leading brands which have been This report has been prepared following the main principles of the augmented by the acquisition of St Hubert.
Those not referred to in this statement are dealt with supported by marketing investment.
Within the liquid milk business, elsewhere in the Annual Report.
In accordance with Listing Rule the Company has strong relationships with certain major retailers 9.8.
10R 2, the relevant parts of this report have been reviewed by and there is full involvement of Executive Directors in negotiations Ernst & young LLP and their opinion is set out on pages 105 to 106. with these retailers and significant focus in delivering high levels of quality and service.
The acquisition of the Express Dairies Principal activities business in August 2006 has made Dairy Crest the market-leading The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture and doorstep and middle-ground business in the UK.
trading of milk and dairy products.
Consumer spending Principal Risks and Uncertainties As the majority of the Companys revenue is generated in the UK, In addition to the opportunities we have to grow and develop our the general health of the UK economy and its influence on business, the Company faces a range of risks and uncertainties consumer spending is important to its success.
A significant as part of both its day to day operations and its corporate activities.
downturn in consumer spending could pose a risk to the Groups The processes that the Board has established to safeguard both financial performance.
shareholder value and the assets of the Company are described in the Corporate governance statement.
The Companys product base consists of dairy-based consumables which form part of the staple purchases of the majority of The narrative which follows describes those specific risks and households.
This mitigates the impact on our business of any uncertainties that the Directors believe could have the most decrease in general consumer spending.
Additionally, with the significant impact on the Companys long term value generation.
acquisition St Hubert in January 2007, the Companys geographic The risks and uncertainties described below are not intended reliance on the UK has been decreased.
qxd 5 6 08 12:49 Page 42 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 42 Directors report continued Inflation Clover brand were managed well.
As a result, further improvements The Group has experienced high levels of inflation with respect to procedures have been made across the manufacturing portfolio.
to certain non-milk input costs during 2007 08, namely diesel, vegetable oils, energy, gas and plastics.
There is a risk that this The Company takes health and safety very seriously.
It has robust could impair future profitability.
management processes focused on quality control risk management and has established major incident procedures that are in place Non-milk costs are monitored regularly and appropriate levels and have been tested.
Dairy Crest continues to set increasingly of forward cover are maintained.
Where necessary, prices are high standards for food safety throughout our supply chain and increased to offset input cost increases.
In addition, the cost base have recently enhanced our Good Manufacturing Practice review of the business continues to be rationalised so that we can absorb and audit processes.
more inflationary costs and minimise price increases to our customers.
2007 08 has seen unprecedented increases in raw milk prices More information on Dairy Crests approach to health and safety paid to our farmers.
These are discussed in more detail in the can be found on page 19 of the Operational review.
Milk Purchasing report on page 15.
People Financial Markets The successful delivery of service to the Companys customers relies Recent weakness in the international credit markets could pose on the Group recruiting and retaining people of a high quality.
The risks to the cost of financing borrowings, the ability of the group failure to employ appropriate people would put the Groups to renegotiate banking facilities and the financial position of both reputation at risk and could lead to the loss of market share.
Dairy Crest is proud of its people.
The Group believes that by The Group regularly reviews its funding arrangements and has taking care of its people, its people will take care of its customers a high proportion of fixed interest long term debt which mitigates and financial performance will follow.
Dairy Crest listens to the views risks to the cost of borrowing.
More details concerning financial risk of its employees, has a range of employment policies designed management are described in Note 31 to the accounts.
to make Dairy Crest a rewarding place to work and emphasises the importance it attaches to its people.
Dairy Crest carries out The Group has a high-quality, long-term group of banks that a rigorous selection process and benchmarks the pay and benefits participate in its syndicated loan facility.
There is regular contact that it offers to its employees in order to recruit and retain the best with all of our relationship banks from the Chief Executive and people for the role.
Talent planning is carried out on an annual basis.
Finance Director and other senior management and many of the syndicate banks have had involvement with the Group for many years.
More information on Dairy Crests people can be found on page 20 As a result the banks understand the business and requirements of the Operational review.
of the Group and have provided support for a number of years.
Additionally, there is enough depth in the syndicate to mitigate the External financial risks risks of any one bank experiencing difficulties.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and risk exposures are described in detail in Note 31 to the accounts.
Movements in the Euro Sterling exchange rate affects reported net debt due to the translation effect on borrowings carried in Pension funding Euros.
The Sterling Euro exchange rate also impacts on fresh dairy Dairy Crest operates a defined benefit pension scheme.
At 31 March products manufactured in France and sold by YDC and on cheese 2008 there was a gross pension fund surplus of 33.6m under IAS manufactured in Wexford and sold in the UK.
There is a risk that this surplus could deteriorate in the event, for example, of poor investment performance or increasing mortality Customers with whom the Group trades are subject to credit checks rates.
Recent legislation means that, on occasions, it may be and there is very close review of trade debtors, days outstanding necessary to approach the Pensions Regulator for clearance of and overdue amounts.
Appropriate provisions are made when specific agreements reached with the Pension Trustee at the time customers are deemed to be a risk.
A large proportion of debt of significant corporate transactions.
Such clearance could include is with major UK multiple retailers which are low risk.
Wherever a requirement to increase the level of funding.
possible, legal proceedings are taken to recover monies due.
Dairy Crests pension risks have been mitigated by the closure There is regular review of our supplier base for key inputs to ensure of its defined benefit scheme to new entrants on 1 July 2006. that wherever possible there is not over-reliance on one supplier As an alternative, a defined contribution pension scheme is and therefore a risk to the Group.
available to eligible new employees.
The Company also maintains a close dialogue with the pension schemes Trustee Board.
In order Operational risks to reduce the funding deficit resulting from the March 2007 triennial Health and safety review, the Company has made additional contributions of 12m A major incident resulting from a health and safety failure would in the year to 31 March 2008 and is committed to making a further be a significant reputational and financial risk to the Company.
12m of additional contributions in the year to 31 March 2009.
The recall of Clover in May 2007 tested the Groups major incident procedures and the impact on the Groups reputation and the 4704 DC08 MidSect v5.0.
qxd 4 6 08 18:20 Page 43 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 43 Business review Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the contract S234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 requires that the Company for which was concluded before the authority expires and which will sets out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority during the 2007 08 financial year, including balanced and granted shall expire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
The comprehensive analysis of the development and performance Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of this authority or of the Group during the financial year and the position of the Group replacement of it with a suitable alternative, annually at the AGM.
at the end of the year: together with information relating to Approval will be sought from the shareholders at the AGM to renew environmental and employee matters.
In addition, the Company the authority for a further year.
is required to provide a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group as described above.
The information Pensions satisfying the business review requirements is set out in this report: The Groups defined benefit pension fund is controlled by the Chairmans statement on page 3: Chief Executives review a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the on pages 4 to 5: Operating review on pages 6 to 21: and Financial board of which comprises three nominees from Dairy Crest Limited review on pages 22 to 24: all of which are incorporated into this and two employee members elected by all members whether active, report by reference.
In addition, Law Debenture is an independent trustee of the defined benefit pension scheme.
The pension funds Group results assets are held separately from those of the Group and can only The Groups consolidated income statement set out on page 48 be used in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
In 2006, shows a profit for the financial year of 54.7m compared with the defined benefit scheme was closed to new employees and a 49.2m in 2006 07. defined contribution scheme was established for new employees.
Dividends Significant agreements change of control The directors are recommending a final dividend of 17.3 pence A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid 2006 07: 16.2 pence per ordinary share, which if approved, may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its will be paid to members on the register at the close of business subsidiaries are party to take effect, alter or terminate.
Together, the final dividend and interim dividend that are considered significant are as follows.
7.1 pence per ordinary share paid on 31 January 2008 make total dividends for the year of 24.4 pence per ordinary share 2006 07: Borrowing facilities 22.9 pence.
Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Groups funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the parties Share capital on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together replacement facilities.
with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during 2007 08 are shown in note 25 to the financial statements.
Joint venture agreement As at the date of this report, 133.1 million ordinary 25p shares were There is a joint venture agreement between the Company and other in issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 33.3m.
parties in respect of the Groups joint venture, Yoplait Dairy Crest The Company has only one class of shares, details of which are Limited.
A change of control of the Company may cause certain set out in the Articles of Association.
termination provisions in that agreement to be exercised.
This could result in a sale of the Companys investment in the joint venture Purchase of own shares or a purchase by the Company of the other parties investment in At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 19 July 2007 shareholders the joint venture and could change the nature of the joint ventures granted the Company authority to make market purchases of up to business.
In some of these circumstances the value of the Companys 13,240,169 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided investment in the joint venture could be detrimentally affected.
that: the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes : and the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market values for an ordinary share in the Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The Company did not exercise this authority during the year and made no market purchases.
qxd 5 6 08 12:32 Page 44 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 44 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings Directors and officers indemnities and insurance As at 16 May 2008, the Company has been notified in accordance The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and with DTR5 of the Disclosure and transparency Rules of the officers.
At its AGM held on 14 July 2005 shareholder approval was following interests amounting to 3% or more of the Companys given for the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association issued share capital.
giving directors and officers the benefit of an indemnity to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985 as amended by S19 Percentage of the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise of issued Act 2004. share capital JP Morgan Chase & Co 4.90 % Land and buildings L&G Group plc 4.34 % The directors have obtained an informal valuation of the Groups Barclays plc 3.99 % land and buildings and believe that the current market value in Barclays Global Investors 3.08 % existing use of these properties slightly exceeds their book value.
Deutsche Bank AG 3.00 % Employees Directors The Group employs approximately 8,500 people throughout the The names and biographical details of the current directors of the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland and France and depends on Company are given on page 25.
The names of those persons who the skills and commitment of its employees in order to achieve its were directors during the year but have retired or resigned from the objectives.
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their board are set out at page 26 together with the dates on which they fullest possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them Martyn Wilks was appointed to the Board as Executive Managing and on issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety Director, Foods on 7 January 2008.
As he was appointed during of communications tools, including the Group intranet, and the inthe year he will retire at the 2008 AGM and in accordance with house magazines.
the Articles of Association will offer himself for election.
Messrs Fry and Monnery and Mrs Piwnica were appointed to the Board on The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating 1 August 2007.
As they were appointed during the year they will arrangements with established trade unions.
retire at the 2008 AGM and in accordance with the Articles of Association will offer themselves for election.
Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through participation in the savings-related share option scheme In accordance with the Articles of Association David Richardson sharesave scheme.
Details of this scheme are set out on page retires by rotation and offers himself for re-election at this years 35 of the Directors remuneration report.
There has been a further AGM.
In addition, in compliance with the spirit of the Code Simon sharesave grant in 2007 08.
Currently, over 90% of the Groups Oliver will retire from the Board at the 2008 AGM and offers himself employees are eligible to participate in this scheme or similar for re-election.
arrangements with approximately 30% having taken up the opportunity to do so.
Directors interests Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the Directors holding office as at the date of this report along with those of the Directors who held office during the year but retired or resigned from office and their immediate families and details of Directors share options and awards appear in the Remuneration report on pages 38 to 40.
Details of the directors service contracts and letters of appointment appear in the Remuneration Report on page 37.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
qxd 5 6 08 15:18 Page 45 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 45 The Board is committed to ensuring a culture free from Annual General Meeting discrimination and harassment remains embedded within the The AGM will be held at the Chartered Accountants Hall, Moorgate Group and discrimination of any sort is not tolerated.
Discrimination Place, London EC2P 2BJ on Thursday 17 July 2008 at 11.00 am.
and harassment policies form key planks of the Human Resources Details of the resolutions to be proposed, including items of special policies within the Group.
Proper consideration is given to applications business, are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting for employment from disabled people who are employed whenever and Explanatory Notes which has been dispatched to shareholders suitable vacancies arise.
Wherever practicable, staff who become separately from the Annual Report and Financial Statements and disabled during employment are retained.
The Group practices has been posted on the Companys website.
The Directors believe equality of opportunity for all employees, irrespective of ethnic that the resolutions set out in the notice of meeting are in the best origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital status disability, interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and age or sexual orientation.
unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of all resolutions.
Supplier payment policy Payment dates are established according to the agreed date Auditors of delivery of goods or provision of services and the receipt of Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as a correct invoice.
The Group agrees the length of payment terms auditors of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young with each of its suppliers as part of the overall purchasing agreement.
LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
It is the Groups policy to abide by these agreed terms of payment.
The number of days purchases in the Groups creditors at 31 March Going concern 2008 was 23 days 2006 07: 24 days.
The Company has no trade It should be recognised that any consideration of the foreseeable creditors and therefore the number of days purchases in creditors future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, is not relevant.
about future events, which are inherently uncertain.
Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these accounts and after making Charitable and political donations appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2006 07: 0.1 million that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for in the year.
Small contributions, mainly of product, were also made the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the to local charities.
No political donations or expenditures were made going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
or incurred during the year.
By order of the board Disclosure of information to the auditor Robin Miller Company Secretary So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this 19 May 2008 report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they ought to have taken in performing their roles as directors to exercise due care, skill and diligence in order to make themselves aware i of any relevant audit information and ii to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to the auditor, relevant audit information is the information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with the preparation of their report at pages 105 to 106.
