BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY 45 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SECRETARY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 1 THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE CHAIRMAN 7 I G PARK CBE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 13 T S GILLESPIE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 40 AGED 73 CANADIAN: AGED 70 Lord Rothermere was appointed to the Board in 1995 Ian Park was appointed to the Board in 1994.
He was Tom Gillespie was appointed to the Board in 2004. and appointed Chairman in 1998, having joined the managing director of Northcliffe Newspapers from He is a former senior partner of Ogilvy Renault and Group in 1994.
He is a non-executive director of 1982 to 1995 and its chairman from 1995 to 2003. has advised the Group on legal matters in Canada for Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
He is retiring at the Annual General Meeting in many years.
2 C J F SINCLAIR CHIEF EXECUTIVE UNTIL 30TH SEPT 14 D J VEREY CBE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 2008 AGED 60 8 D M M DUTTON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 66 DIRECTOR AGED 57 Charles Sinclair retired on 30th September 2008, David Dutton was appointed to the Board in 1997.
He David Verey was appointed to the Board in 2004. having been a Director since 1988 and Chief Executive advises the Group on property matters and is chairman He was formerly chairman of the Blackstone Group since 1989.
He is a nonof DMG Information.
UK and chairman of Lazard, London.
executive director of SVG Capital plc and was appointed to the board of Associated British Foods plc 9 P M DACRE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 60 15 K J BEATTY EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 51 on 1st October 2008.
Paul Dacre was appointed to the Board in 1998, having Kevin Beatty was appointed to the Board in 2004, joined the Group in 1979.
He has been editor of the having joined the Group in 1996.
He is chief executive 3 M W H MORGAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE FROM Daily Mail since 1992 and editor-in-chief of Associated of A&N Media and managing director of Associated 1ST OCTOBER 2008 AGED 58 Newspapers since 1998.
He was managing director of Northcliffe Martin Morgan was appointed to the Board as Chief Newspapers between 2001 and 2004.
Executive and to that of Euromoney Institutional 10 P M FALLON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR IRISH: AGED 62 Investor plc as a non-executive director on 1st October, Padraic Fallon was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He 16 N W BERRY INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 2008, having joined the Group in 1989.
He was is chairman of Euromoney Institutional Investor plc.
He DIRECTOR AGED 66 previously chief executive of DMG Information.
joined Euromoney in 1974 as editor and was managing Nicholas Berry was appointed to the Board in February director from 1985 to 1992.
He is chairman of Stancroft Trust with wide 4 J P WILLIAMS FCA FINANCE DIRECTOR AGED 55 experience in media and investment in emerging Peter Williams was appointed to the Board as Group 11 C W DUNSTONE INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE markets.
Finance Director in 1991, having joined the Group in DIRECTOR AGED 44 1982.
He was a non-executive director of Euromoney Charles Dunstone was appointed to the Board in 2001.
17 N D JENNINGS FCA SECRETARY AGED 48 Institutional Investor plc until 30th September 2008 He is founder and chief executive of the Carphone Nicholas Jennings was appointed Company Secretary when be became an alternate director.
He is a nonWarehouse Group plc and was formerly a nonin 1999, having joined the Group in 1988.
He is also executive director of Ibis Media VCT plc and formerly of executive director of HBOS plc.
12 F P BALSEMO INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE 5 J G HEMINGWAY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR PORTUGUESE: AGED 71 AGED 77 Francisco Balsemo was appointed to the Board in John Hemingway was appointed to the Board in 1978.
He is chairman and chief executive of IMPRESA, He is an independent solicitor.
S. G. P. S, chairman of the European Publishers Council and a former prime minister of Portugal.
6 S M GRAY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AGED 74 Marius Gray was appointed to the Board in 1985.
He was senior partner of Dixon Wilson, Chartered Accountants, and is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Finance Committee Member of the Risk Committee www.
com 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT 46 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS ended 28th September, 2008.
On 6th October, 2008, DMG World Media sold Metropress, owner of the Antiques Trade Gazette, for 7.5 million.
ACTIVITIES The principal activities of the Group are set out on pages 20 SHARE CAPITAL and 21 of this Annual Report.
There were no allotments in share capital during the year.
The analysis of turnover and operating pro t for the years At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 6th February 2008, ended 28th September, 2008 and 30th September, 2007 are the Company was granted the authority to purchase up to included as Note 3 to the Consolidated Income Statement.
BUSINESS REVIEW During the year, 18,389,672 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares The information that ful ls the Companies Act requirements were purchased, having a nominal value of 2,298,709 as of the business review is included in the Business Review on part of a share buy back programme and to match pages 8 to 41.
This includes a review of the development of obligations under various incentive plans.
The consideration the business of the Group during the year, of its position at paid for these shares was 88.3 million.
Shares repurchased the end of the year and of likely future developments in its during the year represented 4.93% of the called up A business.
Details of the principal risks and uncertainties Ordinary Non-Voting share capital at 28th September, 2008. facing the Group are set out on pages 14 to 16.
The Company disposed of 3,801,025 of these shares, This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking representing 1.02% of called up A Ordinary Non-Voting statements with respect to the principal risks and shares in order to satisfy incentive schemes.
The Company uncertainties facing the Group.
By their nature, these also cancelled 2,727,146 shares, representing 0.73% of its statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to called up A Ordinary Non-Voting share capital at the date of events and depend on circumstances that may or may not cancellation.
There are a number of factors that could Full details of the Companys share capital are given in cause actual results or developments to differ materially from Note 34. those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements.
No assurances can be given that the forwardEMPLOYEES looking statements are reasonable as they can be affected by Under the Groups general policy of decentralised a wide range of variables.
The forward-looking statements management, it is the responsibility of the management in re ect the knowledge and information available at the date of each subsidiary to encourage the involvement and preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated participation of employees in their company.
The methods during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be used vary company by company, but the linking to construed as a pro t forecast.
performance targets of a signi cant portion of remuneration is one widely used means.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The pro t after taxation of the Group amounted to 16.8 The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable million.
After charging minority interests of 16.8 million, the applications from disabled persons for employment.
If Group result for the year amounted to Nil.
existing employees become disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is An interim dividend of 4.80 pence per share was paid on the not practicable, every effort will be made to nd suitable Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
Directors recommend that a final dividend of 9.90 pence per share be paid on 13th February, 2009 making 14.70 pence per POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS share for the year 2007 14.35 pence.
The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its subsidiaries.
These companies have no formal code or DIRECTORS standard which deals speci cally with the payment of Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at suppliers.
However, their policy is to ensure that the terms of 26th November, 2008 are set out on page 45.
The Directors payment, as speci ed by, and agreed with the supplier at the remained unchanged throughout the year.
Mr Sinclair retired outset, are not exceeded.
On 1st October, 2008, Mr M. W. H. Morgan was appointed to the Board: shareholders will be The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
The asked to con rm his appointment.
Groups average payment period, calculated on the basis of year end trade creditors, is 63 days 2007 68 days, although The number of shares of the Company and of securities of this is dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore other Group companies, in which the Directors or their be regarded as meaningful.
families had an interest at the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report on page 65.
DONATIONS Charitable donations made by the Group in the year In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs Park, amounted to 946,000 2007 866,000.
This excludes the Fallon and Balsemo retire by rotation at the AGM on 11th cost of publicity, often provided free of charge by the Groups February, 2009.
Each of Messrs Fallon and Balsemo, being titles, and funds raised by them, further details on which are eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr Park, a nongiven in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 42 executive Director since 1994, has decided not to stand for of this Annual Report.
No political donations were made re-election.
The Directors would like to pay tribute to Mr by the Group.
Sinclair and to thank Mr Park for their invaluable contributions to the Boards deliberations.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued DIRECTORS REPORT Continued 47 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS going concern, management either intends to liquidate the As set out in Note 34, the Company has two classes of share entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative capital Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
On 26th November, 2008 the following were interested in The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting more than 3% of the issued Ordinary shares: records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the Rothermere Continuation Limited assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and and other parties to an agreement which comes detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the within section 824 of the Companies Act 2006 63.1% preparation of a directors report and directors Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan remuneration report which comply with the requirements of Trustees BVI Ltd trustees of the Esmond the Companies Act 1985.
Harmsworth 1998 Family Settlement 29.3% The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United PREPARATION OF ACCOUNTS Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual financial statements differs from legislation in other Report and the financial statements.
required to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and AUDITORS have elected to continue to prepare those for the Company in Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted of this report con rms that: Accounting Practice GAAP.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: to prepare financial statements for each financial year which the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any and of the pro t or loss of the Company for that period.
In relevant audit information and to establish that the preparing these financial statements, the Directors are Companys auditors are aware of that information: and required to: this con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Companies Act 1985. consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have prudent: indicated their willingness to continue in of ce and, in state whether applicable accounting standards have been accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to explained in the financial statements: the AGM.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING company will continue in business.
The AGM of the Company will be held on 11th February, 2009 at 9.00 a. m. at the Kensington Roof Gardens, 99 Kensington In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting High Street, London W8.
Details of all resolutions, including Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly those to be put as special business, are set out in the for each financial year the Companys financial position, enclosed circular to shareholders.
financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other By Order of the Board events and conditions in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and N D JENNINGS, FCA expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Secretary Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of 26th November, 2008 Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: select and apply accounting policies properly: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insuf cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a www.
com 2008 48 D CO IR RP ECOR TOA RT SE R GE OP VO ER RN T C ANC on Etinued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board has not, as required by the Code, identi ed a governance.
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration senior independent non-executive Director since it believes Report on pages 52 to 69 describe how the Board has applied that to identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a the principles set out in the Combined Code the Code unitary body, as this Board is, and disruptive to the role of the issued by the Financial Services Authority in June 2006.
Code is part of the listing rules and applied to the Company The division of responsibilities between the Executive throughout the year.
Chairman and the Chief Executive is understood and works The Company has substantially complied with the provisions well.
The Chairmans role is to lead the Board and oversee of the Code, except where the Board has determined that the Companys operations and strategy.
The Chief Executives they are inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the role is to manage the Company, develop strategy and ensure Company, as explained below and in the Remuneration its successful implementation.
Code provisions not fully applied are A1.3, A 2.2, A The Board believes that four non-executive Directors may be 3.2, A 3.3, A 7.2, B1.6, B2.1 and C3.1.
considered to be independent under the Code, namely THE BOARD Messrs Dunstone, Balsemo, Verey and Berry.
This The Company is headed by a Board which comprises a represents less than the half of the Board recommended by balance of seven executive Directors, including the Chairman the Code.
and Chief Executive, and eight non-executive Directors.
Messrs Hemingway, Gray and Gillespie are not regarded by Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on the Board as independent under the Code because they have page 45.
The Board has been progressively refreshed in advised the Company over many years: nor is Mr Park even recent years with several appointments, including four new though he stepped down as chairman of Northcliffe over five independent Directors.
Nevertheless the Board believes that The Board normally meets regularly four times a year and at these non-executive Directors make an important such other times as are necessary.
It discusses and approves contribution to its deliberations and have invaluable the Groups commercial strategy.
Its speci c responsibilities experience of the Company, its business and its staff.
are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT which is published on the Companys web site at www.
Procedures have been established to ensure that the Board co. uk corporate governance.
receives timely and appropriate information both for its Having met in September 2007, the Board met three times meetings and regularly between meetings.
All Directors are during the 2007 08 financial year, all of which were regular offered such training as is considered necessary, both on meetings, attended by all Directors, except that Mr Dunstone appointment and at any subsequent time.
There is an agreed was unable to attend one of them.
Individual attendance by procedure for Directors to take independent professional Directors is set out below: advice at the Companys expense, if necessary.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION Number of Number of The Companys Articles of Association require that a Director meetings held meetings attended appointed by the Board must stand for election at the next Executive Directors AGM.
Thereafter all Directors are subject to re-election every The Viscount Rothermere 3 3 three years.
The Board has chosen not to adopt the additional provision in the Code that non-executive Directors, who have C J F Sinclair 3 3 served for more than nine years, should be subject to annual J P Williams 3 3 re-election since the existing practice, which complies with D M M Dutton 3 3 Company law and with the Articles, works well.
P M Dacre 3 3 The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonP M Fallon 3 3 executive Directors are available for inspection at the Registered Of ce of the Company during usual business K J Beatty 3 3 hours.
Non-executive non-independent Directors J G Hemingway 3 3 BOARD EVALUATION The Board has undertaken its annual evaluation of its own S M Gray 3 3 performance and that of its individual Directors.
It reviewed I G Park 3 3 its performance by reference to the schedule of matters T S Gillespie 3 3 reserved for it.
The evaluation process took the form of a questionnaire sent to each Director, seeking their views on Independent non-executive Directors involvement in strategy, the development of the Board C W Dunstone 3 2 agenda, the balance of skills of Directors and their demonstration in meetings and the effectiveness of the F P Balsemo 3 3 Boards committees.
The Chairman reported the consensus D J Verey 3 3 view on performance to the Board at its meeting in N W Berry 3 3 November, enabling it to conclude that it had been effective in the year under review.
No substantive changes to procedures All Directors, except for Mr Fallon and Mr Dunstone, also were judged necessary.
attended a three day management conference in June.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 CORPO DR IR AE TC E G TO O R VS E R RN EA PN OC RE C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 49 The non-executive Directors did not meet as a group without assessed the most appropriate method of evaluating the Chairman since his performance was assessed by the Directors performance.
Remuneration Committee without the Chairman being RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS present.
The Company maintains a regular programme of contact BOARD COMMITTEES with its institutional shareholders.
In the past year, this has The Board has established Nominations, Remuneration, included meetings in London, Scotland and the U. S. A.
Audit and Risk Committees with mandates to deal with Non-executive Directors are kept informed of the views of speci c aspects of its business.
The remits of these institutional shareholders by the regular distribution of committees are published on the Companys web site.
Details analysts reports and feedback is provided from institutional of the membership of these committees are given on page meetings.
Each committee reports to the Board at every regular meeting.
In October and November 2008, the Board carried All shareholders are welcome to attend the AGM, of which out a review of the performance of its committees and twenty working days notice is given, where they have the concluded that they had been effective in the year.
opportunity to speak to Directors.
COMPANY SECRETARY In the interests of transparency and to assist private The Company Secretary, Mr Jennings, is responsible for shareholders, the Company posts all announcements and advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance general presentations given to analysts and institutions on its issues.
All Directors have access to the advice and services corporate web site.
Shareholders and others interested in the of the Secretary.
Group are encouraged to use the site and to email questions which they might have to investor.
COMPANIES ACT 2006 Questions to particular Directors should be addressed In February 2008, the Companys Articles of Association were through the Secretary.
amended by Ordinary shareholders to update them for a number of changes in company law and practice, notably the INTERNAL CONTROLS AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK introduction of the Companies Act 2006.
In November 2008, The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing the Board considered Directors potential con icts arising opportunities for potential gain against threats to overall under the new Act and passed a resolution authorising these business objectives and pro tability.
Senior management con icts with interested Directors not voting.
addresses the opportunities and uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group.
The risk management NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE process consists of the identi cation, evaluation and control The Nominations Committee, which was established as a of risks, which could threaten the achievement of the Groups separate committee in 2003, comprises three Directors: the strategic, operational and financial objectives, as well as the Viscount Rothermere its chairman, Mr Hemingway and Mr active management of opportunities.
This process was in Balsemo.
Only Mr Balsemo is an independent nonplace throughout the year.
executive Director, whereas the Code recommends that a majority of members of the Committee should be The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the independent.
Nevertheless the Board believes that the divisions described on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report Committee operates well.
The Deputy Finance Director, Mr having considerable autonomy as regards its operation and Perry, is secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive establishment of control systems.
Overseeing the divisional attends most meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
structure is a central management responsible to the Board.
Certain functions are undertaken centrally, notably The Committee met three times during the year and all newsprint buying, insurance, treasury, tax, pensions, and meetings were attended by all serving members.
Individual risk and assurance including internal audit.
attendance by members is set out below: The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system Number of Number of of internal control.
This system is designed to provide meetings held meetings attended reasonable assurance of the safeguarding of assets and The Viscount Rothermere 3 3 shareholders investment and the reliability of financial information.
Any such system can, however, provide only J G Hemingway 3 3 reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of these matters.
F P Balsemo 3 3 The Directors con rm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition period up to the date of the approval of the Accounts.
The of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board on Board has not identi ed any signi cant failings or any changes.
During the year it nominated Mr Morgan to the weaknesses during this review.
Board as Chief Executive in succession to Mr Sinclair.
Both internal and potential external candidates were considered.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal The Committee determined that none of the excellent control the Board has considered material controls external candidates matched the best internal candidate on a including those undertaken through its committees, combination of skill, relevant experience and compatibility to including financial, operational and compliance controls and the Groups culture.
External advice was taken, but risk management systems as follows: advertising was not required in this instance.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has The Committee continued to review succession planning for responsibility for the review of financial risk management both executive and non-executive Directors.
It has also and of internal financial controls.
com 2008 50 D CO IR R EP CO TR OA RT SE G RE OP VO ER RT C NANC on E C tinue od ntinued operation and activities of the Audit Committee and of the Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links central Risk and Assurance department is given below.
with each of the main divisions through attendance at divisional board meetings as directors of these boards.
The The Risk Committee gives the Board assurance on risk Committee reports to the Board after each of its meetings to management issues and processes.
The process for the assist the Board in its determination of the overall management of signi cant risks is undertaken by the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk Risk Committee and it accords with the Turnbull Guidance management more widely.
on internal control, appended to the Code.
Over the course of the past year the Risk Committee has considered the AUDIT COMMITTEE key risks pertaining to all divisions and head of ce functions The Audit Committee, which has been in existence since within the business as well as the key risks which affect 1989, comprises four non-executive Directors: Messrs Gray the Group, including fraud risk.
A more detailed description its chairman, Hemingway, Verey and Berry.
The Code of the operation and activities of the Risk Committee is recommends that an audit committee should comprise at given below.
least three members, all of whom should be independent non-executive Directors.
Only Messrs Verey and Berry are Operating businesses within the Group are required to considered to be independent under the Code.
Nevertheless con rm annually their compliance with Group accounting the Board believes that the Committee operates policies and financial reporting guidelines.
Members quali cations are set out in their biographies on page 45.
The Board is satis ed that Mr Gray, Divisional and subsidiary company boards regularly review formerly senior partner of a rm of chartered accountants, relevant and timely financial information that is produced has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Company from the management information systems operated across Secretary, Mr Jennings, also a Chartered Accountant, is the Group.
This is supported by a framework of budgets that secretary to the Committee.
are approved at a divisional level by the Finance Committee.
Variance analysis of actual results versus budget and The Audit Committee met five times during the year and all forecast is undertaken regularly throughout the year.
meetings were attended by all serving members.
Individual attendance by members is set out below: The evaluation of the bene ts and risks of investment opportunities and nancing proposals is undertaken by the Number of Number of Finance Committee.
Above certain fide ned levels, however, meetings held meetings attended the Board must approve acquisition and divestment J G Hemingway 5 5 proposals and capital expenditure.
S M Gray 5 5 RISK COMMITTEE D J Verey 5 5 The Risk Committee, which was established in 2000, N W Berry 5 5 comprises the Chief Executive Mr Sinclair until 30th September, 2008: Mr Morgan from 1st October, 2008, its The Committee has implemented the procedures set out in the chairman, Messrs Williams, Gray and Dutton, and Mr Kass, Smith Guidance to the Code which are within its control.
It the legal director of A&N Media.
During the year, the Viscount reviews the Groups policy on whistle blowing.
Procedures Rothermere and the former Chief Information Of cer of the exist to monitor the independence of the external auditors and Groups largest subsidiary were also members.
Mr Gray include a policy on employment of former audit principals.
provides a non-executive perspective to the review of risk There is also a policy on the provision of non-audit services management processes within the Group, as well as with which the Groups head of ce and each division complies.
providing a direct link to the Audit Committee.
The The choice of rm is normally determined on the basis of Committee met five times during the year.
The head of the professional expertise and competitiveness.
The Group may Groups risk function, Mr Page, is Secretary to the engage the external auditors to perform audit-related work, Committee.
accountancy advice and corporate tax services.
Non-audit services in other areas are decided on their merits and are put The Risk Committee considers risk registers prepared, by out to tender where the amounts in question are signi cant.
each of the divisions of the Group and by central functions, on The external auditors are excluded from the following areas: a rotational basis, in general reviewing a division and central where they are auditing their own work: where a mutuality of function at each meeting.
These reports identify inherent interest is created: or where the external auditor would be put business risks and describe the controls in place to manage in the role of advocate for the Company.
The Committee considers the Group risk register a consolidation of divisional and central function risk Non-audit fees payable to Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte registers with Group-wide risks overlaid annually.
In in 2008 amounted to 1.8 million, compared to 3.3 million addition, the Committee reviews speci c risk management the previous year, re ecting the continuing extent of issues and topics for consideration across the Group.
This corporate tax advice given and their involvement in year the Committee has focused on the following risks: acquisition work.
In the prior year, Deloitte acted as lead failure of controls over promotions and competitions, the consultant on Northcliffe Medias cost reduction project.
changing risks in an economic downturn: fraud risk: pricing risk considered at a Risk Committee sponsored workshop In September, the Audit Committee carried out an annual for senior management : pandemic risk: climate change: and review of its terms of reference and of its effectiveness and again on business continuity, disaster recovery planning and concluded that it did not need to recommend to the Board any information security.
The Committee also monitors substantive changes to its remit or operations.
In October developments in relevant legislation and regulations to 2008, the Board conducted its own review of the Committees consider the impact these might have on the Group and on its performance and con rmed that the Committee had been system of internal control.
effective in the year under review.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 CORPO DR IR AE TC E G TO O R VS E R RN EA PN OC RE C T Co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 51 The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has In September, an independent review was undertaken by a responsibility for the review of financial risk management third party, under the direction of the Group Finance Director, and of internal financial controls during the year, as these to assess the resources and performance of the Risk and directly relate to the quality of financial reporting.
The Committee considered the the Committee reviews a summary of letters to management results of this exercise and agreed with its conclusion that prepared by the Groups external auditors following their the Risk and Assurance department had been effective for audit procedures, considers signi cant financial reporting the year.
The Committee also reviewed and approved the issues and approves any changes to Group accounting assurance plan for the forthcoming year.
policies, which are set centrally.
During the year, the The Group does not maintain common detailed accounting or Committee received reports on developments in international operations manuals because of the diverse operations financial reporting standards, Business Review regulations carried out by its divisions, though guidance is issued from and on the new requirement to produce interim management the centre.
Where applicable, divisions maintain their own statements.
Apart from these speci c responsibilities, the manuals.
A number of the divisions also undertake regular Committee is mandated to review all announcements of control review work as part of their control process.
results issued by the Group and to consider the appointment of external auditors and to review their remuneration.
Euromoney Institutional Investor plc is subject to the requirements of the Code in its own right.
As disclosed in its The central Risk and Assurance function carries out internal latest annual report, it has in place its own system of internal audit activities across the Group.
It operates under an control and risk management processes which forms part of internal audit charter which covers: the purposes and the Groups overall framework of control.
The joint ventures objectives of the Groups internal audit function: its authority and associates of the Group are not included in the Groups and scope: independence issues: standards of professional system of internal control described above.
practice, performance monitoring, planning and reporting.
The department also coordinates with a number of the On behalf of the Board divisions who undertake control reviews on companies within their divisions.
Following each review, a formal report is issued to divisional management with the audit findings and, managements response.
At each Audit Committee meeting, N D JENNINGS, FCA the Head of Assurance, Mr Ashby, reports on the internal Secretary audit activity across the Group, including progress against 26th November, 2008 completion of the annual assurance plan and a summary of the findings of assurance reviews undertaken.
In addition a description of the activities and operation of the Risk Committee was presented to each meeting of the Audit Committee during the year.
com 2008 52 D REMUN IRECTO ER RS A R TION EP REP ORT C ORT ontinued REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the term incentives used by the Company.
Fresh elds, MM&K Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and meets and PwC were appointed by the Committee.
the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the In September, the Committee conducted a formal review of Financial Services Authority.
As required by the Regulations, its effectiveness and concluded that it had ful lled its remit a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the and been effective in the year.
REMUNERATION POLICY THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committee seeks to structure remuneration packages The Remuneration Committee, which was established in on an individual basis appropriate to the level of 1992, is responsible inter alia for overall Group remuneration responsibility, but generally designed to retain and motivate policy and for setting the remuneration, bene ts and terms the individual.
and conditions of employment of the Companys executive Directors and other senior managers.
The Committees The Chairman is also the largest shareholder in the terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
He has been and will continue to be a long-term shareholder.
His shareholding provides an alignment with The members of the Committee are the Viscount long-term shareholders that is not always the case in other Rothermere, its chairman, Mr Gray and Mr Park.
In setting his remuneration the Committee has Combined Code the Code recommends that a adopted a similar policy as for other executive Directors.
In remuneration committee should be composed entirely of the case of Mr Fallon, the Committee considers that his independent non-executive Directors.
The Board considers it remuneration as executive chairman of Euromoney wholly appropriate that the Viscount Rothermere, as Institutional Investor plc Euromoney, a separately listed Chairman of the Board and as the Companys largest company, should be set by the remuneration committee of shareholder, is a member of the Committee.
The report on this is set out in Euromoneys participate in discussions regarding his own remuneration.
While Mr Gray and Mr Park are not considered by the Board to be independent under the Code, the Board does consider The Committee also reviews the Chief Executives them to act independently as regards remuneration issues.
recommendations for the remuneration packages of the The Board has appointed Mr Berry to the Committee with managing directors of the Companys operating divisions, effect from 11th February, 2009, the date of Mr Parks other than Euromoney, and oversees the bonus retirement.
arrangements established in each division, including long-term incentive arrangements.
These are designed The Committee met eight times during the year, four of which individually to re ect the targets and objectives of each were regular meetings.
All meetings were attended by all division.
serving members, except for four meetings where the Viscount Rothermere was not present as the subject matter The Committee considers that a successful remuneration included items affecting his own remuneration.
Individual policy needs to be suf ciently exible to take account of attendance by members is set out below: commercial demands, changing market practice and Number of Number of shareholder expectations.
Ordinary shareholders will be meetings held meetings attended provided with the opportunity to endorse the Companys The Viscount Rothermere 8 4 remuneration policy on a regular basis through the annual vote on the Remuneration Report.
S M Gray 8 8 I G Park 8 8 In setting the remuneration of executive Directors, the Committee is cognisant of the remuneration increases being The Finance Director, Mr Williams, is secretary to the given around the Group.
For 1st October, 2008, where strict Committee.
overall limits are being set on increases within the newspaper divisions, the Committee has decided to increase The Committee seeks the recommendations of the Chief all executive salaries by 3%.
Executive, who usually attends meetings of the Committee by invitation other than when his own remuneration is being Following the review in 2007 of long-term incentives the discussed, as regards the remuneration of the other Committee changed the policy to simplify the long-term executive Directors and of the divisional managing directors.
incentive arrangements and further encourage the building It also seeks input from the Finance Director regarding of signi cant ownership stakes by all executive Directors.
financial performance and other issues and from the These changes were approved by Ordinary shareholders in Company Secretary.
In 2008, the Committee has further reviewed the incentive schemes.
In view of the exceptional trading The Committee makes reference, where appropriate, to pay conditions faced by the Group and the lack of visibility into and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, future trading, the Committees policy for 2008 09 is to make especially when determining annual salary increases, and to no LTIP award and focus all incentive pay on the annual external evidence of remuneration levels in other companies, bonus.
particularly in the media eld.
It also makes reference to advice sought from external advisors.
During the year such REMUNERATION COMPONENTS advice was received from Fresh elds Bruckhaus Deringer A signi cant proportion of each executive Directors Fresh elds, MM&K and  PwC.
Fresh elds, which also provided other legal services, advised on contracts.
MM&K provided market data and gave advice The main components of the remuneration package for on best practice.
PwC participated in a review of the longexecutive Directors are: Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 53 i basic salary, reviewed annually: For 2008 09, no awards will be made.
ii where appropriate, annual performance related bonus.
Following the 2008 AGM, Incentive Awards and Transition The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair up until Awards were made in March 2008.
30th September 2008, Mr Morgan with effect from In 2006 07 and previous years, Executives were invited to 1st October 2008 and Mr Williams are members of the commit shares in the Company at a market price and receive DMGT Executive Bonus Scheme the Scheme.
The a matching award under the LTIP which had been established Scheme was introduced in 1993 and revised in 2006. in 2001.
If a participant holds the committed shares for five The bonus maximum is 100% of salary.
The bonus is years, he will be eligible to receive matching shares on a paid, net of the amount required to meet the related sliding scale dependent on the total shareholder return of the PAYE and employee national insurance liability, in a Company compared with a peer group.
This peer group was combination of cash and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares chosen to re ect a range of listed companies in the of DMGT, which must be retained for three years.
businesses and locations principally occupied by DMGT.
Participants are asked to specify the proportion of the after-tax bonus which is to be applied in the form of Details of awards made to executive Directors, their shares which must be at least 50%.
performance conditions and the comparators are given on pages 57 to 60: and For 2008 09, the maximum annual bonus for The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Morgan and Mr Williams has been set at iv share options, designed to provide a long-term incentive 200% of salary and any bonus up to 100% of salary will be which aligns their interests to those of shareholders.
It is paid under the terms of the Scheme and any bonus in excess not intended in the future to grant options, in the same of 100% of salary will be paid in cash.
The performance year, to executive Directors who receive awards in the measures and targets re ect the key goals of the Company LTIP, except in exceptional circumstances.
Under the and have been tailored to the requirements of the business.
2006 Executive Share Option Scheme each award of options has a maximum life of ten years.
The maximum For 2007 08, for the Chairman, 100% of his bonus was based award limit is 100% of salary in any year in normal on growth in earnings per share EPS of the Group: for circumstances and 200% of salary in exceptional Messrs Sinclair and Williams, part was based on EPS and circumstances.
Awards to Directors and other senior part on individual performance targets.
managers will not normally vest until three years after Mr Beatty has a bonus based on the performance of his the award and the performance conditions have been division and his own personal performance goals.
Prior to 2006, options were granted under the 1997 maximum bonus he can earn is normally 60% of salary, but Scheme.
Details of the performance conditions attached will be 160% of salary for 2008 09.
A bonus of 50,000 was to those options are given in note v on page 67.
No awarded to Mr Dutton for 2007 08 to re ect his contribution further options will be granted under the 1997 Scheme to the transitions at DMG Information and he will be eligible and following adoption of the revised LTIP it is not for a maximum bonus of 100% of salary in 2008 09. intended to make further options awards under the 2006 scheme except in exceptional circumstances such as iii where appropriate, a long-term incentive plan.
The Daily recruitment or the need to retain a key executive.
Mail and General Trust Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, established in 2001 and revised in 2006 and 2008, is SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINES designed to align the interests of participants and The Company encourages Directors to own shares in the shareholders.
Further, the LTIP will only provide rewards Company.
for participants if the Company achieves exceptional Executive Directors have a target shareholding of 1.5 times returns for shareholders: this is achieved by calibrating their salary, to be built up over a suitable period.
The design participants rewards to stretching performance targets.
of the LTIP encourages executive Directors to achieve this The normal maximum Core Award to an executive is 62.5% of goal which aligns their interests with those of shareholders.
salary annually, and the maximum Matching Award is two The shares held and valued at 28th September, 2008 as a times the number of Shares that vest under the Core Award.
multiple of salary were: Thus, if the participant continues to be employed by the Value of shares Salary Company six years after the Award was granted, the held at multiple at employee could receive a maximum of Shares, valued at the 28th September, 2008 28th September, million 2008 Award date, of 187.5% of salary.
He would have to wait six years to be able to receive this maximum.
The Viscount Rothermere 313 469 P M Fallon 1.8 9.1 In exceptional circumstances, an initial grant of up to 100% of C J F Sinclair 1.5 1.4 salary may be made, which could result in a maximum award after six years of 300% of salary.
J P Williams 0.8 1.3 D M M Dutton 0.4 1.2 These Award levels have been set to take account of the current remuneration strategy.
The Committees intention P M Dacre 0.4 0.4 is to continue to monitor market practice and will consider K J Beatty 0.1 0.1 the appropriate targets in relation to each years Awards.
It will therefore ensure that Award levels are competitive in the case of Mr Fallon, shares in Euromoney are included and motivational to the executives concerned and acceptable of which he is an executive Director.
com 2008 54 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued PENSIONS The Chairman and Messrs Williams, Dutton, Fallon and The Group operates a two-tier fide ned bene t pension Beatty have contracts of up to one year in duration, as did scheme for senior employees including most of the Mr Sinclair, prior to his retirement on 30th September, 2008.
Companys executive Directors, details of which are given on Mr Dacre has a rolling two-year contract which the page 64.
It is the Companys policy that annual bonuses, Committee considers wholly appropriate for his particular payments under the Executive Bonus Scheme and bene ts in responsibilities and for the industry in which he works.
The kind are not pensionable.
Committee differentiates between what might be termed corporate executives and media executives whom it Prior to 6th April 2006, the Committee reviewed in detail the wishes to tie in to the Group and to prevent from working for impact of the pensions tax regime operating from that date.
Mr Dacre is a media executive.
developed a new policy, designed to be neutral in terms of cost compared to existing expenditure on pensions.
This new Details of these service contracts and that of Mr Morgan who policy incorporated the removal of the pensionable earnings was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive on 1st October cap for pension accruing after 6th April 2006. are set out below: Date of Notice Company with Individual executive Directors were affected very differently Contract Period whom contracted by these changes and for some it was not tax-ef cient to The Viscount accrue further pension for service from 6th April 2006.
Rothermere 17th Oct, 94 1 month DMGT However, it is for individual Directors to decide when to opt out of the scheme, in which case a cash allowance is paid.
On M W H Morgan 1st Oct, 08 2 years DMGT this basis, three executive Directors, Mr Sinclair, Mr Williams J P Williams 30th Nov, 04 1 year DMGT and Mr Dacre, decided to opt out of the Groups pension D M M Dutton 27th Nov, 02 1 year DMGT scheme with effect from 6th April 2006.
Cash allowances paid in lieu of pensions are shown on page 55.
Under the P M Dacre 13th July, 98 2 years DMGT prescribed transitional arrangements, their accrued pension P M Fallon 2nd June, 86 1 year Euromoney at that date will remain linked to future increases in K J Beatty 19th May, 02 1 year Associated pensionable earnings and they will continue to be eligible for death in service bene ts.
Mr Morgans notice period will reduce to one year and nine months as of 1st October, 2009, one year and six months as Prior to 6th April, 2006, two of the Companys executive of 1st October, 2010, one year and three months as of 1st Directors were subject to HM Revenue & Customs October, 2011 and to one year on 1st October, 2012. pensionable earnings cap and a funded unapproved retirement bene ts scheme was put in place for them on the In the event of earlier termination of their contracts, each same terms as for other capped senior executives.
The Director is entitled to compensation equal to their basic assets of this scheme are held independently from the salary, bene ts, pension entitlement and, as appropriate, Groups nances and are administered by Trustees.
No bonus or pro t share for their notice period.
additional investment in these individual trusts has been made since that date and following approval from The contracts of Mr Morgan and Mr Williams are subject to HM Revenue & Customs and the Trustees, both Directors mitigation and, in the event of the Director obtaining chose to disinvest their funds during the year.
alternative employment during the notice period, do not provide for further payment after such event.
This mitigation NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORSHIPS does not apply to their pension bene t. Share options would The Company allows its executive Directors to take a very be treated as for any member of the scheme, depending on limited number of outside directorships.
Individuals retain the reason for termination of the contract.
the payments received from such services since these appointments are not expected to impinge on their principal Mr Fallon has a second service contract with Euromoney employment.
This does not apply where a Group executive Publications Jersey Limited EPJ, a subsidiary of serves as a non-executive Director of a company because the Euromoney dated 4th May, 1993.
This contract has the same Group has a signi cant interest, as was the case of terms as his first contract, except that termination does not Mr Williams directorship of GCap Media plc.
In this case, all include a car allowance as Mr Fallon does not receive this fees were paid to the Company.
Details of fees retained by bene t from EPJ.
Directors from outside non-executive directorships are given in note vi on page 56.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for speci ed terms and are subject to re-election by the Ordinary shareholders SERVICE CONTRACTS at the AGM following appointment, and thereafter at least Contracts of service are negotiated on an individual basis as every three years.
Each appointment can be terminated part of the overall remuneration package and their length is before the end of the three-year period, with no notice or fees inevitably conditioned by external competitive pressures.
The dates of the appointment or subsequent rethis reason, the contracts of two of the executive Directors appointment of the non-executive Directors are set out on exceed the one year recommended in the Code.
Committee believes that the length of contract should be appropriate to the individual.
Thus where DMGT employs individuals with unique talents within the areas of business within which it operates, the Committee believes that they should have longer contracts.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 55 Date of appointment In addition, fees are paid for membership of Board re-appointment committees.
Committee fees range from 4,000 per annum F P Balsemo 8th Feb, 2006 to 12,500 per annum, except that the Audit Committee chairman receives a fee which was last raised to 25,000 on I G Park 8th Feb, 2006 1st October, 2007.
T S Gillespie 7th Feb, 2007 No increases are being made for the 2008 09 financial year.
D J Verey 7th Feb, 2007 N W Berry 7th Feb, 2007 AUDITED INFORMATION C W Dunstone 6th Feb, 2008 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION J G Hemingway 6th Feb, 2008 The total amounts of the remuneration and other bene ts of S M Gray 6th Feb, 2008 the Directors of the Company for the years ended 28th September, 2008 and 30th September, 2007 are shown below Directors retiring by rotation and standing for re-election at for Directors: the forthcoming AGM are shown in the Directors Report on 2008 2007 page 46.
000 000 Aggregate emoluments 11,095 10,753 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined Gains on exercise of share options 182 166 by the Board.
Fees payable are reviewed annually, including a Sums paid to third parties comparison with the level of fees paid by other companies of for Directors services 79 79 similar size and complexity: these fees are shown in the table 11,356 10,998 below.
A recommendation to the Board on this subject is then made.
The basic fee as a Director was last raised to 30,000 per annum on 1st October, 2006.
com 2008 56 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued NOTES TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION hold the Shares in the Core Award.
The vesting of Matching i The gures for fees and salary include fees for Directors Awards is not subject to satisfaction of a further performance of subsidiaries including for the Viscount Rothermere, Mr condition.
Therefore, the vesting level of both the Core Sinclair and Mr Williams as directors of Euromoney.
For Awards and Matching Awards is determined by performance non-executive Directors they also include Committee over the initial three year performance period.
The vesting fees, where applicable.
pro le of Matching Awards is designed to achieve retention of executives, and encourages long-term shareholding.
ii Cash allowances include an allowance paid to each of Messrs Sinclair, Williams and Dacre, in lieu of continued For executives whose main focus is on their Division, the membership of the DMGT Senior Executives Pension performance criteria may re ect the performance of their Fund.
The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair and Mr Division.
Williams also receive a cash allowance instead of having The expected value of an Award of 62.5% of salary has been a company car and Mr Dacre instead of the Company calculated by PwC as 68% of salary using a Monte Carlo providing Central London accommodation.
valuation model using assumptions based on their historical iii Bene ts in kind include the taxable value of company analysis which do not indicate a forecast of management of cars, fuel allowances and company contributions to expected outcomes for DMGT.
Participants will not receive dividends on Shares under their iv Group adjusted earnings per share for the year ended Awards.
However the number of Shares which vest under an 28th September, 2008 before amortisation and Award will be increased during the Relevant Period by impairment of intangible assets, and exceptional items reference to dividends which would have been paid on those have shown a decrease in the year of 3% which, under the Shares during the Relevant Period.
Scheme, results in no bonus being earned by Lord The first Core Awards were made in March 2008.
Core and Matching Awards will not be capable of vesting in Mr Sinclair was awarded a bonus of 52% of salary, and Mr full until 2014, the Committee also made Transition Awards Williams 34% of salary.
The Transition Awards will normally vest to the executives only if they are still employed in the Company A bonus of 50,000 was awarded to Mr Dutton for the year.
three years after the Award, i. e. March 2011.
There are to be no post-grant performance conditions attached to the Mr Fallon is entitled to 6.49% of the pre-tax pro t earned by Transition Awards.
Transition Awards do not bene t from any Euromoney, which has a comprehensive pro t sharing linked Matching Awards.
In setting the size of the Awards, the scheme that links the pay of its executive Directors to the Committee took account of the EPS performance over the pro ts of that group.
last three years and made Transition Awards over Shares equal to 30% of salary to the Viscount Rothermere and Mr Beatty was awarded a bonus, based on meeting Messrs Williams, Dutton and Morgan.
performance targets at Associated Newspapers.
The 2008 Core and Transition Awards were made in March v No pension contributions were made to money purchase 2008, following approval of the new plan by shareholders at schemes in 2008 2007 Nil.
vi The Viscount Rothermere, Mr Sinclair, Mr Williams and The targets for awards for 2007 and prior years relate to the Mr Fallon retained fees of Nil 2007 25,000, 40,000 Companys performance against a peer group of comparable 2007 36,000, 12,500 2007 23,000 and Nil 2007 media companies.
This peer group was chosen to re ect a 22,000 respectively from their outside non-executive range of listed companies in the businesses and locations directorships.
The LTIP is supervised by the Committee and is operated in conjunction with an employee DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST LONG-TERM INCENTIVE discretionary trust the Trust.
The Trust will acquire A PLAN LTIP Ordinary Non-Voting Shares in the Company shares to The March 2008 LTIP Incentive Awards comprise two parts: satisfy awards under the LTIP or treasury shares will be used.
a Core Award and Matching Awards.
Core Awards will vest under normal circumstances after 3 years and the proportion The award prices in the tables below are the prices on the of the Shares that vest will depend on absolute growth in EPS date the awards were made.
These were used to determine over the 3 years from the Award date, with the base period the number of shares awarded.
being the financial year prior to the date of Award.
For the March 2008 Awards: no part of the Award will vest if EPS growth is less than 5% p. a. compound growth, with 20% of the Award vesting at this level of achievement: 80% of the Award will vest at 12% p. a. compound growth: with full vesting at 15% p. a. compound growth: and pro-rata vesting between these points.
The employee would then receive Matching Awards of Shares equivalent to 50% of the vested Core Award which will vest at the end of three, four, five and six years from the date of Award, so long as he continues to Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 57 A Ordinary Non-Voting At Awarded Vested Lapsed At Award End of initial shares in award 1st October during during during 28th September Price Date performance Core awards 2007 year Year year 2008 of Award period The Viscount Rothermere 97,860 97,860 4.27 19 Mar 08 03 Oct 10 J P Williams 91,076 91,076 4.27 19 Mar 08 03 Oct 10 D M M Dutton 43,962 43,962 4.27 19 Mar 08 03 Oct 10 K J Beatty 89,390 89,390 4.27 19 Mar 08 03 Oct 10 322,288 322,288 A Ordinary Non-Voting At Awarded Vested Lapsed At Award End of initial shares in award 1st October during during during 28th September Price Date performance Transition awards 2007 year Year year 2008 of Award period The Viscount Rothermere 46,973 46,973 4.27 19 Mar 08 19 Mar 11 J P Williams 43,716 43,716 4.27 19 Mar 08 19 Mar 11 D M M Dutton 21,102 21,102 4.27 19 Mar 08 19 Mar 11 K J Beatty 42,907 42,907 4.27 19 Mar 08 19 Mar 11 154,698 154,698 For 2007 and earlier awards prospective participants were invited by the Committee to agree to commit shares in the Company to the LTIP at a market price.
Initially invitations were made in tranches over a period of two to four years.
Individuals were given six months to make commitments in order to allow for them to make purchases of shares, where appropriate.
Once an individual agreed to commit shares which were owned by him or by his close family, the Trustee of the Trust the Trustee decided whether to make an award of an equal number of shares to those committed.
com 2008 58 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Having received agreements to commit shares, the Trustee made the awards set out in the table below.
All participants have elected to delay the realisation of their 2002 and 2003 awards for a further two years.
Awards under the LTIP are subject to performance price growth and dividends paid assuming that such conditions, which will determine whether, and to what extent, dividends are reinvested in shares during the five year shares under awards will vest.
The performance conditions period, and is commonly adopted as a measure of relate to the TSR of the Company initially over a five-year comparative performance.
These performance conditions period against a peer group of UK and overseas companies were chosen by the Committee in order to incentivise the determined by the Committee.
TSR is the aggregate of share executives to increase long-term shareholder value.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 59 This comparator peer group is as follows for awards made from 2001 to 2005 Awards will be realisable after the performance period to the extent of the percentage in the right-hand column below Emap plc from 2008 replaced by Johnston Press plc according to the Companys place in the list of comparator Independent News and Media plc companies as indicated in the left hand column below: Pearson plc TSR Ranking within the list % of Award realisable of comparator companies for awards made in 2006 after 5 years Reed Elsevier plc First 200% stv group plc formerly SMG plc Second 150% The News Corporation plc Third 100% Thomson Reuters Corporation formally The Thomson Corporation Fourth 80% Trinity Mirror plc Fifth 60% United Business Media plc Sixth 40% Gannet Co. Inc Seventh 20% New York Times Co Below seventh i. e. below median 0% Tribune Co from 2008 replaced by Washington Post Co TSR Ranking within the list % of Award realisable of comparator companies for awards made in 2007 after 5 years This comparator peer group is as follows for awards made in 2006 First 200% Emap plc from 2008 replaced by Johnston Press plc Second 150% Independent News and Media plc Third 100% Informa plc Fourth 75% McGraw-Hill Companies Inc Fifth 50% Pearson plc Sixth 25% Reed Elsevier plc Below sixth i. e. below median 0% Reuters Group plc from 2008 replaced by New York Times Co The News Corporation plc At the end of the five-year performance period, participants may elect either to realise their awards at that time or to Thomson Reuters Corporation formerly The Thomson Corporation extend the performance period to seven years.
If they elect to extend the performance period, the level of committed Trinity Mirror plc shares must be maintained throughout the extended period.
United Business Media plc At the end of the seven-year performance period, the Companys TSR performance will be measured.
The awards Washington Post Co will be realisable after the performance period to the extent of the percentage in the right-hand column below according This comparator peer group is as follows for awards made in 2007 to the Companys place in the list of comparator companies Emap plc from 2008 replaced by New York Times Co as indicated in the left-hand column below: Independent News and Media plc TSR Ranking within the list % of Award capable of comparator companies for awards made from of realisation Informa plc 2001 to 2005 Johnston Press plc First 300% McGraw-Hill Companies Inc Second or third 150% Reed Elsevier plc Fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh 75% Reuters Group plc removed in 2008 Below seventh i. e. below median 0% The News Corporation plc Thomson Reuters Corporation formerly The Thomson TSR Ranking within the list % of Award capable Corporation of comparator companies for awards made in 2006 of realisation Trinity Mirror plc First 300% United Business Media plc Second 225% Washington Post Co Third 150% Fourth 120% During the year, three comparators, Tribune Co, EMAP plc Fifth 90% and Reuters Group plc were taken over.
The Committee determined to substitute these companies with those set out Sixth 60% in the tables above from the date of completion of their Seventh 30% takeovers.
For 2007, Reuters Group plc was removed from Below seventh i. e. below median 0% the comparator group and the scale recalibrated as shown in the table opposite and that on page 60. www.
com 2008 60 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued TSR Ranking within the list % of Award Graphs of comparator companies for awards made from capable of Graphs of DMGTs performance against each of its 2001 to 2005 realisation comparators for each of these periods are set out on pages First 200% 62 and 63.
These graphs have been plotted using the relative rankings of each comparator at the end of each month.
As Second or third 100% such, they are approximations to the actual rankings under Fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh 50% the rules, which are calculated using a two month average Below seventh i. e. below median 0% for the starting point and for each subsequent month.
This can give different results between the table above and the graphs.
TSR Ranking within the list % of Award capable of comparator companies for awards made in 2007 of realisation The graphs on page 61 compare the DMGT total shareholder First 300.0% return with that of the FTSE 100 index and of the media index Second 225.0% over a period of five years, as required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
As a constituent of Third 150.0% the FTSE100 from February 1999 to June 2006 and from Fourth 112.5% March to December 2007 and as a constituent of the media Fifth 75.0% index throughout the period, the Directors regard both indices as the most appropriate indices for purposes of Sixth 37.5% comparison of the Groups performance.
Additional graphs Below sixth i. e. below median 0.0% on that page illustrate performance over a twenty-two year period for which data is available.
Performance to date The graphs on pages 61 to 63 are unaudited.
Position at Year of award Initial performance period 28th September, 2008 2002 1st Jan 2002 to 31st Dec 2006 Eighth 2003 1st Jan 2003 to 31st Dec 2007 Seventh 2004 1st Jan 2004 to 31st Dec 2008 Seventh 2005 1st Jan 2005 to 31st Dec 2009 Eighth 2006 1st Jan 2006 to 31st Dec 2010 Eleventh 2007 1st Jan 2007 to 31st Dec 2011 Tenth DMGTs TSR ranking for the awards made in 2002, during their initial performance period of 1st January, 2002 to 31st December, 2006, was eighth place.
This performance period has been extended to 31st December, 2008 in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
DMGTs TSR ranking for the awards made in 2003, during their initial performance period of 1st January, 2003 to 31st December, 2007, was ninth place.
This performance period has been extended to 31st December, 2009 in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 61 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS FTSE 100 2003-2008 UNDER PERFORMANCE -29% KEY 250% DMGT A TSR FTSE 100 TSR 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS FTSE 100 1986-2008 OUT PERFORMANCE 122% KEY 4000% DMGT A TSR FTSE 100 TSR 3000% 2000% 1000% 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA SECTOR 2003-2008 UNDER PERFORMANCE -14% KEY 200% DMGT A TSR Media Sector TSR 100% 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA SECTOR 1986-2008 OUT PERFORMANCE 188% KEY 4000% DMGT A TSR Media Sector TSR 3000% 2000% 1000% 0% www.
com 2008 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 86 Sep 87 Sep 88 Sep 89 Sep 90 Sep 91 Sep 92 Sep 93 Sep 94 Sep 95 Sep 96 Sep 97 Sep 98 Sep 99 Sep 00 Sep 01 Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 Sep 86 Sep 87 Sep 88 Sep 89 Sep 90 Sep 91 Sep 92 Sep 93 Sep 94 Sep 95 Sep 96 Sep 97 Sep 98 Sep 99 Sep 00 Sep 01 Sep 02 Sep 03 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Sep 08 62 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA COMPARATORS 2002-2008 7TH POSITION KEY 280% United Business Media Reed Elsevier 240% Independent News & Media Pearson 200% Thomson Reuters 160% News Corporation DMGT A 120% Washington Post Co ex-Tribune Johnston Press ex-EMAP 80% New York Times Co 40% Trinity Mirror Gannett Co 0% stv ex Scottish Media Group TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA COMPARATORS 2003-2008 7TH POSITION KEY 350% United Business Media Pearson 300% Reed Elsevier Independent News & Media 250% Thomson Reuters News Corporation 200% DMGT A 150% Washington Post Co ex-Tribune Johnston Press ex-EMAP 100% New York Times Co Trinity Mirror 50% Gannett Co 0% stv ex Scottish Media Group TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA COMPARATORS 2004-2008 7TH POSITION KEY 200% Reed Elsevier Pearson United Business Media 150% Independent News & Media Thomson Reuters News Corporation DMGT A 100% Washington Post Co ex-Tribune Johnston Press ex-EMAP New York Times Co 50% Gannett Co Trinity Mirror stv ex Scottish Media Group 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA COMPARATORS 2005-2008 7TH POSITION KEY 200% Reed Elsevier United Business Media Pearson 150% Thomson Reuters News Corporation Independent News & Media 100% Washington Post Co ex-Tribune DMGT A New York Times Co 50% Johnston Press ex-EMAP Gannett Co Trinity Mirror stv ex Scottish Media Group 0% Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 Dec 01 Mar 02 Jun 02 Sep 02 Dec 02 Mar 03 Jun 03 Sep 03 Dec 03 Mar 04 Jun 04 Sep 04 Dec 04 Mar 05 Dec 02 Jun 05 Mar 03 Sep 05 Jun 03 Dec 05 Sep 03 Mar 06 Jun 06 Dec 03 Sep 06 Mar 04 Dec 06 Jun 04 Mar 07 Sep 04 Jun 07 Dec 04 Sep 07 Mar 05 Dec 07 Jun 05 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 05 Dec 03 Sep 08 Dec 05 Mar 04 Mar 06 Jun 04 Jun 06 Sep 06 Sep 04 Dec 06 Dec 04 Mar 07 Mar 05 Jun 07 Jun 05 Sep 07 Sep 05 Dec 07 Mar 08 Dec 05 Jun 08 Mar 06 Dec 04 Sep 08 Jun 06 Mar 05 Sep 06 Jun 05 Dec 06 Sep 05 Mar 07 Jun 07 Dec 05 Sep 07 Mar 06 Dec 07 Jun 06 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 06 Sep 08 Dec 06 Mar 07 Jun 07 Sep 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 08 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 63 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA COMPARATORS 2006-2008 11TH POSITION KEY New York Times Co ex-Reuters 180% Reed Elsevier Pearson 150% United Business Media Thomson Reuters 120% Informa plc News Corporation 90% Washington Post Co Independent News & Media 60% McGraw-Hill Companies Inc DMGT A 30% Johnston Press ex-EMAP Trinity Mirror 0% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: DMGT VS MEDIA COMPARATORS 2007-2008 10TH POSITION KEY 150% Reuters Group plc Reed Elsevier New York Times Co ex-EMAP 115% Washington Post Co Thomson Reuters United Business Media 80% News Corporation Informa plc Independent News & Media 45% McGraw-Hill Companies Inc DMGT A Trinity Mirror 10% Johnston Press www.
com 2008 Dec 05 Mar 06 Jun 06 Sep 06 Dec 06 Mar 07 Dec 06 Jan 07 Jun 07 Feb 07 Mar 07 Sep 07 Apr 07 May 07 Dec 07 Jun 07 Mar 08 Jul 07 Aug 07 Jun 08 Sep 07 Oct 07 Sep 08 Nov 07 Dec 07 Jan 08 Feb 08 Mar 08 Apr 08 May 08 Jun 08 Jul 08 Aug 08 Se 64 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued Audited information Accrued entitlements under the DMGT Senior Executives Pension Fund Transfer Accrued value of real Pension Accrued Transfer increase in Other Transfer Age Entitlement Real Entitlement value as accrued Changes value as at 28th at 30th increase at 28th at 30th pension net to at 28th September, September, In ationary in accrued September, September, Members of members transfer September, 2008 2007 increase pension 2008 2007 Contributions contributions value 2008 Director Years 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 The Viscount Rothermere 40 43 2 14 59 325 16 139 146 626 C J F Sinclair 60 623 24 38 685 12,903 950 3,422 17,275 J P Williams 55 293 11 11 315 4,435 211 1,666 6,312 P M Dacre 59 628 24 15 667 12,547 373 3,449 16,369 K J Beatty 50 64 2 18 84 736 15 272 354 1,377 Accrued bene ts under the Harmsworth Pension Scheme Transfer Accrued value of real Pension Accrued Transfer increase in Other Transfer Age Entitlement Real Entitlement value as accrued Changes value as at 28th at 30th increase at 28th at 30th pension net to at 28th September, September, In ationary in accrued September, September, of members transfer September, 2008 2007 increase pension 2008 2007 contributions value 2008 Director Years 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 P M Fallon 62 7 1 8 138 34 172 NOTES TO DIRECTORS PENSION ENTITLEMENTS Actuarial Standards.
The transfer values of the accrued i The DMGT Senior Executives Pension Fund, of which five entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension executive Directors are members, has since 1st April, scheme would need to transfer to another pension 2005 required a contribution from its members.
The provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect normal retirement age under the Fund for this group is of the Directors pension bene ts.
During the year there sixty.
For each Director, the accrued entitlement at 28th was a change to the assumptions used to calculate September, 2008 represents the annual pension that is transfer values, which made allowance for the expected to be payable on eventual retirement, given the expectation that members will live longer in retirement length of service and salary of each Director at this date.
than had previously been assumed as well as re ecting a A spouses dependants pension equal to two thirds of the fall in long-term interest rates.
These changes Directors pension is incorporated and the Director can contributed to the Other Changes to transfer value.
currently elect to receive the pension from age fty, iii Mr Fallons pension bene t in the above table relates to a subject to a discount if retirement takes place before deferred pension in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme for sixty.
The pension, when in payment, will receive annual pensionable service between 1st April, 1978 and 1st April, increases in line with in ation, which may be limited 1986.
Neither the Group nor Mr Fallon continues to make when in ation exceeds 3% per annum.
any contributions to this scheme.
ii All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of iv The Company does not make any pension contributions actuarial advice in accordance with Retirement Bene t on behalf of Mr Dutton.
Transfer Values GN11 published by the Board for Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 65 Directors Interests audited information The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other Group companies in which current Directors or their families had an interest at the dates shown are stated below.
For the Viscount Rothermere and Messrs Sinclair and Williams respectively, 26,839, 43,312 and 21,414 of these shares were subject to restrictions, explained on page 53, at 28th September, 2008.
The comparable gures at 1st October, 2007 were 32,108, 43,212 and 21,414 respectively.
These performance conditions December 2004: and under the DMGT 2006 Executive were chosen by the Remuneration Committee in the light Share Option Scheme since March 2006.
All options of institutional guidelines in order to incentivise the under both Schemes were granted at market value at the executives to increase shareholder value.
Under the 2006 date of grant and none required any payment.
They are Scheme, should the performance conditions not be met, not normally exercisable before the third anniversary of re-testing is not permitted.
the date of grant and in all circumstances will lapse if not v Options granted under the 1997 Scheme do not normally exercised within ten years.
vest until three years after the award and two ii No Directors options lapsed or had their terms and performance conditions have been met.
The first conditions varied during the year.
condition is that, in respect of four out of six consecutive monthly calculation dates which start in the thirtieth iii The mid-market price of the A Ordinary Non-Voting month following the date of grant of a particular option, shares was 3.2425 at 28th September 2008 and 6.30 at the total shareholder return TSR of the Company must 30th September, 2007.
It ranged from 2.59 to 6.765 exceed that of the FTSE 100 index.
Secondly, there must during the year.
be real growth in earnings per share eps over a period of three consecutive financial years.
iv Options granted under the 2006 Scheme have two separate conditions.
The first condition is that the total shareholder return TSR of the Company must exceed that of the 250 largest companies in the FTSE index.
No part of the award will vest for below median TSR: 12.5% of the Option vests at Median TSR: 50% vests at upper quartile TSR and pro-rata between these points.
The second condition is growth in earnings per share EPS 12.5% of the Option will vest at EPS growth of RPI 3% www.
com 2008 68 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued vi The status of both performance conditions on [xii] Directors bene cial shareholdings in Euromoney were outstanding share options is as follows: as follows: TSR condition At 28th September, At 30th September, performance 2008 2007 Exercise to date v. EPS The Viscount Rothermere 20,864 20,864 1997 Scheme price FTSE100 condition Status Dec 98 6.48 met met vested C J F Sinclair 7,494 7,494 J P Williams 3,075 3,075 Dec 99 10.30 61% met not vested June 00 10.96 70% met not vested P M Fallon 532,998 486,872 564,431 518,305 Dec 00 8.34 met met vested Jul 01 7.25 met met vested xiii Mr Fallon holds options in Euromoney, exercisable as Dec 01 6.45 met met vested follows: Dec 02 5.73 98% met not vested At 28th September, At 30th September, 2008 2007 Dec 03 6.08 80% met not vested At 3.9575 before Dec 04 7.24 74% met not vested 11th February, 2009 85,000 85,000 At 4.3125 before TSR condition 25th June, 2009 255,000 255,000 performance Exercise to date v. EPS At 3.69 between 2006 Scheme price median condition Status 1st February, 2009 and Mar 06 6.98 61% not met not vested 1st August, 2009 2,533 2,533 Nov 06 6.88 57% not yet At 0.0025 between tested not vested 14th February, 2008 and 30th September, 2014 43,722 Dec 07 5.05 49% not yet tested not vested At 0.0025 between 14th February, 2009 and vii Since the EPS condition for the options granted in 30th September, 2014 46,126 March 2006 was not met in the year, 50% of those 388,659 386,255 options granted to participating Directors will now lapse.
The mid-market price of Euromoneys shares was 3.3625 at 28th September, 2008 and 5.29 at 30th September, 2007.
It viii There were 6,978,245 options outstanding under both ranged from 3.17 to 5.23 during the year.
schemes at the end of the year.
This represents 1.87% of the Companys total issued share capital excluding xiv Mr Fallon is a member of Euromoneys Capital treasury shares.
Appreciation Scheme which was introduced in 2005.
As such, he was awarded an option to subscribe for shares ix The Company has been noti ed that, under sections 793 in September 2005.
The exercise price of each option is and 824 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the 0.25 pence with three option tranches, assuming the Viscount Rothermere, Mr Hemingway and Mr Gray were performance conditions are met, expiring on 30th deemed to have been interested as shareholders in September, 2014.
The first two tranches of the award 12,542,340 Ordinary shares at 28th September, 2008 have vested in full since the 50 million pro t target and 12,543,340 at 30th September, 2007. subsequently adjusted to 57 million following the acquisition of Metal Bulletin plc was achieved in 2007 x At 28th September, 2008 and at 30th September, 2007, and again in 2008.
The number of options granted under the Viscount Rothermere was bene cially interested in the first tranche was provisional and was adjusted for 756,700 Ordinary shares of Rothermere Continuation the allocation of options from true-up audit Limited, the Companys ultimate holding company.
adjustments during the period to 31st December 2007 as required by its remuneration committee.
As such the [xi] The Viscount Rothermere was bene cially interested in actual number of options granted varied from those 68 Ordinary shares in Associated Newspapers North disclosed last year.
Full details of this scheme are America Inc. at 28th September, 2008 and at 30th contained in Euromoneys Annual Report.
September, 2007, representing 3% of that Companys share capital.
xv All shareholdings were unchanged at 26th November, 2008. xvi As at 26th November, 2008, Mr Morgan, who was appointed to the Board after the year end, held 764 Ordinary shares and 902,007 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares, 85,432 of which have been committed to the LTIP, and the rest of which must be retained for three years or otherwise be forfeited.
He had also received conditional core share awards over 47,780 shares and transition awards over 22,934 shares under the revised LTIP in March.
He also had options over 191,000 shares Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued 69 at prices ranging from 5.73 to 10.295.
xvii No Director of the Company has or had a disclosable interest in any contract of signi cance subsisting during or at the end of the year.
xviii Disclosable transactions by the Group under IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures, are set out in Note 40.
There have been no other disclosable transactions by the Company and its subsidiaries with directors of Group companies and with substantial shareholders since the publication of the last Annual Report.
On behalf of the Board ROTHERMERE Chairman 26th November, 2008 www.
com 2008 70 D IN IR fide EC PT EO NR DS E R NT A EPU OD RI T C TORS on R tin Eu Pe O dRT TO THE MEMBERS OF DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Daily Mail and General Trust plc for the year ended 28th controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the September, 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised control procedures.
Income and Expense, the Consolidated Statement of Changes We read the other information contained in the Annual Report in Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated as described in the contents section and consider whether it Cash Flow Statement and the and the related notes 1 to 41. is consistent with the audited Consolidated Financial These Consolidated Financial Statements have been Statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material We have also audited the information in the Directors inconsistencies with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information audited.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION statements of Daily Mail and General Trust plc for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with International ended 28th September, 2008.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the state to the companys members those matters we are Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also required to state to them in an auditors report and for no includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Consolidated Financial Statements, and of whether the company and the companys members as a body, for our accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have circumstances, consistently applied and adequately formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the AUDITORS information and explanations which we considered necessary The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the reasonable assurance that the group financial statements Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be applicable law and International Financial Reporting audited are free from material misstatement, whether Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Consolidated Financial Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
OPINION In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, whether the the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair Consolidated Financial Statements have been properly view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28th Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the September, 2008 and of its pro t for the year then ended: directors remuneration report described as having been the Group financial statements have been properly audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: opinion the information given in the Directors Report is the part of the Directors remuneration report described consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The as having been audited has been properly prepared in information given in the Directors Report includes that accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and speci c information presented in the Business Review that is the information given in the Directors Report is consistent cross referred from the Business Review section of the with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding Deloitte & Touche LLP Directors remuneration and other transactions is not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors disclosed.
London We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 26th November, 2008 re ects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008
