02 INNOVATIONS sharply from 5.15 minutes in October We are continually PERFORMANCE 2007 to 6.36 minutes in October 2008. innovating to stay During one day this October, Mail Online ahead and compete in visitors spent 147,000 collective hours 19.
Over the unique visitors in October 2008. the digital landscape entire month this totalled 189,916 days.
Mail Online launched a fresh new Since launching its new design Mail design in May, delivering more pictures Online has also developed a new and stories on its homepage than advertising format, the Belly Band, any other UK newspaper website.
offering premium brands access to a The new design has been a success, larger than normal advertising space demonstrated in its annual year on centrally within a page.
A number of year performance: premier brands including Nivea and Pathe Films have been early adopters.
Unique visitors have grown 32% from 13.5 million in October 2007 The Femail fashion reviews have been to 19.8 million in October 2008 : complemented by new functionality that Page impressions have increased enables a user to click & buy directly from 108 million in October 2007 from its pages.
to 151 million in October 2008, a 40% increase.
Mail Online is leading the market in integration of reviews linked directly Less often measured across the to hundreds of retailers.
industry is the time visitors spend engaging with a site.
Mail Online's average time per visit has risen ABCe audited gures, November 2008 D Da ai il ly M y Ma aiil a l an nd G d Ge en ne er ra al T l Trru us st p t pll c A c An n n n u u aa l R l R ee pp oo rr t 2 t 2 00 00 88 INNOVATIONS Continued 03 This led to a decision to build a PERFORMANCE We are seizing the proprietary tool called the Bubble, challenges and possibilities operated by sales staff, which allows that digital platforms are them to select and customise top quality 2m creative advertisements for a client After launch and roll out in February 2007, creating and turning them Bubble orders now account for over 2 million without the need for a studio or art desk.
into opportunities of revenue per year.
And because it only takes them an average of three minutes to customise Northcliffe Media reaches millions of an advert, it means that excellent local people across hundreds of local creative work can be made available communities.
A key factor behind their to clients on a while you wait basis.
future success is the requirement to build and maintain strong relationships The Bubble team produce over 100 ads with local advertisers.
per week and they have already built up a library of 15,000 print ads and over In this Web 2.0 age of online 2,000 online executions covering all personalisation, Northcliffe realises the advertising categories.
Even though the need for constant innovation in order to system focuses on print and online, it is provide modern and ef cient advertising completely adaptable to other media.
services that clients expect and to increase their market penetration.
The Bubble is helping Northcliffe to attract, retain and increase advertising revenues.
com 2008 04 INNOVATIONS Continued PERFORMANCE 15 0 Over 150 professionals use The Cover daily as a research tool.
com is a daily online-only news service dedicated to the covered bond market.
An extension of the EuroWeek brand, From love online to Mail The Cover was created to engage with Online, our brands are a small community within the xed income industry that deals primarily continually adapting to a with covered bonds.
This web service fast moving, evolving provides exclusive breaking news as digital landscape new issues are launched, as well as essential information on the secondary markets, relevant regulation, bespoke league tables, opinion polls and stories on the people that matter.
The Cover was speci cally designed to allow readers to comment on articles and vote on transactions, and thereby re ect what the market really thinks.
Over 150 professionals, including issuers, investment bankers, credit rating agencies, law rms, regulatory bodies and investors now subscribe to The Cover and use it daily as a research tool.
It is no coincidence that The Cover won the award for best launch of the year at the Specialist Industry Publishers Association conference.
single recruitment CRM has spawned PERFORMANCE I nd The Cover to be the best and an entire suite of innovative products, most ef cient way of keeping abreast ranging from online application of market developments.
management, social networking tools, 1, 000 Thor Tellefsen, Senior Vice President predictive modelling software, and higher education institutions are served of investor relations and long term by EMT.
retention solutions that allow schools funding, DnB Nor to work with current students.
With the launch and evolution of EMT, Enrolment Management Technology, Hobsons Client Development Model Hobsons has grown into a worldwide has become the standard of service leader in education solutions, serving in higher education technology more than 1,000 institutions of higher consistently outperforming their learning around the world with unique competition with personal attention and technology solutions for recruitment, client engagement.
Hobsons product management, and advancement development is driven entirely by of students.
customer feedback, ensuring that their products consistently meet the needs of As the demand for technology in higher the higher education professional.
EMT education grew louder at the start of also boasts the largest and most diverse the new millennium, Hobsons began to user community in higher education.
EMT was launched in April 2000 of these have helped make Hobsons the with a single web-based customer worlds largest enrollment management relationship management CRM company with the size of its client roster, product to help colleges and universities the number of student records and manage student data and easily send applications processed, and the number electronic communications.
Today, this of students served.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 INNOVATIONS Continued 05 members worldwide who are PERFORMANCE Customers are our biggest contributing content and bene ting from: success story, and by Real time answers from peers and experts on pressing questions offering our existing 2, 000 Hundreds of downloadable members worldwide are bene ting customers more exciting from EDR.
documents, research reports, products we are attracting podcasts and articles In April 2008 Environmental Data Ongoing discussions concerning many new ones Resources EDR launched market issues, trends, and legislation commonground, the first global Access to blogs, event calendars, business networking community news and business opportunities for environmental professionals Commonground members hail from involved in all aspects of property over 60 countries including the United due diligence.
States, UK, Brazil, Mexico, Italy, China, Hong Kong, India and Australia.
This collaborative network brings together environmental professionals, In September 2008, commonground engineers, mortgage lenders, attorneys, was nominated for a Forrester insurers, appraisers, inspectors and Groundswell Award, and according industry thought leaders and provides to web information statistics, them with real time access to industry commonground is already in the top knowledge, expertise, and learning.
In 1.75% of all web sites in total traf c. just a few short months, commonground is being harnessed by nearly 2,000 www.
com We have the right people in place, the passion to succeed and we continue to delight our customers 06 6 TITLE CHAIR O MF AN PA S G ST E ATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERE TO VIEW THE VISCOUNT ROTHERMERES VIDEO STATEMENT GO TO: CHAIRMAN WWW.
COM 2008 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANSSTATEMENT Q: Economic conditions around the Q: We keep reading about the credit world are very tough at the moment.
crunch and companies being unable How is the Group faring?
Are DMGTs nances in good shape?
A: It has been a challenging year for the Group and the next 12 months A: Most importantly in the current look likely to be even more markets, our nancing arrangements challenging.
The world has been hit are long term and secure.
We by a financial crisis, unprecedented in undertook a 200 million sterling the last 50 years, and DMGT cannot bond issue in June 2007, shortly be immune to that.
However, our before the bond markets effectively policy of investing in market leading closed down.
In September 2008, businesses will mean that we should we extended our banking facilities, be able to grow our market share which were due to expire in October and emerge stronger.
2009, partly for three years and partly for five years.
In the short term, given Set against this background, I am the uncertainty of our markets, our pleased to be able to report results focus is on cash generation and showing revenues slightly up on last increasing our financial exibility.
year, and pro ts only 9% lower.
This has been achieved due to the strong These funding arrangements enable performance of our business to us to move forwards with con dence business operations, while our UK and to make the investments in our consumer businesses had to cope businesses of which I spoke earlier.
with extremely dif cult conditions.
The fact that the Group has grown Q: You spoke in your statement last its revenues in such circumstances year of the spirit of innovation in the is an af rmation of our continued Group.
Will this survive these tough diversi cation into business to trading conditions?
A: I believe it is vital for our future prosperity that it does and, from Q: How are you going to react to these what I have seen, it is very much conditions?
A: Given the likely economic picture for Northcliffe, our regional media the next year or more, we have had business, is going through a torrid no choice but to reduce our costs time in terms of advertising revenue where appropriate.
I am afraid that trends and pro tability.
Yet, even this will inevitably mean a loss of during such tough times, it was able some jobs, but we hope, in large to launch the Messenger series part, to achieve this by not lling of free titles in the East Midlands.
vacancies and not replacing those Aimed at af uent, small town who choose to leave.
populations, the series has captured It is important to remember that an attractive market, been pro table whilst we must nd ways of from the day of launch, and now improving ef ciency we must not extends to 14 editions, with plenty cut into the heart of our business for more planned.
Northcliffe has also short-term bene ts.
DMGT prides launched an online, self-service itself on taking a long view and advertising platform, called the ideally wants to see its businesses Bubble, which has the capacity to streamline their operations whilst revolutionise local media advertising.
investing in growing market share.
Euromoney has created the DMGT has always performed Euromoney Business Library, strongly as we have emerged from an online searchable receptacle tough times and, however dif cult of all the content from their many the circumstances seem now, I publications.
Genscape has launched rmly believe that we will look back a platform to measure natural gas on this time as one of opportunity.
production from re neries, using advanced wave technology.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc Annual Report 2008 CHAIRMANS STATEMEN TITLE T C O on Ft P inA uG eE d 07 7 Associated has developed a thriving I became Chairman.
I shall miss him VISIT WWW.
CO. UK business, direct marketing chosen and wish him well for his retirement.
products and services to the readers Marius Gray has informed me of his of the Mail titles.
intention to retire from the Board in Further details of these and other July 2009 after 24 years service.
He innovations are given in this Annual has been a great source of advice Report.
I am determined that both to my father and to me, and will we continue to encourage such be a tough act to follow.
him also and wish him a long and happy retirement.
Q: We have recently seen the retirement EUROMONEY HAS CREATED of Charles Sinclair as Chief Q: You have always emphasised the EUROMONEY BUSINESS LIBRARY Executive, with Martin Morgan taking importance of people within DMGT.
In ENABLING USERS TO SEARCH CONTENT FROM THEIR over at a most interesting time.
How these tough times, what do you have PUBLICATIONS ONLINE.
do you feel the transition has gone?
to say to the Groups employees?
A: I referred last year to Charles A: I do indeed believe that talented retirement after 21 years as Chief people are at the heart of DMGT Executive.
It was the strategic and we must nurture and develop decision of Charles and my father that talent if we want to drive the in the early 1990s to diversify the Company forward.
This current Groups activities and particularly recession will test our resolve on to invest in business to business this issue but Im con dent that we information companies.
That decision will remain true to our beliefs.
is being shown now to be very We should remember that, at the THE RESILIENT PERFORMANCE OF prescient.
We send him all our best moment, the resilient performance SOME OF OUR BUSINESSES IS AS NOTEWORTHY AS THE GROWTH wishes for the next stage in his career.
of some of our businesses is as ACHIEVED BY OTHERS.
noteworthy as the growth achieved Martin Morgan duly took over as by others.
The Board and I are very Chief Executive on 1st October, grateful for the dedication and hard and has certainly hit the ground work of all the Companys staff.
Given that his ascension coincided with the worst of the Q: How do you see the financial crisis, he has had little coming year?
I think the transition has been painless, for which Charles A: It is going to be another tough year deserves great credit.
ahead, but I rmly believe that DMGT will be stronger at the end Q: Has Martin made any changes to the of it.
We have strong businesses executive team?
with media brands that people love and dedicated, talented A: We have strengthened our team with employees.
Dif cult times are a the appointment of Joe McCollum as wonderful opportunity to improve Head of Human Resources or, as we market shares we intend to take like to describe him, our Talent that opportunity.
Also, we recruited Suresh Kavan from Thomson Reuters, to Rothermere replace Martin as head of DMG Chairman Information.
They are both making a great contribution already.
Q: Will there be any other changes to the Board this year?
A: Ian Park has indicated that he will not stand for re-election to the Board at the AGM in February.
Following a distinguished career in journalism and regional press management, latterly as Managing Director of Northcliffe, Ian has served on the DMGT Board for 14 years.
He has provided me with Adjusted pro ts before tax, amortisation excellent advice since I first came and impairment of intangible assets and exceptional items.
into the Group and particularly since www.
