BUSINESS REVIEW | BUSINESS TO BUSINESS: DMG INFORMATION 23 DMG INFORMATION DAVID DUTTON CHAIRMAN KEY DEVELOPMENTS SURESH KAVAN FURTHER GROWTH FROM DMGIS STRONG CHIEF EXECUTIVE BUSINESS MODELS RESILIENCE IN UNCERTAIN MARKET CONDITIONS CONTINUED EXPANSION BY RMS KEY FIGURES Despite a year of turbulent property PROPERTY and financial markets, DMGI was able Operating pro t from the property Revenue to increase operating pro ts by 6%.
companies declined by 22% to 23 This re ected the crucial nature of the million, with revenues being 13% lower information provided in our chosen at 92 million.
315m niche markets and continuing 2007: 293m investment in new products and In the UK, the volume of housing Operating pro t services to meet the changing needs transactions plunged to record low of our clients.
On a like-for-like basis, levels during the year.
Whilst the underlying revenue increased by 5%.
market leading position of Landmark 75m Information Group was at least 2007: 71m INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL maintained, this lack of activity in the Operating pro t from DMGIs insurance marketplace had an adverse impact Operating margin and financial companies rose by 18% on revenues.
Landmark has continued to 41 million on revenues up 19% to to invest in product enhancements 24% 131 million.
and extensions and is well positioned 2007: 24% for a recovery.
Risk Management Solutions, which represents more than half of this Commercial property transaction division, continued its impressive volumes also reduced signi cantly growth record.
As the worlds leading in both the US and UK, affecting provider of solutions to assist the Environmental Data Resources EDR insurance sector in quantifying and and Landmark respectively.
Both EDR managing catastrophe and other risks, and Landmark continue to be innovative, RMS grew revenues by 19% and, whilst expanding their product offerings and pursuing an aggressive strategy to the markets they serve.
EDR grew its expand its product range and subscription sales strongly and geographic coverage, also grew successfully increased penetration of operating pro ts by 17%.
sales to commercial property lenders.
Landmark acquired Inframation, a Notwithstanding a virtual cessation property information business based of new issuance of asset-backed in Germany.
securities, the importance of the surveillance and monitoring products Property & Portfolio Research enjoyed offered by Trepp, serving the commercial a good year, expanding the geographic mortgage-backed securities market, reach of their property research and and Lewtan, providing services to both growing revenues by 23%.
Adjusted operating pro t before exceptional items and amortisation issuers and investors in asset-backed and impairment of tangible assets.
securities, has been evident with both Underlying revenue or pro t is companies increasing revenues and revenue or pro t on a like-for-like operating pro ts, in Trepps case, by basis, adjusted for acquisitions and more than 20%.
disposals made in the current and prior year and at constant exchange rates.
Percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
com 2008 24 BUSINESS REVIEW | BUSINESS TO BUSINESS: DMG INFORMATION Continued DMG INFORMATION continued OTHER preparation, recruitment, management GROWTH IN NUMBER OF RMS EARTHQUAKE MODELS YEARS Operating pro t from DMGIs other and advancement of students.
business information companies rose 25 by 38% to 15 million on revenues that Sanborn enjoyed a good year with were 18% higher at 92 million.
strong revenue and pro t growth.
18 Genscape, a leading provider of In March, DMGI disposed of Dolphin real-time information to the energy Software at an attractive valuation.
13 trading markets, continued to grow strongly with revenues increasing by OUTLOOK more than 20% and margins improving.
The past year has demonstrated the resilience of DMGI in uncertain and Hobsons education information turbulent market conditions.
Whilst business grew underlying revenues much uncertainty remains in their niche 94 99 00 04 05 08 by 16%.
It completed further bolt-on markets, all the DMGI companies are Years acquisitions, with College Con dential well positioned to deliver strong growth being added in the US and the minority both during any upturn and through the in NARIC acquired in the UK.
its successful disposal of the graduate recruitment information business in the DMGIs business models are strong summer, Hobsons is pursuing an and the level of investment in product aggressive growth strategy solely development and the number of growth focused on providing products to opportunities remain encouraging.
education professionals in the DMG INFORMATION REVENUE M 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Excluding Study Group sold 2006 Operating pro t DMG INFORMATION OPERATING PROFIT M 80 70 18% Operating pro t from DMGIs 60 insurance and financial companies rose by 18%.
