BUSINESS REVIEW | CONSUMER MEDIA: DMG RAD TITLE IO AU O ST FR P A AL G IA E 35 DMG RADIO AUSTRALIA PETER WILLIAMS CHAIRMAN KEY DEVELOPMENTS CATHY OCONNOR STRONG GROWTH OF NOVA NETWORK CHIEF EXECUTIVE RETURN TO PROFITABILITY DEVELOPMENT OF MULTIMEDIA CAPABILITY DMGRA returned to pro tability this OTHER DEVELOPMENTS KEY FIGURES year, driven by underlying revenue From an online perspective, Nova station Revenue growth of 24%, at constant exchange websites have grown traf c by 27% year rates, against market growth of 6% on year, with a 25% increase in audio nationally.
streams and 66% increase in podcasts 55m downloaded from the Nova sites.
This 2007: 40m NETWORK PERFORMANCE growing online presence is also enabling The improvement in performance was the generation of new national revenues Operating pro t driven by a year of strong growth for the for the Group with 80% of major national Nova network which recorded campaigns now containing an online 2m an increase in operating pro t of 61% component.
In addition, developments 2007: -4m on the prior year.
such as the Nova networks mobile phone applications have enabled the Operating margin Despite continued weakness in the network to respond to the changing Sydney advertising market, the Nova habits of its listeners and advertisers.
network achieved revenue growth of 4% 22%, driven largely by an increase in OUTLOOK 2007: -9% its share of national revenue.
By continuing to focus on its core Nova Network No.
1 metropolitan brands, DMGRA expects While the Nova network was again the Nova further to improve its reach into number one national network in its the 18-39 market and to see continued No.
1 target demographic of all listeners growth for Vega.
In the first survey of Nova Network was again the aged 18-39, Nova Brisbane continued the new financial year, Nova increased number one national network in its target demographic.
its leadership of the Brisbane market its audience share in all key Under 40 achieving the number one overall demographics in every market.
position in every survey across the year.
DMGRA continues to build on its The Vega FM stations in Sydney and multimedia capability, including online Melbourne reduced their losses, but and mobile, and is well advanced in its by less than had been expected.
They planning for the launch of Digital Radio continued to grow their target audience in May 2009. of 40-54 year olds, with Vega Sydney achieving the leading position in this DMG RADIO AUSTRALIA METROPOLITAN REVENUE M demographic in Survey 5, 2008 for the first time.
The stations also improved 60 their overall ratings position relative to 50 Adjusted operating pro t before their main competitors.
exceptional items and amortisation 40 and impairment of tangible assets.
30 5AA, the speech radio station in Underlying revenue or pro t is Adelaide, had another excellent year, 20 revenue or pro t on a like-for-like basis, adjusted for acquisitions and increasing pro ts and retaining the 10 disposals made in the current and number one overall position throughout prior year and at constant exchange 0 rates.
02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Percentages are calculated on actual numbers to one decimal place.
