Recruitment and Staff levels Egypt in focus During 2008, two further expats were recruited to bolster the local exploration team.
Both joined from major oil companies bringing specific country experience.
Completion of the acquisition of Devon Recruited eight new national staff, seven within the exploration department plus a new Energys Egyptian business in 2007 safety and security manager.
required Dana to address a number of key business challenges to ensure a strong Engaged 11 staff previously outsourced through agencies to Dana staff contracts.
In the first year of ownership, Dana instigated some National staff complement is now 35 people.
important people-related initiatives which have been important contributors to the Performance management successful Egyptian operations described Developed and implemented performance management system for all staff.
Performance elsewhere in the Business Review.
These contracts and personal development plans were agreed in 1st quarter and all 2008 initiatives are as follows: bonuses and pay rises at year end were performance based.
This was the first time that the Egyptian staff had seen any differentiation in remuneration based on performance.
Strengthening the leadership team The most important initial objective HSE training was to replace the previous incumbent Intensive two day defensive driver training for all company drivers.
This course will be expatriate management team, take made available to all staff in Egypt during 2009. control of the business, and foster Danas business priorities.
Recruitment of the new Safety and security manager trained to NEBOSH standards, and passed with distinction.
management team was a key priority, and the following senior appointments were Basic safety, evacuation and fire fighting training for all office staff in Cairo.
made: Improved communication Brian Twaddle, Country Manager.
All expatriate staff attended Arabic language courses and these will continue throughout A Facilities Engineer by background, 2009.
Brian joined Dana following a 17 year career with Shell in the UK and the English language courses were made available to National staff who thought they would Netherlands.
All national office staff attended effective communication and leadership course.
A Geophysicist, Nick joined from Shell in Malaysia, and brought over 22 years of Learning & development experience with Shell and Enterprise Oil.
Kingdom training for exploration staff.
Financial system training for finance staff.
CIMA qualified, Derek previously spent 15 years with Amerada Hess in the UK HR training courses for relevant professionals.
Net Backup and diploma overseas courses for IT specialists.
David Wheeler, Deputy General Manager, Zeitco.
A Geologist with 27 Short term assignment of key national geologist to work with Aberdeen based service years experience, David joined from provider.
Team building & cultural Sally Kandil, Legal and Contracts Monthly staff gathering used to communicate key business messages.
Egyptian educated and trained in Australia, Sally brought 10 years of Quarterly off-site gathering including team building activity.
previous upstream experience from Woodside Petroleum and British Gas.
Company Iftar during Ramadan which included families of all staff including drivers and key contractors.
27 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
