Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the audited Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008. Business review and future activities The principal activities of the Group are oil and gas exploration and production.
The Company is a public limited company, incorporated in England and Wales, and its securities are quoted on the London Stock Exchange, under the designation DNX.
The Chairman and Chief Executives Statement and the Business Review describe the significant developments in the business of the Group during 2008 and its future prospects.
Results, dividends and retentions The Group profit for the year after taxation and before minority interests amounted to 96,235,000 2007 restated: 63,029,000.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Events since the balance sheet date On 16 February 2009, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to acquire the entire share capital of Bow Valley Energy Ltd, a Canadian listed, but UK focused, upstream company for a cash consideration of CAN $0.50 per share.
In addition to the equity consideration of approximately USD35 million equivalent, the Group will also repay Bow Valleys debt at the completion of the transaction.
At 31 December 2008, Bow Valley had an estimated USD142 million of net debt.
To facilitate the transaction, and as a broader corporate refinancing initiative, the Company also agreed a new three-year USD400 million revolving credit facility with the Bank of Scotland.
This replaces the existing facility with ABN AMRO Bank N. V. which has been cancelled.
Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Company and the Companys compliance with the 2006 Combined Code Combined Code, which was adopted by the Financial Services Authority for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 November 2006.
The Company will continue the ongoing development of its corporate governance practices to ensure high standards are maintained.
Statement by the Directors on compliance The Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the with the provisions of the Combined Code Combined Code throughout the year.
The Board will continue to review and report on the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls as detailed on pages 40 to 41 and the Audit Committee will review annually the need for an internal audit function.
Additional information for shareholders The following provides additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK Law.
At 31 December 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised: % of total 000 000 Share capital Ordinary shares of 15 pence each 86,895 13,034 100 The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or of voting rights.
Ordinary shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the annual general meeting and in accordance with the current requirements of the Combined Code, will be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
36 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods : pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys securities: pursuant to the Companys various share scheme arrangements.
The Companys articles of association, which were replaced with effect from 1 October 2008 following the approval of new articles of association at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Board can appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Following implementation of the new articles of association, any director who has held office for more than three years since his her last appointment is obliged to offer himself herself up for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Authority will be sought at the 2009 Annual General Meeting for the Company to buy back up to approximately 10% of its issued share capital.
Convertible Bonds Convertible Bonds were issued during 2007 and are described in notes 22 and 26 of the Group Financial Statements.
Pending conversion, the Convertible Bonds carry no votes at meetings of the Company.
Ordinary shares in the Company issued on conversion will rank pari passu with the Companys existing issued share capital.
On a change of control of the Company, bondholders have an entitlement to exercise their conversion rights.
Significant interests Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are shown in the table on page 41.
Major interests i. e. those 3% of which the Company has been notified are shown on page 39.
Company share schemes The Dana Petroleum plc Share Incentive Plan, holds 22,572 shares of the Company in trust for the benefit of employees of the Group.
This includes 17,113 unreleased matching and free shares.
The voting rights in relation to these unreleased shares are exercisable by the trustees.
Change of control Other than as described above in relation to the Convertible Bonds, and as further described below, the Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
The Groups new USD400 million debt facility with Bank of Scotland, is terminable by the bank upon a change of control event and provision of not less than 30 days notice: and any letters of credit outstanding under the Companys letter of credit facility with the Bank of Scotland are also similarly repayable to the bank but upon provision of 45 days notice by the bank.
There are no agreements between the Company and its employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid, other than the agreements between the Company and the Executive Directors as detailed on page 51 to 52 of the Report on Directors Remuneration.
37 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors continued The Workings of the Board The Board and its Committees The membership of the Board is set out on pages 32 and 33 of this document.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Technical & Commercial Director and three further Non-Executive Directors, previously four prior to the retirement of Angus Pelham Burn following the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Brief biographies appear on pages 32 and 33.
These demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are vital to the continuing success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, the Company Secretary will ensure that the Directors receive appropriate training as necessary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically referred to it for decision.
In addition to those formal matters required by the Companies Acts to be set before a board of directors, the Board will also consider business strategy and policy, business plans, acquisition and divestment proposals, approval of major capital investment plans, risk management policy, significant financing matters, and statutory shareholder reporting.
To comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and in an effort to strive for continual improvement in the effectiveness of the Board, its committees, and the individual Board members, the Company has an evaluation process based on individual questionnaires.
The Board meets regularly during the year with additional meetings as dictated by matters arising.
In addition, there is frequent dialogue between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The Board met formally four times during 2008, with 100% attendance from the Board members in office at the time of the Board meeting with the exception of the Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting in July, which Mr A M Pelham Burn, was unable to attend due to recuperation from surgery.
All other Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information and the Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice as required.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully considered.
Statements of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts are set out on pages 42 and 43 and a statement on going concern is given on page 42.
The Company adopted new articles of association, approved by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting and effective from 1 October 2008, which permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company situational conflicts.
The Board has put in place a formal system for Directors to declare situational conflicts and for these to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational conflict, these nonconflicted Directors are required to act in the way that they consider would be most likely to promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Following its introduction, the system for declaration and authorisation of situational conflicts has been followed by the Company and found to operate effectively.
Where matters arose during the year which required the attention of the Audit, Remuneration or Nominations Committees, a separate meeting of the relevant committee was convened with full attendance by its members.
These committees deal with the following specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which was chaired by Mr D I Rawlinson until the conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting, following which this role was assumed by Mr P J Dayer, comprises all the Non-Executive Directors other than the Chairman, and meets not less than twice annually.
This requirement was satisfied in 2008 and both meetings were attended by all members.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors.
If required, meetings are also attended by the Chairman and appropriate members of senior management at the specific request of the Committee.
38 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 The Workings of the Board The Audit Committee is responsible each year for reviewing a wide range of matters including the Interim Report and the Annual Report and Accounts before their respective and its Committees continued submission to the Board and the monitoring of the controls that are in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In line with the Combined Code, the Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing annually the requirement for an internal audit function.
All the foregoing responsibilities were duly fulfilled in 2008.
The ongoing members of the Audit Committee all have recent and relevant financial experience as detailed in their biographies on pages 32 and 33.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for appointments or re-appointments to the Board.
This committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and Mr T P Cross and was chaired by Mr A M Pelham Burn until his retirement at the 2008 Annual General Meeting following which the role was assumed by Mr D I Rawlinson.
It generally meets not less than once annually, and in 2008 the meeting held, at which the appointment of Mr B Johnston to the Board was reviewed and recommended, was attended by all Committee members other than Mr A M Pelham Burn, who was precluded by the Nominations Committees procedures from participating in a meeting at which the appointment of his proposed successor as a director of the Company was discussed.
The Nominations Committee is charged with ensuring the necessary balance of skills, knowledge and experience is maintained and represented on the Board.
The Nominations Committee considers that the current composition of the Board is satisfactory to provide the proper governance, administration and business counsel in respect of the Companys affairs.
It will continue to monitor the situation in 2009.
Remuneration Committee Full details of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 44 to 56.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following shareholdings of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 March 2009: No.
of shares % of issued share capital Schroder Investment Management 10,375,819 12.46 BlackRock MLIM 4,343,658 5.00 RCM Allianz Global Investors 4,083,473 4.69 Legal & General Investment Management 3,443,497 3.96 Newton Investment Management 3,077,213 3.54 Aegon Asset Management 2,847,878 3.28 Relations with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
Extensive information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report which are sent to all shareholders.
During 2008, the Group also commenced the issue of Interim Management Statements on a bi-annual basis as required by the European Transparency Directive.
There is regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and meetings are offered following the Groups preliminary announcement of the year end results and at the half year.
The Company has its own web-site www.
com for the purpose of improving information flow to shareholders as well as potential investors.
Enquiries from individual shareholders on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group are also welcomed.
39 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors continued The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and Relations with shareholders institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Board aims to ensure that the continued Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions and explain details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting and the related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the meeting in accordance with the Combined Code.
Internal control The Board confirms that during 2008 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts it has maintained and updated the procedures necessary to implement the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and that these procedures are still in place.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the particular needs of the organisation concerned and manage the risks to which it is exposed.
The delegation of authority structure introduced during 2007 to accommodate the new organisational units in Egypt and Norway has now been in place for some time and is operating efficiently.
By their nature such systems can provide reasonable assurance, but not absolute assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Management structure The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The Executive Directors together with key senior executives constitute the management committee, which meets regularly, to discuss day-to-day operational matters.
A Country Panel structure has been set up for Egypt and Norway, with each panel comprising three members, including two Executive Directors, and the Country Manager.
The panel will meet at least quarterly, or on a more frequent ad-hoc basis as required, to review performance and expenditure items beyond the delegation of authority of the relevant Country Manager.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Identification of business risks The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate course of action to manage those risks.
This includes performing or participating in audits of Joint Ventures JV to ensure JV expenditures have been committed with the necessary JV approval and in accordance with JV agreements.
The use of financial instruments and the Groups approach to financial risk management is discussed in the Accounting Policies on page 68 and the Financial Review on page 31.
The nature of financial instrument risks faced by the Group is further detailed in note 25 to the Group Financial Statements.
Budgetary process Each year the Board approves the business plan and annual budget.
Key risk areas are identified.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the regular reporting to the Board of changes to the business plan and variances from the budget and updated forecasts for the year and the three year capital investment programme together with information on the key risk areas.
Investment appraisal Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed proposals have to be submitted to the Board or Country Panel.
Appropriate due diligence work is carried out if a business or significant assets are to be acquired.
40 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Internal control continued Audit Committee The Board has delegated periodic review of the system of financial internal control to the Audit Committee which has reported its conclusions to the Board during the year.
The Board has also consulted the Audit Committee, during the year, on other internal control matters.
The Audit Committee believes that the Companys external auditors adopt an objective and impartial approach to the audit of the Group and that this is in no way influenced by the extent of non audit work undertaken by the Companys external auditors during the year, as disclosed in note 6 to the Group Financial Statements.
Such work in 2008 largely related to advice in connection with potential corporate transactions and taxation services.
The Board will continue to carefully consider how such advice is sourced in future.
The Audit Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided that, given the size of the Group and the system of controls in place, it is not required at present.
The Audit Committee will continue to review this decision annually particularly in light of the Groups expansion.
Annual review and assessment The Board undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
This includes a review of the Audit Committees assessment of the system of financial internal control.
A review took place in December 2008 and addressed internal control issues generally and, more specifically, financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The review included reports from, and interviews with, key operating personnel.
Directors interests in share capital The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares at 27.3.
09 at 31.12.08 at 31.12.07 15p shares 15p shares 15p shares C R Goodall 70,103 70,103 66,933 T P Cross 1,044,893 1,044,893 701,360 D A MacFarlane 111,554 111,554 73,036 S M Paton 32,529 32,529 7,032 A M Pelham Burn retired 24 July 2008 n a n a 47,665 D I Rawlinson 38,440 38,440 38,440 P J Dayer 9,387 9,387 2,000 B Johnston appointed 24 April 2008 6,000 6,000 n a Includes 261 Free Shares and 212 Matching Shares subject to a three year holding period restriction pursuant to the Dana Share Incentive Plan: 155,831 shares subject to a five year holding period restriction, or until termination of employment pursuant to Deferred Share Payment A: and 141,479 shares subject to a five year holding period restriction, or until termination of employment pursuant to Deferred Share Payment B.
These Deferred Share Payments were approved by shareholders at the Companys EGM on 26 September 2006.
Includes 261 Free Shares and 472 Matching Shares subject to a three year holding period restriction pursuant to the Dana Share Incentive Plan.
Composition of group Details concerning the principal subsidiary undertakings are given in note 40 to the Company financial statements.
41 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 Report of the Directors continued Health, safety, the environment and the community Dana considers health, safety and environmental management to be an integral part of its business.
Dana has a formal Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E Policy which is brought to the attention of every employee and contractor working on Dana business.
The policy aims to achieve first class HS&E performance by promoting a culture which encourages all employees, contractors and other stakeholders to contribute to its implementation.
Responsibility for HS&E management begins with the Board of Directors and carries through to every employee and contractor engaged in Danas activities.
In Dana operated activities, the Group makes appropriate resources and training available to reduce health and safety risks to employees and contractors to a level which is as low as reasonably practicable and also strives for a neutral or positive impact on the physical and socio-cultural environment of the regions in which Dana does business.
Dana aims to meet relevant regulatory and legislative requirements as a minimum and to apply Danas own responsible standards in those countries where appropriate laws and regulations are considered inadequate or do not exist.
Details of Danas HS&E performance during 2008 and developments in the Groups Corporate and Social policy are provided on pages 13 to 15 and 28 and 29 respectively.
Recognising that a significant proportion of Danas activities are carried out by other companies, Dana also actively promotes and supports the application of equivalent HS&E standards by those suppliers, contractors and companies who operate on Danas behalf.
This is particularly true of developing countries, and, where the Company does not operate, Dana seeks to partner with large, well established upstream companies, with a track record of successfully working with host governments, and of promoting the highest standards of Corporate, Social and Environmental responsibility.
Full details of the operators of all Danas licence interests are provided on pages 115 and 116.
It is also the policy of the Group to consider the health and welfare of employees by maintaining a safe place and system of work as required by local legislation.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Boards review of the accounts, budgets and forward plans, lead the Directors to believe that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
Interests in contracts There have been no contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Creditors payment policy The Company and Group policy is to agree payment terms with individual suppliers and to abide by these terms.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial Statement of Directors statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International responsibilities in relation to Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
the Group financial statements The Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Group financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
42 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with Statement of Directors reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to responsibilities in relation to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Acts and Article 4 the Group financial statements of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group continued and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the directors listed on pages 32 and 33 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and The Directors Report and the Business Review include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Statement of Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
responsibilities in relation to the Parent Company Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Financial Statements Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Acts.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the directors Directors statement as to report are listed on pages 32 and 33.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the disclosure of information Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: to auditors to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the Directors report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Signed on behalf of the Board by: Thomas P Cross David A MacFarlane Chief Executive Finance Director 27 March 2009 43 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2008
