Directors report The Directors present their Annual report following the change of year end Products and services from 31 January to 3 April, together with the audited financial statements The principal electrical products sold by the Group are categorised for the 15 month period ended 3 April 8.
Any comparative gures as White, Brown and Grey goods and related accessories.
used in this report are extracted from the 6 7 Annual report for the 1 month period ended 31 January 7.
White goods comprise large and small sized domestic appliances such as refrigerators, washing machines, microwaves, coffee machines and Principal activities irons.
Whilst the large sized domestic appliances benefit from improved Kesa Electricals plc is a holding company with independent subsidiaries innovation, design and environmental efficiencies, they are in established operating through 69 stores in 1 European countries.
It is Europes markets with a high household penetration driven by a need or desire third largest electrical retailing group by sales.
During the period, the Group comprised four operating divisions: Darty Small domestic appliances have seen the development of new product France, BUT France, Comet UK and other businesses which categories, for example bagless vacuum cleaners and products driven consists of New Vanden Borre Belgium, BCC Holland, Datart Czech by fashion and design considerations.
Republic and Slovakia, Darty Italy, Darty Switzerland, Darty Turkey and Menaje del Hogar Spain and Portugal.
Menaje del Hogar was Brown goods include all vision and audio products such as at screen acquired in September 7.
BUT was sold on 31 March 8. televisions, DVD players, MP3 players and camcorders.
Kesa Electricals businesses share a trading philosophy based on three Grey goods include telecommunications and multimedia products such principles: Best Price, Best Choice and Best Service.
This distinctive as mobile telephones, personal computers, laptops, digital cameras, customer proposition is designed to address the needs of a broad printers, scanners and games consoles.
customer base, to create strong customer brand loyalty and to deliver a business model that is both profitable and cash generative.
This model Both Brown and Grey goods are rapidly changing markets driven by has a track record of success within Kesa Electricals and is being rolled the switch from analogue to digital technologies, coupled with price out across the Groups businesses in line with changing customer deation.
There is also increasing communication between these aspirations, so as to differentiate Kesa Electricals retail brands from products aided by the development of high-speed broadband and those of its competitors.
Kesa Group sales for the 15 months to 3 April 8 were 5.4 billion In addition the Groups specialist electrical retailer business model 7.6 billion 7: 3.9 billion 5.7 billion with retail profit of means that it also offers associated services such as home delivery 143. million.
and installation, credit and extended warranties Business and financial review profit and dividends Further information regarding the Group, its progress during the The retained profit for the 15 months to 3 April 8 amounts to financial year, events since the year end and likely future developments 1. million 7: 1 9.4 million.
An interim dividend of 3.5 pence is contained in the Chairmans statement and in the Operating business was paid to the ordinary shareholders of the Company on 7 December and financial review.
The information that fulls the requirements of the 7.
8 pence is due to be paid on business review as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act 11 July 8.
This, when combined with the first interim dividend of 6, is incorporated in this Directors report by reference, and can 3.5 pence, represented an increase of 7.5 per cent on the dividends be found on the following pages: paid for the 1 month period ended 31 January 7.
In addition the Board will also recommend at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the payment of a final dividend of 3.6 pence, payable on 1 October Information Location Pages 8 in relation to the three month period ending 3 April 8.
Development and performance Chairmans statement 4 The final dividend, once approved, will be paid to those persons on the during the financial year Operating business and Register of Members at the close of business on 1 September 8. financial review 614 Directors Position at the year end Operating business and The names and biographical details of the Directors holding ofce at including analysis and key financial review 614 the date of this report are shown on pages 18 and 19.
Particulars of performance indicators Directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the Company and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors remuneration Other performance, Corporate social responsibility 1517 and related matters on pages 9 to 37.
There were no changes in the including environmental and Operating business and Directors interests in shares between the end of the financial year and employee matters financial review 614 4 June 8.
Principal risks and uncertainties Directors report 3 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the following Directors will facing the business be retiring and being eligible are offering themselves for re-election: Michel Brossard Andrew Robb Peter Wilson Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 Details of the terms of the appointments for Michel Brossard, Andrew b Product life cycles Robb and Peter Wilson can be found in the Remuneration Committee Electrical products such as Brown and Grey goods are subject to rapid report on page 36.
Their biographies are set out on in the Directors change in design and functionality, which shortens their economic life.
The Board strongly supports their re-election and As new technologies become commoditised and availability increases, recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions they usually suffer a level of price deation.
Careful management is proposing their re-election.
needed in order to avoid loss of value and stock obsolescence when products are superseded.
Details of all the Directors service contracts are set out in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 35 and 36. c Entry into new markets There are only limited opportunities available, as suitable target Throughout the financial year, the Company has maintained liability companies may not be available for purchase, and there is a shortage insurance for its Directors and ofcers against the costs of defending of appropriate sites to enable rapid organic growth.
themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any d Systems failure proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company has The Groups businesses are dependent on the suitability and reliability also provided an indemnity for its Directors and ofcers.
Neither the of their systems and procedures, especially information technology, insurance nor the indemnity provides any cover where the Director warehousing and distribution systems.
has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
e Financial risk management Corporate governance Financial management risks are detailed in the operating business and The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on financial review on page 1 and in note to the accounts.
The principal risk is the foreign exchange exposure arising from the Principal risks and uncertainties varying exchange rates between the euro and pound sterling, which are The business, financial condition or results of operations of the the Groups two main trading currencies.
Group could be adversely affected by any of the risks set out below.
The Groups systems of control and protection are designed to help f Legislative, and regulatory risks manage and control risks to an appropriate level rather than to The Groups operations are subject to extensive regulatory eliminate them.
The corporate governance report on pages 4 to 8 requirements, particularly in relation to its products and services, sets out the operational procedures through which the directors assess its advertising, marketing and sales practices, its employment and and manage risk.
pensions policies and planning and environmental issues.
Changes in laws and regulations and their enforcement may adversely impact the The directors consider that the principal risks to achieving the Groups Groups operations in terms of costs, changes to business practices, objectives are those set out below.
a Economic and market conditions The Groups businesses may also be adversely affected by changes The economic environment inuences the level of consumer in tax laws.
expenditure on electrical goods in a number of ways.
The state of the housing market affects spending on White goods in particular, g Reputational risks and the feel good factor has a significant influence on discretionary The Groups success is dependent, in part upon the strength of the spending on higher value electrical products.
Many other economic Groups brands and their reputations.
The Group operates in an factors influence customers spending decisions, including interest industry where integrity, customer trust and confidence are important rates and levels of personal debt.
and any adverse publicity concerning corporate behaviour, policies and Actions taken by the Groups competitors, as well as actions taken strategies could damage that customer trust and damage the Groups to maintain its own competitiveness and reputation for value, have reputation and brands.
placed and may continue to place pressure on the Groups pricing, margins and profitability.
h Pension risks The Groups business is seasonal, with a high percentage of its The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK dened annual sales and operating profit generated during the Christmas benefit scheme for Comet employees and there is a smaller dened and New Year periods.
There are only limited opportunities to benefit scheme in France for senior Darty and Kesa employees.
compensate at other times of the year for any material shortfalls in Both schemes are currently in deficit sales during this period.
The level of profit margin in electrical retailing is largely determined The amount of the deficit is volatile as a result of changes in the by the market, consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount rates, ination and government regulations.
The Group protects its margins, as far and future salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments as possible, through its buying arrangements and by maintaining an and the returns derived from such investments.
Changes in pension efficient sourcing operation.
Cost structures are actively managed in fund legislation have also caused increases in scheme deficits order to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 1 Directors report i Employees There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate The Groups success depends on its ability to continue to attract, upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover, such as motivate and retain highly-qualied employees.
The highly-qualied commercial contracts, bank agreements, property lease arrangements employees required by the Group in various capacities are sometimes and employees share plans.
None of these are deemed to be in short supply in the labour market.
significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
j Leased properties A significant portion of the Groups properties are leasehold, and the Substantial shareholding Group is therefore exposed to substantial increases in commercial As at 4 June 8 the following interests of more than 3 per cent in property rents.
the issued share capital of the Company had been notied pursuant to section 793 of the Companies Act 6: Share capital At 3 April 8 there were 5 9,553, 16 ordinary shares of 5 pence Number of Percentage each in issue together with rights under the Companys Long Term ordinary of issued Name shares held share capital Incentive Plans of 1,695,363 ordinary shares of 5 pence.
It is intended to satisfy these rights through market purchase, rather than issuing Deutsche Bank AG 38,573,666 7.
Standard Life Investments Limited 37,639,583 7.11% Capital Group Companies 6,694,533 5.
4% Further details of the share capital are given in note 7 to the financial statements.
9% Blackrock Investment 5, 5, 39 4.77% Takeovers directive Legal and General 1,6 4,688 4.
8% Pursuant to s99 of the Companies Act 6, which implements the Barclays PLC 16,651,4 4 3.14% EU Takeovers Directive, the Company is required to disclose certain Wellington Management 16, 77,43 3.
The following gives those disclosures which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual report.
4% The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Board DrKWG 15,913,7 8 3.
1% power to appoint Directors, but also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting This represented 48.68 per cent of the issued share capital of the AGM following their appointment.
A Director who retires in this way is Company at that date.
eligible for election but is not taken into account when deciding how many Directors should retire by rotation at the AGM.
The Articles Save for the above, no person has reported any material interest of themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Pursuant to the Articles, at every AGM, at least one third of the Annual General Meeting AGM current Directors must retire by rotation.
If the Companys shareholders The fifth AGM of the Company will be held at 11. a. m. on approve the special resolution amending the Articles, the concept Wednesday 1 September 8 at The Novotel Hotel, of one third of Directors retiring from ofce at each AGM will be 1 -11 Euston Road, London NW1 AJ.
removed as it is no longer appropriate in view of the Combined Code requirement for Directors to offer themselves for re-election every Corporate social responsibility three years.
The Group has a code of conduct which sets out the standards of behaviour expected in the Group and of all who work for the Group, The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the partners, the community including the environment, government and Company subject to the provisions of the Companys Memorandum all other stakeholders in the business.
of Association and the Articles.
The Articles contain specic provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
More information on corporate social responsibility is set out on pages Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also 15 to 17. included in the Articles and shareholders are asked to renew such authorities each year at the AGM.
A copy of the Articles is available Donations on request from the Company Secretary.
The Groups support for charitable causes is principally through the work done by the Groups operating companies to the value of 64, 6.
Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 15 to 17.
The Group made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 Employment policies Creditor payment At 3 April 8 the average number of employees working for the For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: Group throughout Europe was 7,657.
Kesa Electricals consists of a number of businesses operating in different sectors.
While employment Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is, of business with that supplier.
nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of gender, as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, sexuality relationship.
The working environment is conducive to achievement and free from Trade creditors of the Group at 3 April 8 were 4.
days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal period to the amounts invoiced during the period by trade creditors.
opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their The Trade creditors for the Company were nil 7: nil.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly Directors disclosure of information to auditors treated and that their training and career development needs are The Directors believe that there is no relevant audit information of which carefully managed.
the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that he The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant training is delivered to its employees.
audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information Health and safety Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable Auditors precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions, for Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in compliance authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
The Groups companies pursue the objective of minimising the By order of the Board instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Examples of this are to be seen in the employment of health and safety advisers and Simon Enoch Secretary in the establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent.
4 June 8 The Company Secretary has the responsibility to ensure that the Board is presented with a review at least annually detailing how the Group Registered Ofce: complies with the statutory requirements and appropriate codes - 4 Ely Place of practice.
London EC1N 6TE Employee involvement Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to them in the context of their employment.
In Europe, where the largest numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process through workers councils.
Consultation also takes place through joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees including the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group is also disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and electronic media.
An all employee savings plan exists for employees in the UK.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 7 8 3
