Directors and advisers Left to right, top David Newlands Jean-Nol Labroue Simon Herrick left to right, bottom Peter Wilson Michel Brossard Bernard Dufau Andrew Robb Secretary Audit Committee Simon Enoch Andrew Robb Chairman Peter Wilson Auditors Michel Brossard  LLP Bernard Dufau Stockbrokers Remuneration Committee UBS Peter Wilson Chairman Merrill Lynch Michel Brossard Bernard Dufau Solicitors Andrew Robb Simon Enoch Slaughter and May Nomination Committee Registered office David Newlands Chairman 22-2 Ely Place Jean-Nol Labroue London EC N 6TE Peter Wilson Michel Brossard Registrars and Bernard Dufau transfer office Andrew Robb Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH 8 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 David Newlands 6, Chairman Michel Brossard 6, Non-Executive Director David Newlands was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman of Kesa Michel Brossard was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa Electricals on 3 June 2003 and is Chairman of the Nomination Electricals on 3 June 2003.
Michel was General Manager of Philips Committee.
He became a partner at Deloitte and Touche London E. G. P. until April 999.
Michel then moved to become General Manager in 977 and joined Saatchi & Saatchi plc in 986 as Group Finance of the Philips France Consumer Electronics Division where he stayed Director.
Between 989 and 997 he was Group Finance Director until January 2002.
Michel has also served as Chairman of the French of GEC plc.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Tomkins plc, and Electronics Manufacturers Syndicate.
Michel graduated from the PayPoint plc.
He is also a Director of several private companies.
Institut dEtudes Politique fide Paris.
Jean-Nol Labroue 60, Chief Executive Bernard Dufau 66, Non-Executive Director Jean-Nol Labroue was appointed Chief Executive of Kesa Electricals Bernard Dufau was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa on 3 June 2003 having been Chief Executive of the Kesa Group and Electricals on 9 December 2003.
Bernard Dufau enjoyed a highly a member of the Kingsher Board, since autumn 2000.
From spring successful career at IBM, most recently as Chairman and Country 2000 to autumn 2000 he was first Senior Vice President of the Kesa General Manager for IBM France.
In a career that spanned more than Group and responsible for business development, logistics and IT.
30 years with IBM, Bernard held a series of senior positions, including He was Chief Executive of Darty between 99 and 2000, having Assistant General Manager, Sales and Marketing, IBM France, and previously held a number of senior roles at Darty since joining the General Manager, Distribution Industry, IBM Europe.
He worked with Intertechnique, a computer Non-Executive Director of Dassault Systems, a French headquartered manufacturer, as Commercial Director from 972 to 979.
Jean-Nol and NASDAQ quoted software company and a Non-Executive Director is a trained engineer and graduated with a Master of Science from the of France Telecom.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee at both Northwestern University, Chicago in 97. companies.
Bernard graduated from the Ecole Superiore d Electricit.
Simon Herrick 5, Finance Director Andrew Robb 65, Non-Executive Director Simon Herrick was appointed Finance Director of Kesa Electricals Andrew Robb was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa on 3 March 2005.
Simon trained as an accountant with Price Electricals on 3 June 2003.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Waterhouse in London before moving to Paris in 990 to work for He is also a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Alcatel Alsthom and subsequently PepsiCo, Inc.
Since returning to Committee of Laird Group plc, PayPoint plc and Tata Steel UK Ltd, London in 997 with PepsiCo International as European Director of and a Non-Executive Director of Tata Steel Ltd. Andrew worked for Forecasting and Planning, he has held senior finance roles within Hays P&O Steam Navigation Co. from 97 to 989, initially as Financial plc and Regus plc, where he was Group Financial Controller involved Controller and, from 983, as Group Finance Director.
From 989 to in the groups otation on the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
200 he was Group Finance Director of Pilkington plc.
Andrew Simon joined PA Consulting Group in 200 as Chief Financial officer.
remained an Executive Director until he retired from Pilkington plc He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England in July 2003.
Andrew is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of and Wales, holds a masters degree in business administration from the Management Accountants.
University of Durham and graduated from the University of Newcastle upon Tyne in 985 with an honours degree in microbiology.
Peter Wilson 67, Senior Independent Director Peter Wilson was appointed Non-Executive Director of Kesa Electricals on 3 June 2003.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Peter was employed by the Gallaher Group from 969 to 999, becoming Chairman and Chief Executive in 99, and became Non-Executive Chairman of Gallaher Group Plc from January 2000 until March 200 when he retired.
Peter is a Non-Executive Director of Fortune Brands, Inc. Peter graduated from Oxford University with a Law degree.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 9
