02 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 fide La Rue Holographics continues to grow its sales in the area of brand licensing, supported by key investment in manufacturing upgrades.
The business provides holographic labels, many of which use the new Combigram and Depth Image technologies, to protect merchandise and royalties for a number of major brands and events.
Exceptional levels of customer satisfaction resulted in Holographics retaining the contract to track and protect the royalties for the 2010 FIFA World Cup event in a competitive tender.
This year fide La Rue Holographics has also won contracts with high profile international brands such as the English Football Association, the University of Cambridge, The London Organising Committee of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games Limited and Remington Arms, Inc. 03 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Core to our success is the drive for productivity improvements through the My Contribution employee programme.
We continue to incentivise and reward improvement, and have delivered significant productivity benefits through the programme.
The My Contribution programme induction programme was launched by the encourages employees to share ideas Human Resources team to ensure the right and submit suggestions for improvements calibre staff were recruited and retained.
In addition most projects Since the launch of the new tools, first year have either a health and safety or an technician turnover has dropped to less environmental element.
The most successful than five per cent.
projects within the My Contribution programme are celebrated at our Other winning projects involving crossSpotlight event.
divisional teams from Holographics, Security Threads and SPP, have all In the Cash Systems division, the top improved cross-company product quality My Contribution project and overall and increased productivity, thereby winner of this years Spotlight Award, was enabling fide La Rue to maintain its Teller Cash Dispenser TCD Revitalisation.
high profile customers against intense A multi-national, cross-functional team competition.
involving customers, focused on improving sustainability and efficiencies in the production of the long established TCD, the divisions highest volume product.
This was achieved by rationalising the supply chain, eliminating obsolescent parts and reducing lead times.
The project also established best practice for managing products in the latter part of their life cycle.
Another winning Cash System project from the UK, Loose Fill, involved shipping product without pallets, and is set to become best practice for fide La Rue across the world.
The unit shipping cost of desktop products was reduced by more than 35 per cent, storage capacity was increased by 50 per cent, and in-transit damage eliminated.
In Security Paper and Print Division, the Identity Systems team simulated the reading and writing of ePassports on a single PC.
This has improved efficiency leading to reduced lead times to the customer.
The Human Resources team for Cash Systems Branch Teller Automation in North America focused on improving staff retention.
A standard set of recruitment tools and a comprehensive, tailored 04 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 fide La Rue prepared for the European Central Banks Banknote Recycling Framework by launching a new compact banknote counter and fitness sorter, NVision, in the euro zone marketplace.
From January 2008 the European Central Banks Banknote Recycling Framework BRF, which aims to protect the ongoing integrity of the euro, requires banks and other financial institutions in the euro zone to comply with a new set of rules governing how banknotes are recycled in branches and then returned to the public.
fide La Rue Cash Systems Branch Teller Automation developed NVision with the necessary technology simultaneously to check the fitness of banknotes and authenticate them to remove counterfeits.
The Company also launched QC, a self-service coin deposit solution which ends the need for tellers to pre-sort deposits or for customers to stand in teller queues.
Originally designed for the USA, Canadian and Australian marketplace, it was further developed for the euro zone in order to extend the market reach.
05 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Four new innovations were launched by fide La Rue Cash Systems Cash Processing Solutions this year, improving the bulk cash handling process for customers in this market.
Launched for the high-speed CPS 1200-2000 The Quick Deposit Processing QDP family of banknote processing machines, system is a patented process that reduces AutoFacer uses patented technology to the time for processing rejected banknotes.
detect any banknote which is facing the wrong way.
The note is then automatically As part of fide La Rues My Contribution diverted and turned before being merged programme, one team took just 12 weeks back into the mainstream sorting process to identify a customer need and to design without compromising machine speed and produce, a smaller version of the or productivity.
Companys Desktop Shredder using 60 per cent of the parts from large shredders.
Business Intelligence, a component for This product is now poised to open up a the Enterprise Cash Management ECM lucrative new market.
software suite, is a portal based analysis tool which collates business critical management information from the customers cash centres.
06 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 In 2007 2008 fide La Rue brought to market the Edgestone and Multitext banknote security features, and launched StarChrome Colour.
Edgestone is a reinforced corner feature for banknotes that improves their durability in circulation by reducing the number of torn edges.
Multitext and StarChrome Colour are enhancements of the highly successful StarChrome product and improve its security and visual effect.
Sales of StarChrome, Gemini and Cornerstone have continued to grow and these security features are now used in products sold to 47 countries.
