07 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION BUSINESS DOUBLES REVENUE Cash Systems International Distribution Business is focused on driving operational efficiencies throughout its business partnerships.
Developing partnerships worldwide Cash Systems International Distribution in countries where fide La Rue does not Business achieved revenues of more than have wholly-owned offices has enabled 50.0m from the sales of desktop products, the business to sell products and solutions branch teller automation and self-service in 55 countries.
solutions in 2007 2008, more than double those of the previous year.
08 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Identity Systems has enjoyed a successful 2007 2008 with the roll out of fide La Rues first ePassport to the Bahamas and has announced a further contract for the State of Qatar.
fide La Rue Identity Systems IDS opened Recent innovations include the new its new ePassport facility in Malta, an SIPS 500e series automatic passport investment which will help the business personalisation solution which offers make further inroads into this growing market.
security, modular flexibility and ease of maintenance.
The latest version of MIDIS, our secure identity document enrolment and issuing Our experts within IDS have also devised system, has been redesigned with a a laser-perforated check digit for use on new modular architecture which can be passports.
This avoids the risk of data configured to meet the widest range of being misread during the personalisation government requirements.
09 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Security Print has evolved from a basic supplier of tax stamps to the Kyrgystan government into a revenue collection partner, helping the customer achieve a rise in tax revenue and a fall in counterfeit and illegal goods.
Security Print were originally asked to provide consultancy and strategic advice on the introduction of tax stamps to help the Kyrgyz government control tax evasion on tobacco and alcohol duty.
Working with the Kyrgyz government we developed a range of security features and a full excise collection support service which includes training for recording of call-offs, implementation, payments and deliverables.
