36 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Directors Report The Directors present their annual report together with the Share Capital audited financial statements of the Group and the Company Details of shares issued during the year are provided in note 21a to for the year ended 29 March 2008. the financial statements on page 80.
Return to Shareholders The Companies Act 1985 requires that any shares issued wholly for In May 2007, the Board announced a proposed return of capital cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their to shareholders amounting to approximately 75m by means of existing holdings unless authorised to the contrary by a resolution a special dividend of 46.5p per ordinary share accompanied by of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving such authority were passed a share consolidation.
The special dividend formed part of the in 2007.
Authorities to renew for one year the power of directors to Boards strategy to return surplus cash to shareholders through allot shares pursuant to Sections 89 and 95 of the Companies Act a combination of progressive dividends and, at the appropriate 1985 will be sought from the shareholders at the Annual General time, capital returns.
The Company was granted authority by its shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting to purchase a maximum of Shareholders approved the consolidation of the Companys share 14.99 per cent of its own shares either for cancellation or held in capital at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 26 July treasury or a combination of both.
Accordingly, shareholders on the Companys Register of Members on the close of business on 27 July 2007 exchanged Pursuant to that authority the Company acquired for cancellation 7 16 15 ordinary shares of 27 9p each for 14 new ordinary shares of 610,000 ordinary shares of 29 21p each representing 0.4 per cent 16 29 21p each.
As a consequence of the share consolidation the of the issued share capital as at 21 May 2008.
The aggregate Companys authorised share capital was reduced to 223,125,756 consideration paid was 4,188,690 and the purpose of the share 16 ordinary shares of 29 21p each and the issued share capital was buy back was to return surplus cash to shareholders.
A total of 7.2 reduced to 150,131,296 from 160,854,960. million shares have been acquired since commencement of the programme in December 2005, at a cost of 41.2m.
A resolution Principal Activities and Business Review will be put to shareholders to renew the authority for a further fide La Rue, a British company, is the worlds largest commercial period of one year.
security printer and papermaker, involved in the production of over 150 national currencies and a wide range of security Further details are contained in the Chairmans letter to documents such as passports, authentication labels and fiscal shareholders dated 16 June 2008. stamps.
It is a leading provider of cash handling equipment and software solutions to banks and retailers worldwide.
fide La Rue Takeovers Directive is pioneering new technologies in government identity solutions Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which for national identification, drivers licence and passport issuing implements the EU Takeovers Directive the Company is required schemes.
A review of the business is set out in the Business to disclose additional information including: Review section on pages 13 to 15 and forms part of the Directors Report.
It sets out a business review of the Groups position at Rights and Restrictions on Shares the end of the financial year including the development and Certain restrictions, which are customary of a listed company, performance of the business, key performance indicators and a apply to the rights and transfers of shares in the Company.
description of principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares, Also included in the Business Review is an indication of likely or in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set intended future developments in the Groups businesses.
out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the Results and Dividends UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Profit before taxation and exceptionals was 124.1m 2006 2007 : 102.4m.
The profit attributable to shareholders for the year was Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its Directors, 88.1m 2006 2007 : 70.2m.
The Directors are recommending persons discharging managerial responsibilities, certain a final ordinary dividend for the year of 14.87p per share.
Subject employees of the Company and, in each case, their connected to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, persons, are subject to the Companys Share Dealing Code the final dividend will be paid on 1 August 2008 to ordinary which adopts the Model Code of the Listing Rules published shareholders on the register on 11 July 2008.
An interim dividend by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
of 6.53p per ordinary share was paid on 16 January 2008 making a total of 21.4p per share 2007 : 19.1p per share for the year.
Transfers of Shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the Post Balance Sheet Event exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend their voting rights New Credit Facility or to prohibit their transfer following the omission by their holder Since the year end the Group has arranged a 250m three or any person interested in them to provide the Company with year term and revolving facilities agreement with three of its information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the key relationship banks to support the proposed changes to Companies Act 2006 or ii where their holder is precluded from the Groups dividend policy and balance sheet structure.
exercising rights by the FSAs Listing Rules, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers or any other regulations.
37 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Exercise of Rights of Shares in Employee Share Schemes Going Concern The trustee of the fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust Having made appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a does not seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company will employee trust.
No voting rights are exercised in relation to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and shares unallocated to potential individual beneficiaries.
have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Powers of Directors Details on appointment, replacement and powers of Directors Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual are reported in the Corporate Governance section of the report and the financial statements Annual Report.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance Significant Agreements Change of Control with applicable law and regulations.
A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent as bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
None of company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that these are deemed to be significant as a whole except for the law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in following: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have The 100m credit facility dated 30 March 2007 between the Company elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in and two of its key relationship banks contains a provision such that in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law the event of a change of control, any lender may, if it so requires, notify UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the agent that it wishes to cancel this commitment whereupon the commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all their outstanding The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as loans, together with accrued interest, will become immediately due adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the and payable.
performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any person or part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view persons acting in concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent and Mergers at any time is are or becomes interested in more than company financial statements are required by law to give a true 50% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
On 21 May 2008 the Group entered into a new three year 250m In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial term and revolving facilities agreement see New Credit Facility on statements, the directors are required to: page 36 to replace the 100m credit facility dated 30 March 2007. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The replacement facility contains the same change of control provisions as the earlier 100m agreement outlined above.
make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Share Schemes and Share Option Schemes for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been The Company operates a number of share schemes or share prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: option schemes for employees, senior executives and managers.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether Full details of share schemes are set out in the Remuneration applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Report on pages 45 to 52. subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Substantial Shareholdings Under the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules shareholders prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis must notify the Company of any interest in its shares of over 3 per unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the cent and of each 1 per cent increment above to which total voting parent company will continue in business.
As at 21 May 2008 the Company had received the following notifications: The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Total Number Total Number Percentage of financial position of the parent company and enable them to Persons Notifying of Shares of Voting Rights Voting Rights ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Schroders Plc 9,345,970 8,683,079 5.79 Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps Legal & General Group plc 6,350,239 6,350,239 4.23 as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Barclays Global Investors 5,925,374 5,925,374 3.95 group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Barclays plc 5,465,751 5,465,751 3.65 Ameriprise Financial Inc 5,381,482 5,381,482 3.59 38 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Directors Report continued Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also The non-executive Directors hold letters of appointment which responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors will be displayed at the Annual General Meeting, together with Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement the executive Directors service contracts and indemnification that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Board agreed to reduce the terms of appointment for all non-executive Directors from three year appointments to The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity two year appointments with effect 1 April 2008.
Leo Quinn and of the corporate and financial information included on the Stephen King have 12-month rolling contracts, details of which companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52. preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Lord Wright, who retired as a Director on 19 July 2000, continues to provide up to 20 days consultancy each year pursuant to an Provision of Information to Auditors agreement with the Company dated 20 July 2000 which has been The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this extended to July 2008.
Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Directors Interests auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps The interests of Directors holding office at the end of the financial that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves year in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Following share Companys auditors are aware of that information.
31 March 2007 consolidation on 29 March 2008 ordinary shares 30 July 2007 ordinary ordinary shares 7 16 16 of 27 9p each shares of 29 21p each of 29 21p each Research and Development Nicholas Brookes 13,005 12,138 12,138 Research and development for the year has focused on developing Warren East 3,500 3,266 3,266 and protecting the intellectual property in security features, cash Keith Hodgkinson 4,165 3,887 3,887 handling and new types of materials across the range of printed Stephen King 49,950 46,620 46,620 documents.
Gill Rider 760 709 709 Corporate Governance Sir Jeremy Greenstock has no interest in the Companys ordinary A report on corporate governance and compliance with the FRC shares.
There have been no changes in Directors interests in Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 is set out on ordinary shares since 29 March 2008.
All interests of the Directors pages 40 to 44. and their families are beneficial.
The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors and Directors Remuneration officers against their costs in defending themselves in civil legal Details of the remuneration and share options of each of the proceedings taken against them in that capacity.
To the extent Directors are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52. permitted by UK law the Company also indemnifies its Directors and officers.
To the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 Employees and the UKLA Listing Rules the indemnification of Directors and Details of the Companys employment policies are set out in the officers is permitted so that the Company may advance defence Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 33. costs in civil or regulatory proceedings on such terms as the Board may reasonably determine but any advances must be refunded in Payments to Suppliers the event that the Director or officer is subsequently convicted.
The Company and Groups policy is that suppliers be paid on the Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provide cover where the basis of monthly summary invoicing plus 60 days subject to local Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The average number of days credit provided by suppliers to the Group has been calculated at 48 days Directors 2007 : 39 days.
The Company does not have any trade payables.
Details of each person who was a Director at 29 March 2008 and their qualifications, experience and responsibilities are given on Charitable and Political Donations pages 34 and 35.
A table giving details of their interests as at 29 Donations for charitable purposes amounting to 79,000 March 2008 is shown below.
All the Directors held office throughout 2007 : 110,587 were made during the year.
Details about the year, except Michael Jeffries who resigned as a non-executive the fide La Rue Charitable Trust are set out in the Corporate Director at last years Annual General Meeting on 26 July 2007.
Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 33.
Keith Hodgkinson and Philip Nolan, each having served two three Amendment to Articles of Association year terms, will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for At the Companys annual general meeting a special resolution re-election.
Sir Jeremy Greenstock and Stephen King will retire will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the existing by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Articles of Association primarily to accommodate the provisions Nicholas Brookes, having served for three three year terms, will of the new Companies Act 2006.
Further details are contained in retire and being eligible will offer himself for re-election.
the Chairmans letter to shareholders dated 16 June 2008.
39 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Auditors A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30 a. m. on Thursday 24 July 2008 at fide La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG22 4BS.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting, including a Letter from the Chairman, accompanies this Annual Report.
Directors Responsibility Statement in Respect of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules We confirm to the best of our knowledge: a the Group financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Statements as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS, including interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and those sections of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as adopted in the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and b the parent Company financial statements in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and applicable law give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and c the Chairmans Statement and Business Review contained in this report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Louise Fluker Company Secretary 21 May 2008
