FEATURE STORY BACK TO WORK Debenhams seeks to recruit the best people from a wide pool of talent and to attract and retain a diverse workforce which reects the communities in which we operate.
We want to help those who want to work but have been unable to do so for a variety of reasons such as disability, lack of childcare or lack of up-to-date skills.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 BACK TO WORK ocal Employment Partnerships LEP were created by Through this win:win partnership, Debenhams has recruited some the government in 2007 with the aim of raising the excellent employees, many of whom have been recognised as Employee employment rate and reducing the number of working of the Month.
In return we are pleased to have provided an alternative to age people dependent on benets.
living on benets, demonstrating the value of the scheme to individuals and the wider community as well as to employers.
At the heart of the LEP initiative is a Jobs Pledge under L which employers work to oer opportunities to people When Llandudno opened in 2007, 14 people joined Debenhams through who are at a disadvantage in the labour market such as lone parents and the LEP and ten are still with us.
Two are working towards expert level those on incapacity benefit so long as they engage with the support sales advisor and another has transferred from sales to merchandising at available and are ready, willing and able to work.
Subsequently, six individuals joined us on a temporary basis by a number of agencies including Jobcentre Plus and the Learning and over Christmas, four of whom were then oered permanent positions.
The Bangor store had already successfully employed four people Depending on the needs of the employer and the individual, Jobcentre through the LEP and so when the store moved to a new, larger site during Plus along with the Learning and Skills Council provides support in a 2008, necessitating the recruitment of additional employees, a further number of ways: programme was undertaken.
Working with an individual to diagnose their needs to enable a return In Liverpool, we needed to recruit a record number of sta for the largest to employment store ever opened under the Debenhams banner in May.
Six sessions run in local community centres identied 160 candidates who attended the Pre-employment training to prepare people to make applications for job preparation week.
Following our own assessment centre at the end of the jobs employers have on oer the week, 37 people were oered jobs in the new store and progressed to the Ready for Retail course.
Of these, 35 people remain with us and a Providing training to deliver candidates with appropriate skills number have already been promoted to expert level sales advisor.
Matching individuals with employers to provide a good t In Dunfermline, 11 people were employed following attendance at a course jointly organised by Debenhams, Learn Direct Scotland, Jobcentre Working with employers to understand their employment and skill needs Plus and Carnegie College.
Since then we have been working with these agencies to formulate a programme for Christmas retail recruitment for Debenhams has committed to the Jobs Pledge, along with numerous all retailers within the town centre.
other high-prole employers, including many leading retailers.
We implemented the LEP process in new store openings in Warrington and Debenhams involvement in the LEP programme was recognised in July Llandudno in 2007 and Bangor, Liverpool and Dunfermline in 2008 and it 2008 when our work in North Wales received the Employer Award for Best is already underway for our 2009 store opening in Livingston.
Practice in Recruitment at the first annual LEP awards.
In addition, the Liverpool store was runner up in the Partnership Award for Best Practice In each of these locations, potential candidates have been identied by in Partnership Working.
The judging panel was chaired by Stephen Timms, the Jobcentre in conjunction with Debenhams at local events sponsored Minister for Employment and Welfare Reform and included John Cridland, by Jobcentre Plus.
Those individuals then attend a job preparation Deputy Director of the CBI and Jackie Orme, Chief Executive of CIPD training week.
as well as other members drawn from the public and private sector.
Candidates subsequently attend a Debenhams assessment centre, following which successful candidates receive a provisional job oer.
They then take part in a Ready for Retail training course to prepare them for returning to work, including participating in a work trial where appropriate.
On successful completion of the course, candidates receive a confirmed oer and they join us like any other new employee.
Page 37 image: Holly Jackson who joined Debenhams Llandudno through the LEP scheme.
38 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Section 2 Operating Review ETHICAL PRODUCTS Disability Debenhams operates within a framework of policies relating to the Marital or civil partnership status composition of its products, ranging from animal testing to conict diamonds.
These policies can be found in full on our website Sexual orientation www.
Gender reassignment Customers are increasingly looking for products made from organic and Age Fairtrade materials and we are meeting this demand by increasing the number of organic and Fairtrade options available in both our Designer The policy helps us to create a culture of respect and tolerance, a wider and core product collections.
and more diverse talent pool from which we can recruit the best possible people for our business and supports our corporate reputation by Our Designer brand Rocha.
John Rocha includes organic ranges across all ensuring we give excellent customer and employee experience.
New additions in 2008 include T-shirts, denim and sleepwear recognise that few people would deliberately breach the policy, however, in Womenswear, underwear and loungewear in Menswear, babywear in it is possible to do so unintentionally.
We therefore require everyone to Childrenswear and bedding in Home.
familiarise themselves with its contents.
Fairtrade cotton is used in a number of clothing ranges and has been a We are committed to ensuring equality of opportunities for all our real success within Menswear.
In February 2008 our Menswear brand, employees.
Through our equal opportunities policy we aim to create an Maine New England, teamed up with Sir Steve Redgraves clothing brand environment that oers all employees the chance to use their skills FiveG to produce an exclusive collection made from Fairtrade certied and talent.
The range, which is available in 116 stores, includes casual jersey and woven products and has been extended to outerwear, denim and We are committed to supporting all our employees to achieve an knitwear in the Autumn Winter season.
In November 2007, Sir Steve visited acceptable balance between their work and personal life.
Where Malis Kita region where some of the cotton for the FiveG range has been appropriate, we oer a number of exible contracts to suit the dierent grown and experienced first hand the impact that the Fairtrade premium needs of our employees.
We recognise there are times when an employee has on the lives of local communities, enabling them to invest in may need to take time o for personal reasons and have policies in place development projects such as clean water and schools.
to support employees through such events including maternity, paternity and adoption leave.
These include exible working and career break Each of the eight million cups of coee served in our restaurants and cafes schemes.
in 2008 was prepared from Douwe Egberts Good Origin coee which has been certied by global NGO Utz Kapeh.
This certication assures LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT customers that coee beans are derived from 100 per cent sustainable Providing opportunities for employees to learn and develop is a crucial sources and that the interests of both the workers who produce the beans factor in our future success.
In the fast moving retail environment and the environment in which they are grown are protected.
Elsewhere employees need to have a exible suite of skills.
We oer a wide range of in our food business we use free range eggs, recycle used cooking oil into training courses and programmes which encourage individuals to expand bio-diesel and use sandwich wrappers and napkins made from 100 per their skills and reach their full potential.
Comprehensive competencycent recycled card paper.
based training programmes are oered to provide clear paths for progression for those wishing to pursue a career in any of our areas of operation.
A dedicated learning and development team works closely Workplace and community with stores and head oce to ensure that both the potential and aspirations of our employees is maximised.
OUR PEOPLE Debenhams had an average of 27,400 employees through 2008.
Labour We are closely involved in skills development for the retail sector as a turnover was 41.7 per cent in 2008, up slightly on 39.9 per cent last year whole and Nikki Zamblera, Debenhams HR Director, is on the board of but in line with recent levels.
76 per cent of our employees are female.
Skillsmart Retail, the government Skills Sector Council for the industry, 32 per cent of our people have more than five years service, 18 per cent having served two years as Vice Chairman.
have more than ten years service and 5 per cent have more than 20 years service.
A total of 310,000 hours of learning and development activities took place in 2008.
In addition, some 1,000 employees joining new stores received Debenhams is committed to ensuring that every individual connected six to eight weeks o-job training before their stores opened.
with the Company whether employee, applicant, customer or other third-party receives fair and equitable treatment, regardless of their DISABILITY AWARENESS dierences.
These include but are not restricted to: We are continuing to improve the accessibility of our premises for employees, customers and visitors.
Gender Disability awareness is an important component of the induction Race programme for all new store employees and last year a DVD entitled First Ethnic or national origin Impressionswas produced which covers customer care for disabled people.
Religious, political or philosophical beliefs Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 39 Section 2 Operating Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW We provide information on accessibility matters relating to our stores via Over 700 employees took part in the pilot programme in April.
This includes information such as: designated from employees has been overwhelmingly positive.
Comments include: parking spaces: location of accessible entrances: passenger lift facilities: location I think it is a huge step forward that we are asking sta for their thoughts of accessible toilet facilities: availability of personal shopper services: collect-byon the promotions and products.
I think the insight you will receive will car arrangements: and details of accessible customer collection points.
benefit the Company greatly: Very pleased we now have a way to communicate: and It makes me feel like my views count.
We are also continuing to develop our website, www.
com, to improve accessibility and when considering any change to the website CELEBRATING SUCCESS we go through a process that includes the needs and considerations of With people so critical to our success, we are rigorous in ensuring that anyone with disabilities.
contributions are recognised, large or small.
Our Celebrating Success policy encourages managers and colleagues to acknowledge the eorts Debenhams welcomes applications for employment from disabled of others and each year culminates in the annual Celebrating Success people.
As part of our policy on Equality of Opportunity, decisions on Awards where the best of the best are honoured for their outstanding recruitment, training, promotion, pay, terms and conditions and leavers achievement in customer service or behind the scenes.
are based solely on objective, job-related criteria and personal competence and performance.
This year, annual winners from every store and each head oce division spent the day relaxing at Alton Towers before being joined by the We have recently reviewed and, where appropriate, amended all our HR executive directors and other senior managers for a tropical themed policies with support and guidance from the Disability Rights Commission.
evening of celebration and recognition ADisability Championhas been appointed in the HR team to ensure our policies and procedures are in line with both our legal obligations and DEBENHAMS RETIREMENT ASSOCIATION DRA business needs.
The DRA is a registered charity established to provide help and support to any retired employees in receipt of pension who need assistance.
There We will seek wherever possible to make reasonable adjustments to ensure are currently over 5,000 pensioners and the charity keeps in touch with that an employee who becomes disabled during the course of his or her them using a network of Pensioner Support Ocers who each cover employment is able to continue working eectively.
This includes: specic areas of the UK.
The main source of funding is a donation from the providing equipment or altering working arrangements: providing Company but many stores and head oce departments hold fundraising additional training: reallocating on a temporary or permanent basis some events for the DRA.
of the employees duties to other members of sta: transferring the employee to a suitable alternative role: and adjusting working times.
Any HEALTH AND SAFETY such adjustment will be monitored and reviewed on a regular basis to The chart below details accident statistics for those incidents that are ensure that it is eective.
legally reportable to the enforcing authority.
Debenhams is a member of the Employers Forum on Disability which ACCIDENT STATISTICS FOR CUSTOMERS AND STAFF seeks to enable companies to become disability confident by making it NUMBERS OF ACCIDENTS easier to recruit and retain disabled employees and to serve disabled customers.
111 08 44 Sta EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION FORUM 108 07 25 The Employee Consultation Forum ECF is a group of elected 84 representatives from all areas of the business that meets annually with 06 Customers 28 members of the board.
The purpose of these meetings is to allow our employees the opportunity to receive information about Debenhams and to be consulted on certain parts of our business activities.
The Our business has expanded rapidly in terms of number of stores and representatives elected by stores also meet during the year on a local employees over the past three years: 23 stores have opened since the start basis to discuss regional business issues and to prepare for the annual of 2006 including the nine Roches stores, increasing trading space by national meeting.
Although there has been a year-on-year rise in the number of accidents involving employees, this has grown at a lower rate FEEDBACK FORUM than the business as a whole.
In 2008, this equated to around 4.4 accidents The Chief Executive regularly meets with a group of employees from per thousand employees and much less than one reportable accident per stores and head oce to gauge their views and feedback informally and store per year.
to disseminate messages to the business.
There has been a rise in the number of reportable accidents involving HAVE YOUR SAY customers and other visitors to our premises.
The number is from a very Have Your Say is a new initiative introduced in 2008 as a way for employees low base and, taking into account the tens of thousands of people who to provide feedback on the business.
All employees, whether store or head visit our premises on a daily basis, is still very low indeed.
Analysis of the oce based, have the opportunity to influence the future of Debenhams.
accidents suggests that slips, trips and falls and colliding with stationary Employees are invited to complete regular, anonymous and condential objects are the primary causes of injury and their occurrence is spread online surveys on a variety of topics, from specic product queries to evenly across the year rather than a prevalence to particular times, for potential new product launches to feedback on advertising campaigns.
40 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Section 2 Operating Review Debenhams holds an annual health and safety week during which GETTING PEOPLE BACK TO WORK emphasis is placed on a particular health and safety topic.
In 2007, we As a large employer, we are keen to ensure employment opportunities are concentrated on violence at work and personal safety.
In 2008 the topic made available to all sections of the community, including those who have was safety associated with vehicle movement and the receipt of goods at been out of employment for some time.
Our participation in the Local stores.
In 2009 we will be addressing the causes of and control measures Employment Partnership programme is described in detail in the insert to prevent slips, trips and falls given the comments above on the primary on page 37. causes of in-store injuries.
CHARITIES In 2008 we have been working with the relevant health and safety Debenhams is a strong supporter of charities at both a national and agencies on their key initiatives.
Notable in this regard has been a local level.
continuation of the Health and Safety Executives HSE FIT3 campaign Fit for work, Fit for life, Fit for tomorrow which in 2008 prioritised One of our key national charities is the Breast Cancer Campaign which we inspections towards those areas responsible for major causes of workplace have supported for a number of years, raising some 1.5 million to date injury.
This builds on last years Shattered lives campaign which through the sale of special products and in-store events.
highlighted the impact of workplace injuries on employment, social and family life.
Other agency initiatives in 2008 saw the HSE and local Another national charity is Everyman, which is leading the ght against authorities target working activities such as working at height and the testicular cancer and which we support in conjunction with Calvin Klein prevention of falls from vehicles, both of which accord with training underwear.
initiatives already adopted by Debenhams.
Menswear brand Mantaray is a proud supporter of the Marine During 2008 we continued to develop our health and safety policy to Conservation Society MCS.
Our support for the MCSs work for clean seas, require a more proactive approach by stores in relation to risk assessment, sustainable sheries and protected sea life is not just financial.
We are also encouraging the designated responsible person in each Debenhams site helping in more practical ways by encouraging employees and customers to ensure that the control measures adopted are sucient and to take part in voluntary beach cleans and surveys, helping to clear the proportionate to the circumstances in that site.
UKs beaches of the tide of litter currently endangering the life of coastal wildlife such as seabirds, dolphins, porpoises and marine turtles.
We rmly believe that training is the key vehicle to achieve improvements in health and safety, including a reduction in accidents.
In addition to the Each year a charity is nominated to receive the proceeds of events linked health and safety training provided at induction, topic specic training to the arrival of Santa Claus in-store for Christmas.
For Christmas 2007 that for example on electrical safety is provided for all relevant employees.
At least one person in all Debenhams sites is encouraged to obtain the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health Supervising Health and Our oce inTaunton supports a wide range of local charities and in 2008 these Safety at Work Certicate.
Currently, over 90 per cent of UK sites do have included local schools, sports clubs, animal charities, childrens homes, old at least one employee who holds this certicate and an equivalent peoples homes, hospitals, hospices and medical charities as well as qualication is being sourced for the Republic of Ireland.
supporting the charitable undertakings of individual members of sta.
Debenhams supports the Retail Trust which provides assistance to current Community and former retail employees and their dependents.
Our employees show enormous enterprise in their fundraising eorts and in 2008 these COMMUNITY PROJECTS included the store manager of our Lakeside store bathing in a bath full of Through its stores, Debenhams is involved in a wide range of local baked beans and a sponsored parachute jump by employees from the community projects.
One of our most recent initiatives has oered store managers the opportunity to become involved with local projects through Business in the Community BitC and Scottish Business in the Community SBitC.
As a result of this initiative, the opening programme for a new store now includes a team building event for the store management team which benets local people and helps the team to recognise and start to understand the specic needs and issues in the broader community of which their store will form a part.
Examples in 2008 include the work done by the Blackpool team in support of the Blackpool Tiggers and the Livingston team in support of local Clic Sargent cancer care.
Ongoing at a local level, store managers are encouraged to use their own initiative to support the communities that they serve.
In our Aberdeen store, for example, the supervisors have formed a charity committee as a development opportunity.
Their commitment to the community that they live and work in has resulted in donations of over 15,000 to local Aberdeen projects over the last two years.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 41
