Section 3 Management and Governance DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Debenhams is the second largest department store chain in the UK.
Its unique mix of own brands including Designers at Debenhams and third-party brands helps dierentiate Debenhams from its competitors.
Debenhams oer has a strong presence in key product categories, including Womenswear, Menswear, Childrenswear, Homeware and Health and Beauty.
There are a total of 140 department stores in the UK and Republic of Ireland and 10 Desire by Debenhams stores the small store concept as at 21 October 2008.
Debenhams has a further 44 international franchise stores in 15 countries and an online store, www.
com, through which much of the Debenhams range is available.
ENHANCED BUSINESS REVIEW This review has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 30 August 2008, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and the trends and factors likely to aect the future development, performance and position of the business.
This is dened by the Act as the enhanced Business Review.
The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review, the Finance Directors Review and the Corporate Responsibility Review which can be found on pages 4 to 41, the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 57 and the  Statement on page 58 constitute the enhanced Business Review.
They therefore form part of this DirectorsReport and are incorporated in this report by reference.
Any liability is restricted to the extent prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Debenhams is a large and complicated business.
There are a number of risks and uncertainties, both from external factors such as the economic environment and internal factors such as the retention of key management, that could substantially impact its performance.
Statements made in the Annual Report that look forward in time or express managements beliefs, expectations or estimates regarding future occurrences and prospects are forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements reect Debenhams current expectations concerning future events and actual results may dier materially from current expectations or historical results.
Any such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
It is not possible to schedule all risks and uncertainties but major risk factors include: i factors outside Debenhamscontrol, such as adverse economic conditions, a downturn in the retail industry, changes in the financial or equity markets, industrial unrest, adverse weather, natural disaster, war or terrorist activity: these could particularly have a major impact during peak selling periods: ii competitive pressures in the highly competitive retail sector.
Debenhamscompetitors include not just other general retailers but specialist retailers, supermarkets and other low-price, high-volume retailers and internet operators: iii Debenhams ability to predict or full customer demands or preferences: iv events that negatively impact the Debenhams brand, for example in areas such as product quality, supply chain practices or health and safety: v the departure of key personnel: vi the theft of customer data: vii work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes or operational disruption: viii personal injuries or property damage relating to a major Debenhams or supplier location through re or other risk: ix the eectiveness of Debenhams brand awareness and marketing programmes: x disruptions or other adverse events aecting  with or the performance of its major suppliers, store card providers, designers or concessionaires: for example certain designers are very important to its business, a large quantity of Debenhams merchandise is manufactured by a small number of suppliers etc.
: xi risks associated with Debenhams properties, all of which are now held through leasehold interests, or former properties for which Debenhams may have potential liabilities in the event of default of the current tenant: xii loss of business or additional expenditure from regulation: and xiii currency and hedging risks a substantial proportion of Debenhams imports are paid for in US dollars, interest rate risks, credit risks and financial covenant risks under the credit facilities.
The Companys internal control process is set out on pages 50 to 51.
44 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Section 3 Management and Governance EVENTS SINCE THE YEAR END Since the year end, Debenhams has opened one new department store in Livingston 16 October 2008 which brought the total number of stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland to 150.
In the International business new stores have opened in Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Romania.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS The profit after tax for the financial year ending 30 August 2008 was 77.1 million 2007: 79.0 million.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 0.5 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 16 January 2009 to members on the register at the close of business on 12 December 2008.
This together with the interim dividend of 2.5 pence paid in July gives a full year dividend of 3.0 pence.
A scrip dividend alternative was oered for the interim dividend and will again be oered for the final dividend.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS As at 21 October 2008, Debenhams plc has received notication of the following significant shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Issued Number of capital Shareholder shares % Landsbanki Islands hf held via forward contracts with Baugur Group hf and Unity One ehf 116,000,000 13.26 TPG Shareholder Group 113,135,197 12.93 Bestinver Gestion, S. A.
105,837,670 12.09 Milestone Resources Group Ltd 89,183,155 10.19 CVC Shareholder Group 79,498,424 9.08 Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 27.2 per cent of holding held via unsponsored ADRs 39,663,156 4.53 Legal & General Group plc 27,639,645 3.15 SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL The information in this section is given pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 11 to the Financial Statements on page 98 and consists of ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
15,795,966 shares were allotted during the period following the election by shareholders to receive shares in lieu of the interim dividend paid on 4 July 2008.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the December 2007 AGM to purchase in the market up to 85,897,439 ordinary shares.
Although this authority was not utilised by the Company during the last financial year approval will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to renew this standard authority for a further year.
It is currently the directors intention, were the shares to be brought back, for them to be cancelled or retained in treasury pending a subsequent sale, cancellation or transfer.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
The Company will only buy back shares if the directors believe that it is in shareholders best interests and will increase earnings per share.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
New Articles are being proposed at this years AGM to reect principally the changes imposed by the introduction of the Companies Act 2006.
Explanatory notes relating to these changes are included in the appendix to the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 holds 1,413,536 ordinary shares in the Company 0.16 per cent : any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take eect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except that the supplier agreements with all major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change of control and the Credit Agreement dated 19 April 2006 in respect of the 1,350 million credit facility contains mandatory prepayment.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
Details concerning the impact on share options held by directors or employees in the event of a change of control are set out on page 55 of the Remuneration Report.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The membership of the board and biographical details of the directors are given on pages 42 and 43 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of the board members is set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES In addition to the indemnity provisions in their Articles of Association, the Company and other Group companies have entered into a direct indemnity agreement with each of the directors and certain other ocers or employees of the Group.
The Company also maintains directors and ocers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown on page 56 of the Remuneration Report.
Their interests in options over shares in the Company are shown on page 57 of the same report.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the Groups business.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Section 3 Management and Governance DIRECTORS REPORT PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly presented and not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 30 August 2008 was 58 days 2007: 57 days.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative trade.
Details of financial instruments entered into for underlying risks are set out in note 23 on pages 80 and 81.
POLITICAL DONATIONS It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties.
There were no disclosable expenses made during the financial year which fall within the denition of a political donation under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
CHARITABLE GIVING Details of the Companys charitable activities are given in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 28 to 41.
The Group made direct donations for charitable purposes in the financial year of 122,628 to the Breast Cancer Campaign 2007: 96,000, 99,779 to the Everyman Campaign, 60,000 to the Debenhams Retirement Association 2007: 60,000 and 10,000 to the Marine Conservation Society.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the directors of the Company at the time when the Directors Report was approved confirms that: a so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b s he has taken all the steps that s he ought to have taken as a director in order to make themself aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing the report and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
AUDITORS  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in oce and a resolution dealing with their reappointment as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM The AGM of Debenhams plc will be held at Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB on Tuesday 13 January 2009 at 2pm.
The Notice is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
By order of the board PAUL EARDLEY Company Secretary 21 October 2008 46 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008
