FEATURE STORY REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS Designers at Debenhams is a great strength for our business and a key point of difference on a crowded high street.
Our internationally renowned designers design for the catwalk and translate their expertise and strong brand heritage to the diffusion lines designed exclusively for Debenhams.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS 008 was the fteenth anniversary of Designers at Debenhams and since its launch in 1993 it has gone from strength to strength.
Customers appreciate the Star reects Julien Macdonalds standing as the maestro of glitz and glam.
aordable luxury Designers at Debenhams brings to the From Autumn Winter 2008 09, Star by Julien Macdonald is doubling in size high street and they have welcomed the ongoing in many stores and acquiring a glamorous new shop t. Its footprint is also improvement we are making to the quality, design and being expanded to cover all stores.
Overall, this will result in a threefold 2value of these brands.
increase in the size of Star in Womenswear.
Star also has an increasing presence in Home, particularly in bedlinens, accessories, lighting Designer sales accounted for their largest ever percentage of our sales mix and china.
in 2008 and grew at a rate signicantly above that for the Company as a whole.
They helped to protect against declining average transaction values and average selling prices due to the dicult economic climate.
We intend to build on this success by making some of our designer brands bigger, by putting designer brands into all stores and by increasing the One of our largest designers, Rocha.
John Rocha is given its distinctive designer mix within departments.
edge by John Rochas unique fusion of Chinese and Celtic culture.
Historically a casual brand, in 2008 the Womenswear brand has been Designer departments are being upgraded to provide customers with a more expanded to include informal, relaxed party wear.
John Rocha boutique-style shopping environment, with xtures and merchandising also has a strong presence in Menswear, Childrenswear including which reect the individual designers creative philosophy.
It is also our key organic cotton brand with we will continue to improve the design and quality of designer products to organic ranges in all departments.
improve further the value these premium products oer.
Jasper Conran is of the most successful British designers of all time.
J by Jasper Conran is our most wide-ranging designer range and is found throughout the store, from bedlinen to bridal gowns and from sleepwear to shoes.
The biggest change in Autumn Winter 2008 09 is in Womenswear where for the first time the formal and casual ranges will be merchandised together.
A chic new J shop is being introduced in all Womenswear departments to show the collection at its best.
Star by Julien Macdonald vases Page 17 image: and candle.
BDL by Ben fide Lisi red silk dress.
18 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS Betty Jackson.
Black reects Betty Jacksons unique ability to produce looks that are stylish and wearable, contemporary and sophisticated which appeal to todays modern woman.
The range is being expanded to cover 126 stores from Autumn Winter 2008 09 from 79 a year prior.
Black was recently awarded Best Designer on the High Street in the Comfort Prima High Street Fashion Awards.
Occasionwear is one of Debenhams key strengths and our occasionwear departments were redesigned during the summer of 2008 to create destination departments for occasion clothing and accessories.
Taking pride of place in the new departments are our occasionwear designers Pearce Fionda II and BDL by Ben fide Lisi.
Pearce Fionda II oers stunning styles that create the perfect silhouette whilst BDL by Ben fide Lisi is an elegant collection with a glamorous twist.
The newest designer introduction is Baker by Ted Baker, which was launched in Childrenswear in September in 60 stores.
Showcasing the best Childrenswear from Baker of British design at aordable prices from nine months to 16 years, the by Ted Baker.
collections are inspired by Teds irreverence and quirky attention to detail.
Baker by Ted Baker is now available in 92 stores.
DESIGNER HOME Designer brands are found throughout the Home department with all our major designers featuring, including Star by Julien Macdonald, J by Jasper Conran, Rocha.
John Rocha and Betty Jackson.
Designer participation in the living, accessories and soft homeware areas has grown by around 20 per cent as we focus more on fashion and style within these product categories.
This is particularly evident in large format new stores such as Liverpool and Westeld London.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 REAL DESIGNERS, REAL OPINIONS 20 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Section 2 Operating Review St. George by Duffer sweatshirt and jeans.
STOCK MANAGEMENT In addition, during this challenging time, customers are increasingly In the current economic environment, it is prudent to manage stocks very responsive to great oers and promotions.
Debenhamsunique mix of sale tightly.
Terminal stock was at a historically low level at year end.
This also oers, three-day spectaculars, cardholder events and spend driven accords with our strategy to edit our ranges to provide easier shopping discounts, mean that we are perfectly placed to meet these needs.
In 2008, total stock by value decreased by 3 per cent.
The 10.5 per cent reduction in same-store stock density achieved through the We have recently launched a new, simplied and more contemporary editing programme was partly oset by the need to increase stock due to creative to communicate our key messages.
This is enhanced by a focus on new stores and growth in the online business.
A further stock reduction of a excellent visual standards for both new product launches and customer similar magnitude is being trialled in a number of stores.
We are confident that our marketing is relevant to our customers mind set initial results are very encouraging.
COST PRICE INFLATION Although pressure on cost prices increased through the year principally CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY due to foreign exchange rates, increases in raw materials prices, higher oil As a retail business, Debenhamsoperations impact the lives of millions of prices and labour ination we were able to mitigate much of this people: our customers, our people, the communities in which we operate, pressure during 2008.
Importantly, our currency exposure was reduced those who work in our supply chain and their own communities and the by hedging US dollar purchases forward by 12 to 18 months.
In addition, environment in which we all live.
Our aim is not just to minimise impact excess manufacturing capacity in China has enabled us to resist price but to try to have a positive impact on those whose lives we touch.
There are indications that some of the drivers of Debenhams Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 28 to 41 gives cost price ination are weakening: commodity and oil prices are falling information on how we intend to achieve this.
and transportation costs are easing.
Although this will undoubtedly ease the pressures on cost prices, we will continue to seek ways to mitigate any BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES inationary pressures on our supply chain.
The principal risks and uncertainties which may impact the performance of Debenhams are listed within the Directors Report on page 44.
Our MARKETING internal control process is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on Through the breadth of our oer we have developed a very inclusive page 50. customer base.
Regardless of which brands and departments a customer chooses to shop, our commitment is to consistently deliver great value that means quality, style and fashion at aordable prices.
Customers are particularly responsive to our Designers at Debenhams ranges, which really deliver on the demand for beautiful, unique, and stylish product that doesnt blow the budget.
Our marketing messages in store, on line and externally are all about reinforcing this.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 10.5% Reduction in stock density
