FEATURE STORY IMPROVING THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE IN WOMENSWEAR Customers tell us that they value real choice but at the same time want a simpler shopping experience.
In 2008 we made some significant changes to our ranges, particularly in Womenswear, in order to meet this challenge.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 IMPROVING THE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE IN WOMENSWEAR e ask our customers for their views on have been merged, most notably Casual Club which has been combined Debenhams on a regular basis.
We also with Collection to provide easier shopping for everyday essentials by undertake extensive benchmarking against our eliminating duplication between the two and creating bigger statements competitors.
What this accumulated research of key product lines such as knitwear or formal trousers.
has told us is that the key driver of customer loyalty is product range, followed by price and The new Collection brand with its elements of casual, smart and formal W quality.
Although we have one of the largest clothing is what we call a power brand.
A power brand covers product ranges on the high street, we found that this did not always the complete spectrum of how a woman dresses, from casual to smart to translate into positive customer perception.
In short, our product range formal to special occasion.
J by Jasper Conran is already an established had become too big and customers in fact want edited choice.
In 2008 we expanded some of our other existing brands to create new power brands, including Star by Julien Macdonald in Designers Furthermore, our own quantitative analysis suggested that we have higher at Debenhams and Red Herring in young fashion.
square footage to linear space conversion and substantially more options or individual product lines than our competitors.
This led us to believe Star by Julien Macdonald has historically been a going out brand.
By that we could rationalise our brands and reduce the number of options introducing casual clothing and smart daywear, the Star customer can both of which would improve the customer experience and visual now dress in her favourite brand throughout the week.
merchandising without removing real choice.
Young fashion brand Red Herring has always been strong in denim and CUSTOMERS WANT REAL CHOICE casuals along with day-into-night smarter clothing.
In 2008 we launched As a result of this research, we identied an opportunity to improve the Red Herring Special Edition which translated our strength in special experience of customers in our stores through consolidation and clear occasionwear into options for younger customers with sassier designs and delineation of our brands.
We have therefore: shorter hemlines.
reduced the number of options in store: and AND A SIMPLER SHOPPING EXPERIENCE Having fewer, better dened brands in itself helps improve shopability.
rationalised the overall number of brands and invested in fewer, bigger Improving store layouts and visual merchandising also makes an power brands.
important contribution to providing a simpler shopping experience.
Following detailed trials in a range of store sizes and densities, a 15 per Our intention has been to make each brand more distinctive and provide cent reduction in options has been achieved in the Autumn Winter greater clarity between brands.
We want customers to have a positive first collections which arrived in store from August 2008.
After reinvesting in impression when they enter a department and a sense of space to browse best selling options and sizes, this has resulted in a 10.5 per cent reduction freely between ranges.
We have done this by using distinctive shop ts for in same store stock density.
each brand which complement their individual style philosophy from the sophisticated silver of J by Jasper Conran to the natural wood of In Womenswear, option reduction has been achieved by reducing Rocha.
John Rocha to the glamorous black gloss of Star by Julien duplication within brands and by brand rationalisation.
The shop ts are enhanced by distinctive accessories such as been closed, including designer brands such as John by John Richmond the Star armoire and the Betty Jackson.
Black ornate oor standing mirror.
and Antoni and Alison and core brands such as J. Taylor and Gorgeous Each brand also makes good use of individually styled mannequins and as it was felt they no longer had a clear or distinctive enough role in our hangers, which again emphasise brand clarity and dierentiation and brand strategy and that other brands oered more than adequate provide ideas and inspiration for customers.
alternatives for customers who shopped the closed brands.
Other brands 24 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008
