FEATURE STORY DRIVING DEBENHAMS DIRECT Sales at Debenhams online business, www.
com, grew by over 60 per cent in 2008.
Within the next few years we expect it to become our single largest store.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 DRIVING DEBENHAMS DIRECT he Debenhams online business accounted for 1.8 per cent In October we see the launch of Debenhams first Christmas corporate of gross transaction value in 2008, up from 1.1 per cent oer, providing discount for businesses placing bulk orders for store in the previous year.
Online revenues have grown in products as well as financial products.
Following this, in January we will be the last year by over 60 per cent.
profitability has more launching the first Debenhams Outlet Store online bringing our than doubled in the last year as a result of signicantly customers a year-round opportunity to buy at even lower prices.
better stock control and economies of scale with T regard to the divisions operating costs.
Increasingly in the last year we have seen the online store being used by store shoppers to research their purchases.
As a result the focus for We are pleased with the customer reaction to our step change in the developments next year and beyond will be around creating a much promotion of the online brand.
In particular the focus on fashion, stronger link between the online and oine stores.
designers and beauty has been well received and these themes will continue into next year.
The range oered online has grown substantially In Spring this year we launched our returns in storeservice which allows in the past 12 months and over 95 per cent of the own bought ranges are online shoppers to return any unwanted purchases to their local store.
Next year we will provide customers with the option to collect their purchases from their local store.
In the past year improvements have been made to both the product oering and marketing of the online oer.
A larger electrical oer has been Earlier this year we announced our intention to rebuild all of the support introduced, alongside some key store concessions and there has been a services for the online store and these plans are now well on track to greater focus on the Designers at Debenhams brand.
deliver in Spring next year.
This will complete a series of infrastructure plans having upgraded the front end of our website in November 2006.
In more recent months we have begun to upgrade both the content and This will provide a series of customer benets such as: quality of online images as we believe customers welcome more clarity as well as the ability to see our clothes being worn on models.
Click and collect from stores Earlier this summer we also re-enforced our commitment to secure online Online track and trace shopping by introducing a 3d secure technology, which will provide our customers with further confidence to shop with us.
Premium delivery services In preparation for peak trading, a series of customer developments will In the longer term we anticipate the online store to continue to perform also be launched in November to enhance the online shopping ahead of the core store estate.
We anticipate that our customers appetite experience, these include: to use the online store for both browsing and shopping will continue to grow.
As such we expect to see continued sales growth well beyond this A gift nder financial year.
A brand new beauty section A new product page incorporating zoom customer reviews and outt building capability 26 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Section 2 Operating Review CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 2008 % New stores 47.0 Maintenance 19.0 Store rets 23.0 Other 5.0 Systems 6.0 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Reduction in options stock: at year end, the anticipated 15 per cent During the financial year ended 30 August 2008 the Group opened ten reduction in options had been achieved, resulting in lower same store new department stores including three re-sites and one new Desire store stock density of 10.5 per cent.
You can read about how this was details of which are provided in the Operating Review on page 15.
In accomplished in the insert on page 23. addition, 19 stores were modernised.
In total we invested 129.1 million in xed asset additions during the year, the breakdown of which is shown Continued focus on working capital, including the robust management in the chart above.
of our cost base and stock levels.
CASH FLOW Scrip dividend: some 45 per cent of shareholders elected to take the Net cash generated from operating activities in the year ended 30 August scrip alternative for the interim dividend: it will also be oered for the 2008 was 191.4 million.
This was a decrease of 36.0 million on the prior 2008 final dividend.
This reects trading during the year and an increase in taxation payments oset by continued improvements in FINANCIAL RISK AND TREASURY MANAGEMENT working capital The board has established an overall treasury policy and has approved authority levels within which the treasury function must operate.
Treasury BORROWINGS policy is to manage risks within the agreed framework whilst not taking At 30 August 2008 the Groups net debt position was 994.0 million, a speculative positions.
The policies and strategies for managing financial reduction of 22.5 million since the start of the year.
This includes a risk are summarised in note 3 of the Group Financial Statements starting scheduled repayment of 100.0 million of the term loan facility which was on page 68. made in May 2008.
PENSIONS DELEVERAGING INITIATIVES The Group provides a number of pension benefit arrangements for its A number of actions are being taken to begin the process of taking employees, which include the Debenhams Retirement Scheme and leverage as an issue o the agenda for Debenhams.
These were set out at Debenhams Executive Pension Plan together the pension schemes.
the time of the interim results in April and progress achieved during the From 31 October 2006 the pension schemes closed for future service second half is detailed below.
The balance sheet surplus associated with the Groups pension schemes at 30 August 2008 was 25.0 million.
Further 20 million cost reduction: this has now been achieved through a information can be found in note 24 of the Group Financial Statements combination of cost savings including lower marketing costs, starting on page 82.
The Groups actuary is currently undertaking the withdrawal from the Nectar reward scheme, lower logistics costs and triennial actuarial valuation of the pension schemes as at 31 March 2008. relocation of HR and call centre personnel from London to Taunton.
Future pension arrangements will be provided for Debenhams employees A further 10 million of cost savings are now being made.
by a Prudential stakeholder pension scheme.
Lower capex: in 2009 we will spend some 90 million compared to CHRIS WOODHOUSE 129 million in 2008, largely as a result of fewer new store openings and Finance Director store rets.
21 October 2008 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
