212833 DIAGEO REPORT P1-15 5 9 08 10:23 Page 8 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OUTSTANDING NO.
1 Smirnoff is the worlds Johnnie Walker is the worlds Captain Morgan is the Baileys is the worlds leading vodka leading scotch whisky No.
2 rum in the world leading liqueur 25.
1m 1 6.2m 8.2m 7.5m 9-litre cases 9-litre cases 9-litre cases 9-litre cases 10% 12% 13% 3% Net sales growth Net sales growth Net sales growth Net sales growth All information for year ended 30 June 2008, organic movements and excluding ready to drink.
GLOBAL PRIORITY BRAND PERFORMANCE Smirnoff, excluding ready to drink, performed strongly across all The success of the global Start a Party campaign fuelled J&B regions with new campaigns and the launch of Smirnoff Black in volume growth across all regions.
Price increases in key markets a number of markets driving overall volume growth.
Price increases resulted in an increased proportion of higher priced sales, which across most markets resulted in net sales growth.
in turn drove net sales growth.
The International region together with Eastern Europe and Russia While Jos Cuervo grew net sales in Latin America and Europe, led the growth of Johnnie Walker.
The strong performance of the brands performance continued to be affected by the growth Johnnie Walker Black Label, Johnnie Walker super deluxe labels and of the ultra premium tequila segment in North America.
Price price increases in key markets drove an increased proportion of increases and more premium launches have helped drive net higher priced sales.
sales growth in Latin America and Europe.
Captain Morgan sustained the strong performance it experienced Tanqueray increased net sales in all regions.
North America in the first half of the year.
While the key driver of growth is the remained the main contributor to growth, where the brand brands performance in North America, it is now delivering doubleoutperformed the gin category, driven by the continued growth digit net sales growth in each region.
A price increase on the core brand in North America drove an increased proportion of higher priced sales.
In Great Britain and Russia, Baileys Original Irish Cream performed strongly, while in Latin America Baileys flavours continued to deliver Growth in Guinness was fuelled by double-digit net sales growth double-digit net sales growth further supporting Baileys Original Irish in International and outperformance against the beer categories Cream.
Overall results were constrained by lower volume on Baileys in Ireland and Great Britain assisted by successful advertising flavours in all regions except International, as the brands growth campaigns.
Net sales grew ahead of volume growth driven by declined against strong comparative figures from its launch in 2007. price increases in key markets.
