212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 94 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2008.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 2.30 pm on Wednesday, 15 October 2008.
DIVIDENDS Diageo paid an interim dividend of 13.20 pence per share on 7 April 2008.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 21.15 pence per share.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 20 October 2008 to shareholders on the register on 12 September 2008.
Payment to US ADR holders will be made on 24 October 2008.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice date is 29 September 2008.
DIRECTORS The directors of the company who served during the year are shown under Directors and senior management above.
Lord Blyth retired as chairman and director on 30 June 2008 and was succeeded as chairman by Dr FB Humer.
Dr Humer, WS Shanahan and HT Stitzer retire by rotation at the AGM in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, M Lilja will have served nine years in November 2008 and, although not strictly required to retire at the AGM, in the spirit of good governance she will also seek re-election.
For WS Shanahan, who has served more than nine years, his re-election would only last until 30 April 2009, at which time he will retire from the board, and for M Lilja, her re-election would only last until the AGM in 2009 at the latest.
In proposing the re-election of WS Shanahan and M Lilja, both of whom the board considers remain independent in character and judgement, the board wishes to ensure continuity at senior board level in the period immediately following the succession of Dr Humer to the chairmanship of the company.
PG Scott, who was appointed since the last AGM, retires in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offers himself for election at the AGM.
The nonexecutive directors proposed for election and re-election do not have service contracts.
Further details of directors contracts, remuneration and their interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2008 are given in the directors remuneration report above.
AUDITOR The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company will be submitted to the AGM.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
PURCHASES OF OWN SHARES At the 2007 AGM, shareholders gave the company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 263 million ordinary shares.
During the year ended 30 June 2008, the company purchased 108 million ordinary shares nominal value 31 million, representing approximately 4% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at 11 August 2008, for a consideration including expenses of 1,132 million.
Of the shares purchased, 97 million were purchased and subsequently cancelled and 11 million were held as treasury shares for the hedging of grants made under employee share plans.
BUSINESS REVIEW The review of the business of the company and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the Chief executives review, the Business description and the Business review.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL The following significant agreements contain certain termination and other rights for Diageos counterparties upon a change of control of the company.
Under the agreement governing the companys 34% investment in Mot Hennessy SNC MH and Mot Hennessy International, SAS MHI, if a competitor as defined therein directly or indirectly takes control of the company which, for these purposes, would occur if such competitor acquired more than 34% of the voting rights or equity interests in the company, LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH may require the company to sell its shares in MH and MHI to LVMH.
The master agreement governing the operation of the groups regional joint ventures with LVMH states that upon a change of control of the company being, for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 30% or more of the issued share capital having voting rights in the company, LVMH may either appoint and remove the chairman of each joint venture entity governed by such master agreement, who shall be given a casting vote, or require each joint venture entity to be wound up.
Agreements for the distribution of the Jos Cuervo tequila brands allow Casa Cuervo SA fide CV Cuervo the right to terminate such agreements upon a change of control of the company, if Cuervos advance written consent to the change of control is not obtained.
94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P72-95 5 9 08 10:19 Page 95 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 OTHER INFORMATION Other information relevant to the directors report may be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Amendment of memorandum and articles Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association of association Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Directors appointment and powers Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association Directors indemnities and compensation for Directors remuneration report loss of office Employment policies Business description Premium drinks Employees Events since 30 June 2008 Financial statements note 34 Post balance sheet events Future developments Business review Trend information Purchase of own shares Business review Liquidity and capital resources and Financial statements note 26 Total equity Research and development Business description Premium drinks Research and development Share capital structure, voting and other rights Additional information for shareholders Share capital and Memorandum and articles of association Share capital employee share plan voting rights Financial statements note 33 Employee share compensation Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Share capital Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report The directors report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2008 comprises these pages and the sections of the Annual Report referred to under Directors, Business review and Other information above, which are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
The directors report was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 27 August 2008 and signed on its behalf by PD Tunnacliffe, the company secretary.
