FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P1-15 5 9 08 10:23 Page 9 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BRANDS NO.
3 scotch whisky Jos Cuervo is the worlds Tanqueray is the leading Guinness is the worlds in the world leading tequila imported gin in the US leading stout 6m 4.4m 2.
4m 9-litre cases 9-litre cases 9-litre cases 9-litre case equivalent units 9% -3% 4% 6% Net sales growth Net sales growth Net sales growth Net sales growth Position source: Impact Databank February 2008 NEW TO DIAGEO KETEL ONE VODKA major spirits category in the world.
Zacapa rum forms part of In June 2008, Diageo formed a 50:50 company with the Nolet Diageos reserve brand collection which includes super premium Group to own the perpetual exclusive global rights to sell, market brands such as Johnnie Walker Blue Label, Tanqueray No.
TEN and and distribute super premium Ketel One vodka and Ketel One Buchanans Red Seal.
Distilled in Schiedam in the Netherlands, the Nolet Group supplies Ketel One vodka and Ketel One Citroen to the new ROSENBLUM CELLARS company.
Ketel One vodka extends Diageos platform in the It is not just in premium spirits that Diageo has been investing.
fast-growing super premium vodka segment in North America, As part of its total beverage alcohol offering, Diageo also added complementing Diageos premium Smirnoff and its ultra premium new premium wine brands to its collection with the acquisition Croc brands.
Diageo will bring its outstanding marketing expertise of Rosenblum Cellars in February 2008.
Rosenblum Cellars is a and strong track record of brand stewardship to Ketel One vodka leading producer of premium Zinfandel and Rhone varietals in the to maximise its potential for global growth.
It has won plaudits from numerous critics, including Robert Parkers Wine Advocate, who recently called Rosenblum ZACAPA RUM Cellars as good as it gets when it comes to Zinfandel.
As part of Produced in the cool climates of the Guatemalan highlands, the acquisition, founder Kent Rosenblum will continue to make Zacapa is one of the most acclaimed rums in the world.
In February wines and will play a key advisory role in the strategic direction 2008, Diageo entered a three-year distribution and joint marketing of the brand.
agreement with Industrias Licoreras fide Guatemala group of companies for the Zacapa rum brand with a view to broaden For more information please visit us online at its consumer offering in the second largest and fastest growing www.
