FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 17 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION DIAGEO IS THE WORLDS LEADING PREMIUM DRINKS BUSINESS WITH A COLLECTION OF INTERNATIONAL BRANDS.
DIAGEO WAS THE SEVENTEENTH LARGEST PUBLICLY QUOTED COMPANY IN THE UNITED KINGDOM IN TERMS OF MARKET CAPITALISATION ON 27 AUGUST 2008, WITH A MARKET CAPITALISATION OF APPROXIMATELY 25 BILLION.
Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England and Diageos brands have broad consumer appeal across geographies and Wales.
Diageo plcs principal executive office is located at 8 Henrietta Place, the company and its employees are proud of the responsible manner in which the brands are marketed and the role that moderate consumption London W1G 0NB and its telephone number is 44 0 20 7927 5200. of these brands plays in the lives of many people.
Diageo is a major participant in the branded beverage alcohol industry Diageo recognises, however, that excessive or irresponsible patterns and operates on an international scale.
It brings together world-class of alcohol consumption may cause health or social problems for the brands and a management team committed to the maximisation of individual or society as a whole.
Diageo seeks to be at the forefront of shareholder value.
The management team expects to invest in global industry efforts to promote responsible drinking and combat misuse and brands, expand internationally and launch innovative new products works with other stakeholders to combat alcohol misuse.
approach is based on two principles: set world-class standards for responsible marketing and innovation: and promote a shared Diageo produces and distributes a leading collection of branded premium understanding of what responsible drinking means in order to reduce spirits, beer and wine.
The wide range of premium brands it produces and alcohol related harm.
distributes includes Smirnoff vodka, Johnnie Walker scotch whisky, Captain Morgan rum, Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur, J&B scotch whisky, Market participation Diageo targets its geographical priorities in terms of Tanqueray gin and Guinness stout.
In addition it also has the distribution the major regional economies in which it operates.
Since 1 February 2007, rights for the Jos Cuervo tequila brands in North America and many these markets are managed under four business areas: North America, other markets.
Europe, International and Asia Pacific.
The North American business area comprises the United States and Canada.
The European business area STRATEGY comprises Great Britain, Ireland, Continental Europe, Iberia and Russia.
The Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business and operates on an International business area comprises Latin America and the Caribbean international scale.
It is one of a small number of premium drinks companies including Mexico, Africa and the Global Travel and Middle East business.
that operate across spirits, beer and wine.
Diageo is the leading premium The Asia Pacific business area comprises India, China, South Korea, Japan spirits business in the world by volume, by net sales and by operating profit and other Asian markets, Australia and New Zealand.
North America and it manages eight of the worlds top 20 spirits brands as defined by accounts for the largest proportion of Diageos operating profit.
Diageos beer brands include the only global stout brand, Guinness, and together these beer brands account for approximately 21% Product offering Diageo manages its brands in terms of global priority of net sales while Diageos wine brands represent approximately 6% of brands, local priority brands and category brands.
Acting as the main Diageos net sales.
focus for the business, global priority brands are Diageos primary growth drivers across markets.
Local priority brands have market-leading positions Diageos size provides for scale efficiencies in production, selling and in the markets in which they are distributed.
They drive growth on a marketing.
This enables cost efficiencies and the dissemination of best significant scale but with a narrower geographic reach than the global practices in business operations across markets and brands, allowing priority brands.
Category brands comprise the smaller scale brands in Diageo to serve its customers and consumers better.
All of the above factors enable Diageo to attract and retain talented Business effectiveness Over the long term, Diageos strategy will be individuals with the capabilities to contribute to the delivery of Diageos continually focused on driving growth and increasing shareholder value.
strategy, which is to focus on premium drinks to grow its business through organic sales and operating profit growth and the acquisition of premium drinks brands that add value for shareholders.
