212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 24 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION CONTINUED Switzerland.
Certain central finance activities, including elements of group brand.
The new company owns the exclusive and perpetual global rights to financial control and treasury, are also performed in the business service market, sell and distribute Ketel One vodka products, including Ketel One centre in Budapest.
Additional markets and supply entities may transfer vodka, Ketel One Citroen vodka and any line extensions of Ketel One vodka to Budapest during the next few years.
and Ketel One Citroen vodka.
The business is operated pursuant to a global agreement and ancillary agreements relating to intellectual property, supply, The costs of the business service centre and other corporate costs which distribution services and certain other matters.
Diageo will pay a total of cannot be directly allocated to the business areas are reported separately 473 million including acquisition costs for a 50% equity stake in the within Corporate costs in the analysis of business performance.
Also company and is entitled to certain governance rights under the global included in Corporate are the revenues and costs related to rents receivable agreement.
Diageo consolidates the company with a minority interest.
The in respect of properties not used by Diageo in the manufacture, sale or Nolet Group has an option to sell their stake in the company to Diageo for distribution of premium drink products and the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
$900 million 452 million plus interest from 9 June 2011 to 9 June 2013.
If the Nolet Group exercises this option but Diageo chooses not to buy Associates Diageos principal associate is Mot Hennessy.
It also owns their stake, Diageo will pay $100 million 50 million and the Nolet Group shares in a number of other associates.
In the year ended 30 June 2008, may then pursue a sale of their stake to a third party, subject to rights of the share of profits of associates after tax was 177 million 2007 149 first offer and last refusal on Diageos part.
million: 2006 131 million, of which Mot Hennessy accounted for 161 million 2007 136 million: 2006 122 million.
On 29 February 2008, Diageo acquired Rosenblum Cellars in North America for a total cost of 54 million including acquisition costs.
Diageo owns 34% of Mot Hennessy, the spirits and wine subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH.
LVMH is based in France On 1 May 2008 Diageo formed a new venture with Heineken and Namibia and is listed on the Paris Stock Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also based in Breweries Limited NBL for their combined beer, cider and ready to drink France and is a producer and exporter of a number of brands in its main businesses in South Africa, called DHN Drinks Pty Limited DHN Drinks.
business areas of champagne and cognac.
Its principal champagne The new venture builds on the success of brandhouse Beverages Pty brands are Mot & Chandon including Dom Prignon, Veuve Clicquot Limited brandhouse, the parties existing venture in South Africa, which and Mercier, all of which are included in the top 10 champagne brands was formed in July 2004.
Diageo and Heineken each own 42.25% of DHN worldwide by volume.
Mot Hennessy also owns Hennessy, which is the Drinks and NBL owns 15.5%.
The cost of this acquisition in the period was top cognac brand worldwide by volume, and Glenmorangie, a malt whisky.
43 million, with additional consideration of up to 11 million payable through 31 December 2009.
Each party will share in the profits of DHN Since 1987, a number of joint distribution arrangements have been Drinks in proportion to their shareholding.
Brandhouse will continue to established with LVMH, principally covering distribution of Diageos market and distribute the parties products in South Africa.
Diageo and premium brands of scotch whisky and gin and Mot Hennessys Heineken also entered into a second venture in South Africa to be called premium champagne and cognac brands in the Asia Pacific region and Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited on 1 May 2008 whereby a brewery and France.
Diageo and LVMH have each undertaken not to engage in any bottling plant will be constructed in Gauteng province, South Africa, champagne or cognac activities competing with those of Mot Hennessy.
which will produce Amstel and certain other key brands.
Heineken owns The arrangements also contain certain provisions for the protection of 75% and Diageo owns 25% of Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited.
A cost of Diageo as a minority shareholder in Mot Hennessy.
The operations of 8 million was incurred for this acquisition during the year ended 30 June Mot Hennessy in France are conducted through a partnership in which 2008, with additional costs expected to be payable until completion of Diageo has a 34% interest and, as a partner, Diageo pays any tax due on construction of the brewery.
its share of the results of the partnership to the tax authorities.
DISPOSED BUSINESSES Acquisitions and disposals Diageo has made a number of acquisitions Pillsbury General Mills Diageo acquired an investment in the shares of and disposals of brands, distribution rights and equity interests in General Mills on the disposal of Pillsbury to General Mills in October 2001. premium drinks businesses including the following: On 4 October 2004, Diageo sold 50 million shares of common stock in General Mills and transferred a further 4 million shares to the Diageo UK On 3 July 2006, Diageo completed the purchase of the Smirnov brand pension fund and Diageo ceased to be an affiliate of General Mills for US in Russia through the formation of a 75% Diageo-owned joint venture federal securities laws purposes at that time.
This company unites the Smirnoff Smirnov brands in Russia sold its remaining 25 million shares of common stock of General Mills.
under common ownership and is the exclusive distributor of Smirnov and Diageos spirits brands in Russia.
Burger King Diageo completed the disposal of Burger King on 13 December 2002.
On 27 January 2007, Diageo completed the acquisition of a 43% equity stake in Sichuan Chengdu Quanxing Group Co Limited Quanxing.
RISK FACTORS Quanxing then held 39.48% of the equity in Sichuan ShuiJingFang Joint Diageo faces competition that may reduce its market share Stock Co Limited ShuiJingFang, a leading maker of premium Chinese and margins Diageo faces substantial competition from several white spirits, or baijiu.
ShuiJingFang is listed on the Shanghai Stock international companies as well as local and regional companies in the Exchange.
The agreed purchase price for the 43% equity interest in countries in which it operates.
Diageo competes with drinks companies Quanxing was RMB517 million 37 million.
Quanxing subsequently across a wide range of consumer drinking occasions.
Within a number increased its equity stake in ShuiJingFang to 39.7%.
On 30 July 2008, of categories, consolidation or realignment is still possible.
Consolidation Diageo acquired a further 6% of the equity of Quanxing.
Diageo now owns is also taking place amongst Diageos customers in many countries.
49% of Quanxing and continues to equity account for this investment.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline On 9 June 2008, Diageo completed the acquisition of a new 50:50 company in Diageos market share in any of these categories, which would adversely based in the Netherlands with the Nolet Group, owners of the Ketel One affect Diageos results and hinder its growth potential.
