212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 18 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Diageo was formed by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Limited Other spirits brands include: Company GrandMet and Guinness PLC the Guinness Group and has Crown Royal Canadian whisky subsequently completed a number of acquisitions and disposals Buchanans fide Luxe whisky consistent with its strategy of focusing on its premium drinks business.
Gordons gin and vodka In the period from the merger in December 1997 to 30 June 2008, the Windsor Premier whisky group has received approximately 10.5 billion from disposals including Bells Extra Special whisky 4.3 billion from the sale of Pillsbury, 1.9 billion from the sale of General Seagrams whiskey Mills shares and 0.7 billion from the sale of Burger King and spent Old Parr whisky approximately 5.6 billion on acquisitions including 3.7 billion in relation Bushmills Irish whiskey to certain Seagram businesses.
Bundaberg rum Cacique rum PREMIUM DRINKS Ketel One vodka exclusive worldwide distribution rights Diageo is engaged in a broad range of activities within the beverage alcohol industry.
Its operations include producing, distilling, brewing, Wine brands include: bottling, packaging, distributing, developing and marketing a range of Beaulieu Vineyard brands in approximately 180 markets around the world.
Diageo markets a Sterling Vineyards wide range of recognised beverage alcohol brands including a number of Rosenblum Cellars the worlds leading spirits and beer brands.
The brand ranking information Chalone Vineyard below, when comparing volume information with competitors, has been Blossom Hill sourced from data published during 2008 by Impact Databank.
Market Piat dOr data information is taken from industry sources in the markets in which Diageo operates.
In calendar year 2007, 17 of the groups owned brands Other beer brands include: were among the top 100 premium distilled spirits brands worldwide, as Harp lager ranked by Impact Databank.
Smithwicks ale Malta Guinness non-alcoholic malt References to ready to drink products in this document include Red Stripe lager progressive adult beverages in the United States and certain markets Tusker lager supplied by the United States.
References to Smirnoff ready to drink include Smirnoff Ice, Smirnoff Black Ice, Smirnoff Twisted V, Smirnoff Mule, Diageos agency agreements vary depending on the particular brand, but Smirnoff Spin, Smirnoff Storm, Smirnoff Caipiroska, Smirnoff Signatures and tend to be for a fixed number of years.
Diageos principal agency brand is Smirnoff Cocktails.
References to Smirnoff Black Ice include Smirnoff Ice Jos Cuervo in North America and many other markets with distribution Triple Black in the United States and Smirnoff Ice Double Black in Australia.
In the year ended 30 June 2008, Diageo signed a three-year agency agreement with Inversiones fide Guatemala to distribute In the year ended 30 June 2008, Diageo sold 117 million equivalent units Zacapa ultra premium rums globally, other than in Central America of spirits including ready to drink, 25 million equivalent units of beer and Guatemala, Guatemalan duty free, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa 3 million equivalent units of wine.
In the year ended 30 June 2008, ready Rica, and Panama, where Industrias Licoreras fide Guatemala will retain the to drink products contributed 7 million equivalent units of total volume, of right to distribute the Zacapa brands.
There can be no assurances that which Smirnoff ready to drink variants accounted for 5 million equivalent Diageo will be able to prevent termination of distribution rights or rights units.
Volume has been measured on an equivalent units basis to nine litre to manufacture under licence, or renegotiate distribution rights or rights cases of spirits.
An equivalent unit represents one nine litre case of spirits, to manufacture under licence on favourable terms when they expire.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Therefore, to convert Diageo also brews and sells other companies beer brands under licence, volume of products other than spirits to equivalent units, the following including Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, Heineken lager in guide has been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine litre Jamaica and Tiger beer in Malaysia.
cases divide by five, ready to drink in nine litre cases divide by 10 and certain pre-mixed products that are classified as ready to drink divide Global priority brands Diageo has eight global priority brands that it by five.
Diageo considers these brands to have the greatest current and future earnings potential.
Each global priority brand is The collection of premium drinks comprises brands owned by the marketed consistently around the world, and therefore can achieve scale company as a principal and brands held by the company under agency benefits.
The group manages and invests in these brands on a global or distribution agreements.
Figures for global priority brands include related ready to drink products, unless otherwise indicated.
Net sales are sales after deducting Global priority brands excise duties.
Smirnoff vodka and Smirnoff ready to drink products Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies In the year ended 30 June 2008, global priority brands accounted for 59% Captain Morgan rum of total volume 86.3 million equivalent units and contributed net sales of Baileys Original Irish Cream liqueur 4,614 million.
J&B scotch whisky Jos Cuervo tequila agency brand in North America and many Smirnoff achieved sales of 29.6 million equivalent units in the year ended other markets 30 June 2008.
Smirnoff vodka volume was 25.1 million equivalent units.
Tanqueray gin It was ranked, by volume, as the number one premium vodka and the Guinness stout 18 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 19 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 number one premium spirit brand in the world.
Smirnoff ready to drink in North America, Buchanans fide Luxe whisky in International, Windsor volume totalled 4.5 million equivalent units.
Premier whisky in Asia Pacific, Gordons gin in Europe, Bundaberg rum in Asia Pacific, Cacique rum in Europe, Malta Guinness non-alcoholic malt Johnnie Walker scotch whiskies comprise Johnnie Walker Red Label, in International, Tusker lager in International, Seagrams 7 Crown whiskey Johnnie Walker Black Label and several other brand variants.
During the and Seagrams VO whisky in North America, Bells Extra Special whisky year ended 30 June 2008, Johnnie Walker Red Label sold 10.0 million in Europe and Sterling Vineyards wines in North America.
equivalent units, Johnnie Walker Black Label sold 5.5 million equivalent units and the remaining variants sold 0.8 million equivalent units.
The The remaining brands are grouped under category brands.
Category Johnnie Walker franchise was ranked, by volume, as the number one brands include spirits, beer and wine brands and for the year ended premium scotch whisky and the number three premium spirit brand 30 June 2008, these category brands contributed volume of 32.8 million in the world.
equivalent units, representing 23% of total volume, and net sales of 1,742 million.
Of this, spirits achieved volume of 23.9 million equivalent Captain Morgan was ranked, by volume, as the number two premium units and contributed 1,120 million to Diageos net sales in the year rum brand in the world with sales of 8.3 million equivalent units in the ended 30 June 2008.
Examples of category spirits brands are Gordons year ended 30 June 2008. gin all markets except Europe in which it is a local priority brand, Gordons vodka, The Classic Malt whiskies and White Horse whisky.
Baileys was ranked, by volume, as the number one liqueur in the world, having sold 7.5 million equivalent units in the year ended 30 June 2008.
In the year ended 30 June 2008, Diageo sold 13.2 million equivalent units of beers other than Guinness, achieving net sales of 765 million.
Other Guinness is the groups only global priority beer brand, and for the year beer volume was mainly attributable to owned brands, such as Red Stripe, ended 30 June 2008 achieved volume of 11.4 million equivalent units.
Pilsner, Tusker and Harp lager, with a minority being attributable to beers brewed and or sold under licence, such as Tiger beer in Malaysia and Other global priority brands were also ranked, by volume, among the Heineken lager in Jamaica.
leading premium distilled spirits brands by Impact Databank.
These include: J&B scotch whisky comprising J&B Rare, J&B Reserve, J&B Exception In addition, Diageo produces and markets a wide selection of wines.
These and J&B Jet, ranked the number three premium scotch whisky in the include well known labels such as Beaulieu Vineyard, Sterling Vineyards, world: Jos Cuervo, ranked the number one premium tequila in the world: Rosenblum Cellars and Chalone Vineyard in the United States, Blossom Hill and Tanqueray, ranked the number four premium gin brand in the world.
in the United Kingdom, and Barton & Guestier and Piat dOr in Europe.
During the year ended 30 June 2008, J&B, Jos Cuervo and Tanqueray sold For the year ended 30 June 2008, other wine volume was 2.3 million 6.1 million, 5.0 million and 2.1 million equivalent units, respectively.
equivalent units, contributing net sales of 275 million.
Other brands Diageo manages its other brands by category, analysing Production Diageo owns production facilities including maltings, them between local priority brands and category brands.
distilleries, breweries, packaging plants, maturation warehouses, cooperages, vineyards and distribution warehouses.
Production also Local priority brands represent the brands, apart from the global priority occurs at plants owned and operated by third parties and joint ventures brands, that make the greatest contribution to operating profit in a at a number of locations internationally.
business area North America, Europe, International or Asia Pacific, rather than worldwide.
Diageo has identified 25 local priority brands.
Diageo Approximately 75% of total production including third party production manages and invests in these brands within its business areas and, unlike is undertaken in five Diageo production areas, namely the United the global priority brands, may not have a consistent marketing strategy Kingdom, Baileys, Guinness, Santa Vittoria and North America centres.
around the world for such brands.
For the year ended 30 June 2008, local The majority of these production centres have several production priority brands contributed volume of 26.0 million equivalent units, facilities.
The locations, principal activities, products, packaging production representing 18% of total volume, and net sales of 1,734 million.
capacity and packaging production volume in 2008 of these principal Examples of local priority brands include Crown Royal Canadian whisky production centres are set out in the following table: Production Production volume in capacity in 2008 in millions of millions of equivalent equivalent Production centre Location Principal products units units United Kingdom United Kingdom Scotch whisky, gin, vodka, rum, ready to drink 62 45 Baileys Ireland Irish cream liqueur, vodka 17 9 Guinness Ireland Beers 11 9 Santa Vittoria Italy Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 9 6 North America United States, Canada Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, Canadian whisky, American whiskey, progressive adult beverages, wine, ready to drink 50 40 Capacity represents ongoing production capacity at any production centre.
19 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 20 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION CONTINUED Spirits are produced in distilleries located worldwide.
The group owns Raw materials The group has a number of contracts for the forward 29 whisky distilleries in Scotland, an Irish whiskey distillery in Northern purchasing of its raw material requirements in order to minimise the Ireland, a whisky distillery in Canada and gin distilleries in the United effect of raw material price fluctuations.
Long term contracts are in Kingdom and the United States.
Diageo produces Smirnoff vodka place for the purchase of significant raw materials including glass, other internationally, Popov vodka and Gordons vodka in the United States and packaging, tequila, bulk whisky, neutral spirits, cream, rum and grapes.
Baileys in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Rum is blended In addition, forward contracts are in place for the purchase of other raw and bottled in the United States, Canada, Italy and the United Kingdom materials including sugar and cereals to minimise the effects of short and is distilled, blended and bottled in Australia and Venezuela.
All of term price fluctuations.
Diageos maturing scotch whisky is located in warehouses in Scotland.
Diageo is investing 100 million in expanding malt and grain whisky Cream is the principal raw material used in the production of Irish cream distilling and expanding packaging warehousing operations in Scotland.
liqueur and is sourced from Ireland.
Grapes are used in the production Diageo is building a new malt distillery in the north of Scotland and is of wine and are sourced from suppliers in the United States, France and expanding the Cameronbridge grain distillery in Fife.
Other raw materials purchased in significant quantities for the groups Shieldhall packaging plant in Glasgow will be increased and the production of spirits and beer are tequila, bulk whisky, neutral spirits, warehousing capacity will be extended in central Scotland.
molasses, rum, cereals, sugar and a number of flavours such as juniper berries, agave, chocolate and herbs.
These are sourced from suppliers In June 2008, Diageo and the government of the US Virgin Islands around the world.
announced a public private initiative for the construction and operation of a high capacity distillery in St Croix.
This new facility, expected to open The majority of products are supplied to customers in glass bottles.
Glass is in 2011, will have the capacity to distil up to 20 million proof gallons per purchased from suppliers located around the world, the principal supplier year and will supply all bulk rum used to produce Captain Morgan being the Owens Illinois group.
branded products for the United States.
Diageo has a supply agreement with Casa Cuervo SA fide CV, a Mexican Diageo produces a range of ready to drink products mainly in the United company, for the supply of bulk tequila used to make the Jos Cuervo line Kingdom, Italy, South Africa, Australia, the United States and Canada.
of tequilas and tequila drinks in the United States.
The supply agreement extends to June 2013.
Diageos principal brewing facilities are at the St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin and in Kilkenny, Waterford and Dundalk in the Republic of Ireland, Diageo has a supply agreement with Destilria Serralls Inc, a Puerto Rican and in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, Malaysia and Jamaica.
Ireland corporation, for the supply of rum used to make the Captain Morgan line is the main export centre for the Guinness brand.
In other countries, of rums and rum drinks in the United States.
The supply agreement is for Guinness is brewed by third parties under licence arrangements.
10 years from 2002, and can be terminated either 1 in the last 18 months before the expiration of the 10-year term, on notice of the shorter of one All Guinness Draught production is at the St Jamess Gate brewery in year or the time remaining until the expiration of the original 10-year Dublin in the Republic of Ireland.
Guinness Draught in cans and bottles, term, or 2 with a three year notice requirement coming into effect once which uses an in-container system to replicate the taste of Guinness the original 10-year term has expired.
Draught, is packaged at Runcorn and Belfast in the United Kingdom.
The Runcorn facility performs the kegging of Guinness Draught, transported Marketing and distribution Diageo is committed to investing in its to the United Kingdom in bulk for the Great Britain market.
1,239 million was spent worldwide on marketing brands in the year ended 30 June 2008.
Marketing was focused on the eight global In May 2008, Diageo announced the intention to make a total capital priority brands, which accounted for 68% of total marketing expenditure investment of a650 million in the construction of a new brewery close in the year ended 30 June 2008. to Dublin, expected to open in 2013, and a rejuvenation of the St Jamess Gate brewery.
When the new brewery is commissioned, all production Diageo aims to maintain and improve its market position by enhancing from existing breweries in Kilkenny and Dundalk will be transferred.
the consumer appeal of its brands through consistent high investment in marketing support focused around the eight global priority brands.
Diageo Diageos principal wineries are in the United States, France and Argentina.
makes extensive use of magazine, newspaper, point of sale and poster Wines are sold both in their local markets and overseas.
and billboard advertising, and uses radio, cinema, television and internet advertising where appropriate and permitted by law.
Diageo also runs Property, plant and equipment Diageo owns or leases land and consumer promotional programmes in the on trade for example, licensed buildings throughout the world.
The principal production facilities are bars and restaurants.
Diageo also uses sponsorship to market its brands described above.
As at 30 June 2008, Diageos land and buildings were and is a sponsor of Formula One Team Vodafone McLaren Mercedes, a included in the groups consolidated balance sheet at a net book value NASCAR racing team and the Johnnie Walker golf championships.
Diageos largest individual facility, in terms of net book value of property, is St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin.
Approximately Diageo markets and distributes its brands under a business area 97% by value of the groups properties are owned and approximately 3% organisation comprising North America, Europe, International and Asia are held under leases running for 50 years or longer.
are primarily a variety of manufacturing, distilling, brewing, bottling and administration facilities spread across the groups worldwide operations, Business analysis In the year ended 30 June 2008, North America, as well as vineyards in the United States.
Approximately 41% and 24% Europe, International and Asia Pacific contributed 38%, 30%, 25% and 7%, of the book value of Diageos land and buildings comprise properties respectively, of the groups operating profit before corporate costs.
located in the United Kingdom and the United States, respectively.
20 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 21 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 An analysis of net sales and operating profit by market for the year ended to provide a consolidated distribution network which will limit the 30 June 2008 is as follows: duplication of activities between Diageo and the distributor, improve Diageos and distributors selling capabilities and enable a number of alternative approaches to optimise product distribution.
To date, Diageo Operating Net sales profit loss has consolidated its business in 40 markets 39 states plus Washington DC, million million representing over 80% of Diageos US spirits and wine volume.
The North America 2,523 907 remaining states will be consolidated as opportunities arise.
Diageo is now Europe 2,630 720 focused on building the capabilities and selling tools of the distributors dedicated sales forces and creating a more efficient and effective value chain.
International 1,971 593 Asia Pacific 877 170 Europe Diageo Europe comprises Great Britain, Ireland, Continental Corporate 89 164 Europe, Iberia and Russia.
Total 8,090 2,226 In Great Britain, Diageo sells and markets its products via three business units: Diageo GB spirits, beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox & Co wines North America North America is the largest market for Diageo in terms of and Justerini & Brooks Retail private client wines.
Products are distributed operating profit, and the largest market for premium drinks in the world.
both via independent wholesalers and directly to the major grocers, Diageo markets its products through four operating units: US Spirits, convenience and specialist stores.
In the on trade for example, licensed Diageo-Guinness USA, Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines Company and bars and restaurants, products are sold through the major brewers, Diageo Canada.
multiple retail groups and smaller regional independent brewers and wholesalers.
The customer base in Great Britain has seen consolidation The US Spirits business, while managed as a single business unit, executes in recent years in both the on trade and home consumption channels.
sales and marketing activities through 14 teams or clusters.
National brand In particular, Great Britains top four national multiple grocers together strategy and strategic accounts marketing are managed at the corporate make up over 45% of home consumption total spirits volume.
The spirits clusters market the majority of Diageos portfolio of spirits including Smirnoff vodka, Baileys Irish Cream liqueur, Ireland comprises the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
In both Jos Cuervo tequila, Johnnie Walker scotch whisky, Captain Morgan rum, territories, Diageo sells and distributes directly to both the on trade and Tanqueray gin, J&B scotch whisky, Crown Royal Canadian whisky, Seagrams the off trade for example, retail shops and wholesalers through a 7 Crown American whiskey, Seagrams VO Canadian whisky, Buchanans telesales operation, extensive sales calls to outlets and third party logistics scotch whisky and Ketel One vodka across the United States.
The Guinness, Smirnoff and Baileys brands are market leaders in Guinness USA distributes Diageos US beer portfolio including Guinness their respective categories of long alcoholic drinks, vodka and liqueurs.
stout, Harp lager, Red Stripe lager and Smithwicks ale as well as the Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers, also major products in the Diageo groups progressive adult beverages including Smirnoff Ice and Captain collection of brands in Ireland, are brewed and sold under licence in Morgan Parrot Bay Tropical Malt Beverage.
Diageo Chateau & Estate addition to the other European local priority brands of Smithwicks ale Wines owns and operates vineyards in California and Washington State and Harp lager.
including Beaulieu Vineyard, Sterling Vineyards, Chalone Vineyard and Hewitt Vineyards and markets these and other wines across the United In Russia, Diageo sells and markets its products through a company in States.
The Canada business unit distributes the groups spirits, wine and which Diageo owns a 75% interest.
This company is the exclusive beer portfolio across all Canadian territories.
distributor of Diageo spirits brands in Russia.
Within the United States, there are generally two types of regulatory Across the remainder of Europe, and including the majority of the markets environments: open states and control states.
In open states, spirits within Continental Europe, Diageo distributes its spirits brands primarily companies are allowed to sell spirits, wine and beer directly to through its own distribution companies.
Exceptions to this are: independent distributors.
In these open states, Diageo generally trades France, where Diageo sells its spirits and wine products through a joint through a three tier distribution system, where the product is initially sold arrangement with Mot Hennessy, and its beer products through to distributors, who then sell it to on and off trade retailers.
In most control Brasseries Kronenbourg part of the Carlsberg group : states, Diageo markets its spirits products to state liquor control boards the Baltic states, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, through the bailment warehousing system, and from there to state or Cyprus, Malta, various territories in the Balkans and Israel, where Diageo agency liquor stores.
There are variations for example, certain states sells and markets its brands via local distributors: and control distribution but not retail sales.
Generally, wines are treated in the the Nordic countries, where Diageo has sales offices in Sweden, Norway same way as spirits, although most states that are control states for spirits and Denmark, and representation through third party distributors in are open states for wines.
Beer distribution generally follows open states Finland and Iceland.
In all Nordic markets except Denmark, off premise regulation across the United States.
In Canada, beer and spirits distribution sales are controlled by state monopolies, with alcohol tax rates among laws are generally consistent and similar to those of control states in the the highest in the world, and border trade and duty free are important United States.
Diageo, however, has some licences to deliver keg beer sources of purchase.
directly to licensed accounts, which account for approximately 25% of Diageos beer business in Canada.
A specialist unit has been established for the distribution of Diageos beer brands in Continental Europe in order to achieve synergies in the Across the United States, Diageos distributors and brokers have over 2,200 marketing and distribution of Guinness, Harp and Kilkenny brands.
dedicated sales people focused on selling its spirits and wine brands.
The distribution of these brands is managed by this specialist unit with Diageo has pursued a distribution strategy centred around consolidating particular focus on the markets in Germany, Italy, Russia and France, which the distribution of Diageos US spirits and wine brands into a single are the largest Continental European beer markets by size for Diageo.
distributor or broker in each state where possible.
The strategy is designed 21 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 22 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION CONTINUED International Diageo International comprises Latin America and the Caribbean In Australia, Diageo has its own distribution company as well as a including Mexico, Africa and the Global Travel and Middle East business.
distribution arrangement with VOK Beverages, and also has licensed brewing arrangements with Fosters.
In New Zealand, Diageo operates In Latin America and the Caribbean, distribution is achieved through a through third party distributors and has licensed brewing arrangements mixture of Diageo companies and third party distributors.
In addition, with Lion Nathan.
Diageo owns a controlling interest in Desnoes & Geddes Limited, the Jamaican brewer of Red Stripe lager.
Seasonal impacts The festive holiday season provides the peak period for sales.
Approximately 30% of annual sales volume occurs in the last Africa excluding North Africa is one of the longest established and three months of each calendar year.
largest markets for the Guinness brand, with the brewing of Guinness Foreign Extra Stout in a number of African countries, either through Employees Diageos directors believe that its people, culture and values subsidiaries or under licence.
Diageo has a three way venture with are a source of sustainable competitive advantage.
Diageo aims to attract Heineken and Namibia Breweries Limited in South Africa.
In May 2008 this and retain highly talented individuals and the goal to release the potential changed from a cost sharing venture to a profit sharing operation.
Diageo of its employees remains core to its people processes and strategy.
has a wholly-owned subsidiary in Cameroon and also has majority-owned subsidiaries in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Uganda, Runion and the Seychelles.
The Diageo values continue to be embedded in Diageos business.
A values survey is conducted with employees every year and the most recent Global Travel and Middle East GTME encompasses a sales and marketing results demonstrate an improvement from 2007 in all categories measured.
organisation which targets the international consumer in duty free and travel retail outlets such as airport shops, airlines and ferries around the Independent research indicates that there is a strong correlation between world, and distribution of Diageo brands in the Middle East and North high levels of employee engagement and strong business performance Africa.
The global nature of the travel channel and its organisation structure and Diageo is continually striving to achieve a high level of engagement allows a specialist Diageo management team to apply a co-ordinated across its employee base.
approach to brand building initiatives and to build on consumer insights in this trade channel, where consumer behaviour tends to be different Consistent with its ambition to be one of the most admired companies, from domestic markets.
In the Middle East and North Africa, distribution is Diageo aims to be the employer of choice in key markets in which it achieved through third party distributors.
Lebanon is an exception, where operates.
Since 30 June 2007, Diageo has been ranked within the top 10 in a Diageo subsidiary distributes most of the Diageo brands sold there.
published results in a number of best company surveys around the world.
Asia Pacific Diageo Asia Pacific comprises India, the Peoples Republic Diageo strives to keep its employees well informed and engaged on the of China, South Korea, Japan, Thailand, Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia and companys strategy and business goals as a high priority, focusing on other Asian markets, Australia and New Zealand.
dialogue and consultation both formal and informal on changes that affect its employees.
Diageo works with a number of joint venture partners in Asia Pacific.
In Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Peoples Republic of China, Thailand and Consistent with the desire that its people have a stake in the companys Japan, Diageo distributes the majority of its spirits brands through joint performance, Diageo currently has share plans in place in the United venture arrangements with Mot Hennessy.
In the year ended 30 June Kingdom, North America and Ireland.
In order to extend the opportunity 2008, Diageo established in-market companies in China for brands not for employees to take a financial stake in the groups future, it was decided included in the joint venture such as Smirnoff and Baileys and Vietnam for to review the existing International Sharesave Plan.
Based on this review, all brands.
In South Korea, Diageos own distribution company distributes the International Sharesave Plan was amended in the year and under its the majority of Diageos brands except that, for the period during which it revised terms, employees in 22 of Diageos international markets are able was without its import licence, Soo Seok Trading Co Limited distributed to participate in at least one Sharesave plan.
It is planned to make a those brands.
In Japan, Guinness beer is distributed through a joint venture Sharesave plan available to a further five markets in the year ending company with Sapporo Breweries.
There is also a direct relationship with 30 June 2009.
These plans are designed to unite and motivate Diageos Sapporo Breweries for the distribution of Smirnoff Ice.
Other spirits and people and are unique in being created and administered by employees wine brands, which are not distributed by either the Mot Hennessy joint for employees.
Diageo is very proud of its achievement in this area, which venture or Diageos own distribution company in Japan, are handled by was recognised recently in winning the Global Equity Organisation, Geo third parties.
In Malaysia, Diageos own and third party beers are brewed Award 2008, for the most innovative and creative design.
and distributed by a listed business Guinness Anchor Berhad in which Diageo and its partner, Asia Pacific Breweries, have a majority share Diageo values diversity in its workforce and works to ensure that the group through a jointly controlled joint venture company.
In Singapore, Diageos is inclusive of all people, regardless of their background or style.
To enhance beer brands are brewed and distributed by Asia Pacific Breweries.
In India, diversity, Diageo aims to create opportunities that are attractive to a wide distribution of both imported and locally produced products is achieved range of candidates, including those with disabilities, and seeks to make through a combination of Diageos own distribution company and third working for Diageo compatible with a variety of lifestyles.
The group also party distributors.
In 2007 a joint venture was formed with Radico Khaitan seeks to design and adjust roles to accommodate people.
Not only is this to manufacture and distribute certain premium local spirits, the first of approach to inclusion and diversity consistent with Diageos values, it is which, Masterstroke, was launched in 2007. also believed to be critical for the long term health of the organisation.
Generally, the remaining markets in Asia are served by third party Delivery of the groups stretching business goals will require strong, distribution networks monitored by regional offices.
Emphasis has been placed on the development of its internal leadership talent pool and the Diageo leadership performance programme was created to develop outstanding Diageo leaders, present 22 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 23 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 and future.
Nine hundred senior leaders participated in this programme beverage alcohol products, although the form of such taxation varies during the year ended 30 June 2008.
The aim is that Diageo will be significantly from a simple application to units of alcohol by volume, to recognised for the quality of its authentic and inspiring leaders and their advanced systems based on imported or wholesale value of the product.
ability to create new possibilities for the business.
Through its leaders, Several countries impose additional import duty on distilled spirits, often Diageo seeks to create the conditions for people that will make it a truly discriminating between categories such as scotch whisky or bourbon special place for people to work.
in the rate of such tariffs.
Within the European Union, such products are subject to different rates of excise duty in each country, but within an Diageos average number of employees during each of the three years overall European Union framework, there are minimum rates of excise ended 30 June 2008 was as follows: duties that can be applied.
Import and excise duties can have a significant impact on the final pricing 2008 2007 2006 of Diageos products to consumers.
These duties have an impact on the competitive position versus other brands.
The group devotes resources Average number of employees to encouraging the equitable taxation treatment of all beverage alcohol Full time 23,908 22,086 21,972 categories and to reducing government-imposed barriers to fair trading.
Part time 465 434 647 24,373 22,520 22,619 Advertising, marketing and sales of alcohol are subject to various restrictions in markets around the world.
These range from a complete prohibition of alcohol in certain countries and cultures, through the Competition Diageo competes on the basis of consumer loyalty, quality prohibition of the import of spirits, wine and beer, to restrictions on the and price.
advertising style, media and messages used.
In a number of countries, television is a prohibited medium for spirits brands and in other countries, In spirits, Diageos major global competitors are Pernod Ricard, Bacardi, television advertising, while permitted, is carefully regulated.
Fortune Brands and Brown-Forman, each of which has several brands that compete directly with Diageo brands.
In addition, Diageo faces Spirits, beer and wine are also regulated in distribution.
In many countries, competition from local and regional companies in the countries in which alcohol may only be sold through licensed outlets, both on and off it operates.
premise, varying from government or state operated monopoly outlets for example, Canada, Norway, and certain US states to the common In beer, the Guinness brand competes globally as well as on a regional system of licensed on premise outlets for example, licensed bars and and local basis with the profile varying between regions with several restaurants which prevails in much of the western world for example, competitors, including Heineken, SABMiller, Coors Brewing Carling and most US states and the European Union.
In about one-third of the states Carlsberg.
in the United States, price changes must be filed or published 30 days to three months, depending on the state, before they become effective.
In wine, the market is fragmented with many producers and distributors.
Labelling of beverage alcohol products is also regulated in many markets, Research and development The overall nature of the groups business varying from health warning labels to importer identification, alcohol does not demand substantial expenditure on research and development.
strength and other consumer information.
Specific warning statements However, the group has ongoing programmes for developing new drinks related to the risks of drinking beverage alcohol products are required to products.
In the year ended 30 June 2008, the groups research and be included on all beverage alcohol products sold in the United States.
development expenditure amounted to 17 million 2007 17 million: Following the end of the voluntary restrictions on television advertising 2006 18 million.
Research and development expenditure is generally of spirits in the United States, Diageo and other spirits companies have written off in the year in which it is incurred.
been advertising products on the air on local cable television stations.
Expressions of political concern signify the uncertain future of beverage Trademarks Diageo produces and distributes branded goods and is alcohol products advertising on network television in the United States.
therefore substantially dependent on the maintenance and protection Further requirements for warning statements and any prohibitions on of its trademarks.
All brand names mentioned in this document are advertising and marketing could have an adverse impact on sales of trademarks.
The group also holds numerous licences and trade secrets, the group.
as well as having substantial trade knowledge related to its products.
The group believes that its significant trademarks are registered and or Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory environment otherwise protected insofar as legal protections are available in all could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or impact its business activities.
material respects in its most important markets.
Business services Diageo has committed to re-engineer its key business Regulations and taxes Diageos worldwide operations are subject to activities with customers, consumers, suppliers and the processes that extensive regulatory requirements regarding production, product liability, summarise and report financial performance.
In that regard, global distribution, importation, marketing, promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, processes have been designed, built and implemented across a number packaging, advertising, labour, pensions and environmental issues.
In the of markets and global supply.
United States, the beverage alcohol industry is subject to strict federal and state government regulations covering virtually every aspect of its A business service centre in Budapest, Hungary performs various process operations, including production, distribution, marketing, promotion, tasks for markets and supply centres including Australia, Austria, Benelux, sales, pricing, labelling, packaging and advertising.
Brazil, Canada, the Canaries, Germany, Global Travel and Middle East, Great Britain, Guinness Continental Europe, Guinness Supply, Iberia, Ireland, Spirits, beer and wine are subject to national import and excise duties in Mexico, the Nordics, North America, Northern European Logistics and many markets around the world.
Most countries impose excise duties on 23
