FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P28-71 5 9 08 10:08 Page 71 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 ADOPTION OF IFRS The financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2008 were prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Prior to this the financial statements were prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
The financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2005 have been restated under IFRS.
IFRS 1 First-time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards permits certain optional exemptions from full retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies and the options adopted by Diageo at 1 July 2004 are summarised below together with an indication as to their impact.
Business combinations Business combinations prior to date of transition have not been restated on an IFRS basis.
There are two main impacts of this approach.
The merger of GrandMet and the Guinness Group in the groups primary financial statements has been accounted for under merger accounting principles pooling of interests, where the results, cash flows and balance sheets of both entities, having made adjustments to achieve uniformity of accounting policies, were aggregated with no adjustment to fair value.
Under purchase accounting, the merger would have been accounted for as an acquisition of the Guinness Group by GrandMet.
Under this accounting, the group would have recognised additional intangible assets relating mainly to the fair value on acquisition of acquired brands and an adjustment upwards to the fair value of inventories.
These adjustments would have been offset by the recognition of related deferred tax liabilities.
Goodwill would have arisen on the acquisition.
The recognition of intangible assets and higher inventory values would have resulted in increased amortisation and an increase in the charge to cost of sales as the inventories are sold, net of effects of taxation.
The group has written off goodwill and other intangible assets acquired up to 30 June 1998, direct to reserves in the period when acquired.
Under IFRS 3 all separately identifiable intangible assets are required to be capitalised in the balance sheet, with subsequent annual impairment test.
Under this accounting, net assets would increase in respect of goodwill capitalised with no change to net income in the year ended 30 June 2008 or the three previous years.
Cumulative translation differences The cumulative translation difference arising on consolidation has been deemed to be zero at the date of transition.
Share-based payments Full retrospective application has been adopted.
This option is available to the group because the fair value of applicable equity instruments granted was previously disclosed.
As a result, all years presented have a charge in respect of share-based payments on the basis of full retrospective application.
Financial instruments The group has adopted the provisions of IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement from 1 July 2005.
Financial instruments in the year ended 30 June 2005 remain recorded in accordance with previous UK GAAP accounting policies and the adjustment to IAS 39 is reflected in the balance sheet at 1 July 2005.
Under IFRS, prior to the adoption of IAS 39 on 1 July 2005, changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives and derivatives hedging forecasted transactions were not recognised until realised.
Since 1 July 2005, all such derivatives are carried at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Under IFRS, prior to 1 July 2005, for derivatives hedging the translation of net assets of overseas operations in respect of foreign exchange differences arising on translation to closing rates, changes in their fair value were taken to the statement of recognised income and expense.
The impact on net income for the year ended 30 June 2005 cannot be estimated reliably.
The impact on net assets at 1 July 2005 was to increase net assets by 164 million.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS A number of IFRS standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB or IFRIC.
Those that are of relevance to the group are discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
