212833 DIAGEO REPORT P28-71 5 9 08 10:08 Page 68 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Liquidity risk The groups policy with regard to the expected maturity profile of group financing companies borrowings is to limit the amount of such borrowings maturing within 12 months to 50% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits and the level of commercial paper to 30% of gross borrowings less money market demand deposits.
In addition, it is group policy to maintain backstop facility terms from relationship banks to support commercial paper obligations.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents, fixed income and money market investments and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed on group basis separately for financial and business related credit exposures.
Financial credit risk Diageo minimises its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the board.
While counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
Diageo monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties where applicable as part of its ongoing assessment of its credit exposure.
Financial instruments are only transacted with major international financial institutions with a long term credit rating of A or better.
The credit risk arising through the use of financial instruments for interest rate and foreign exchange management is estimated with reference to the fair value of contracts with a positive value, rather than the notional amount of the instruments themselves.
Business related credit risk Trade and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
Commodity price risk The group uses long term purchase and commodity futures contracts to hedge against price risk in certain commodities.
Long term purchase contracts are used to secure prices with suppliers to protect against volatility in commodity prices.
All commodity futures contracts hedge a projected future purchase of raw material.
Commodity futures are then either closed out at the time the raw material is purchased or they are exchanged with the company manufacturing the raw material to determine the contract price.
Commodity futures contracts are held in the balance sheet at fair value.
To the extent that they are considered an effective hedge, the fair value movements are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Realised net gains recognised in the income statement in the year ended 30 June 2008 were 4 million 2007 2 million.
There were no unrealised net gains on the balance sheet at 30 June 2008 2007 1 million as all commodity futures contracts had expired before that date.
Insurance The group purchases insurance for commercial or, where required, for legal or contractual reasons.
In addition, the group retains insurable risk where external insurance is not considered an economic means of mitigating these risks.
MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The following section forms part of the audited financial statements.
The group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the fair value of the groups financial instruments, to the income statement and to equity of either an instantaneous increase or decrease of 1% 100 basis points in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in sterling against all other currencies, from the rates applicable at 30 June 2008, for each class of financial instrument with all other variables remaining constant.
The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of market risks on net post employment benefit obligations and taxation.
This analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the following: Fair values of quoted borrowings at the balance sheet date are based on year end quoted asking prices.
Changes in market interest rates affect the interest income or expense of variable interest financial instruments.
Changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at their fair value.
Changes in market interest rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and all interest rate hedges are expected to be highly effective.
Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
All net investment and foreign currency cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective.
