qxd 7 4 09 09:26 Page 19 19 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 BOARD OFDIRECTORS 1 23 4 5 67 a Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Nomination Committee r Member of the Remuneration Committee 89 n a n r 1.
James Newman 59 Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Peter has extensive experience of the industry having been James is Chairman of a number of AIM listed companies and appointed Chief Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc in 1991. a Non-Executive Director of Scott Wilson Group plc as well as a Following the acquisition of Plantsbrook Group plc and Great Governor of Shefeld Hallam University.
He was formerly Deputy Southern Group plc by SCI in 1994, he was appointed CEO of SCI Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of Kelda Group plc UK.
He subsequently led a management buy out of the Group and a number of other public companies.
He has also been from SCI in 2002.
The Company was then oated on the Stock Chairman of Waste Recycling Group plc and a Non-Executive Exchange in 2004.
Peter became Non-Executive Chairman in Director of Richmond Foods plc before their respective takeovers January 2009.
Before entering the funeral service industry, Peter in 2003 and 2006.
James is a Chartered Accountant and Member spent 25 years in retailing, holding senior positions in Debenhams, of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Mike McCollum 41 Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Bill is the Chairman of Linpac Group, Chairman of Nuaire Group Mike joined Dignitys former parent, SCI, in 1995 from KPMG Ltd and a Director of Brittpac Limited.
Prior to this he was Group Corporate Finance in London.
He was appointed Finance Director Chief Executive of SIG plc, Europes largest distributor of insulation, at the end of 2001 and became Chief Executive at the beginning ceiling, partitioning and roong products and Chairman of John of 2009.
He has a law degree from Birmingham University LL.
B, Laing plc, the infrastructure investment group.
He was also the is a qualied solicitor and also holds an MBA from Warwick Managing Director at Kuwait Insulation Manufacturing Company University.
and the Sales and Marketing Director at BP Rockwool Limited.
Ishbel Macpherson 48 Finance Director Non-Executive Director Steve joined the Group in 1999 from KPMG.
He was appointed Ishbel was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009.
Ishbel is Finance Director at the beginning of 2009, having spent the a Non-Executive Director of MITIE Group plc, GAME Group plc and previous two years as Financial Controller, being responsible for Senior Independent Director of Hydrogen Group plc and Speedy the Group's finance function.
Steve was closely involved in the Hire plc.
Prior to those roles she held senior positions with Barclays management buy out, the whole business securitisation, the IPO fide Zoete Wedd, Hoare Govett and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
and most recently, the further debt issue and return of value in a n r 2006.
Steve is an FCA and holds a mathematics degree from 9.
Non-Executive Director Alan was appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009.
Andrew Davies 47 Non-Executive Director of Trafcmaster plc, Cattles plc, Alphameric Operations Director plc, Haygarth Group Ltd and is Non-Executive Chairman of Andrew joined his family owned business in 1979 and worked Constantine Group plc.
Prior to these roles Alan was Marketing as a funeral director and embalmer until the business was Director of Marks and Spencer plc and prior to that held senior sold to Great Southern Group in 1993.
He then held various positions with Kingsher plc and Thomson Consumer Electronics.
management positions within Great Southern Group and following the acquisition by SCI in 1994, held senior operational positions within SCI UK.
He became Operations Director in 2001 and was a member of the management buy out team in 2002.
Richard Portman 47 Corporate Services Director Richard joined SCI from HSBC as Chief Accountant in 1999.
In 2001 he was appointed Head of Finance and was responsible for the running of Dignity's finance department.
Richard was part of the team that took Dignity through the management buy out in 2002, the whole business securitisation in 2003 and the IPO in 2004.
Following the IPO Richard was appointed as Company Secretary and became Corporate Services Director in 2006.
Richard is an FCA, holds a geography degree from Birmingham University and is a Member of the Chartered Management Institute.
