qxd 7 4 09 09:26 Page 20 20 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited The financial statements, prepared in accordance with consolidated financial statements for Dignity plc and IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of its subsidiaries for the 52 week period ended 26 the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the December 2008.
Group and Company: and Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors report contained in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual includes a fair review of the development and performance Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the of the business and the position of the Company and financial statements in accordance with applicable law Group, together with a description of the principal risks and regulations.
and uncertainties that they face.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the integrity of the Group website www.
Directors have prepared the Group financial statements Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and in accordance with International Financial Reporting dissemination of financial statements may differ from Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors have prepared the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom generally Principal activities and business review accepted accounting practice UK accounting standards The principal activity of the Group is the provision of and applicable laws and regulations.
The financial funeral services including funeral directing, crematoria statements are required by law to give a true and fair operation and the marketing and administration of view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group pre-arranged funeral plans.
The principal activity and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
of the Company is that of a holding company.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are The principal activities and key performance indicators required to: of the Group are also described on pages 16 to 18 of the Financial Review.
A review of the development of the Select suitable accounting policies and then apply business in 2008, events affecting the Group since the them consistently: end of the financial year and likely future developments are referred to in the Business Review, which is incorporated Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable into this Directors Report by reference.
The review of and prudent: business activities in the Business Review and Financial State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs Review are in line with the requirements of the Companies as adopted by the European Union: and Act 2006.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern Principal risks and uncertainties basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Operational and financial risks are considered in the Group will continue in business, in which case there Business Review and the Financial Review.
should be supporting assumptions or qualications as necessary.
The Groups principal operational risks are a significant reduction in the death rate and nationwide adverse The Directors are also required by the Disclosure and publicity, which could affect the Groups market share.
Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority However, the prole of deaths has historically followed to include a management report containing a fair review a similar prole to that predicted by the ONS, giving the of the business and a description of the principal risks Group the ability to plan its business accordingly.
Adverse and uncertainties facing the Group and Company.
publicity is addressed by ensuring appropriate policies and procedures are in place designed to ensure client The Directors are responsible for keeping proper service excellence.
accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial and a description of how these risks are managed are statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
comply with the Companies Act 1985 for periods commencing on or after 6 April 2008, the Companies Share capital Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 26 December Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible 2008 consists of 63,484,135 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention obligations.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
During the period the Group issued 243,164 Ordinary Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure Shares of 9 pence each.
242,636 Ordinary Shares of 9 and Transparency Rules pence each were issued to satisfy Long Term Incentive Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are Plan share awards vesting in the period and 528 shares listed on page 22 of the Annual Report, confirm that, were issued to satisfy options exercised under the Save to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: As You Earn Scheme.
The Long Term Incentive Plan awards were made in 2005 and the SAYE options were granted in 2007.
qxd 7 4 09 09:26 Page 21 21 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 A special resolution passed at the last Annual General Key contractual arrangements Meeting on 6 June 2008 gives Dignity plc the authority The Directors consider there to be one key contractual to purchase up to 3,162,048 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence arrangement in relation to the supply and maintenance each at not less than nominal value and not more than of cremators.
This company is responsible for supplying 5 per cent above the average middle market quotation for and installing the cremator abatement equipment.
If this the preceding 5 business days.
At the same meeting the company ceased to trade, the Group may have difficulties Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares in installing the necessary equipment by the end of 2012. up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,138,337 of which up to 284,584 may be for cash.
These authorities will Employment policies expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting During the period the Group has maintained its obligations on 5 June 2009.
It is the intention of the Directors to seek to develop and improve arrangements aimed at involving renewal of these authorities at that Annual General Meeting.
Methods of communication used include an in-house newsletter, an employee website, Results bulletins and management briengs.
This is discussed in The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated more detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Income Statement on page 36.
Group profit before tax Report on pages 12 to 15. amounted to 35.4 million 2007: 30.2 million.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal Dividends opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic An interim dividend of 3.66 pence per share was paid on or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
The Board has proposed a final dividend Full consideration is given to the employment, training and of 7.34 pence per share, which, subject to approval at the career development of disabled persons, subject only to Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 26 June 2009 their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours to treat to shareholders on the register at close of business on disabled persons equally with others.
This makes a total of 11 pence per share for the period.
Directors and their interests Details of the Directors of the Company who served Payments policy during the period are shown in the Report on Directors The Group has no formal code or standard that deals Remuneration on page 26.
In accordance with the Articles specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, the of Association, at the Annual General Meeting, Peter Groups policy on the payment of all creditors is to ensure Hindley and Andrew Davies retire as Directors of the that the terms of payment as specified by, and agreed Company and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election with, the supplier are not exceeded, provided all trading at the Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2009.
Steve terms and conditions have been complied with.
The Whittern was appointed Finance Director on 29 December average creditor payment period for the Group was 31 2008 and Ishbel Macpherson and Alan McWalter were days 2007: 31 days.
The Company has no trade creditors.
appointed to the Board on 12 January 2009 as Non-Executive Directors for a xed term.
All three will seek Substantial shareholdings election at the Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2009.
As at 10 March 2009, the Company had been notied of the following interests of 3 per cent or more of the issued During the period, the Company maintained liability share capital: insurance for its Directors and Ofcers.
The Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit Number of % of issued Holder Ordinary Shares share capital of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying Lloyds TSB Group plc 5,611,990 8.84% third-party indemnity provision as dened by section 234 Aegon Asset Management UK plc 4,538,717 7.15% of the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the Tiger Global Management LLC 4,247,634 6.69% period and is currently in force.
BlackRock Inc 3,171,132 4.99% Standard Life Investments 3,155,528 4.97% Baillie Gifford and Co 3,136,178 4.94% Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 2,900,968 4.57% UBS Global Asset Management Ltd 2,175,289 3.43% The Goldman Sachs Group 1,902,031 3.00% Dignity AR08 Front IFC 1-22 tp.
qxd 7 4 09 09:26 Page 22 22 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The takeover directive Directors Responsibility Statement The Group has one class of share capital, Ordinary Shares.
The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
The rules a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with governing the appointment and replacement of Board the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true members and changes to the Articles of Association accord and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and of that power at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There b the management report, which is incorporated into the are no significant agreements to which the Group is party directors report, includes a fair review of the development which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change and performance of the business and the position of the of control of the Group.
Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the Health and safety policy principle risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Groups operations are designed at all times in such a way as to ensure, so far as reasonably practical, the The Directors of Dignity plc and their functions are health, safety and welfare of all of our employees and all listed below: other persons who may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report Peter Hindley Chairman on pages 12 to 15.
Mike McCollum Chief Executive Environmental policy Steve Whittern Finance Director Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all Andrew Davies Operations Director live is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on Richard Portman Corporate Services Director pages 12 to 15.
James Newman Senior Independent Director Donations William Forrester Non-Executive Director The Group made charitable donations amounting to Ishbel Macpherson Non-Executive Director 0.1 million 2007: 0.1 million during the period.
There were no political donations.
Further information Alan McWalter Non-Executive Director can be found on pages 12 to 14.
Going concern By order of the Board The Directors have formed a judgment at the time of approving the financial statements that both the Company and the Group have adequate resources available to continue operating in the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Richard Portman going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing Company Secretary the financial statements.
12 March 2009 Post balance sheet events There have been no post balance sheet events.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of  LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
