32 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Board of Directors the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Limited from 1996.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS He was appointed as Chairman of Datacraft Asia in July 2002.
Jeremy John Ord 51 Previously he worked as a tax partner at Ernst & Young South Executive Chairman Africa and was a director of Standard Bank in London and Hong Jeremy Ord was appointed as Chairman of Dimension Data Kong.
He graduated from the University of Cape Town and is a Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Chartered Accountant SA.
He held the combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 1 March 2004, when David Brian Sherriffs 45 Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief Executive Officer.
Jeremy Chief Financial Officer previously served as Executive Chairman of Dimension Data David Sherriffs was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on Holdings Limited from 1987, as the Groups Managing Director 1 March 2004, and was appointed to the Board of Dimension and in other senior positions since the Groups 1983 inception.
Data Holdings plc on 9 June 2004.
He joined the Group in 1997 as a member of the finance team, primarily involved in Brett William Dawson 44 corporate finance activities.
In 2000, David was appointed Vice Chief Executive Officer President of Business Development for Europe and relocated Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the to Germany.
From 2003, David served as Group Executive Group and to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc on Operations and was responsible for business case 1 March 2004.
Prior to this appointment he served as assessments relating to strategic projects.
Prior to joining the Dimension Datas Chief Operating Officer from 2002.
He joined Dimension Data Group, David served in various financial, the Group in 1997 as Financial Director of the Groups joint corporate finance and strategy roles for Anglo American plc, venture, OmniLink.
He was instrumental in growing the including Executive Assistant to the chairman.
David is a business, which exceeded all business plan objectives and Chartered Accountant SA and received his MPhil in claimed a dominant market share in the South African market.
Management Studies at the University of Oxford.
Following the merger of OmniLink and Internet Solutions, Brett was appointed CEO of Internet Solutions.
In September 2001 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS he relocated to take on the role of CFO of Dimension Data North Rupert George Barclay 51 America, where he focused on integrating acquisitions in that territory.
Prior to joining Dimension Data, Brett was responsible Senior independent non-executive director for corporate strategy and planning at National Brands Limited Rupert Barclay joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc and held corporate finance positions at Anglovaal Limited and as an independent non-executive director with effect from KPMG.
He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand 9 June 2004 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the as a Chartered Accountant SA.
Rupert is a partner of Cairneagle Associates LLP and is a non-executive director of Lowland Stephen Michael Joubert 50 Investment Company plc and serves on the boards of a number Group Executive: Global Solutions of private companies.
He previously served in an executive Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of Dimension capacity as CFO of Lombard Risk Management plc, Director of Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Group Strategy Development at Reuters plc and Director of Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served as Group Strategy at Allied Domecq plc.
He is a graduate of a director of Dimension Data Holdings Limited from 1998.
Cambridge University, has an MBA from INSEAD and is a He joined the Group in 1996 as Group Financial Director in Chartered Accountant.
Before that, he was a partner at  for a number of years.
He graduated Leslie Frank Bergman 64 from the University of the Witwatersrand as a Chartered Independent non-executive director Accountant SA.
Leslie Bergman joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Patrick Keith Quarmby 54 plc as an independent non-executive director with effect from 14 August 2007.
Leslie was previously with Accenture working Director: Corporate Finance in the United States, the United Kingdom, South Africa and in Patrick Quarmby was appointed to the Board of Dimension Central and Eastern Europe.
At the time of his retirement from Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and Accenture in October 2001, he was Regional Managing Partner, Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that appointment he served on 33 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Emerging Markets.
Leslie is a director of Leder & Schuh disclosed in Note 35 to the accounts on page 89.
He has a BSc in Engineering from the University of Company has reviewed this involvement, and considers that Cape Town and an MBA from Carnegie-Mellon University.
Moss should continue to be considered as fully independent.
Peter John Liddiard 43 Roderick Rory Michael Scott 49 Non-executive director Independent non-executive director Peter Liddiard was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director on 2 October 2006 Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the time of its listing and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He serves as an in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He had previously served executive of VenFin Limited and is on the board of Sail Group as a non-executive director on the Board of Dimension Data Limited, Britehouse Holdings Pty Limited and CIV Fibre Holdings Limited, and before that served as the Group Financial Network Solutions Pty Limited.
He graduated from the Director from 1987 to 1991.
He is presently Managing Director University of Port Elizabeth and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
of the Scottish Knitwear Group SA Pty Limited.
He is a Chartered Accountant SA and serves as chairman of the Audit Wendy Lucas-Bull 55 Committee and as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Given the length of time that has elapsed since his service as an Independent non-executive director executive director, the Company considers him to be Wendy Lucas-Bull joined the Board of Dimension Data Holdings independent.
plc as an independent non-executive director on 1 July 2005 and is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She is a Peter Dorian Dorian Wharton-Hood 69 member of the Eskom Holdings Limited board and the Independent non-executive director Development Bank of Southern Africa and is Chairman of Lafarge Industries South Africa Pty Limited.
She graduated Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to the Board of from the University of the Witwatersrand with a Bachelor of Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the Science degree.
time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Josua Dillie Malherbe 52 Committee.
He was vice-chairman of Liberty Life for eight years.
He was chairman of the Life Offices Association of SA on three Non-executive director occasions and president of the Insurance Institute of SA.
Dillie Malherbe was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data He was also a member of the Council of the SA Foundation and Holdings plc in November 2003 as a non-executive director and a director of Business Against Crime.
In 1998 he was chairman is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the Deputy of the Governing Body of Business SA now called Business Chairman of VenFin Limited.
He also serves on the board of Unity SA of which he is now a trustee.
He graduated from Datacraft Asia and Sabido Pty Limited e-tv.
He graduated Stellenbosch University with a Bachelor of Commerce degree.
from the Universities of Stellenbosch and Cape Town and qualified as a Chartered Accountant SA.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Moses Modidima Moss Ngoasheng 51 Member of the Nomination Committee.
Independent non-executive director Moss Ngoasheng was appointed to the Board in September 2002.
He also serves as a non-executive director on the board of Dimension Data South Africa Pty Limited.
He is executive chairman of investment company Safika Holdings Pty Limited.
He also serves as a non-executive director of The Kelly Group Limited.
Moss graduated from the University of South Africa and has an MPhil from Sussex University.
Safika Holdings Pty Limited, amongst its other activities, has formed a minority part of the consortium involved in the BEE transaction with Dimension Data South Africa and has purchased an interest in Britehouse Holdings Pty Limited as
