34 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Directors report The Directors of Dimension Data Holdings plc the Company Additional disclosure regarding these measures is included in present their annual report and audited financial statements for the Chief Financial Officer's Operating Review.
Trends impacting future development, performance and PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES position of the business The Company holds various interests in specialist Information Trends impacting future development, performance and the and Communications Technology ICT services and solutions position of the business are included in the Chief Executive providers, helping clients plan, build, support and manage their Officers Review.
The Group comprises the Company and all its subsidiary and associated entities.
Details of the principal Contractual arrangements essential to the business subsidiary and associate entities are provided on page 105.
Contracts form the basis of all commercial relationships within There have been no significant changes to the Group's activities the Group and between Group companies and their vendors, during the year under review and the Directors are not aware, at clients and other stakeholders.
While there are many contracts the date of this report, of any likely significant changes in the entered into on an almost daily basis, all of which are important Group's activities in the new financial year.
to the Group, the contracts that are essential to the Group are the global contracts entered into with its primary vendors, in BUSINESS REVIEW particular that with Cisco Systems.
As a whole its agreements Introduction with its clients are essential although no single client accounts The business review as required by the Companies Act 2006, is for more than 5% of the Groups revenue.
included in the Directors' Report, the Chief Executive Officer's Review and the Chief Financial Officer's Operating Review, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES which provides information about the Group's businesses, its The principal risk factors affecting the Group's prospects are financial performance during the year and likely future discussed in the Chief Financial Officer's Operating Review on developments.
These include economic risk, political risk, professional liability risk, people retention risk, vendor risk, Position of the Group at year end balance sheet and financial instruments risk, business continuity The full year results as at 30 September 2008 are presented risk, client dependence and complexity risk and regulatory under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as compliance risk.
The Group's performance could be affected by adopted by the European Union.
other risks, and those identified in this report should not be Information about the performance of the business of the regarded as complete or comprehensive.
Group during the financial year in response to S417 3 b of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act is included in FIXED ASSETS the Chief Financial Officer's Operating Review on pages 15 The only fixed assets where market value differs materially from and 16. book value are land and buildings, reflected at a book value of $122.4 million 2007: $138.7 million in the balance sheet, Business performance indicators compared to the market value of approximately $149.8 million The Group is primarily managed on a regional basis.
the Group focuses on various businesses, including the Dimension Data and Datacraft branded Systems Integration GROUP FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS business, Internet Solutions, Plessey and Express Data.
The Group's financial instruments comprise cash and cash In assessing the performance and financial position of its equivalents, as well as items such as trade receivables and operations, the Board uses various financial measures, trade payables that arise directly from the Group's operations.
including: revenue growth, gross margin, operating profit Details of the Groups financial instruments are set out in Note growth and operating margin, fixed and variable overheads cost 38 to the financial statements.
trends, trade receivables days' sales outstanding and other measures to establish the effectiveness of the use of working ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS capital.
The Board also reviews non-financial performance Details of acquisitions and disposals are set out in Note 31 to indicators, including client and employee satisfaction surveys, productivity ratios, employee attrition and retention statistics.
35 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 distribution under English law.
A final dividend may be declared POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS by the shareholders in general meeting by ordinary resolution, On 15 October 2008 the Datacraft Asia Datacraft but no dividend may be declared in excess of the amount shareholders voted in favour of Dimension Datas offer to recommended by the Board.
purchase the remaining shares in Datacraft which the Group did not already own.
Further details of this transaction are set out in At any general meeting a resolution put to the vote shall be Note 40. decided on a show of hands unless a poll is properly demanded.
On a show of hands every member who is present CAPITAL STRUCTURE in person or by proxy shall have one vote.
On a poll every Authorised share capital member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which they are the holder.
The authorised share capital of the Company is 50,000, divided into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each, and $30 million, No person holds securities in the Company carrying special divided into 3 billion ordinary shares of 1US cent each.
rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities The holders of the deferred shares have no right to receive that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or notice of any general meeting of the Company, nor the right to voting rights.
attend, speak or vote at such general meetings.
The deferred shares have no rights to dividends and on a return of assets in Restrictions on transfer of shares a winding-up entitle the holder to the repayment of the amounts paid on the deferred shares after repayment of the capital paid The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors, in their up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of $10 million per absolute discretion, to refuse to register the transfer of a share ordinary share.
in certificated form which is not fully paid.
They may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form unless the Issued share capital usual form of transfer is lodged, duly stamped, at the registered As at 30 September 2008, the Company's issued share capital office of the Company or at such other place as the Directors was 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each comprising 0.003% may appoint and is accompanied by the share certificate to of the issued shares and 1,694,459,681 ordinary shares of which the transfer relates and such other evidence as the 1 US cent each comprising 99.997% of the issued shares.
Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
During the year ended 30 September 2008, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share incentive The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in schemes, resulting in the allotment of 6,738,601 new ordinary uncertificated form in any case where the Company is entitled shares.
No further new ordinary shares have been allotted to refuse or is excepted from the requirement under the under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations to register the transfer.
The Directors may also refuse to register any transfer in favour 136,121,909 shares were issued in order to purchase the of more than four transferees.
Further details of the share issue are set The Company has irrevocable authority at any time to appoint out in Note 23. any person to execute on behalf of the holders of the deferred The Company has a current authority to purchase up to shares a transfer of the deferred shares of an agreement to 77,579,900 of its ordinary shares being 5% of the issued share transfer and or to acquire the deferred shares in accordance capital as at 30 September 2007 in the market, either for with the provisions of the Companies Acts and subject to the cancellation or to hold as treasury shares.
During the year the minimum capital requirements contained in the Companies Company did not purchase any shares, however the Employee Acts, and without making any payment to or obtaining the Share Trust acquired 30,183,055 shares during the period.
sanction of the holders of the deferred shares, to such persons as the Company may determine as custodian of the deferred Rights and restrictions attaching to shares shares and, pending such transfer and or acquisition, to retain Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of the certificate for the deferred shares.
ordinary shares are entitled to participate in the payment of Major shareholders dividends pro rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend in Details of the shareholders holding 3% or more of the issued respect of any accounting period, out of profits available for share capital of the Company are set out on page 106.
36 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued Some of the contracts that the Company has entered into with DIVIDEND its clients and vendors contain provisions that entitle, but not The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of 1.7 US oblige, the other party to terminate the specific contract in the cents per share 2007: 1.5 US cents.
Subject to shareholders' event of a change of control.
Most of these provisions are approval at the Annual General Meeting on Wednesday, further restricted to instances where the change of control is to 28 January 2009, the final dividend will be paid on Friday, a competitor of the other party and not just a mere change of 13 March 2009 to shareholders on the share register at the control.
However, the aforementioned contracts are confidential close of business on Friday, 13 February 2009. and subject to stringent non-disclosure provisions and can The dividend will be paid in Sterling to shareholders on the UK therefore not be disclosed in this Directors' report.
register and in South African rand to shareholders on the South African register, converted from US dollars as at the close of CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY business on Thursday, 29 January 2009.
The Directors will not The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial be offering a share alternative to the 2008 final dividend.
The Group has no fixed payment policies but negotiates the best possible terms with its suppliers.
The following are the salient dates for the payment of the proposed dividend: The Company had no trade payables at the year end.
Announcement of conversion rate Friday, 30 January 2009 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Last day to trade on the JSE Friday, 6 February 2009 The Group does not incur research and development Date trading commences 'ex' expenditure in the conventional sense.
However, it continues to the dividend on the JSE Monday, 9 February 2009 invest in its strategy of establishing world-class expertise in its Date trading commences 'ex' systems integration lines of business and service delivery the dividend on the LSE Wednesday, 11 February 2009 capabilities.
Key projects during 2008 included a review and Record date on the JSE upgrade of Dimension Datas Services Architecture that forms and LSE Friday, 13 February 2009 the basis for the delivery of the Groups Services.
This will involve the incorporation of new  SaaS Payment of dividend Friday, 13 March 2009 vendors and Web 2.0 technology to streamline and improve No transfers between the UK and South African registers may service management and delivery.
take place during the period Friday, 30 January 2009 and Friday, The Group also invested in various initiatives to automate the 13 February 2009 both days inclusive.
Shareholders on the delivery of a number of specialised services.
South African register should note that, in accordance with the requirements of Strate, share certificates may not be In the lines of business, the Group was the recipient of a Global dematerialised or rematerialised between Monday, 9 February Innovation award from Microsoft for a sophisticated integration 2009 to Friday, 13 February 2009 both dates inclusive.
module between the Microsoft suite of offerings and that of IP Telephony players to simplify the adoption of Unified POWERS OF DIRECTORS Communications offerings.
The Directors have the power to manage the business of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the IT SYSTEMS Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and The Group continued to consolidate its IT infrastructure and to any directions given by special resolution, including the applications across the Group.
System and process Companys power to purchase its own shares.
The Companys standardisation remains a big opportunity to extract efficiencies Articles of Association may only be amended by a special from the Group's operating model.
The adoption of a standard resolution of the Companys shareholders.
ERP application across Europe was an important achievement during the year.
Other initiatives include the refresh of a standard CHANGE OF CONTROL IT Service Management platform as well as the ongoing The Groups share incentive schemes contain provisions relating adoption of the e-procurement application, Direct.
Outstanding options under the share option schemes would normally vest and become exercisable GOING CONCERN on a change of control.
Outstanding grants under the Long After making due enquiry, the Directors consider that, as at the Term Incentive Plan and Share Appreciation Rights Scheme date of the approval of the financial statements, the Group has would normally become exercisable on a change of control adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going time and pro rata to the proportion of the performance period concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
37 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 DIRECTORS The current Directors are listed on pages 32 and 33.
Details of the members of the Board, all of whom served throughout the year are given below: Name Position Appointed Jeremy Ord Chairman May 2000 Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer March 2004 Stephen Joubert Group Executive: Global Solutions July 2000 Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance July 2000 David Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer June 2004 Rupert Barclay Senior independent non-executive director June 2004 Leslie Bergman Independent non-executive director August 2007 Peter Liddiard Non-executive director October 2006 Wendy Lucas-Bull Independent non-executive director July 2005 Dillie Malherbe Non-executive director November 2003 Moss Ngoasheng Independent non-executive director September 2002 Rory Scott Independent non-executive director July 2000 Dorian Wharton-Hood Independent non-executive director July 2000 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Stephen Joubert, Quality and integrity of personnel Wendy Lucas-Bull, Rory Scott, and Dorian-Wharton Hood retire The Group is committed to aligning its employees with its and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the interests and values.
It has an ethical code which employees are Articles of Association.
Rory Scott and Dorian Wharton-Hood expected to adhere to, and transgressions are strictly dealt with.
were originally elected to the Board in July 2000 and therefore, in compliance with the Combined Code, will be proposed for Employee consultation and communication election for a one year term.
The Group understands that employee engagement drives The Nomination Committee and Chairman confirm that the commitment and productivity, and therefore consults directors up for re-election and election continue to be effective regularly with its employees for views on matters affecting in their roles as directors of the Company, by virtue of their skills, them, including informing them of financial and economic experience and contribution to the Board.
Biographical details factors affecting the Group's performance.
In FY2008 we of those directors seeking re-election and election are set out on overhauled the employee section on the Group intranet to pages 32 and 33.
Directors' memberships of Board provide better communication and more accessible Committees are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Details of Directors' service contracts, remuneration and We undertake an annual employee satisfaction survey to interests in shares are set out in the Remuneration Report.
generate constructive employee feedback on common Details of the Directors' interests in any Group company can themes, such as leadership and management, learning and also be found in the Remuneration Report.
development, job role contribution, working environment, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY company image and satisfaction and communication.
By acting on feedback, we received votes of strong confidence Dimension Data's policies for environmental, social, ethics and by employees in the areas of leadership and management, job governance matters are detailed in the Corporate Social role contribution and company image and satisfaction within Responsibility Report set out on pages 42 to 44.
Charitable the organisation for the year.
donations and grants made during the year amounted to $229,000 2007: $162,000.
Another aspect of our employee engagement strategy included In line with its policy, the Company made no political donations the development of a career development process on our in the year under review 2007: nil.
Careers Portal, together with a range of new tools and support material.
We began the deployment of a global framework to EMPLOYEES help our people map out career paths with us.
We are committed to the individual careers of our employees and will As at 30 September 2008, the Group employed 11,055 continue to develop a nurturing environment for talented current employees.
Details of employee related costs are included in and future employees.
Note 7 to the financial statements.
38 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Directors report continued Employee remuneration ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Dimension Data offers performance related bonuses, as well as The notice convening the Annual General Meeting, together long term incentives to selected employees.
Details of these with the proxy form and notes explaining the various resolutions incentives appear in the Remuneration Report and in Note 37 to is enclosed with this document.
the annual financial statements on pages 89 to 93.
The Group seeks to provide competitive and relevant compensation and COMPANY SECRETARY benefits programmes, centred on its aim to attract and retain The Company Secretary is ML Taylor details inside back cover.
The total remuneration offerings are reviewed and benchmarked annually against current market conditions, merit, By Order of the Board and targeted investment in people.
These reviews follow corporate governance approval procedures.
Michelle Taylor Learning and development Secretary The Dimension Data University DDU is a portal where all employees from around the world can access the world of 11 November 2008 development and training from their desktops or from home.
Through partnerships which include Harvard Business School Publishing, the Centre for Creative Leadership, Cisco, Microsoft and ITIL, we focus on the development of our employees across specific key target groups: Leadership and Management, Technical and Delivery, Sales and Client Facing and Business Skills.
Employee diversity It is the Group's policy to promote equal opportunities in employment for both existing employees and applicants for employment, regardless of gender, age, race, national origin and sexual orientation.
Efforts are made to ensure that applications from disabled persons are fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunities in career development.
In the event of an existing employee becoming disabled, efforts are made to ensure that their employment by the Group continues and that appropriate adjustments are made to their work environment.
AUDITORS Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Group's auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
To the best of the directors' knowledge and belief at the date of approval of this annual report and having made appropriate enquiries of the officers of the Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to provide their opinion on the financial statements has been provided.
Directors have taken reasonable steps to ensure their awareness of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of such information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of S234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
