26 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Board of Directors 1.
Kevin OByrne pn Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Sir John Collins 66 John Browett 44 joined Kevin OByrne 43 joined joined the Board in DSG international as the Board as Group September 2001 as Chief Executive in Finance Director in July Deputy Chairman and December 2007.
He is also a nonwas appointed Chairman also a non-executive executive director of Land in September 2002. director of easyJet plc.
He is also a director of He was formerly Between January 2006 Rothschild Continuation Operations Development and June 2007 he Holdings AG.
He joined Director at Tesco, assumed responsibility Shell in 1964 and was responsible for the design for the Groups Chairman and Chief and improvement of the Computing division.
He Executive of Shell UK, Tesco operating model.
He was Prior to this, he was CEO as Retail Finance Director.
Chief Executive of Vestey of Tesco.
com, Group Prior to this he held senior Group from 1993 to 2001.
Strategy Director, and finance positions in a Previous appointments held a senior position at number of companies include Chairman of Boston Consulting Group, including The Quaker National Power plc, where he worked with Oats Company and Chairman of Cantab a variety of clients Arthur Andersen.
He Pharmaceuticals, a nonspecialising in consumer graduated from Trinity executive director of NM goods and retail.
A College, Dublin in 1987 Rothschild & Sons, The graduate of Cambridge and qualified as a Peninsular and Oriental University, he has an Chartered Accountant Navigation Company plc, MBA from the Wharton in 1990.
BSkyB, Stoll Moss Business School.
Theatres and the London Symphony Orchestra.
Sir John has also served as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Business and the Environment, Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board, President of the Energy Institute, Chairman of the DTIs Energy Advisory l Member of the Audit Committee Panel and as a governor p Member of the Nominations of Wellington College.
Committee n Member of the Remuneration He is Chairman of the Committee Groups Nominations t Independent non-executive Committee.
director Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 4.
John Whybrow dAndr Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive lpnt lpnt lpnt Non-Executive Director Director Director lpt Director Rita Clifton 50 joined the Andrew Lynch 51 joined John Whybrow 61 joined Count Emmanuel dAndr Board in September the Board in May 2003. the Board in June 2003.
She is Chairman of He is Chairman of the He is Chairman of the February 2002.
He is a Interbrand, non-executive Audit Committee and the Remuneration non-executive director Chairman of Populus Ltd, Boards designated Senior Committee.
He is of Robert Bosch France, the opinion pollster to Independent Director.
Chairman of Wolseley and a member of the The Times, and was nonAndrew is Chief Executive plc, having been a nonstrategic committee of executive director of Officer of SSP, the travel executive director Ernst and Young France.
Emap plc prior to its sale concessions catering between 1997 and 2002, He is Chairman of the this year.
She previously company formerly part of and is also Chairman of Royaumont Foundation, spent 18 years in the Compass Group plc.
He Petworth Cottage and the Crativalle advertising industry, was a director of Compass Nursing Home.
His previous including positions with Group from 1997 to 2005 Chairman of CSR plc positions have included Saatchi & Saatchi and where he held the position between 2004 and 2007. membership of the J Walter Thompson.
of Group Finance Director He joined Philips in 1970, advisory committee She has been a member from 1997 to 2003 and becoming President of of Banque fide France, of the Governments Chief Executive Officer of Philips Lighting NV and Chairman and CEO of Sustainable Development SSP from 2003.
His Executive Vice President Trois Suisses International Commission, is a Trustee earlier career included of Royal Philips Group mail order, Chief of WWF Worldwide Fund corporate finance and Electronics BV.
He Executive of Lapaud for Nature and is on the financial management received the Polish International, senior Assurance and Advisory positions with Prudential Order of Merit in 2002. consultant with Arthur D. board for BPs carbon Corporation plc and Little Paris, Development offset programme KPMG.
He is a Fellow of Director of the Express targetneutral.
She is the Institute of Chartered Group newsgroup and also a Visiting Professor Accountants.
international manager of at Henley Management Camping Gaz.
previously a non-executive director of La Mondiale insurance, the Holder Group bakery manufacturing, Praxis consulting, Auchan Group hypermarkets, and Sidel packaging.
