30 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of DSG international plc the Company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings together the Group for the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2008.
Comparative figures are for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007. Business and operating review The business and operating review is based on many of the principles contained in the best practice statement Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
It covers areas contained in the Directors Report, the Business and Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility Review and should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5.
The areas covered are as follows: Location in Annual Report Page Principal activities, products and services of the Group, and markets in which the Group operates Directors Report 30-32 Objectives and strategies of the Group Chief Executives Statement 6-9 and Directors Report and 31 Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, treasury policies and objectives and liquidity Directors Report 32-36 The manner in which the Group measures its performance Directors Report 37 Share capital structure Directors Report 38 Review of the development and performance of the business for the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2008 Business and Financial Review 6-17 Financial position of the Group as at 3 May 2008 Business and Financial Review 18-21 Future prospects of the business Business and Financial Review 7-9 Social, environmental and ethical matters Corporate Responsibility Review 22-25 Principal activities The Company is the parent company of a group engaged in the multi-channel retail sale of high technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication products and related financial and after-sales services.
The Group also undertakes business to business B2B sales.
The Group comprises three divisions: Electricals, Computing and e-commerce.
The Electricals division operates in four regions: UK & Ireland: comprising Currys, Currys.
digital and Dixons Tax Free in the UK: and comprising Currys, Dixons and PC World in Ireland: the Nordic Region: comprising the Elkjp group of companies which operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands under brands such as Elkjp, El Giganten, Gigantti, Lefdal and Markantalo: Southern Europe: comprising UniEuro in Italy, Kotsovolos and Electro World in Greece and Electro World in Turkey: and Central Europe: comprising Electro World in Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland.
The Computing division comprises: UK Computing: comprising PC World, DSGi Business and The TechGuys: and International Computing: comprising PC City in Spain, Italy and Sweden.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 31 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 The e-commerce division comprises: Dixons.
co. uk in the UK: and FotoVista trading primarily as PIXmania.
Products and services The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as Brown Goods, White Goods, Personal Computing, Mobile Phones and related products.
Brown Goods includes televisions, DVD players, audio products, iPods and MP3 players, cameras and camcorders.
These products are characterised by rapid technological advances offering major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity and design.
White Goods includes washing machines and dryers, fridges and freezers, gas and electric cookers, microwaves, vacuum cleaners and small domestic products such as kettles, toasters, irons and breadmakers.
While these products benefit from innovation, fashion and improved design, they are heavily dependent on the replacement cycle in most markets.
Personal Computing includes desktops, laptops, printers and a wide range of related products.
Computer technology is benefiting from increasing processing power, lower costs and rapidly increasing interaction with digital products.
Increasing use of PCs in the home and in business is a major area of market development for the Group.
In response to this growing demand the Group launched a customer support service, The TechGuys, designed to provide expert, fast-track support for increasingly technologydependent homes.
The success of this service has led to the provision of services in areas outside computing and encompasses the interaction between the various technologies available in the home, educating both young and old on the benefits available.
The service is a response to the growing reliance on life-enhancing technologies in the home and offers a beginning to end solution with credit facilities to purchase products, support and advice on installation and after-sales support agreements.
These provide customers with comprehensive advice, access to help lines, and prompt repair services or replacement following purchase.
The Group also offers its customers financial services such as credit facilities and after-sales support agreements.
Customer support agreements provide customers with comprehensive advice, access to help lines, prompt repair services or replacement following purchase.
Mobile phones are now a common purchase for most European consumers.
The introduction of new technologies offers significant opportunities for increased functionality and add-on services, including broadband, portable audio, photography and e-mail.
Objective and strategy The long term objective of the Group is to offer the best value, choice and service to customers in order to create value for shareholders.
The Boards strategy to achieve this goal is described in the Renewal and Transformation plan in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 6 to 9 and encompasses the following key principles: retailing operations shall only be conducted in markets where the Group is, or can become, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer: the Group shall offer customers the opportunity to purchase products and services from a number of channels, principally large efficient space and the internet, via online transactions and reserve online with collect at store facilities: to attract a strong customer base, stores shall compete on value and offer an extensive choice of products, excellent customer service and outstanding after-sales support: stores shall employ and develop highly motivated sales staff, knowledgeable about the products and services they sell and trained in selling skills and customer service: the Group shall utilise its scale to buy goods at the lowest cost to enhance margins and provide value to customers: and operations in all countries shall share experience, knowledge and best practice to improve efficiency and to reduce operating costs.
32 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Directors Report continued European electrical retail markets The European market for electrical goods and related services sold by the Group is estimated to be in excess of 130 billion per annum.
It is highly competitive, characterised by a relatively small number of global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional and national electrical retailers.
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination for customers.
Buying groups, general merchants and independents also have a retail presence in most European markets.
The internet delivers enhanced product information and facilitates price comparability for consumers.
Whilst this creates new challenges in terms of margin maintenance, it also provides a significant opportunity.
The Group believes that over time internet demand will polarise towards the larger retailers with scaleable distribution and systems, together with proven after-sales service and support.
Risks to achieving the Groups objective The Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 46 describes the processes through which the directors assess, manage and mitigate risk.
The Board regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group.
The directors consider that the major risks to achieving the Groups objective are those set out below.
The Board recognises that the profile of risks changes constantly and additional risks not presently known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may also impact on attainment of the Groups business objective.
i Economic environment The economic environment impacts on spending on electrical goods in many ways.
House moves and home improvements impact on spending on domestic appliances.
The feel good factor is an important influence on discretionary spending on electrical goods.
Unemployment levels, interest rates, consumer debt levels, availability of credit, taxation and many other factors influence customers spending decisions.
The Group recognises that the current difficult economic climate may affect individual countries and regions.
Management therefore monitors economic metrics and works closely with suppliers to adjust forecasts of demand.
Stock orders are realigned and, where possible, selling capacity and support services are flexed in response to changing expectations.
Meeting customers needs What differentiates specialist electrical retailers is the wide range of products stocked and the provision of services that customers want, in a convenient location with staff that provide excellent service at competitive prices.
Giving outstanding service is a key ingredient of our Renewal and Transformation plan announced on 15 May 2008.
Regular surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted across all stores.
The results are used to assess store performance and to drive high standards across each chain.
Customer feedback is used to shape our ranges and to understand where the Group can be more responsive to customers needs.
Seasonality The Groups business is highly seasonal, with a very significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its third quarter, which includes the Christmas and New Year season.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Competition The Group operates in a highly competitive environment.
There are few barriers to new entrants to markets for the sale of electrical goods.
Businesses therefore join and leave the market and or expand or reduce their product ranges in response to competitive forces.
Different channels to market have different cost structures and different appeal to customers.
The Group continuously monitors the activities of its competitors and potential competitors in each of its markets and takes appropriate action in terms of, for example, its product and service offering and pricing to maintain and strengthen its position.
The Group actively manages its brands through advertising, promotions and enhancing the retail experience with the goal of ensuring the Groups stores are seen as the primary destination for electrical goods.
Market margin pressure The level of margins in electrical retailing is governed by a combination of the market and buying prices.
Consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition from store and internet channels, regulation and taxation all impact on margins.
The Group is focused on protecting margins through maximising its international buying scale, maintaining an efficient supply chain and placing continued emphasis on strong selling skills.
The Group actively manages its cost structures to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
Price deflation Electrical goods are typically subject to price deflation as the production of new products and technologies grows and availability increases.
This has been a common feature of the electrical goods market for some time and the Group works closely with its suppliers to bring products to the mass market.
ii Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio is a key contributor to the Groups growth strategy.
The Group principally operates from large out of town stores in convenient locations that are accessible to substantial numbers of customers.
The ability to secure the best sites is critical to building the retail brands.
The Group is implementing a programme to review the store portfolio in both the UK and overseas.
The review has already identified stores within the Currys.
digital portfolio which will be the focus for future trading.
The Group will continue to actively manage the store portfolio to optimise the location, size and costs of each of its stores.
In areas where the population catchment is lower, franchising of the Groups brands offers the potential for market growth.
During the period, the Group had franchised brands in Norway Elkjp, Italy UniEuro, Sweden El Giganten, Greece Kotsovolos, Denmark El Giganten, Finland Gigantti, Iceland Elko, Greenland Pisiffik, the Faroe Islands El Ding and Ireland Currys.
iii Employees The Group has a strong reputation for developing retail leaders and sales staff with entrepreneurial spirit.
All retailers face the challenge to attract, develop and retain the right calibre of staff for their business.
Through the Groups retail reputation, development and incentive programmes and the career opportunities afforded by its size and diversity of operations, the Board believes that the Group is well placed to build on its success.
A review of the long term incentive arrangements used to retain employees has been carried out by the Remuneration Committee and is discussed on pages 54 and 55. iv Product life cycle and supply Some electrical products sold by the Group are subject to rapid technological change which shortens their life cycle.
Careful management is required to avoid loss of value and or the risk of stock obsolescence when products are superseded.
The Group has extensive experience of managing electrical goods with short product life cycles.
It maintains aged stock records and utilises demand forecasts, price management, accessory offers and point of sale material to sell through the products.
34 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Directors Report continued v Entering new markets Expansion through acquisition or the establishment of new businesses is subject to the availability of suitable opportunities.
Companies operating large out of town stores may not be available for purchase and new operations may not be able to find suitable sites for new stores.
Entry into new markets gives rise to risks related to culture, markets, legislation, regulation and access to goods and resources.
The Group will consider acquisitions made in stages as well as outright purchases in a single stage.
vi Treasury risks and policies Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies approved by the Board and are subject to periodic independent internal and external reviews.
Group Treasury reports regularly to the Executive Committee and the Tax & Treasury Committee.
The major treasury risks to which the Group is exposed relate to market risks movements in foreign exchange and interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Areas where risks are most likely to occur are evaluated regularly using statistical modelling techniques and regular reviews of forecast interest and foreign exchange rates are included in such evaluations.
The Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies.
Throughout the period under review, in accordance with Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.16 to the financial statements.
Exchange rate risk The Group is exposed to exchange movements on recognised assets and liabilities, overseas earnings and fluctuations in translated values of foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Groups principal translation currency exposures are the euro and Norwegian kroner.
Taking into account the cost of hedging, the Groups policy is to match, in whole or in part, currency earnings with related currency costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments.
The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies other than in the functional currency of the entity.
The Groups principal transactional currency exposures are the US dollar and euro.
It is Group policy to minimise the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging instruments such as forward exchange contracts.
Such contracts are designed to cover exposures ranging from one month to one year.
Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of sterling cash and investments, internally hedged Norwegian kroner liabilities and euro borrowings.
Potential exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Groups policy to match the profile of interest payments with that of its interest receipts.
Further mitigation is achieved with interest based credit commissions received and through the use of interest based hedging instruments.
Such matching is evaluated regularly to ensure that risks are minimised.
Liquidity risk It is Group policy to maintain a balance of funds, borrowings, committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated short term and long term financial requirements.
In applying this policy the Group continuously monitors forecast and actual cash flows against the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
Uncommitted facilities are also maintained and used if available on advantageous terms.
It is Group treasury policy to ensure that a specific level of committed facilities is always available based on forecast working capital requirements.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Credit risk The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The Groups exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments and derivative financial instruments arises from the risk of default of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value of these instruments.
This is limited as Group treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties to those with a minimum Moodys long term credit rating of AA3, bank financial strength rating of B and short term credit rating of P1.
In the prior period, the policy on investment restricted counterparties to those with a minimum Moodys long term credit rating of A3 and short term credit rating of P1.
The exposure limit for each counterparty is based upon a percentage of shareholders funds.
Investments mainly comprise bank deposits, floating rate notes and commercial paper.
The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments.
Sales to retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major credit cards.
It is Group policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
New credit customers are assessed using an external rating report which is used to establish a credit limit.
Such limits are reviewed periodically on both a proactive and reactive basis, for example when a customer wishes to place an order in excess of their existing credit limit.
The maximum exposure is equal to the book value of receivables.
Receivable balances are monitored regularly with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
The Groups receivable balances comprise a large number of individually small customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
Capital risk management It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the business.
The Group is subject to certain externally imposed capital requirements in the form of banking covenants involving borrowing ratios which it met throughout the period.
The Board has delegated responsibility for routine capital expenditure to a Capital Committee, which has approval responsibility up to an agreed limit for: Group long term and budgeted capital spend, setting capital assessment criteria, new store capital approval, subsidiary company funding, business acquisitions and disposals up to a specified limit, and contingent liabilities such as guarantees.
The Committee also approves routine statutory and internal delegated powers of authority in relation to capital expenditure.
The Group considers the manner in which funds are distributed to shareholders by assessing the performance of the business, the level of available net funds and the short to medium term strategic plans concerning future capital spend as well as the need to meet banking covenants and borrowing ratios.
Such assessment will influence the level of dividends payable as well as consideration from time to time of market purchases of the Groups own shares.
The Group monitors available net funds on a regular basis and this is affected by Free Cash Flow, one of the Groups key performance indicators see page 37. vii Pension risk and policies The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK defined benefit scheme.
This scheme is subject to risks regarding the amount of the liabilities as a result of changes in life expectancy, inflation and future salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments and the returns derived from such investments.
The pension trustee, in consultation with the Company, has implemented changes to the schemes investment strategy to mitigate the volatility of liabilities and to diversify investment risk.
36 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Directors Report continued viii Systems failure In common with other large businesses, the Group is dependent on the suitability and reliability of its systems and procedures, including its information technology, warehousing and distribution systems.
The Group has developed emergency procedures which are regularly tested.
The Group carries out evaluation, planning and implementation analysis before updating or introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions.
ix Outsourcing The Group has outsourced the majority of its UK call handling, IT and HR services including payroll.
While these contracts produce significant cost savings, the Group recognises the increased dependency on third parties, in particular the relationships with its IT partner, HCL, and its payroll provider, Northgate, to deliver core activities and has put in place appropriate service level agreements within the contracts.
x Damage to property and consequential business interruption The Group operates from a large number of sites, all of which are subject to the risks of fire, weather and water damage and in some cases are subject to earthquake and other specific risks.
The Group regularly reviews and assesses these risks, takes action to mitigate the likelihood and cost of potential incidents and has insurance in place to cover material exposures.
Business continuity plans are in place to respond to major disruption to the business.
xi Legislative, reputational and regulatory risks The Group is subject to a range of legal and regulatory requirements originating from the UK and the European Union, particularly in the areas of consumer protection, competition, health and safety, and the environment.
Changes in these laws and regulations and the policies regarding enforcement may impact on the Group in terms of cost, changes to business practices and restrictions on activities.
The Group engages with governmental bodies in the UK and Europe through trade associations such as the CBI and British Retail Consortium, or directly, where it considers it appropriate to do so.
Tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities.
Such potential amendments and their application to the Group are regularly monitored and, if relevant, appropriate actions taken to ensure ongoing efficiency.
Social, environmental and ethical risks that might impact on the Groups reputation are annually monitored by the Board.
Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Performance monitoring The successful delivery of the Groups strategic objective is monitored by the Board through Key Performance Indicators and the periodic review of Group operations.
Key Performance Indicators Financial and operational Definition Total sales Growth in total sales Like for like sales The ability to grow sales in stores in the Group is an important measure of a brands appeal to customers and its competitive position.
The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the commencement and end of the financial period.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations to remove the distorting effect of the introduction of pay-as-yougo agreements.
Sales targets and growth are set relative to the market and expected economic conditions.
Market position In line with the Groups strategy to be the leading specialist electrical retailer in Europe, this is an important measure of how well customers are being engaged by the Groups brands in each market.
Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer in that market, measured by market share.
Underlying operating profit Continued growth of underlying operating profit enables the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Underlying profit before tax Continued growth of underlying profit before tax represents a measure of total Group performance to external investors and shareholders.
Free Cash Flow The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations, plus net finance income, less taxation and net capital expenditure and excluding certain discrete items such as special pension contributions.
The management of cash usage, in particular working capital employed in the business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its future growth and to generate shareholder value.
Stakeholder satisfaction Definition Customer satisfaction Results of mystery shopping and telephone surveys.
Staff satisfaction Results of staff surveys.
Staff turnover Number of leavers as a percentage of the average number of employees.
Shareholder Definition Underlying diluted The level of growth in underlying diluted earnings per share EPS earnings per share provides a suitable measure of the overall financial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year.
The Group targets growth in EPS at fixed increments over the annual Retail Prices Index RPI.
Total Shareholder Return This metric provides a relative performance measure over the longer term of TSR the Groups ability to deliver returns for shareholders.
The Group seeks to outperform the FTSE 350 index over a three year period.
38 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Directors Report continued Corporate Responsibility Key Performance Indicators The Group monitors five principal Corporate Responsibility indicators.
Health and Safety employee accidents.
Details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 22 to 25, together with the performance results for 2007 08.
These indicators are used to manage the business on a divisional and regional basis as appropriate.
They assist the Board in identifying risks to achieving the Groups objectives and to take mitigating action.
A review of the Groups results and key performance indicators for 2007 08 is set out in the Business and Financial Review on pages 10 to 21.
Corporate activity On 24 May 2007, following the exercise of a put option held by Fourlis Holding SA, the main minority shareholder of DSGi South-East Europe A. E. V. E. formerly P. Kotsovolos S. A. Kotsovolos, the Group acquired a further 10% stake in Kotsovolos for cash consideration of 22.9 million 15.6 million.
The acquisition increases the Groups total interest in Kotsovolos to 89.1%.
In 2004 05, a cooperation agreement was entered into by the Group with Eldorado Group Eldorado granting the Group the option to acquire Eldorado in tranches up to 100%, by 2011.
On 19 June 2007 the directors notified Eldorado that the Group was terminating this agreement.
Dividends An interim dividend of 2.02p per share was paid on 25 January 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 December 2007.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.43p per share, making total dividends of 5.45p per share for the period 2006 07 8.87p per share.
Subject to shareholders approval at the annual general meeting on 3 September 2008 the final dividend will be paid on 26 September 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 August 2008.
Total dividends payable to shareholders in respect of the financial period were 97.4 million.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the issued share capital during the period, including share options exercised, are given in note 22 a to the financial statements.
On 22 June 2007 the Company announced its intention to repurchase shares to the value of 100 million.
This programme was completed on 17 December 2007 when 73.1 million shares had been repurchased and cancelled during the financial year.
At the annual general meeting on 5 September 2007, shareholders approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum number of 183 million ordinary shares.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this years annual general meeting.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the annual general meeting on 3 September 2008. Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 39 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Substantial share interests In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, DTR5 we have received notification as at 26 June 2008 of the following interests in voting rights of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company: % of issued share capital Capital Research & Management 14.01 Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 7.35 FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 5.63 Schroders plc 5.53 Capital Group International, Inc. 4.91 Legal & General plc and Legal & General Investment Management Limited 4.66 Barclays PLC 4.55 Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. 3.03 Directors John Clare retired from the Board on 5 September 2007.
The names of the directors who served throughout the period and up to the date of this report, their biographical details and other information, are shown on pages 26 and 27.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow will retire at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
They were appointed nonexecutive directors, pursuant to letters dated 20 May 2003 subsequently amended for three year terms.
Their appointments for further three year terms upon the expiry of their current terms of office were approved by the Board on 4 April 2006 and their terms end on 20 May 2009 and 24 May 2009 respectively.
The Board is satisfied that the directors retiring by rotation are qualified for reappointment by virtue of their skills, experience and contributions to the Board.
John Browett was appointed on 5 December 2007 and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, will retire at the first annual general meeting following his appointment.
He has a service agreement with DSG international plc which can be terminated on 24 months notice where such notice is served prior to the expiry of 12 months from his commencement of employment and by 12 months notice thereafter.
The Board is satisfied that John Browett is qualified for reappointment by virtue of his skills, experience and contributions to the Board.
The biographies of Andrew Lynch, John Whybrow and John Browett are shown on page 26 and 27.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 and 63.
No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement apart from contracts of service to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party during or at the end of the financial period.
On 30 May 2008 Kevin OByrne voluntarily lapsed a share option over 29,282 shares at an option price of 102.45p per share.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions where applicable.
Policy and practice on payment of suppliers It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its suppliers.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier has complied with all the relevant contractual obligations.
Trade creditors at 3 May 2008 represented 51 days of annual purchases made during the period 28 April 2007 50 days.
40 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Directors Report continued Directors and officers liability insurance Pursuant to Article 159 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association, the directors, secretary and other officers of the Company are entitled to be indemnified by the Company out of its own funds against liabilities arising from the conduct of the Groups business to the extent permitted by law.
The Group has purchased appropriate directors and officers insurance cover which in general terms indemnifies individual directors and officers personal legal liability and costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection with the Groups business.
Charitable and political donations During the period, the DSG international Foundation the Foundation, a registered charitable trust, donated 1,043,000 for charitable activities which includes 400,000 2006 07 875,000 paid by the Company to the Foundation in the period.
Further details of the Groups charitable activities are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 24.
The Company made no payments 2006 07 nil, which constituted EU Political Expenditure.
A resolution to authorise the directors to incur EU Political Expenditure in the coming year to an aggregate amount not exceeding 25,000 will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Equal opportunities and employee involvement Details of the Groups equal opportunities policies and the ways in which it seeks to involve employees in the Groups business, together with information about the Groups policy in regard to the employment of people with disabilities, are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 22 and 24.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue in office as auditors to the Company.
Resolutions for their reappointment and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that to their knowledge and belief, and having made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the Group: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held on 3 September 2008 at the Radisson SAS Portman Hotel, 22 Portman Square, London W1H 7BG at 11.30 a. m. Notice of the meeting, together with full details and an explanation of the business to be considered, is given in a separate letter accompanying this report.
The annual general meeting will consider changes to the articles of association and the adoption of new employee share schemes in addition to the normal business proposed at the annual general meeting.
By Order of the Board Helen Grantham Company Secretary 26 June 2008
