28 DSG international plc Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Group.
He joined Elkjp Peter Keenan Director at easyJet.
He Executive from Skandia Direct Managing Director has held posts as Group International Insurance UK & Ireland Electricals IS Director for Compass Committee where he was Chief Peter Keenan 40 joined Group and IT Director Operating Officer, DSG international in 1996. for the Burton Group.
The Executive following senior positions He became Managing In addition to his IS Committee is in the finance, insurance Director of Currys in responsibilities, John has and steel industries.
2005, following roles as substantial international an international, Currys Assistant experience of business cross functional Ronny Blomseth Managing Director, development, and executive team Managing Director PC World Marketing mergers and acquisitions.
responsible for Elkjp Nordic Director, General He holds a Masters Ronny Blomseth 39 was Manager of Dixons Stores degree from Cranfield the implementation appointed Managing Group in Ireland, and University where he is a of strategy and Director Elkjp Nordic Corporate Development regular visiting lecturer.
Peter joined management worked for Elkjp for 20 the Group from Arthur Simon Turner of the Groups years, having previously Andersen, where he Group Buying Director held the positions of specialised in corporate Simon Turner 56 was business.
Managing Director and turnarounds across appointed Group Buying Sales Manager for Elkjp Europe.
He is Director in January 2007 Norway, and in various a law graduate from to determine local and store based positions for Trinity College, Dublin international group Katie Bickerstaffe eight years.
Prior to this, and a qualified supplier strategies.
He is Group Director Ronny completed an Chartered Accountant.
also responsible for the Marketing and People Economics degree at the Groups Direct Sourcing Development Kevin OByrne Norwegian School of operations based in Hong Katie Bickerstaffe 41 Group Finance Director Management.
Kong, and Group-wide joined DSG international See page 26. non-merchandise as Group Director John Browett purchasing.
He is a nonMarketing and People Steve Rosenblum Chief Executive executive director of Development in June President PIXmania See page 26.
She was previously Steve Rosenblum 34 Society.
He joined DSG Managing Director of was co-founder, with his Keith Jones international in April 1999 Kwik Save, and Group brother Jean-Emile, and Managing Director and has held the Retail Director and Group PC World Stores Group Chief Executive Officer of positions of Managing HR Director at Somerfield.
Keith Jones 43 was European e-commerce Director PC World, Her earlier career appointed Managing business PIXmania.
com Group Sourcing Strategy included roles at Dyson, when it became part Director, PC World in April Director, and Group PepsiCo and Unilever.
of DSG international 2005 having previously Managing Director held the positions of in 2006.
Previously Computing and Per Bjrgs Managing Director he had established a Communications.
Group Managing PC City Europe, photographic company Previous roles include Director in Canada.
Steve holds Managing Director Managing Director of International Businesses a Bachelors degree PC City Spain and Philips Consumer Per Bjrgs 53 joined Managing Director of the in commerce from Electronics UK & Ireland, Nordic electrical retailer Groups airport trading Concordia University, Senior Vice President Elkjp as Group Finance business.
for Philips Media, and Officer in 1998.
The completed a full time senior roles at Belling company became part of John Thorp International MBA at and Young & Rubicam.
Manchester Business Group Chief Per was appointed Group School and held various Information Officer Managing Director senior retail positions John Thorp 52 joined the International Businesses Group in May 2006 as including roles at B&Q and in January 2008 having Group Chief Information Virgin.
He spent the early held several senior part of his career with the Officer.
Prior to joining positions around the Group in the 1980s.
the Group he was IT Business and Corporate Directors and Consolidated Financial Parent Company Shareholder Group Overview Financial Review Responsibility Review Management Governance Statements Financial Statements Information DSG international plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2007 08 Governance 30 Directors Report 41 Corporate Governance Report 47 Audit Committee Report 49 Nominations Committee Report 51 Remuneration Report Consolidated Financial Statements 65 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 66 Independent Auditors Report 68 Consolidated Income Statement 69 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 70 Consolidated Balance Sheet 71 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 72 Notes to the Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements 125 Independent Auditors Report on the Parent Company Financial Statements 127 Balance Sheet of the Parent Company 128 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements Shareholder Information 134 Five Year Record 136 Shareholder Information
