Underlying profit before taxation is 35.3 million 2007: 33.0 million comprising profit before taxation of 25.2 million 2007: 31.8 million plus amortisation of acquired intangibles of 1.3 million 2007: 0.8 million plus interest charges on the unwinding of discounted contingent consideration of 0.5 million 2007: 0.4 million plus exceptional costs of 8.3 million 2007: nil.
1990 45.9M Global turnover The 1990s were a period of expansion for the Group both through new products and technologies and through investment in global operations.
Important milestones 1980 1978 included the acquisition of gas based laser technology in 1994 to complement nil existing ink jet know-how and the Global turnover Domino was founded 30 years ago development and introduction of the now to exploit the use and potential of CIJ world leading Domino A-Series CIJ printer technology in industrial applications.
During the 1980s Domino established a range.
The Group established further Initially used in high speed printing, the range of CIJ printers capable of meeting direct operations in Europe, the Americas requirement introduced in the European the demanding speed and performance and the Middle East and made its initial Community for best before date coding requirements of manufacturing industry.
investment in joint venture operations in on perishable goods opened a new The Domino Codebox and Domino Solo India and China.
market for the Groups CIJ products.
product brands became synonymous with coding and marking and the Domino Array product was established as the high speed printer of choice for commercial printing applications where variable information was added to mass produced printed material.
The Groups distribution base was established, initially in Europe and then in the Americas and Asia and the Groups first subsidiary operations were formed, initially in the Netherlands and Germany and then in the USA through the acquisition of American Technologies Inc. Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 07 2008 Weve been 253.4M Global turnover delivering Most recently, in 2008, the Group acquired Photon Energy to add solid state laser technology, knowhow and products to its range and growth aps Alternative Printing Services, a manufacturer and developer of Thermal Ink Jet products.
consistently The first 30 years of the Group have brought expansion and success through innovation, desire and hard work.
The investment programmes for 30 years and our consistency of purpose positions the Group well to continue its pursuit of sustained global leadership.
2000 150.4M Global turnover In the period from 2000 to date the Group has made acquisitions of technologies, product and distribution expanding its capability, reach and portfolio of solutions.
The acquisition of Sator Laser was instrumental in the development of new scribing laser products and this was complemented by the addition of Purex, whose air extraction products form a part of the Groups integrated safety conscious laser coding solutions.
The addition of the Wiedenbach and Citronix brands of CIJ has expanded the Groups market reach and sector coverage and the acquisitions of Alpha Dot and Mectec have established a strong capability to meet the coding requirements of outer cases often including bar codes and other machine readable data formats.
The acquisition of Easyprint has provided the Group with a range of TTO products capable of addressing coding needs where flexible packaging materials are used.
The move from joint venture to wholly owned subsidiary operations in India and China has enabled further investment and growth in the whole Asian region.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review 08 Pioneering technology Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 The Domino Group has been a 09 technology pioneer for 30 years.
Through internal development and acquisition, the Group continues to expand its product portfolio, increasing the range of solutions it offers to its extensive customer base.
The Groups product range has expanded in 2008 with the addition of solid state lasers and Thermal Ink Jet products through the acquisitions of Photon Energy and APS.
The addition of these two technologies provides new opportunities to further develop the markets, products and solutions that the Group offers around the world.
