Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual report and financial statements 2008 Business Review Peter J Byrom BSc FCA Chairman N 24 Age 64.
Mr Byrom joined the Board in 1996 and was appointed Chairman in the same year.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Board of Directors Committee.
He is also a non-executive director of Rolls-Royce Group plc and AMEC plc.
Nigel R Bond BSc ACA Group Managing Director N Age 51.
Mr Bond, a Chartered Accountant, joined Domino as Financial Controller in 1987 and subsequently became President of the US operations, before being appointed Group Managing Director on 22 November 1997.
Garry Havens ACMA Group Commercial Director Age 50.
Mr Havens, a Chartered Management Accountant, joined Domino in 1988 and has held senior general management positions in Europe and Asia.
He was appointed Group Commercial Director on 15 March 2002.
Andrew C Herbert BA ACMA Group Finance Director Age 48.
Mr Herbert, a Chartered Management Accountant, joined Domino in 1986 and has held senior financial, operations and general management positions in both the UK and US.
He was appointed Group Finance Director on 11 May 1998.
Richard Waddingham MSc CEng MIEE Group Technical Director Age 56.
Mr Waddingham, a Chartered Engineer, joined Domino and was appointed to the Board on 18 July 2005.
Previously, he worked for Invensys and Motorola.
Philip Ruffles CBE FRS FREng Non-Executive Director A, N, R Age 69.
Mr Ruffles was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 15 March 2002 and was appointed Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 19 March 2008.
He was formerly director of engineering and technology at RollsRoyce plc.
He is a member of the Council for Science and Technology.
Jerry L Smith USA BA LLB Non-Executive Director N, R Age 70.
Mr Smith was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 1986.
A New York attorney, he is a retired London partner of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, a US law firm.
Mr Smith stood down as the Senior Independent Director and member of the Audit Committee on 19 March 2008.
Sir Mark Wrightson MA Non-Executive Director A, N, R Age 57.
Sir Mark Wrightson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2007.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was the co-chairman of Close Brothers Corporate Finance Limited, a subsidiary of Close Brothers Group plc, Chairman of the London Investment Banking Association Corporate Finance Committee and a member of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
He is a nonexecutive director of Amlin plc.
Sir David Brown BSc FREng FIET Non-Executive Director A, N, R Age 58.
Sir David Brown was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2008.
He was previously the chairman of Motorola Limited and is currently a non-executive director of Ceres Power Holdings plc and of DRS Data & Research Services plc.
Christopher Brinsmead BSc MSc Non-Executive Director A, N, R Age 49.
Christopher Brinsmead was appointed as a Non-Executive R Remuneration Committee member Director on 11 June 2008.
He was previously president of Astra A Audit Committee member Zeneca UK Limited and is currently president of the Association of N Nomination Committee member the British Pharmaceutical Industry.
