Board of Directors Stephen Hemsley 51 Nigel Wray 60 Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Stephen became Executive Chairman at the Nigel was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He joined Dominos as Finance the Chairman of Saracens Ltd and British Seafood Director in 1998 and saw the Company through its Group Holdings Ltd and a Non-Executive Director otation on AIM in 1999.
In 2001 he was appointed of Prestbury Investment Holdings Ltd, Play Holdings Chief Executive Of cer and in subsequent years Limited, Networkers International plc, English Wines saw the Company through a period of rapid growth.
Group plc and several other private companies.
Stephen is a chartered accountant and previously spent nearly nine years at 3i, latterly as Investment John Hodson 62 Director.
Non-Executive Director John was appointed to the Board in 2005, having Colin Halpern 72 previously been Chief Executive Of cer of Singer and Non-Executive Vice Chairman Friedlander Group.
He is Non-Executive Chairman Colin acquired the Dominos Pizza MFA for the of Cenkos Securities plc, UBC Media Group UK and the Republic of Ireland in 1993 through and Strategic Equity Capital plc and is a Director his company International Franchise Systems Inc. of Prestbury Group.
John is Chairman of the In November 1999, with Colin as Chairman, the Remuneration Committee.
Company was taken public and listed on AIM.
Colin is the Chairman of Cheval Property Finance Michael Shallow 54 Plc, Dayenu Ltd and several other companies.
Non-Executive Director Michael was appointed to the Board in 2006 and is Chris Moore 49 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Michael is also a Chief Executive Of cer Non-Executive Director at Britvic plc and Spice plc Chris was promoted to Chief Executive Of cer in and has worked in the food and drinks sector for the January 2008.
He joined Dominos Pizza Inc in past 15 years.
Michael was previously the Finance 1990 to set up the Companys European Marketing Director for Greene King plc.
Department and has concentrated on the UK and Ireland since 1993 when he joined Dominos Pizza Dianne Thompson 58 Group Limited.
He became a Board Director of the Non-Executive Director Company in 1999, and Chief Operating Of cer in Dianne was appointed to the Board as a NonOctober 2005.
Chris was awarded an MBA from Executive Director in 2006.
She is the Chief Executive the London Business School in 1996.
Of cer of the National Lottery operator Camelot Group plc and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Lee Ginsberg 51 In 2006 she received the Chartered Management Chief Financial Of cer Institutes Gold Medal and, in the same year, she Lee joined the Company in 2004 as Finance Director was awarded a CBE.
Dianne is the Chairperson of and Company Secretary.
He previously held the post the Nomination Committee.
of Group Finance Director for Health Club Holdings Limited, formerly Holmes Place plc, where he also Peter Klauber 53 served 18 months as Deputy Chief Executive.
Lee is Non-Executive Director a chartered accountant by profession.
Peter was appointed to the Board in September 2008.
Peter is a chartered accountant and has worked in private practice for 30 years, 10 years of which were at Ernst & Young where he was a senior partner.
Peter is the Non-Executive Chairman of the Hotel Chocolat Group and Conforto Financial Management Limited.
Adam Batty 36 General Counsel & Company Secretary Adam joined the Company in 2008 from leading pub company Mitchells & Butlers plc, where he was the Director of Legal Affairs.
He is a quali ed solicitor and has previously held the position of Corporate Lawyer at Six Continents plc and Norton Rose.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Board of Directors 7 6 10 9 8 1 2 5 3 4 1.
Colin Halpern Board Committees Executive Chairman Non-Executive Vice Chairman Audit Committee 2.
Nigel Wray Michael Shallow Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Non-Executive Director John Hodson 3.
John Hodson Chief Financial Of cer Independent Non-Executive Nomination Committee Director Dianne Thompson Chairperson 7.
Peter Klauber Colin Halpern Independent Non-Executive Michael Shallow Director Remuneration Committee 8.
Michael Shallow Senior Independent Non-Executive John Hodson Chairman Director Peter Klauber Michael Shallow 9.
Dianne Thompson Dianne Thompson Independent Non-Executive Director 10.
Adam Batty Company Secretary 26 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Advisors and Joint Brokers Solicitors Registered Of ce Numis Securities Limited Mayer Brown International LLP Dominos House The London Stock Exchange Building 11 Pilgrim Street Lasborough Road 10 Paternoster Square London EC4V 6RW Kingston London EC4M 7LT Milton Keynes MK10 0AB Auditors Altium Capital Limited Registrars 30 St Jamess Square Ernst & Young LLP London SW1Y 4AL 400 Capability Green Capita Registrars Luton LU1 3LU Bourne House Bankers 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Barclays Bank plc Kent BR3 4TU Eagle Point 1 Capability Green Luton LU1 3US Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2008
