Drax Group plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2008 Board of directors Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: Charles Berry 15 December 2005 and was appointed Chairman Charles has extensive experience within the UK Chairman on 17 April 2008. power sector.
He joined ScottishPower in 1991 Age 56 and was appointed to the board in 1999.
From 2000 Committee Membership: to 2005, Charles was Chief Executive of the companys Nominations Chairman and Remuneration.
UK Operations, with responsibility for over 6,200MW External Appointments: of generating capacity as well as the trading business, The non-executive Chairman of eaga plc and a energy retailing and strategic transactions, such as non-executive director of Securities Trust of Scotland plc renewables development.
Charles is also a former nonand of Impax Environmental Markets plc.
executive director and Chairman of THUS Group plc.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and a Masters degree in Management.
Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: Dorothy Thompson 20 October 2005, having joined Drax Dorothy was previously the head of the European Chief Executive in September 2005. business of InterGen NV, the power generation subsidiary Age 48 of Shell NV and Bechtel Inc. responsible for the Committee Membership: management and operation of four gas-red power Executive, and Health and Safety.
plants, totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across the External Appointments: UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining InterGen NV in A non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
1998, Dorothy was initially in banking and subsequently was assistant group treasurer for Powergen plc.
Qualications: BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: Tony Quinlan 1 September 2008.
Tony qualied as Chartered Accountant with Coopers Finance Director & Lybrand and subsequently joined Marks & Spencer Committee Membership: Age 43 where he went on to hold a number of senior positions Executive.
within Internal Audit, Corporate Finance, Investor External Appointments: Relations and Financial Control.
was Director of Finance, the deputy to the Group Finance Director.
Qualications: BSc Hons joint degree in Chemistry and Business Studies.
Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: Peter Emery 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004.
Peter joined Esso Petroleum upon leaving university Production Director and held a number of analyst and managerial roles in Committee Membership: Age 46 the UK before moving to Essos parent, Exxon in the US Executive, and Health and Safety.
to co-ordinate its downstream marketing and distribution External Appointments: investments outside North America and Canada.
A director of the Association of Electricity Producers.
Peter returned to Esso in 1992 as plant technical services manager at Fawley Oil Renery.
He then undertook roles managing various operational areas at the renery before moving to renery maintenance manager in 1997.
He was appointed operations manager at Fawley Oil Renery in 2002, with full responsibility for the management and operation of the UKs largest renery and a member of Exxon Mobils European leadership team for rening.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Mining Engineering and completed the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD in 2007.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 37 Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: Tim Barker 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004, From 1993, Tim was Vice Chairman of Kleinwort Benson Senior independent non-executive director and was appointed as the senior independent director Group plc and from 1998, until his retirement in 2000, Age 68 on 15 December 2005. he was Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Notably, he was involved with a number of clients in the Committee Membership: energy sector and was an adviser to the UK Government Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nominations.
on the privatisation of the electricity sector.
In the mid-1980s, Tim was Director General of the City Panel External Appointments: on Takeovers and Mergers.
He is a former Chairman of The senior independent non-executive director of Robert Walters plc.
Electrocomponents plc and a Member of the Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Reporting Council.
Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: Jamie Dundas 15 December 2005.
Jamies career has been in merchant banking, Independent non-executive director finance and the property sector.
Jamie spent 19 years Committee Membership: Age 58 with Morgan Grenfell Group, including ten years as a Audit Chairman, Nominations and Remuneration.
director of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
Jamie was External Appointments: Finance Director of the Airport Authority, Hong Kong The non-executive Chairman of Jupiter Investment between 19921996 before joining MEPC plc in 1997, Management Group, a non-executive director of initially as Finance Director and from 19992003 Standard Chartered PLC, and Chairman of Macmillan as Chief Executive.
He is also a former non-executive Cancer Support.
Qualications: MA Oxon in Law and a Barrister non-practising.
Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: Mike Grasby 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in December 2003.
Mike retired from International Power in February 2002 Independent non-executive director after 36 years in the power industry.
During his career Committee Membership: Age 65 he held a number of senior positions in the UK and Audit, Health and Safety Chairman, Nominations, international power industry with the CEGB and and Remuneration.
He was manager of Drax Power Station External Appointments: between 1991 and 1995, and director of operations A non-executive director of OPG Power Venture plc, for National Powers portfolio, with responsibilities a director of executive recruitment business, Strategic for over 16,000MW of generating capacity, until 1998.
Dimensions Technical Limited and adviser to a Hong Mike was also a director of power companies in Portugal, Kong based joint venture acting as an international Turkey and Pakistan.
Following the demerger of National marketing partner for the Shanghai Electric Corporation.
Power, he joined International Power as senior vicepresident, continuing with his international directorships and leading a major consortium in the Czech Republic.
Qualications: Chartered Engineer, FIET and FIMechE.
Appointment to the Board: Previous Experience: David Lindsell 1 December 2008.
David was a partner at Ernst & Young for nearly Independent non-executive director 30 years.
He specialised in audit and assurance services Committee Membership: Age 61 and has extensive experience across a range of industry Audit, Nominations, and Remuneration.
He was a member of the Turnbull Committee External Appointments: and was a member of the Auditing Practices Board for A non-executive director of Premier Oil plc, a member of a number of years.
the advisory board of Gartmore, deputy chairman of the Qualications: Financial Reporting Review Panel and a member of the Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Supervisory Board of the European Financial Reporting in England and Wales FCA.
