Business Review Strategy Improving operational performance and developing our strong market positions Group Strategy In Packaging, our financial objective is to generate an The Board regularly reviews the Groups composition adjusted return on average capital employed over the and strategy to assess that these are best able to generate business cycle in excess of the Groups pre-tax weighted value for shareholders.
Within this context, our strategy average cost of capital, which we estimate to be 11.5%.
is to improve the operational performance of our businesses and to develop the Groups strong market positions in our Ofce Products Wholesaling Strategy two activities, Packaging and Ofce Products Wholesaling.
In Ofce Products Wholesaling, our goal is to establish the Recognising that these two activities are quite different, we Spicers business model profitably across the major markets have a separate strategy for each.
In the pursuit of our strategy and in order to deliver longAn immediate priority is to continue the improvement in term earnings growth, we will invest in the operational profitability in the important UK business.
In continental improvement and development of those parts of our Europe, we will maintain the competitiveness of our major business in which we believe we have the potential to established positions in France and the Benelux region and maintain strong competitive advantage and to earn good continue to grow the returns from our developing businesses returns over the mediumto longer-term.
We are confident in Germany, Spain and Italy.
that there are good opportunities for organic development In order to support our dealer customers, we will especially of the Group.
In instances where it will enable us to full concentrate on developing our fullment services for those our strategic development plans we will acquire businesses.
customers who outsource their logistics, enhancing further We remain prepared to exit businesses which are not likely our e-commerce and promotional tools and exploiting our to meet our strategic objectives in the longer-term.
capability to supply those products that resellers increasingly choose to offer but do not stock.
Packaging Strategy In Packaging, our objective is to develop our business Given the relatively lower requirement for capital in the based on our expertise in corrugated and plastic packaging Ofce Products Wholesaling activity, our financial objective and recycling activities.
is to generate a return on average capital employed in excess of 20%.
In converted packaging, we aim to offer innovative and cost-competitive products, market-leading levels of service and supply chain solutions across our product Financial Objectives Our aim is to generate enhanced returns and cash ows range, placing particular emphasis on developing our business in higher value-added sectors of the market.
In for our investors over the longer-term, while maintaining corrugated packaging, we will continue to concentrate a strong balance sheet.
We recognise that there is likely on growing our business in retail-ready packaging and to be a significant degree of cyclicality in parts of our promotional packaging mainly for the fast-moving consumer portfolio.
We therefore look to manage our resources so goods market, and heavy-duty packaging for industrial as to dampen the volatility of the Groups results through users, while in plastic packaging we will especially pursue the cycle, while ensuring that there is sufficient profit development opportunities in returnable transit packaging.
growth in the less cyclical parts of our packaging operations to achieve long-term progress.
We intend to extend our recycling capability in terms of the services we offer and the markets in which we operate.
We We measure the financial success of our strategy using aim to reinforce our position in corrugated case material the financial key performance indicators KPIs described CCM and plasterboard liner, while remaining a net buyer below and we look to improve the Groups performance of CCM.
We will look to expand the involvement of our on these KPIs within the context of the business cycle.
Packaging business in the markets of central and eastern Europe and Russia.
Our key performance indicators Adjusted Return on Adjusted Earnings Net Debt Average Capital Employed Adjusted EBITDA Margin Per Share Adjusted EBITDA TARGET: to achieve an adjusted TARGET: to generate an adjusted TARGET: to achieve an improved TARGET: to maintain a healthy return on average capital EBITDA margin which enables adjusted earnings per share balance sheet, sufficient to employed over the business cycle us to grow our dividend while between one business cycle support our dividend through that is comfortably in excess of providing funds for development.
the Groups weighted average DEFINITION: earnings before DEFINITION: net profit DEFINITION: net debt divided cost of capital, which we estimate interest, tax, depreciation, attributable to shareholders by earnings before interest, tax, to be 11.5% before tax.
amortisation and exceptional before exceptional items divided depreciation, amortisation and DEFINITION: operating profit items divided by revenue, by the weighted average number exceptional items.
before exceptional items divided expressed as a percentage.
of shares outstanding see note 8 by average capital employed, on page 70. expressed as a percentage.
