Our strong positions in the markets in which we operate provide a valuable basis for competitive advantage.
Most of the markets in which DS Smith operates are mature and highly competitive.
In order to achieve good returns in such markets we believe it is important to be one of the leading players.
Our actions to strengthen our positions have raised the Groups profitability and built a more resilient portfolio of businesses.
We look continually to strengthen our market positions and our operations in order to ensure that they remain successful.
We invest in our existing operations to maintain their competitiveness and, when appropriate, enlarge our capabilities and market positions through acquisitions.
Focused positions Principal supplier DS Smith Plastics has a leading European position in multi-wall sheet.
Spicers processes orders for approximately 800,000 line-items each week.
DS Smith Plastics has major positions in its two focused market sectors.
Spicers is the leading European wholesaler of ofce products, with operations in all the major western European markets.
Spicers In returnable transit packaging RTP, the Group is a leading European business model is to be a pure wholesaler of a comprehensive supplier of returnable container and pallet systems, extruded sheets in range of ofce products, selling only to ofce products dealers solid and multi-wall form corrugated plastic, and injection moulded and resellers.
Spicers services approximately 13,000 ofce returnable bottle crates.
It has particularly strong RTP supply positions products dealers throughout Europe.
In addition to enabling its with the beverage and automotive industries.
dealer customers to offer a broad range of products it assists them in competing effectively by providing additional tools and services.
In liquid packaging and dispensing LP&D, the Group has built, through organic growth and acquisitions, a position as the worldwide For many of its customers, Spicers provides a complete fullment number two producer of bag-in-box packaging.
It supplies leading service, often delivering goods directly to the end customer if that international brands in the soft drinks, wine, food and other industry is required.
Spicers also makes available to its customers innovative sectors.
The Groups LP&D operations in Europe, the USA and e-commerce systems, catalogues and promotional material and Australasia provide their customers with an extensive range of bags, business development support.
taps and other dispensing methods, and lling technologies to suit any bag-in-box application.
Spicers works in close partnership with its customers to offer the ofce end-users an innovative, exible and responsive service which other ofce products distribution channels nd difficult to match.
Plastic Packaging Revenue million Ofce Products Wholesaling Revenue million 11% 13% The growth in revenue of the Plastic The growth in revenue of the Ofce Packaging segment in 2007 08.
06 07 08 06 07 08 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 11 202 202 223 519 569 645 DELIVERING PROGRESS RAISING OUR PERFORMANCE Operating safely Developing new products Safety checkpoints have helped reduce accidents at DS Smith Kaysersberg.
Returnable transit packaging is designed to meet customers specic needs.
Safety at work is our top priority.
We have legal and ethical DS Smith Plastics, in common with all our Packaging operations, responsibilities to provide a safe workplace and ensure our working continually looks to grow its business by enhancing its product range practices are safe.
Safety is also an essential element in meeting our through the development of new products.
These may originate from objectives of raising the productivity of our operations and maintaining new technical processes and from designing packaging in new ways a high-quality and well-motivated workforce.
DS Smith Plastics is benefiting from having further strengthened its product development teams.
DS Smith Kaysersberg, Kunheim, has set up safety checkpoints for each of its machines: these contain safety manuals and other safetyDW Plastics, our beverage crate business, continues to apply its and quality-related information and equipment.
Employees receive manufacturing expertise to the development of products for new market extensive safety training and have to attest that they know the safety sectors.
A recent success has been a pallet for transporting and storing rules.
They are required to re-familiarise themselves regularly with this beer kegs.
Compared with traditional pallets, the injection-moulded information and to check each week that their machines safety systems product is lighter-weight, stronger and safer: a locking mechanism helps are in order before starting production.
ensure the stability of the kegs during handling and when stacked.
Further details of our health and safety performance and actions are provided on pages 33 and 34.
-27% 15% The cumulative reduction in the Groups total The increase over the last 18 months in the number of new RTP lost time accidents over the last three years.
product development projects converted into customer orders.
com In the tough markets in which we operate, we have to get better at what we do every year.
Across all our businesses, it is essential that we operate to a high standard in order to be successful in our markets.
Our strong focus on relentlessly improving our operational performance has made a significant contribution to our improved results in 2007 08.
We took decisive action to exit operations that would not deliver adequate returns and have concentrated our efforts on improving those parts of the Group which offer the best opportunities for profit growth.
Our drive to raise performance permeates all aspects of our operations including: safety, new product development, customer service and manufacturing efficiency.
Serving our customers Increasing our efficiency Spicers UK has improved the performance of its customer service team.
efficiency has been improved by systematic checks of machine settings.
In Spicers  business, a high level of customer service Across the Groups businesses, we place great emphasis on is an essential requirement for success.
At Spicers UK, improving the continually improving performance.
We look for new ways to raise customer service has been an important element in the management the skills of our people, the output of our machines and the quality teams action programme to rebuild profits.
Higher service levels are of our products.
We also seek to reduce our usage of energy and being achieved and the benets of this are being reected in increased other resources and minimise the amount of waste we produce sales and lower costs.
We aim to recycle as much as possible of any waste that we do create.
Our people use their expertise and With over 85% of customer orders at Spicers UK now being received creativity to improve our operations in these and many other respects.
electronically, the customer service function is mainly focused on dealing with product or delivery enquiries and administration questions.
The time DS Smith Kaysersberg, Kunheim, implemented a programme to taken to respond to telephone calls has been cut to a record low level.
reduce its converting costs in order to remain competitive and A new telephone system using the latest technology is being rolled out sustain its profits.
A key element of this programme was a drive and will link all of Spicers UKs service centres across the country, thus to raise output by a combination of carrying out more systematic further increasing the exibility and efficiency of the service team.
routine checks on the machine settings on its corrugators to ensure optimum performance and reducing the time taken to set up its box converting machines in readiness to manufacture each new product.
Over 97% 19% The percentage of Spicers large range of product lines The cumulative increase in output per employee at DS Smith that, across Europe, is available for next day delivery.
Kaysersberg, Kunheim, over the last three years.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 13 DELIVERING PROGRESS INVESTING FOR GROWTH Increasing our capability Enhancing our products Major investment will enable St Regis to supply a fast-growing part of its market.
DS Smith Packaging is growing in the retail display segment of the market.
European demand for high-quality lightweight corrugated case material Demand for high-quality printed point-of-sale material and large CCM has been growing at a much faster rate than the overall CCM scale signage on corrugated board is growing faster than the market market and is expected to more than double over the next three years.
for corrugated packaging as a whole.
This trend is attributable to This trend is a result of the increased demand for lighter-weight corrugated boards versatility, competitive cost, recyclability and corrugated boxes, for cost and environmental reasons.
The Group has invested in high-quality printing to enhance its capability to print a wide range of packaging DS Smith is investing 104 million in order to produce high-quality and display material.
lightweight CCM at its prime UK paper mill at Kemsley.
In February 2008, it acquired the adjacent New Thames Paper Mill and is The Groups specialist design studio, Level Five, has generated new modifying the acquired facility to produce lightweight CCM.
This project, business by creating high-impact display material for the media and which is described in more detail on pages 20 and 21 of the Operating retail sectors.
Review, will strengthen the Groups important UK Paper and Corrugated In early 2008, the Group acquired Multigraphics, one of the Packaging business by giving St Regis a significant capability in this UKs leading large-format screen and digital printing businesses.
growth segment of the CCM market.
Multigraphics specialises in the design and printing of retail and promotional display material and complements the Groups existing Market Size of Lightweight Recycled CCM in Europe design and printing skills and resources.
million tonnes Source: DS Smith consulting estimates 31% 120% The cumulative growth in revenue of DS Smith Packagings The forecast growth in the market for high-quality speciality businesses over the last three years.
lightweight recycled CCM between 2007 and 2010.
com 1.8 4.0 70 90 Identifying and exploiting opportunities for development is a key requirement for our future success.
DS Smith mainly operates in product and geographic markets in which demand is relatively stable and growth levels are modest.
We therefore place considerable emphasis on the identication and pursuit of opportunities to generate revenue and profit growth.
Seeking out product, distribution channel or customer segments which are growing faster than the market as a whole is a high priority for the Groups businesses.
We also look to develop our business in geographic markets which have higher growth rates, particularly in central and eastern Europe.
Expanding into new markets Growing geographically Packaging is being developed from our new Bubble Guard product.
Spicers has grown its business in continental Europe.
DS Smith Plastics is developing its returnable transit packaging RTP Spicers has grown its revenue and substantially changed the shape business in new product and market sectors.
of its business in recent years.
It has pursued a strategy to expand from its strong market positions in the UK and France by taking its Kaysersberg Plastics recently commissioned a new extrusion line at business model into the other major European markets.
It launched its factory in Alsace, France to produce its innovative Bubble Guard green-eld businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy and acquired a product a rigid polypropylene sheet comprised of three solid sheets, well-established business in the Benelux region.
the central layer of which is heat-formed to create a bubble structure.
This patented technology produces a sheet which is light-weight, has This international development has further strengthened Spicers.
a at surface which can be readily printed or laminated and is ideal The important purchasing function has benefited from the increased for conversion into trays, boxes, separators and sleeves for the scale of the business, while the marketing, IT support and logistics automotive, logistics, food, toiletries and pharmaceuticals industries.
functions are able to share ideas and resources.
The DS Smith Replen business has recently been established to provide bespoke RTP solutions for food and beverage companies in the European retail distribution market.
It will focus on the growth opportunity of supplying replenishment concepts that allow retailers to restock their stores less frequently and more efficiently.
Spicers Revenue by Geographic Region million DS Smith Plastics is extending its capability to support its RTP customers in the automotive and electronics industries through its extrusion and 2000 2008 converting operations in central Europe.
35% The cumulative growth in revenue of DS Smith Plastics returnable UK I UK Ireland transit packaging business over the last three years.
CE Continental Europe UK I CE Total UK I CE Total DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 15 306 113 419 336 309 645
