DELIVERING PROGRESS GROUP STRATEGY IMPROVE THE OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE OF OUR BUSINESSES DEVELOP OUR STRONG MARKET POSITIONS IN PACKAGING AND OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING ACTIVITY STRATEGIES PACKAGING OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING Develop our business, based on our expertise Establish the Spicers business model profitably in corrugated and plastic packaging and across the major markets recycling activities throughout Europe In converted packaging, offer innovative and Rebuild profits in the UK cost-competitive products, market-leading levels of service and supply chain solutions, particularly Continue to grow returns in for higher value-added market sectors continental Europe Extend our recycling capabilityDevelop our range of services to support our dealer customers Reinforce our positions in CCM and plasterboard liner Expand into central and eastern Europe and Russia GROUP KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Adjusted Return Adjusted Adjusted Earnings Net Debt on Average Capital EBITDA Margin Per Share Adjusted EBITDA Employed % Pence Times % 06 07 08 06 07 08 06 07 08 06 07 08 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 9 0 6.5 8.7 12.9 40 7.7 8.0 9.2 0 10.0 13.1 19.9 40 1.9 1.3 1.4 DELIVERING PROGRESS STRONG MARKET POSITIONS Supply chain leader Targeted strengths DS Smith Packaging is the UKs foremost supplier of corrugated packaging.
DS Smith Kaysersberg is a major supplier of heavy-duty corrugated packaging.
DS Smith has built a leading position in the entire UK corrugated DS Smith Kaysersberg operates in the established markets of France packaging supply chain.
and Italy and the developing markets of Poland, central Europe and Turkey.
It has built strong positions by concentrating on higher valueSevernside Recycling has grown organically and through acquisition: it added product or customer sectors.
provides a secure supply of waste paper to St Regis mills and provides recycling and waste management services to external customers.
It has especially strong capabilities in heavy-duty corrugated packaging, a sector which requires specialist manufacturing equipment, St Regis has raised the efficiency of its mill network and invested to design and expertise.
Heavy-duty packaging is produced from multiplereinforce its competitive positions in corrugated case material and layer board and is used to transport bulky, heavy or fragile goods.
It is plasterboard liner paper.
designed to meet the specic, demanding requirements of customers in the automotive, chemicals, electrical and other industries.
DS Smith Packaging has been enlarged through acquisition and developed through continuing investment.
It provides an extensive The Group recently enlarged its position in the rapidly-growing Polish range of corrugated packaging from its national network of plants.
market by building one of the most advanced box plants in Europe at Kutno, west of Warsaw.
It has also invested in converting operations The Groups major investment at Kemsley Mill to reinforce this segments in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, principally to supply the position is described on pages 20 and 21. automotive and other industries in that region.
Continental European Corrugated Packaging Revenue million UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging Revenue million 10% 12% The growth in revenue of the UK Paper and The growth in revenue of the Continental European Corrugated Packaging segment in 2007 08.
