Business Review Our Activities PACKAGING UK PAPER AND CORRUGATED CONTINENTAL EUROPEAN CORRUGATED In the UK, we have a leading position covering the On the continent, we have corrugated packaging manufacturing businesses in six countries and we whole corrugated packaging supply chain from the produce speciality recycled paper, principally in collection of waste paper for recycling, through the France.
We have an associate paper and corrugated production of recycled paper, to the manufacturing packaging business in Ukraine.
of an extensive range of corrugated packaging.
com Revenue: 753 million Revenue: 346 million 38% of Group revenue 18% of Group revenue Employees: 5,570 Employees: 2,296 Manufacturing locations: 36 Manufacturing locations: 15 Market positions: Market positions: strong capabilities in No.
1 UK waste paper collector for recyclingHeavy-duty corrugated packaging No.
1 UK recycled paper producer Laminated bulk boxes No.
1 UK corrugated packaging  packaging Custom-designed packaging Market-leading products DS Smith Kaysersberg is a specialist in heavy-duty packaging which DS Smith Packagings retail-ready, rapid-display packs readily convert is able to contain and protect bulky, high-value merchandise.
from being a transit box to being a display box for use in store.
Locations Locations Severnside Recyclings network of collection DS Smith Kaysersberg has depots enables it to collect waste paper from manufacturing operations in most parts of the UK.
France, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Turkey.
DS Smith Packagings network of corrugated The Group also has an associate packaging plants enables it to service customers business, Rubezhansk, in Ukraine.
In addition to the locations shown, it has 11 smaller sheet plants and six other smaller speciality operations.
Severnside Recycling collection depots DS Smith Kaysersberg St Regis paper mills Rubezhansk associate business DS Smith Packaging principal corrugated factories number as at 30 April 2008 2 www.
com OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING Spicers is the leading European ofce products PLASTIC wholesaler.
It supplies its customers ofce products We are focused on two Plastic Packaging markets: dealers with a comprehensive range of own-label Industrial returnable transit packaging RTP reusable and branded traditional stationery, electronic ofce container and pallet systems, extruded sheet and supplies, furniture and other products.
bottle crates: Liquid packaging and dispensing LP&D bag-in-box systems and injection moulded taps and dispensers.
net Revenue: 223 million Revenue: 645 million 11% of Group revenue 33% of Group revenue Employees: 2,165 Employees: 1,581 Distribution centres: 22 Manufacturing locations: 23 Market positions: Market positions: No.
1 European ofce products wholesalerA leading European supplier of returnable transit packagingLeading positions in UK, Ireland, Fra nce, Benelux No.
2 globally in liquid packaging and dispensingDeveloping in Germany, Spain, Italy Expertise in crates Extensive product range DW Plastics, part of DS Smith Plastics, is the No.
2 supplier of Spicers catalogue offers up to 18,000 product lines for use in the beverage crates in Europe.
The label is applied to the crate during ofce: its range is adapted for each country in which it operates.
Locations Locations RTP products are produced in: UK, Belgium, Spicers network of distribution France, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Czech centres comprises: Republic, Slovakia and Dominican Republic.
UK 9 Ireland 1 America LP&D products are produced in: UK, France 6 Germany, Bulgaria, USA, Australia and Benelux 1 New Zealand.
Germany 2 The segments two smaller businesses have Spain 2 locations in Israel, USA, UK, Germany, Italy 1 France and Czech Republic.
Europe Australasia DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 3
