Business Review Description of the Group DS Smith international packaging supplier and ofce products wholesaler The Groups activities of Packaging and Ofce Products accounts for 16% of the total amount sourced.
Severnside Wholesaling are managed through a decentralised structure particularly concentrates on sourcing used corrugated packaging, referred to as old corrugated containers OCC, covering four segments: which is the most suitable form of waste paper for producing PACKAGING recycled CCM.
Severnside supplies all of the 1.0 million tonnes of waste paper required by the St Regis paper mills UK Paper and Corrugated and it sells 0.7 million tonnes on the open market.
St Regis converts waste St Regis four paper mills produce approximately 0.85 paper into recycled paper, million tonnes of 100% recycled paper.
In addition, the which is used for producing recently acquired New Thames Paper Mill NTPM at DS Smith Packagings recently corrugated boxes.
Kemsley produces 0.2 million tonnes of partly recycled ne launched corrugated pallets uncoated paper: this machine will be converted, in winter are cost-effective replacements 2008 09, to produce 100% recycled CCM for further for wooden pallets and are details see pages 20 and 21.
of St Regis business excludes NTPM.
St Regis is the leading UK producer of CCM, which accounts for approximately 65% of the paper it produces, and is a leading European This segment is comprised of three businesses: Severnside producer of plasterboard liner, which accounts for over 20% Recycling, which collects waste paper and other materials of its production: the remainder comprises other speciality for recycling: St Regis, which processes the waste paper to paper grades.
The Groups Corrugated Packaging produce recycled paper, the majority of which is corrugated operations account for around 55% of St Regis CCM case material CCM used in the manufacture of corrugated packaging: and DS Smith Packaging, which converts CCM sales.
St Regis external sales are made to around 340 into corrugated board and boxes.
These three businesses customers: no single external customer accounts for more operating in the corrugated packaging supply chain are than 5% of the Groups total UK Paper and Corrugated heavily interdependent, although all three maintain openPackaging revenue.
market positions to ensure competitiveness.
DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion square metres per Severnside Recycling is the leading UK collector and annum of corrugated packaging at 32 factories located merchant of waste paper, the principal raw material for throughout the UK.
It is the leading supplier of corrugated producing recycled paper.
In total, annually it sources packaging to the UK market with a market share of around 1.7 million tonnes of waste paper by means of collections 25%.
Approximately 65% of sales go into the fast-moving through its 17 UK depots and open-market purchases from consumer goods FMCG sector predominantly for food supermarkets and third-party waste merchants.
In addition, and beverages, with the remainder being principally for Severnsides facilities management function provides the consumer durables and industrial sectors.
DS Smith DS Smith Kaysersberg general recycling and waste disposal services for customers Packaging supplies many of the leading FMCG companies: supplies retail-ready in a number of sectors.
Severnsides main sources of waste paper include large supermarket groups and other retailers, no individual customer accounts for more than 4% of the packaging to major other commercial and industrial organisations and local total UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
The largest single source of waste paper The Corrugated Packaging Supply Chain Waste Paper Corrugated corrugated case paper packaging material CCM boxes Recycled DS Smith UK Severnside Recycling St Regis Paper DS Smith Packaging Annual volume 000 tonnes Waste paper collected 1,700 CCM 550 Boxes and board 600 Other speciality papers 300 DS Smith DS Smith Kaysersberg France and Turkey DS Smith Kaysersberg France, Continental Europe Italy, Poland, Turkey, Czech Republic Annual volume 000 tonnes Solid board and speciality papers 220 Boxes and board 400 16 www.
com drinks, wine, food and other industry sectors from nine Continental European Corrugated locations in the UK, Germany, Bulgaria, the USA, Australia and New Zealand.
DS Smith Kaysersberg is particularly strong in heavy-duty Additionally, the segment contains two small speciality corrugated packaging.
businesses: Packaging Management, which provides logistics services, particularly for pallet and plastic layer pad pools: and a development business, StePac, which DS Smith Plastics specialises in modied atmosphere packaging for preserving produces returnable transit the quality of fresh fruit and vegetables in transit.
packaging for transporting The division purchases a wide range of polymers and automotive components.
plastic lms, principally polypropylene, high density In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg produces polyethylene and polycarbonate: the largest polymer 0.6 billion square metres per annum of corrugated supplier accounts for approximately 12% of raw material packaging at 12 factories located in France, Italy, Poland, costs.
This segment has a widely spread customer base and Turkey, Czech Republic and Slovakia.
The bulk of its CCM no single customer accounts for more than 5% of DS Smith requirements are sourced from third parties.
It has estimated Plastics total revenue.
market shares of 6% in France, 3% in Italy, 8% in Poland and 4% in Turkey.
The business has been growing strongly OFFICE PRODUCTS WHOLESALING in Poland and the Czech Republic.
DS Smith Kaysersberg produces 0.2 million tonnes of recycled paper principally solid board for use in the manufacture of detergent boxes Spicers supplies a broad at two mills in France and one mill in Turkey.
DS Smith range of ofce products also owns 49.6% of the leading paper and corrugated and supporting services packaging business in Ukraine: the results of this business to ofce products dealers.
The Groups continental corrugated packaging operations are particularly strong in heavy-duty and litho-laminated packaging.
Approximately 30% of sales are to the FMCG sector and the remainder is to the consumer durables, Spicers is the number one European wholesaler of ofce industrial and other sectors.
This segment has a large products: it has leading positions in each of the UK, Ireland, and diverse range of customers, none of which accounts France and the Benelux region, and it is building its position individually for more than 6% of Continental European in continental Europe with development businesses in Corrugated Packagings total revenue.
Its network of distribution centres comprises: UK 9: Ireland 1: France 6: Benelux 1: Plastic Germany 2: Spain 2: Italy 1.
DS Smith Plastics range Spicers provides a wholesaling service to its customer base includes polypropylene layer of ofce products dealers and resellers, who principally pads for the glass industry.
supply smaller and medium-sized ofces.
It supplies approximately 13,000 dealers throughout Europe and no single dealer customer accounts for more than 4% of Spicers total revenue.
Spicers product range of up to 22,000 product lines comprises its own 5-Star brand and other branded products of traditional stationery items, electronic ofce supplies, ofce furniture, janitorial supplies DS Smith Plastics holds a major European position in and ofce catering and vending provisions.
Its range is industrial returnable transit packaging RTP and is a communicated to its dealers and the ofces they supply leading worldwide supplier of liquid packaging and through printed catalogues and electronic systems: orders dispensing systems LP&D.
are now principally submitted to Spicers on-line or by other Spicers businesses each electronic means.
The Group is a leading European supplier of RTP.
Its offer a product range extensive product range includes reusable containers, appropriate to their country.
Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day or an boxes and pallet systems, injection-moulded crates and overnight, next-day delivery service: it also provides the semi-nished extruded sheet.
These products are supplied dealers with marketing and promotional support.
The to the automotive, beverage, pharmaceutical and other business is highly  with approximately markets from 12 locations in the UK, France, Belgium, 800,000 line-items being processed weekly.
The Spain, Portugal, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and maintenance of reliable and efficient systems that are the Dominican Republic.
capable of handling the high volume of customer orders In LP&D, it is ranked as number two globally in bag-in-box received daily, either on-line or by telephone, is a key feature of the business.
Spicers business model is explained packaging systems and injection-moulded taps and dispensers, which are supplied worldwide to the soft further on page 25.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 17
