Key Performance Indicators The Group uses a large number of performance section page 26 and under Corporate Social indicators to measure operational and financial Responsibility pages 40 to 41.
FAR was as follows: activity in the business.
Most of these are studied on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
A well-developed Frequency Accident Rating management accounts pack, including pro t and loss 2008 0.46 statements, as well as key ratios related to capital productivity and customer satisfaction scores, are 2007 0.50 prepared for each pro t centre monthly.
2006 0.75 There are five Key Performance Indicators KPIs 2005 0.98 which we use as measures of the longer-term health of the business.
They are: Returns on average capital employed In a business as capital-intensive as Aggrekos, Safety pro tability alone is a poor measure of performance: it Returns on average capital employed is perfectly possible to be generating good margins, but Earnings per share poor value for shareholders, if assets and in particular, Customer loyalty fleet are being allocated incorrectly.
We believe that, Staff turnover by focusing on return on average capital employed ROCE, we measure both margin performance Safety and capital productivity, and we make sure that unit Our business involves the frequent movement of managers are tending their balance sheets as well as heavy equipment which, in its operation, produces their pro t and loss accounts.
We calculate ROCE by lethal voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
dividing operating pro t for a period by the average Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we of the net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June are to avoid accidents which could cause injury to and 31 December.
ROCE was as follows: people and damage to our reputation and property.
Safety processes are also a basic benchmark of Returns on Average Capital Employed % operational discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation between a well-run business and 2008 28.5 a safe business.
In our experience, businesses with poor 2007 26.7 safety records nearly always have other management 2006 22.1 or operational fide ciencies.
2005 18.6 The main KPI we use to measure safety performance is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident Earnings per share Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of Measuring the creation or destruction of shareholder lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the value is a complex and much-debated topic.
We believe base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, that Diluted EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
measure of the returns we are generating as a Group A lost time accident is a work related injury illness that for our shareholders, and also has the merit of being results in an employees inability to work the day after auditable and well understood.
So, for the Group the initial injury illness.
as a whole, the key measure of short-term financial performance is diluted earnings per share preThe Groups performance during 2008 has shown exceptional items Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS an improvement over the previous three years and is is calculated based on pro t attributable to equity much better than the benchmark statistic reported for shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items US rental and leasing industries published by the US divided by the diluted weighted average number Department of Labor which was 1.1 FAR in 2007. of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the Further discussion of Health & Safety matters can be relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: found in this report in the Risks and Uncertainties 28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Adjusted EPS Pence Within this score, our North American business improved on last year delivering levels comparable 2008 45.56 to or better than many of the best performers across all industries in the United States.
Our European scores 2007 30.02 also have improved on last year and, while respectable, 2006 19.87 show that there is still room for further improvement.
2005 13.72 Our International business scores are at a similar level to last year.
Customer loyalty Staff turnover The Group deals every year with thousands of In a service business such as Aggreko, it is the customers, and we have developed a process by which attitude, skill and motivation of our staff which we can objectively measure the performance of our makes the difference between mediocre and excellent business units, not only in financial terms but also the performance.
Staff retention therefore is a reasonable extent to which they are making customers feel inclined proxy for how employees feel about our company.
to return to us the next time they need the services we We monitor staff turnover which is measured as the provide.
We believe that real-time measurement of our number of employees who left the Group other than performance, as seen by our customers, gives us visibility through redundancy during the period as a proportion of operational issues which might otherwise take of the total average employees during the period.
months to emerge through the pro t and loss account.
Staff turnover was as follows: Accordingly, we use the Satmetrix system, whereby we send customers an email immediately after a contract Staff turnover % closes asking them to ll out a detailed questionnaire of how they thought we performed.
This data is then 2008 15.1 collated to conform to the same management structure 2007 16.2 as our pro t and loss accounts so that, in monthly management accounts, we see not only a teams 2006 14.9 financial performance but also their operational 2005 15.2 performance as measured by how well their customers think they have done for the same period.
The level of staff turnover in 2008 was lower than These questionnaires generate enormous amounts the previous year which is particularly pleasing given of data about how customers view our processes and the rapid growth of the business this year and the performance and, in order to distil this down into consequent demands on our people.
a single usable indicator, we track a ratio called the Net Promoter Score NPS.
In 2008, just under As well as measuring staff turnover, the Group 30,000 questionnaires were sent out and we received instituted a Staff Survey, conducted by a third party, over 3,500 replies: we believe that the scale of the in which every employee was invited to say what they response we get enables us to have con dence in the thought about Aggreko.
The results put Aggreko in KPI.
Broadly speaking the NPS measures the relative the top quartile of employee satisfaction.
Notably, weight of people who think we do an excellent job 95% of respondents said that they enjoyed their work against those who think we are average or worse.
and 91% of respondents said that they were proud In aggregate, our NPS over the last three years was: to work for Aggreko.
Net Promoter Score 2008 58 2007 52 2006 50 Note: The Group started tracking NPS in 2006.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
