Board of Directors Philip Rogerson of Texas, he became a Vice-President of Aggreko Inc. 64 Chairman in 1988 and was appointed Executive Vice-President in Philip Rogerson is Chairman of Carillion plc and 1997.
In January 2001 he became President of Aggreko Northgate plc and a Non-executive Director of Davis North America and was appointed as an Executive Service Group plc.
Until February 1998 he was Director of Aggreko plc.
Deputy Chairman of BG plc formerly British Gas plc having been a Director since 1992.
He joined Bill Caplan the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997 and 50 Regional Director Europe and the Middle East was appointed as Chairman in April 2002.
Bill Caplan joined the Board on 17 November 2008.
He previously had a successful career working in Europe, Rupert Soames Asia, the Middle East, Africa and the USA with 49 Group Chief Executive United Parcel Service UPS and UPS Supply Chain Rupert Soames joined the Board as Group Chief Solutions.
He was born and educated in the USA, Executive on 1 July 2003.
He was formerly with Misys gaining an MBA from Harvard Business School after PLC, where he was Chief Executive of the Banking selling his family owned beverage distribution business and Securities Division.
Before joining Misys, Rupert in 1987.
For most of the last 20 years he has lived and was with GEC plc for 15 years, working in a number worked in Europe and Asia serving as Managing Director of their subsidiaries: in the last four years of his service for a number of UPS International Business Units.
Bill with GEC he was responsible for the UK, African currently serves as a Board Trustee and Non Executive and Asian operations of Avery Berkel.
He is a NonDirector for Phoenix Futures, a UK based charity.
executive Director of Electrocomponents plc.
Kash Pandya Derek Shepherd 46 Regional Director Aggreko International 66 Executive Director Kash Pandya joined the Board on 20 June 2005 as Derek Shepherd, a Chartered Engineer, joined Aggreko Regional Director Europe.
He was previously Chief in 1988 as Managing Director of the UK business.
Executive of Johnston Group plc, and prior to that He was appointed Director of Aggreko Europe in 1991 he was President, Europe, Asia & South America and became Managing Director in the following year.
of APW, the worlds largest manufacturer of specialist He joined the Board of Aggreko plc in September cabinets and enclosures for the telecoms and computer 1997.
In March 1999 he was given responsibility for industries.
Between 1996 and 1999, Kash worked Aggreko International Power Projects together with for Caradon plc, latterly as Director of European the Groups activities in the Middle East, Australia, Operations of the Radiator Division.
He has led a Asia, Africa and South America, a post he held until successful turnaround of the European business and 31 December 2008.
On 15 January 2008 he joined has now moved to Dubai: on 1 January 2009 he was the Board of Ashtead Technology Rentals Ltd as a appointed Regional Director, Aggreko International.
Nigel Northridge Angus Cockburn 53 Senior Independent Non-executive Director 45 Finance Director Nigel Northridge was formerly Chief Executive of Angus Cockburn, a Chartered Accountant, joined Gallaher Group Plc, a position he held for seven years, Aggreko in May 2000 as Finance Director.
He was having started his career with that business in 1976 previously Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, as a trainee manager.
He is now the Non-Executive a division of Dawson International PLC, having joined Chairman of Paddy Power plc and a Non-Executive that company in 1997 from PepsiCo Inc. At PepsiCo Director of Thomas Cook Group Plc.
In addition, Nigel he spent five years in various positions, latterly as is a Non-Executive Director of the European Golf Tour Regional Finance Director for Central Europe based and London Irish Rugby Football Club.
He joined the in Budapest.
He has worked with KPMG both in the Board of Aggreko plc on 14 February 2002.
UK and in the USA and has an MBA from the IMD Business School in Switzerland.
He is also a NonAndrew Salvesen executive Director of Galiform Plc and a former 61 Non-executive Director chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
Andrew Salvesen was appointed to the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997.
Previous to that, he George Walker had more than 20 years experience with the Christian 51 President Aggreko North America Salvesen group, including being the Managing Director George Walker, a United States citizen, joined of Christian Salvesens former Oil eld Technology Aggreko in 1987 when the Group initially entered the operations and was a Non-executive Director of temperature control business through the acquisition of Christian Salvesen PLC between 1989 and September Mobile Air-Conditioning Inc. where he was Controller 1997.
He is Chairman of Eurohostel Limited and and then Vice-President.
A graduate of the University a Director of the National Trust for Scotland.
46 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Philip Rogerson Rupert Soames Derek Shepherd Angus Cockburn George Walker Bill Caplan Kash Pandya Nigel Northridge Andrew Salvesen David Hamill Robert MacLeod Russell King Peter Kennerley Russell King David Hamill 51 Non-executive Director 50 Non-executive Director Russell King joined the Board on 2 February 2009.
David Hamill, who was appointed to the Board He is Chief Strategy Of in May 2007, was until December 2007 Chairman cer of Anglo American PLC, and Chief Executive of ICI Paints and a main board having joined Anglo American as Group Head of director of ICI.
In January 2008 ICI was acquired Human Resources, Business Development and by Akzo Nobel and for the calender year of 2008, Sustainable Development in 2001.
Previously, Mr Hamill led the integration process, forming the he spent over 20 years at ICI, with experience in worlds largest decorative paints business.
Mr Hamill its fertiliser, petrochemical and paint businesses.
joined ICI in 2003 from Royal Philips Electronics where he was a member of the Group Management Company Secretary Committee.
A graduate in production engineering Peter Kennerley 52 and management from Strathclyde University, he Peter Kennerley was appointed Director of Legal worked for Honeywell and General Instruments before Affairs and Company Secretary in October 2008.
He was formerly Company Secretary and General joining Philips Semiconductors in 1986.
In May 2001 Counsel of Scottish & Newcastle plc and before that he became President and Chief Executive Of cer of Philips Lighting.
a partner at Simmons & Simmons specialising in corporate law.
He also spent two years as Secretary Robert MacLeod to the Takeover Panel.
44 Non-executive Director Robert MacLeod was appointed to the Board in Board Committees Membership September 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and Audit, Remuneration, Nomination has been Group Finance Director of WS Atkins plc since June 2004.
He joined the Atkins Group as Group Financial Controller in March 2003 having previously worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
A graduate of Cambridge University, he trained at KPMG.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
