OUR FLEET Aggreko is unique amongst rental companies in that Most rental businesses have a model of buying assets we design and build the majority of our fleet in our and then selling them on at a relatively early stage in own manufacturing facility in Scotland.
Because we build longevity into our equipment, and failure rates in generators and chillers are more related to We believe that this is an important competitive how well they are maintained rather than how old advantage, for a number of reasons: they are, we opt for a policy of rigorously maintaining our assets and running them for as long as possible.
First, it means that we can optimise the This also has the signi cant advantage that our equipment to meet our particular operational business is not exposed to the vagaries of prices requirements.
A generator or chiller is normally achievable in the used equipment market.
designed to be permanently installed and rarely, if ever, moved: its performance will also be Our fleet is signi cantly larger than any of our adapted for the regulations and ambient competitors: at the end of 2008, it comprised conditions of the country in which it is sold.
13,500 generators ranging in size from 10kW to An Aggreko generator will be picked up and 2MW, which in aggregate amount to over 5,600MW put down thousands of times during its working of generating capacity.
To put this into perspective, life, and may be required to work faultlessly that is the equivalent of about 9% of peak power at 50C in the Saudi Arabian desert and a demand on the UK national grid.
We also have very few weeks later at -40C in Northern Canada.
large inventories of transformers, cable and distribution We also design our equipment with the equipment.
In aggregate, the net asset value of our knowledge that we will own the equipment power fleet is 574 million, and the original cost for its operating life and the more reliable carried in our balance sheet is 1,067 million.
it is, and the longer it lasts, the more money we will make.
Given the choice of 6mm steel Our chiller fleet is also much larger than any of our for a bed-plate, or 8mm, we choose 10mm.
competitors, with over 2,100 units having a capacity of 950MW.
The net asset value of our chiller fleet is Second, the volume in which we purchase 37 million, and the original cost carried in our the key components is signi cant in terms of balance sheet is 98 million.
In some sizes of generator engine and alternator, we probably account The rest of our fleet mainly comprises air-conditioners, for 10% of the total world output.
By designing oil-free air compressors, cooling towers and other and manufacturing our own equipment, we ancillary equipment with an aggregate net asset can capture for ourselves the bene ts of being value of 88 million, and the original cost carried a volume purchaser.
in our balance sheet is 218 million.
Third, having our own design and manufacturing capability means that we can react extremely quickly to customer requirements.
We only have to convince ourselves of the desirability of a particular design feature, not a third party manufacturer.
6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
