Our Resources This section describes how we manage our key The Companys remuneration policy, which is described resources to deliver the strategy outlined above.
on pages 54 to 56, is aligned with the key objectives of growing earnings and delivering strong returns on People capital.
To underline this point the Groups long term Aggreko has 3,500 employees around the world, and incentive scheme, and many senior managers annual they are united by a unique culture.
Phrases such as bonuses, are based on targets set against both earnings customer focused, can-do, completely dependable per share and returns on capital employed.
capture part of the ethos of Aggreko employees.
We have captured our culture in three words: performance, Physical assets passion and pace.
This culture has developed through Many rental businesses provide standard products to the years, and derives from the fact that very often their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you rent is Aggreko is helping people and businesses to recover the same as the one you can buy.
Aggrekos equipment from, or to avoid, emergencies or disruption.
Customers is different: manufacturers of generators, temperature are often dependent on Aggreko people to keep things control equipment and oil-free air compressors running, sometimes under very dif cult circumstances.
generally design their product to be installed and Our people are highly skilled, and many of them have stay in the same location for its working life.
For our years of experience.
They are used to reacting quickly, business, however, this equipment has to be lifted and getting the job done professionally and safely, and they transported thousands of times during its working life.
It must be able to work in extreme conditions the same generator might be working in -40C on an oil rig Taking into account the environment in which we in Russia one week, and in 45C in the Saudi Arabian operate, it is essential that our people are properly desert the next.
Designing and building equipment that trained, given the correct level of responsibility and can do this while remaining safe, quiet, reliable and accountability to make decisions on a timely basis and compliant with environmental and safety regulations is are remunerated and incentivised appropriately.
Each a key skill of Aggreko.
Unusually for a rental company part of the business has training programmes in place we design and manufacture most of our equipment, to ensure that our employees have the necessary skills and our specialist in-house teams based in Dumbarton, to perform their roles to a high level.
This training Scotland understand intimately the requirements of is a combination of on-the-job learning and speci c the environment in which the fleet operates.
Not only skill development through training courses.
A major do we have industry-leading equipment, we also have component of this training is related to Environmental a great deal of it 1,383 million worth at original Health and Safety EH&S issues.
More detail of our cost as at 31 December 2008.
EH&S policies is given on pages 40 to 41.
Unlike most other rental businesses, we have a policy In the last few years Aggreko has taken a number of keeping equipment for its useful life.
This gives us a of tangible steps to improve the capability of its powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives it people.
A new talent management system has been both longer life and better reliability.
We have a large introduced and the 140 senior managers in the number of skilled engineers, well-equipped workshops business have attended a management education and rigorous servicing regimes to ensure that our programme speci cally tailored to Aggreko at IMD equipment is maintained to the highest standards.
This initiative, combined with various other activities such as the establishment of dedicated in-house training facilities in Dubai and Houston, will contribute signi cantly to the ongoing capability of the Aggreko team.
22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Taking well-judged fleet investment decisions is a Supply Chain key part of Aggrekos management task.
All material During 2008, Aggrekos capital expenditure totalled investments are judged by reference to internal rates 265.2 million.
Of this, 73% was assembled by our of return, and we monitor utilisation daily.
Fleet is design and assembly operation which is based in frequently moved between countries to optimise Dumbarton, Scotland.
The remainder of the capital utilisation, and our ERP system gives us the ability expenditure was sourced direct from third party to manage our fleet on a real time basis across the manufacturers to Aggreko speci cation and managed world which, in turn, will enable us to optimise by our supply chain team in Dumbarton.
Aggrekos its deployment and returns.
supply chain capability in managing suppliers of both nished product and components for assembly is a key One measure of how we are doing in terms of managing part of our business capability.
We have long standing our physical assets is the return on average capital relationships with many of our suppliers, notably employed.
This measure is one of the key performance Cummins, which supplies a number of engine ranges indicators shown on page 28. and alternators.
We have also developed new supplier relationships in countries such as China where we Financial resources work very closely with the supplier to ensure that the The Group maintains suf cient facilities to meet its components produced comply with Aggrekos strict normal funding requirements in respect of on-going quality standards.
Currently we are working closely working capital and capital expenditure over the with our supply chain to ensure that the current medium term.
These facilities are primarily in the form economic environment does not adversely impact our of committed bank facilities, totalling 510.4 million suppliers ability to deliver the agreed product schedule.
at 31 December 2008, arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of international banks.
The financial covenants attached to these facilities are that operating pro t should be no less than 3 times interest and net debt should be no more than 3 times EBITDA.
The Group does not consider that these covenants are restrictive to its operations.
Since the year end the Group has re nanced or replaced 158.9 million of facilities due to mature in September 2009 with new facilities totalling 195.0 million.
The maturity pro le of the borrowings is detailed in Note 17 in the Financial Statements with the next maturity not due until 2011.
The facilities now in place are currently anticipated to be ample for meeting the Groups requirements for the foreseeable future.
Net debt amounted to 364.0 million at 31 December 2008, and at that date, undrawn committed facilities were 141.1 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
