WHAT WE DO Our business Aggreko provides electrical power and temperature The distinguishing features of our business are: control to customers who need them either very quickly, or for a short or indeterminate length of time.
The products and services we provide are We dont generally sell equipment: we hold it in our mission-critical.
Power and temperature control balance sheet for its useful life and make money by are utility services without which our customers either renting it or using it to generate power which cannot operate.
Most customers use our services we then sell to customers.
only occasionally but when they do, they rely on us to keep their business or even whole cities We do this on a global basis, with 133 service and countries functioning and safe.
They are centres and of ces in 31 countries: in 2008 we therefore likely to be more interested in service served customers in more than 100 countries.
The solutions we provide range from the simple We are not exposed to the fortunes of any single to the very complex, for example: end-user market.
All businesses use power, and many use temperature control.
Our equipment multi-million pound projects to help increase and services are easily transferable between production in petrochemical plants by providing end-user segments, so the generator used today additional power and liquid cooling: in a pharmaceutical plant may be on a lm set tomorrow and a building site the day after.
the design and operation of the temporary power infrastructure for events such as the We operate globally.
This means that we can Olympic Games: respond to events as they happen anywhere around the world and can move our equipment providing temperature control in an of ce after to wherever it can deliver the best returns.
the air-conditioning has broken down: We are organised to address all types of installing chillers to provide the cooling for opportunity, from the rental of a single chiller temporary ice-rinks: for a weekend, to managing huge projects worth many millions of pounds.
generating power for entire countries to prevent power-cuts: and We are experts.
We are focused on a very narrow range of products power renting a generator for a few days to a power and temperature control, and that means utility while they carry out improvements to we have technical expertise, equipment, skills transmission lines.
and experience on a scale, and to a depth, that we believe nobody else can rival.
By developing these competitive advantages, Aggreko has grown over the last thirty years to be the world market leader, with outstanding people, strong customer relationships, a powerful brand and an excellent reputation.
We have also developed a business large enough to enjoy economies of scale, which have enabled us to deliver highly attractive returns to shareholders whilst delivering outstanding value and service to our customers.
4 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
