Directors Report Our Strategy Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel Rupert Soames 2008 2003 CAGR Group Chief Executive Revenue m 862 324 22% Trading pro t m 198 42 36% Trading margin 23% 13% Return on capital employed ROCE 28% 13% calculated using average net operating assets Aggrekos strategy is developed by an iterative process of examining the factors which will affect the business in the years ahead.
We seek to develop a deep understanding of the drivers of demand, changing Angus Cockburn customer requirements, the competitive environment, Finance Director as well as developments in technology and regulation.
We look at our own strengths and weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats that are likely to face us.
From this analysis, we develop a list of investment and operational options, and analyse their relative risks and rewards, bearing in mind the capabilities and resources of the Group.
We test our strategy on a two-year cycle.
Having conducted a root-and-branch review in 2003 we re-examined our conclusions in 2005.
In 2007, we Group Strategy carried out a thorough review of our markets and Our strategy, which was initially developed following service offerings and we updated investors in March an in-depth review of Aggrekos business in 2003, 2008 with our latest analysis, the main findings of has remained consistent for the last five years and which are summarised below: continues to be the basis of our business planning.
That strategy is to deliver long-term value to The strategy developed in 2003 and re-con rmed shareholders, excellent service to customers and in 2005 is working well.
rewarding careers to our employees by being a leading global provider of temporary power and temperature The Groups core markets of power and temperature control.
The strong growth in revenues, margins and control rental are growing at a healthy rate, and returns on capital achieved over the last five years this gives it plenty of growth opportunities.
indicate that the strategy is the right one, and we continue to work relentlessly to implement it.
The in-depth analysis made of the drivers of growth in our International Power Projects business indicated that parts of the world are beginning to face serious structural shortages of power which will last many years and which should sustain demand for our services.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 Our Strategy continued Our Local business also offers attractive opportunities Total capital expenditure increased in 2008 to for growth, both from expanding existing territories a record 265.2 million, 84.6 million up on the and developing new ones.
prior year, representing 229% of the depreciation charge.
256.4 million was investment in new fleet As a consequence of these conclusions, we believe 2007: 172.4 million.
that it is in shareholders interests that we continue to invest in the business.
The focus of this investment is: In terms of operating ef ciency, in 2008: increasing our revenue-earning capacity, and the revenue per employee increased by 11%: and choice we can offer to our customers, by increasing return on average capital employed ROCE the size of our rental fleet: increased from 26% to 28%.
improving our ability to serve customers by opening Note: all ratios relate to revenue and pro t excluding pass-through fuel.
new service centres, both within existing markets and extending our reach into new markets: and We made good progress extending our global reach: improving the operational ef ciency of our We opened our first service centres in South business by investing in training for our employees, Africa and Russia, and added one in Chile.
improving processes, and extending our use of In August we acquired Power Plus Rentals and information technology.
Sales Ltd in Canada, giving us a strong position in the Athabasca Oil Sands market.
Since the 2007 strategy update, the world macroIn November 2008, we announced, and on economic situation has turned sharply for the worse.
1 January 2009 we completed the acquisition This change had no material impact on performance of the Cummins power rental business in India.
in 2008 but is likely to have a more noticeable effect in 2009, and we will therefore need to be pragmatic There was a major improvement in the scope of our and ready to adapt our investment plans in the light employee development programmes.
Siegfried Putzer of economic events.
Our next biennial strategy review joined the business as our new Director of HR, will be carried out in 2009, and the results reported we greatly expanded our in-house training facilities to investors in early 2010. in North America and Dubai, and we launched a 1-week tailored programme for senior management Against the objectives we set ourselves in 2008, delivered by IMD in Lausanne.
We also carried out good progress was made in the year: our first global employee opinion survey, which produced outstanding results.
The Group delivered strong growth in both revenue and earnings in 2008, as shown below: Business line strategy Supporting the Group strategy, Aggreko has developed Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel operational strategies for our two different lines of 2008 2007 Growth % business: Revenue m 862 634 36% Trading pro t m 198 131 51% The Local business delivers the complete range of Trading margin 23% 21% our services, from small generators to large cooling ROCE 28% 26% plants, to customers who are typically within a few hours driving time of our service centres: The International Power Projects business provides large-scale power generation on a global basis to power utilities, the military and major industrial users.
18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report The Local business logistics are complex, and we process a large number The Local business serves customers from 133 service of low-value transactions, an essential pre-condition of centres in 31 countries in North, Central and South ef ciency is having high quality systems and processes.
America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Australasia.
This is a business with high transaction The operation of our Local businesses in Europe volumes: average contracts have a value of around and North America is based on a hub-and-spoke 3,000 and last for 2-3 weeks.
The Local business, model which has two types of service centre: hubs excluding pass-through fuel, represents 67% of hold our larger items of equipment as well as providing Aggrekos revenues and 61% of trading pro t. service and repair facilities: spokes are smaller and act as logistics points from which equipment can Aggreko Local business be delivered quickly to a customers site.
The hubs 2008 % of Group and spokes have been organised into areas in which a manager has responsibility for the revenues, pro tability Revenue m 580 67% and use of capital within that area.
In this model, most Trading pro t m 121 61% administrative and call handling functions are carried Trading margin 21% out in central rental centres.
Capital employed m 453 63% ROCE 27% This operating model is delivering bene ts to both our customers and shareholders.
For our customers, Since 2003, the performance of the Local business it means faster and more consistent levels of service has improved sharply: and response, and that this is valued is shown in our Net Promoter Scores.
This is an objective measure Local business of customer satisfaction which we derive from 2008 2003 CAGR questioning over 20,000 customers a year.
Over the Revenue m 580 258 18% last three years our score has improved by 8pp and, Trading pro t m 121 27 35% in many of our Local businesses, is now at levels Trading margin 21% 10% that match or exceed those achieved by companies ROCE 27% 11% renowned for delivering high levels of customer satisfaction.
For our shareholders, the bene t has been The first objective of our Local business strategy is a return on capital employed that has improved from to create and maintain a clear differentiation between 11% to 27% over the last five years and a compound our offering and that of our competitors.
Our research growth in trading pro t of 35% over the same period.
shows that Aggreko is regarded by our customers as providing extremely good service, and that we deliver An integral part of the strategy for the Local business high levels of customer satisfaction.
We are determined is the implementation of our Enterprise Resource to maintain this reputation for premium service and Planning ERP system which will provide a single, we do this through the attitude and expertise of our global, IT system for managing our business.
The staff, the geographic reach of our operations, the system gives us greatly improved visibility of the design, availability and reliability of our equipment, business, which will enable us to drive improvements and the ability to respond to our customers 24 hours in operating ef ciency.
The system is fully operational a day, 7 days a week.
in Europe and North America, and is currently being implemented in Aggreko International.
We have now The second objective of our strategy is to be begun the process of delivering the full potential of extremely ef cient in the way we run our operations.
the ERP system in terms of real-time information This is essential if we are to provide superior customer and better ef ciency through streamlined processes.
service at a competitive price, and at the same time deliver to our shareholders an attractive return on capital.
In a business in which lead-times are short, Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Our Strategy continued International Power Projects Since 2003, the International Power Projects This business serves the requirements of power business has also grown rapidly: utilities, governments, armed forces and major industrial users for the temporary provision of largeInternational Power Projects excl pass-through fuel scale power-generation.
Power plants range in size 2008 2003 CAGR from 10 megawatts MW to 100MW on a single site, Revenue m 281 66 34% and the initial contract value will typically be around Trading pro t m 77 15 39% 1 million, with a duration of 6-9 months although Trading margin 27% 23% many contracts are subsequently extended beyond ROCE 29% 25% this.
The business operates in areas where we do not have a large Local business.
Most of the customers Our strategy for International Power Projects is are power utilities in Africa, the Middle East, Asia determined by two key characteristics of the market.
The driver of demand in these The first is that demand can shift rapidly between markets is that our customers economies are growing, continents.
Six years ago, South America and Sri with consequent increases in demand for additional Lanka were the largest markets, and Africa was only power which cannot be met in the short-term by a small proportion of global demand.
In 2008, the installed generating capacity.
As a result, many of market in Africa was larger than South America and them face chronic power shortages which damage Sri Lanka combined.
It would not surprise us if this their ability to support economic growth and situation were to change again in the next three increased prosperity.
These shortages are often years.
These shifts in demand were driven in part by caused or exacerbated by the variability of supply rainfall patterns, in part by the relationship between arising from the use of hydro-electric power plants economic growth and investment in permanent power whose output is dependent on rainfall.
generation and in part by geo-political issues.
To be successful in the long-term, therefore, requires the International Power Projects now represents 33% of ability to serve demand globally, and that requires sales, Group revenues and 39% of trading pro t excluding marketing and operational infrastructure to be present pass-through fuel: in all major markets.
International Power Projects excl pass-through fuel The second observation is that this is a business 2008 % of Group in which size brings signi cant advantages.
There Revenue m 281 33% are numerous reasons for this: Trading pro t m 77 39% Trading margin 27% A large business, with global distribution and Capital employed m 267 37% a large fleet, which can move assets around the ROCE 29% world to meet demand wherever it arises can Note: Pass-through fuel refers to revenues we generate from two be reasonably con dent when it invests in new customers for whom we have agreed to manage the provision equipment that, over its economic life of 8-10 years, of fuel on a pass-through basis.
This revenue stream uctuates the equipment will be on rent for enough of the with the cost of fuel and the volumes taken, while having little time to keep in place the operational infrastructure impact on our pro tability.
We therefore exclude pass-through fuel from most discussions of our business.
needed to support the equipment, and to earn an economic return on the investment.
A business which only operates in a single region or continent will be exposed to signi cant volatility in demand and, consequently, long periods with idle fleet which will seriously dilute investment returns.
20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Each year, a number of emergency requirements The International Power Projects business has made arise, often as a consequence of breakdown in good progress expanding further in Africa, South permanent generating capacity, for which equipment America, Asia and the Middle East.
Our strategy is has to be deployed in a matter of days.
These to continue to invest heavily in this business to enable contracts are important because, in many cases, they it to further increase its scale and reach.
This will are the foundation of long-term, valuable customer deliver increasing revenues and pro ts and will reduce relationships.
To be able to respond to them, the volatility inherent in the power projects business.
however, requires the immediate availability of fleet, A growing proportion of our future investment is and the operational capacity to deploy anywhere likely to be in gas-fuelled generators, which produce in the world.
It is much easier to nd 30MW of lower emissions and which, for some customers, are equipment available for immediate mobilisation cheaper to run than diesel generators.
We think that in a fleet of 3,000MW than in a fleet of 300MW.
this technology could become an important niche in the International Power Projects marketplace It is our experience that it is possible to run large in the years ahead.
eets to higher levels of utilisation than small eets.
This means that large operators can offer better The current economic crisis will prove challenging pricing to customers.
in many businesses, Aggreko included.
The possible effects of a recession are discussed more fully under Large operators are able to negotiate better terms the What drives market growth?
section on page 10. with suppliers, and can invest in the design and In short, our global operations combined with the assembly skills which allow them to deliver wide range of customer segments in which we operate equipment optimised to rental requirements at will help us mitigate the impact in speci c regions or a lower capital cost than is generally available sectors by moving equipment either to another sector to small-scale operators.
We believe that the drivers of demand in International Power Projects are strong, In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility and will remain so for as long as demand for power of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, be in developing countries is growing faster than these better able to respond to emergency requirements, and countries can build new permanent power generation will have a lower fleet cost per MW.
The longer and more severe the global Power Projects, bigger is better and Aggreko is now economic slowdown becomes, the greater will be much larger than any other competitor in this market, the impact on our business, but the exibility of as well as being the only company to have distribution our business model which allows us to adjust capital in all the major markets.
expenditure very quickly is a real strength in the current economic climate.
Looking Ahead Our strategy is working well and has produced excellent results.
We have strengthened our competitive position in all markets over the last five years, and our global reach is far greater.
In terms of the Local business, we will continue to drive operational improvement, focusing on turning our ERP system into a competitive advantage.
We intend to grow our market share in North America, Europe and the Middle East, and we will expand the footprint of our Local business in Eastern Europe, Asia and South America.
As well as organic growth, we will also look for opportunities to grow our business through the acquisition of companies or assets in our core markets.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
