Other Matters Dividends and Other Distributions Share Capital Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the On 31 December 2008 the Company had in issue Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time 272,116,594 ordinary shares of 20p each.
Details of declare dividends in accordance with the respective the changes in issued share capital during the year rights of the members, but no dividend can exceed the are shown in Note 22 to the accounts.
amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Board may pay Rights and obligations attached to shares such interim dividends as appear to the Board to be Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred justi ed by the financial position of the Company and to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred may also pay any dividend payable at a xed rate at on the holders of any other shares, any share may be intervals settled by the Board whenever the financial issued with or have attached to it such rights and position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution justi es its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so is not liable to the holders of any shares for any loss far as the resolution does not make speci c provision, they may suffer in consequence of the payment of an as the Board may decide.
interim or xed dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
Voting Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which The Board may deduct from any dividend or other any shares may be issued or may for the time being monies payable to a member by the Company on be held and to any other provisions of the Companys or in respect of any shares all sums of money if any articles, on a show of hands every member who is presently payable by him to the Company on account present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the the Company has one vote.
On a poll every member Company.
The Board may also withhold payment who is present in person or by proxy has one vote of all or any part of any dividends or other monies for every share of which he is the holder.
In the case payable in respect of the Companys shares from a of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior person with a 0.25 per cent interest as fide ned in the who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, Companys articles if such a person has been served is accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the with a restriction notice as fide ned in the articles other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority after failure to provide the Company with information is determined by the order in which the names concerning interests in those shares required to be stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
provided under the Companies Acts.
Restrictions on voting Variation of Rights No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either personally or by proxy at any general meeting either with the consent in writing of the holders of of the Company or at any separate general meeting not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the of the holders of any class of shares in the Company issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that if any calls or other sums presently payable by him in class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a respect of that share remain unpaid or if he is a person special resolution passed at a separate general meeting with a 0.25 per cent interest as fide ned in the of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum Companys articles and he has been served with applying to any such separate general meeting is two a restriction notice as fide ned in the articles after persons holding or representing by proxy not less than failure to provide the Company with information one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the concerning interests in those shares required to be class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury provided under the Companies Acts.
shares, but at any adjourned meeting one holder present in person or by proxy whatever the number The Company is not aware of any agreement between of shares held by him will constitute a quorum : holders of securities that may result in restrictions every holder of shares of the class present in person on voting rights.
or by proxy excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares is entitled on a poll to one vote for every share of the class held by him subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares and any holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
64 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Restrictions on transfer of securities in the Company A special resolution will also be proposed to renew There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities the directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues in the company, except: for cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal amount of 2,725,000. that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, The Company was also authorised at the Annual insider trading laws : and General Meeting held in 2008 to make market purchases of up to 27,162,000 ordinary shares.
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial This authorisation will expire on the earlier of Services Authority whereby certain employees of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting the Company require the approval of the Company of the Company for 2009 and 23 October 2009. to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
A special resolution will also be proposed at this years The Company is not aware of any agreements Annual General Meeting to renew the directors between holders of securities that may result in authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary restrictions on the transfer of securities.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 27,250,000 ordinary shares and sets Securities carrying special rights the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Change of Control The Company has in place a number of agreements Rights under employee shares schemes with advisers, financial institutions and customers Bailhache Labesse Trustees Limited, as Trustee of the which contain certain termination rights which would Aggreko Employees Bene t Trust, holds 1.40% of the have effect on a change of control.
The Directors issued shared capital of the Company as at 5 March believe these agreements to be commercially sensitive 2009 in trust for the bene t of the employees and and that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial former employees of the Group and their dependents.
to the Company: accordingly they do not intend The voting rights in relation to the shares are exercised disclosing speci c details of these.
In addition, all of by the Trustee and there are no restrictions on the the Companys share schemes contain provisions which exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of any offer in the event of a change of control, would result in relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged to waive outstanding options and awards becoming exercisable, all dividends on the shares unless requested to do subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
otherwise by the Company in writing.
There are no agreements between the Company and Powers in relation to the Company issuing its directors or employees providing for compensation or buying back its own shares for loss of of ce or employment that occurs because The directors were granted authority at the last of a takeover bid.
Annual General Meeting held in 2008 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 15,696,600.
That authority will apply until the earlier of 22 April 2013 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting for 2013.
At this years Annual General Meeting shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount of 17,985,000, and ii comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of 17,985,000 after deducting from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, the section 80 authority, such section 80 authority to apply until the end of next years Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2010.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 65 Other Matters continued Material Share Interests Each director must retire from of ce at the third As at 5 March 2009 the Company had received Annual General Meeting after the Annual General noti cations of the following share holdings Meeting at which he was last elected.
Non-executive representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached Directors who have served longer than nine years to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: e. g. three three-year terms are subject to annual re-election.
In addition to any power of removal % of total conferred by the Companies Acts, the Company Name of Shareholder Number of Shares voting rights may by special resolution remove any director before Barclays Global Investors 15,955,646 5.88 the expiration of his period of of ce.
The of ce of a Baillie Gifford & Co 15,939,356 5.86 director must be vacated if: i he resigns his of ce A E H Salvesen 14,482,371 5.32 by notice in writing delivered to the of ce or tendered Lloyds Banking Group plc 13,637,004 5.00 at a meeting of the Board: or ii his resignation is Standard Life Investments Ltd 13,296,104 4.91 requested by all of the other directors and all of the Legal & General Group plc 10,797,375 3.96 other directors are not less than three in number: or A C Salvesen 10,106,075 3.45 iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health Morgan Stanley 8,313,698 3.05 or becomes a patient for any purpose of any statute including immediate family and trustee interests relating to mental health and the Board resolves that including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests his of ce is vacated: or iv he is absent without the Mr A C Salvesen is a Director of the Company and his holdings are also disclosed on page 63. permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an alternate director appointed by The Directors are not aware of any other material him attends for six consecutive months and the interests amounting to 3% or more in the share Board resolves that his of ce is vacated: or v he capital of the Company.
becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: or vi he is prohibited by law from being Amendment of Articles of Association a director: or vii he ceases to be a director by virtue Unless expressly speci ed to the contrary in the articles of the Companies Acts or is removed from of ce of association of the Company, the Companys articles pursuant to the Companys articles.
of association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Appointment and replacement of Directors the Companys memorandum of association and its Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution articles and to any directions given by the Company of the Company, the number of directors disregarding in general meeting by special resolution, the business alternate directors is not less than two nor more than of the Company is managed by the Board, which may fifteen.
No shareholding quali cation for directors is exercise all the powers of the Company whether required.
The Company or the Board may appoint any relating to the management of the business of the person to be a director.
Any director so appointed by Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise the Board shall hold of ce only until the next general all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to meeting and shall then be eligible for election.
The mortgage or charge all or any part of the undertaking, Board or any committee authorised by the Board may property and assets present and future and uncalled appoint one or more directors to hold employment capital of the Company and to issue debentures and or executive of ce with the Company for such other securities, whether outright or as collateral period subject to the Companies Acts and on security for any debt, liability or obligation of the such other terms as the Board or committee may Company or any third party.
in its discretion decide and may revoke or terminate any appointment so made.
66 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Indemnity of Of cers Essential Contractual Arrangements Under Article 145 of the Companys Articles The Company buys the majority of its generator of Association, the Company may indemnify any engines from Cummins Limited, a subsidiary of Director or other of cer against any liability, subject Cummins Inc based in Columbus, Indiana, USA.
to the provisions of the Companies Acts, and the We also rely on their global service and support Articles grant an indemnity to the Directors against network for the supply of spare parts.
Our relationship any liability for the costs of legal proceedings where with Cummins is governed by a supply agreement judgement is given in their favour.
Under the authority conferred by Article 145, Annual General Meeting the Company has granted indemnities to Directors The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held and of cers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
at 11.00 a. m. on Wednesday 29 April 2009 at the The indemnities do not apply to any claim which Crowne Plaza Hotel, Glasgow G3 8QT.
arises out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of duciary duty or trust by the indemni ed person.
Annual General Meeting Special Business Special Business comprises resolutions: to increase In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain the authorised share capital of the Company by for any Director or other of cer, insurance against approximately 31%: to authorise the Directors any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate amount insurance cover against legal action brought against representing approximately two thirds of the issued its Directors and of cers and the directors and of cers ordinary share capital of the Company, in line with of its subsidiaries.
recent guidance issued by the Association of the British Insurers: to disapply the statutory pre-emption Disclosure of information to the Companys Auditor rights of shareholders on allotment of equity securities The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a of this Directors Report con rm that, so far as they nominal value of approximately 5% of the current are each aware, there is no relevant audit information issued share capital: to renew the authority of the of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Company to purchase its own ordinary shares as Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have permitted under article 7 of Articles of Association: taken as a Director to make himself aware of any and, to re ect the proposed implementation in August relevant audit information and to establish that the 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive, to approve Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
the calling of meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice.
Going concern The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, Auditors consider that the Group and the Company have A resolution re-appointing  adequate resources at their disposal to continue LLP as the Companys Auditor will be proposed at their operations for the foreseeable future, and that the Annual General Meeting.
it is therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Groups policy to settle the terms and conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and, in practice, provided the supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by them.
In overall terms, the Group had approximately 81 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 67
