Directors Report THE MARKET Our market How big is the market, and what is our market share?
Demand for Aggrekos services are created by Because we operate in very speci c niches of the events our customers generally turn to us when rental market power, temperature control and, in something unusual happens which means they North America only, oil-free compressed air and need power or temperature quickly, or there is a across a very broad geography, it is very dif cult to requirement which is temporary.
Events that stimulate determine with any accuracy the size of our market.
demand range from the very large and infrequent A complicating fact is that our own activities serve to to the small and recurrent.
create market demand Rwanda and the Yemen did not gure highly in our market forecasts in 2003, but are now important customers as a result of our sales Examples of high-value, infrequent events efforts.
Furthermore, our market is event driven and or situations we have worked on include: major events such as hurricanes in North America, the Olympic Games, or major droughts in Africa Large-scale power shortage Kenya, can in uence market size in the short-term.
As there is no third-party research that exactly Major sporting events Olympic Games, matches our business, we have to use a number of Ryder Cup, Super Bowl.
different approaches to estimate the size of the global market.
All of our measurements of market size relate Natural disasters Hurricanes Gustav to rental revenue, as services revenues such as fuel and Ike in 2008. and freight are highly volatile and do not have any re ection on underlying market size.
Post-con ict re-construction Middle East, Africa and the Balkans.
For most OECD countries in which we operate, we use three techniques: Examples of lower-value, more frequent, events Supply-side estimation.
We use market intelligence on which we might work are: to estimate the supply-side i. e. how large our competitors are.
This is notoriously inaccurate, An oil re nery needs additional cooling during as competitors often have much broader product the summer to maintain production throughput.
It is extremely dif cult to work out how much of their revenue comes speci cally from A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown generators and chillers, and how much from the in its plant and needs power while its own many other lines of equipment they may offer.
In our Local business, A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink the implementation of our new IT system, and for the Christmas period.
a much sharper emphasis on sector-based marketing, is helping us to develop an improved understanding of our revenue by sector and customer.
For our International Power Projects business, we have invested considerable effort in proprietary research with professional economists to develop models which forecast the supply of, and demand for, power.
Third-party data, where it is available.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 9 THE MARKET How big is the market, and What drives market growth?
By triangulating these techniques, we develop an Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven estimate of market size but the truth is that it is a guess, by three main factors: and probably not a very accurate one.
In 2003, we did a great deal of work on market sizing, and came GDP as an economy grows, so does demand to the conclusion that the market was worth about for energy.
1.3bn and was growing at about 5%.
Since then, our own rental revenues have grown at a compound Propensity to rent how inclined people are annual rate CAGR of 22%, which would imply either to rent rather than buy.
This is driven by issues that our market share has grown improbably fast, such as the tax treatment of capital assets or that the original market size was wrong, or that and the growing awareness and acceptance we under-estimated the growth-rate.
In all probability, of outsourcing.
And in times of recession, the truth is a mixture of all three factors.
Our best people can be more inclined to rent rather guess and it is just that because we do not feel than commit capital to purchase.
inclined to spend hundreds of thousands of pounds of shareholders funds paying someone else to guess Events high-value low-frequency events is that the market in which we operate is worth change the size of a market, although only somewhere between 2bn and 2.5bn per year.
For example, the scale of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 led to a short-term surge Given our rental revenues of 658 million in 2008, in temporary power demand in the areas this would imply an Aggreko world-wide share of sales affected by the hurricanes.
Behind this lies enormous variation.
In many developing countries, where the rental market is barely developed, and where we are called in to In seeking to understand the drivers of growth better, provide temporary utility power, we may represent we have devised the concept of Aggreko GDP: 100% of the power rental market for the period of this is the GDP of a country weighted to account the project but none when it ends.
In OECD countries, for Aggrekos sectoral mix of revenues.
Typically, where the rental markets are better developed, our this means that we are weighted more towards share of sales will be lower than the 30% we estimate manufacturing than, say, financial services.
Over the for our global share of sales.
However, in nearly all past few years, we have observed that in countries the major markets in which we operate, Aggreko where the growth rate of Aggreko GDP is below is the largest or second-largest player.
5%, our revenues tend to grow a few percentage points faster than Aggreko GDP.
In economies where Aggreko GDP growth is above 5%, we get an increasingly leveraged effect, with Aggreko sales growth far outpacing GDP growth.
This is for a number of reasons, but most notably, simply that when economies are growing fast, customers want equipment quickly, they want high levels of service, and they want to focus on doing what they are good at, rather than owning large amounts of equipment.
10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Country 10 Country 9 Country 8 Country 7 Country 6 Country 5 Country 4 Country 3 Country 2 Country 1 The graph below plots this relationship between As the global economy slows, and GDP growth growth in Aggrekos revenues by country and growth in some countries goes negative, the question arises in Aggreko nominal GDP.
We would caution that as to what happens to demand when the markets we these gures include the impact of the GE Energy operate in are in recession.
Since none of the markets Rentals acquisition in December 2006 which will we operate in have been in recession since we exaggerate the underlying sales growth in some re-organised our Local business in 2003, we do not countries, but we feel that the trend they show have the richness of data to analyse what happens is directionally correct.
to demand when GDP growth goes negative.
Our working assumption is that the relationship between Aggreko GDP and our revenues also works in reverse Aggreko Revenue CAGR 03-07 vs Aggreko in other words, in times of negative economic Nominal GDP growth, our revenues will fall faster than the economy as a whole.
The impact on pro ts could be material, % Aggreko GDP Aggreko Revenue 45.0 as operational gearing and the margin enhancement 40.0 we see when revenues are rising would likely reverse.
35.0 In these situations the bene ts of geographic diversity 30.0 are especially important, as we can shift investment 25.0 and fleet from under-performing to over-performing 20.0 economies and sectors.
In addition, our broad mix 15.0 10.0 of customers spread across multiple industries means 5.0 that we are not overly reliant on any single sector.
0.0 -5.0 Source: Oxford Economics, Aggreko Management accounts: Note includes GE-ER revenues in 2007 Overall, in times of positive GDP growth, we estimate that the market addressed by our Local business for the short-term rental of power and temperature control is growing at some 2-3% above GDP in developed markets.
So, if GDP grows at 3% on average over the cycle, our market should grow at 5%.
In countries with rates of nominal GDP growth that are above 5%, the market can grow much faster.
The factors which drive the growth of our International The rapid growth in power consumption in Power Projects business are different.
The main trigger developing countries is driven by industrialisation of demand is power cuts: when the lights go out in and by the growing number of consumers having a country, people want power restored as quickly as access to devices which consume electricity, such possible.
It is a perverse fact that people value power as fridges, televisions and mobile phones.
Between most when they are without it.
We believe that in 2000 and 2006, the number of people whose power many parts of the world, and most particularly in consumption is growing faster than per-capita GDP many developing countries, there will be increasing increased by 1.3 billion to 4.3 billion, representing numbers of power cuts caused by a combination nearly 70% of the worlds population.
The vast of burgeoning demand for power and inadequate majority of these people live in developing countries, investment in new capacity.
We believe that demand where investment in the acquisition of new generating for power is going to grow much faster than is capacity and maintenance of existing capacity has commonly believed: working with a leading group been woefully inadequate.
of professional economists at Oxford Economics, we have built a model which takes data on GDP To make this situation worse, by 2015, 25% of the and population growth, power consumption, and worlds installed power-generating capacity will be power generation capacity for 120 countries over over 40 years old, which we believe is a reasonable the last 10 years.
Using this historical data, it then proxy for the average life of a permanent power projects future power demand based on forecasts of plant.
So the next ten years will see the beginning population and GDP growth.
Our model predicts that of a replacement cycle during which the majority world-wide demand for power will grow by around of existing power-plant construction capacity will 5% per annum between now and 2015, compared be dedicated to replacing existing plants in OECD with forecasts by the International Energy Agency countries, rather than building replacement or IEA of around 3.5%.
Our model re ects the sharp additional capacity in developing countries.
divergence between the growth in power consumption between OECD and non-OECD countries in recent Our models predict that the combination of these years, as shown in the graph below.
demand-side and supply-side factors will increase the world-wide shortfall of power generating capacity from about 70 gigawatts in 2007 to between 400 Rolling 3-year average growth and 1,000 gigawatts by 2015.
The ultimate size of in power consumption the shortfall will depend on both the rate of increase % OECD World Non-OECD in demand, and the net additional generating and 9.0 transmission capacity brought into production during 8.0 the period.
However, even if the shortfall is at the 7.0 bottom end of our forecasts, it will still represent a 6.0 level of global power shortage many times larger than 5.0 4.0 todays.
We are con dent that such a level of power 3.0 shortage will drive powerful growth over the medium 2.0 and long term in demand for temporary power.
1.0 0.0 Source: IEA, Oxford Economics 12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report What impact could a recession have on demand for We therefore believe that, even in the face of our International Power Projects business?
It is certainly challenging macro-economic circumstances, many likely that lower rates of per-capita GDP growth will power utilities in developing economies facing lead to slower rates of growth in demand for electricity chronic supply shortages will continue to nd in developing countries.
However, we believe that, Aggrekos offering compelling.
Their choices are unless there is a prolonged economic catastrophe, the limited: continue to suffer chronic power shortages: market for temporary power in developing countries wait until nancing new permanent power becomes will continue to grow.
Our reasoning is that the current possible and then a further five to ten years to macro-economic environment will create a number construct the plant before the first watt of electricity of con icting forces.
On the one hand, lower rates can be generated: alternatively, contract with Aggreko of economic growth will reduce demand for power and have the lights back on in a matter of weeks.
in developing countries, and particularly in countries where mining activity represents a high proportion of Probably a greater risk than lack of demand in grid consumption a small part of our customer base.
our International Power Projects business in times of Also countries which are highly dependent on oil recession is that some of our customers behaviour may revenues will nd themselves poorer and less able become more unpredictable, and their payment habits to support high levels of infrastructure investment.
Historically, we have made very high On the other hand, our customers, who are the returns on capital from our International Power Projects power utilities, will nd that the lower cost of fuel business, partly because we tread where others are makes temporary power generation much more fearful to do so.
We always advise investors to regard affordable.
On the supply side, reduced demand for these returns as a reward for the fact that their assets replacement generation capacity in North America are at greater risk of loss or impairment than they and Europe may shorten lead-times for equipment.
would be if they were sitting in the suburbs of London However, we believe that this improvement in the or New York.
At some point, the risks may crystallise supply-side equation will be dwarfed by the very into an actual loss of monies and, or, equipment, severe impact that the current macro-economic and that point is more likely to arise at a time of environment has had upon the ability of developing economic stress.
countries to raise finance for major infrastructure projects.
At a time when many businesses in OECD countries are nding it hard to raise funding, it has become almost impossible for most power utility businesses in developing countries to contemplate raising the finance for sizeable power generation projects, which require hundreds of millions of pounds of upfront investment and generate returns over 20-30 years.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13
