Directors Report OUR BUSINESS MODELS Aggreko is organised around two different business models Local business International Power Projects Our Local business is a high transaction volume The International Power Projects business sells power business, renting equipment to enable customers which we deliver using temporary power plants owned to respond quickly to requirements for power and and operated by ourselves.
Whereas in the Local temperature control: the average contract size is business a contract with a customer is described in around 3,000, but the range is from 200 to over terms of renting speci ed items of equipment for a 1,000,000.
Although most of this business has a period of time, most of the contracts that International lead-time of more than 12 hours, about 25% of its Power Projects perform are for providing a fide ned revenues come from responding to emergencies.
It is amount of electrical power.
Under the terms of these therefore essential to have the capability to deploy contracts, Aggreko is responsible for installing and equipment and people to the customers site within operating the equipment and the invoice to the a matter of hours.
This business operates from 133 customer is for power generation capacity not service centres in Europe, North, Central & South equipment rented.
Most projects in this business America, the Middle East, Asia and Australasia.
are worth over 1 million and some can be worth These service centres look after customers who are over 10 million a year.
65% of revenues comes normally within a radius of 150 miles and they offer from power utilities in developing countries but we the complete range of our products and services.
also serve governments, armed forces, international agencies as well as oil and mining companies.
In 2008, the Local business had revenues of A typical contract in this business would be for the 580 million which is 67% of Aggrekos total rental of 20-50MW for an initial period of 6-9 months, 1 revenue excluding pass-through fuel.
which will often be extended.
We use standardised equipment: 1MW containerised units of our own design assembled in our own factory in Scotland.
These generators use either diesel or gas and are designed speci cally to be easily transportable, reliable and robust.
Power projects can arise anywhere in the world and the required response time is generally weeks or months rather than the hours or days needed in the Local business.
To support these projects we concentrate our fleet in a number of hubs in South America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub, large amounts of equipment can be shipped or own rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2008, our International Power Projects business generated revenues of 281 million, or 33% of Aggrekos total revenue excluding pass-through 1 fuel revenue.
1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to contracts in our International Power Projects business in Sri Lanka and Uganda where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 7 OUR BUSINESS MODELS Who are our customers?
Competitive environment Aggreko serves every industry that uses power Our biggest competitors are not rental companies, and temperature control, making our customer-base but equipment manufacturers.
When customers need very diverse, both in terms of geography and market equipment, they have the choice to buy, lease or segment.
This is a great advantage, as it gives us to rent.
The vast majority of chillers and generators some protection against problems in any one particular supplied to end-users each year are bought or leased, market.
And we can quickly move resources to sectors and only a few are rented.
So, in terms of pricing and and countries which are growing.
service, we always have to be focused on the fact that customers have a choice, not only of using other rental companies, but also to buy from manufacturers.
Aggreko revenue by customer segment Excluding pass-through fuel revenue Within the Local business, barriers to entry are low: 1 many companies, small and large, drift in and out 1 Utilities 29% 2 Petrochemical of rental, and competition in each market is erce.
10 and re ning 9% Typically, competitors in the Local business are 9 3 Manufacturing 8% either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, 4 Oil and gas 8% 8 or divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Most of 5 Events 8% them operate in a single country, and often in just 6 Construction 7% 7 2 7 Military 7% a particular part of a country.
In each region, local 8 Contracting 5% competition is intense but the competitors will tend 6 9 Services 5% 3 to be different country by country.
10 Other 14% 5 4 In International Power Projects we also see localised Source: Aggreko internal reports competition, often from the local distributors of manufacturers or from entrepreneurs.
However, these companies nd it hard to organise across territories, Aggreko revenue by geography and it is dif cult to operate ef ciently in this business Excluding pass-through fuel revenue without a large fleet and the infrastructure to sell and operate it around the world.
1 1 North America 24% 5 2 Europe 22% 3 Middle East and Africa 34% 4 In both the Local business and International Power 4 Asia and Australasia 12% Projects valuable economies of scale accrue to those 5 South and Central who can operate on a global basis.
However, to gain America 8% 2 these bene ts of global scale requires a long-term commitment to building distribution, deep technical expertise across a number of disciplines, and a welldeveloped supply-chain: it also requires hundreds of millions of pounds of capital to fund fleet investment.
3 Over the last ten years, some very powerful companies Source: Aggreko internal reports such as GE, Alstom and Caterpillar have tried to emulate Aggreko, but none have been willing to match Aggrekos rate of investment in fleet, people and global distribution.
As a consequence, we have grown to be signi cantly larger than any other company operating in our market.
8 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
