x71226 Rhouse front p1 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p1 cg 4 9 08 10:23 Page 14 14 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors John Clough MBE, Chief Executive Officer age 49 Charles Berry, Non-Executive Director and Chairman age 56 John has been Chief Executive since the business was established in 1990, having previously worked in strategic management Charles was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive positions with British Coal.
John has led the development of eaga, Director and Chairman in 2006.
He has extensive experience in the creating a unique employee engagement culture, broadening its UK power sector as a former board member of Scottish Power plc core service and installation offerings, transforming its financial where he served as UK Chief Executive.
Charles is a Non-Executive performance and delivering significant growth in both the private Director of Securities Trust of Scotland plc, Impax Environmental and public sectors.
Markets plc and having served as a Non-Executive Director of Drax Group plc, was this year appointed as its Chairman.
Ian McLeod, Finance Director age 40 Malcolm Simpson, Non-Executive Director age 66 Ian joined eaga in 2004 and was appointed to the Board in early 2005.
He is responsible for all aspects of financial Malcolm was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive management and reporting and works with Drew Johnson in Director in 2007, he is a former Finance Director of Greggs plc.
delivering eaga's inorganic growth strategy.
Ian spent 14 years At Greggs Malcolm oversaw a period of strong growth as the with  LLP prior to joining eaga, during company expanded both organically and inorganically and which time he gained extensive experience in advising companies achieved flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
across a broad range of market sectors.
Quintin Oliver, Non-Executive Director age 53 Joseph Drew Johnson, Quintin was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive Director Commercial Director age 49 in 2004.
He lives and works in Belfast, Northern Ireland, leading Drew joined eaga in 1991 having previously been with Stratagem the first dedicated lobbying and public affairs company British Coal in supply chain management and logistics.
He to emerge after the Northern Ireland peace process following was appointed to eaga's Board in 1999.
Drew has responsibility the Good Friday agreement.
for eaga's commercial strategy, focusing on the identification, development and delivery of opportunities for both organic Tracy Clarke, Non-Executive Director age 41 and inorganic growth.
Tracy was appointed to eagas Board as a Non-Executive Director in October 2007.
She is currently Group Head of Human Dave Routledge, Resources at Standard Chartered plc and a member of its Group Organisational Development Director age 50 Management Committee, having previously undertaken a variety of operational and strategic roles for the bank.
Following Standard Dave joined eaga in 2002 and was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Chartereds acquisition of Korea First Bank in 2004, Tracy was He is responsible for strategic organisational development, human appointed as a Non-Executive Director of this separately regulated resources, risk management and corporate and government affairs.
Dave previously held main board level responsibilities for human resources and operations within the pharmaceutical sector.
Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Malcolm Simpson Chair Tracy Clarke Chair Charles Berry Chair Quintin Oliver Malcolm Simpson Malcolm Simpson Tracy Clarke Quintin Oliver Quintin Oliver John Clough MBE Executive Director Dave Routledge Executive Director x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:11 Page 15 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga Front: Charles Berry, Chairman Pictured from left to right: Malcolm Simpson, Joseph Drew Johnson, Dave Routledge, John Clough, Quintin Oliver, Tracy Clarke, Ian McLeod.
