x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:11 Page 16 16 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2008.
Principal Activities and Business Review Interests in shares The Group is engaged in the provision of outsourced services and During the year ended 31 May 2008 the Company had a general products that address a wide range of environmental and social right to purchase all or any of its own shares subject to compliance challenges.
Its core focus is working with a broad customer base with the matters set out within article 15 of its Articles of that includes central Government, energy suppliers, the BBC and Association and the specific right conferred by the resolution a significant number of local authorities to devise, develop and passed at the AGM of 22 November 2007 to acquire up to 10% deliver outsourced solutions that help households and families of the Companys issued Ordinary Share Capital.
deal with many different aspects of social, technological, The Company is aware of or has been notified under Chapter 5 of economic and environmental change.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the following Details of the Group's activities and a review of the business significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: are set out in the Chairmans Statement, Operational Review Number of Percentage of and Financial Review on pages 4 to 13.
Direct Shares Direct Shares % The Financial Review includes: Eaga Partnership Trustee Two Ltd 46,853,747 18.7 details of the Key Performance Indicators used by the Directors to assist in the management of the business being: Revenue, Eaga Partnership EBITA and EBITA margin Trustee Ltd 46,853,300 18.7 a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Artemis Investment the Group Management Ltd 18,701,703 7.5 Information relating to the environment and Partners is included Brewin Dolphin in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 30 to 33.
Private clients 12,303,308 4.9 Legal & General Investment Financial Results and Dividends Management Ltd. UK 8,928,480 3.6 The Groups results are shown in the Group income statement on page 36.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a All of the above shares are held directly.
The Company has not final dividend of 2 pence per Ordinary Share to be paid on been notified of any indirect holdings.
14 November 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17 October 2008 which, together with the interim Directors dividend of 1 pence per Ordinary Share paid on 18 March 2008, Details of the Directors who currently hold office are listed on page results in a total dividend for the year of 3 pence per Ordinary 14.
During the year Tracy Clarke was appointed on 1 October Share 2007: nil.
Michael Roberts OBE retired on 22 November 2007 and Richard Burns died on 20 May 2008. x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:11 Page 17 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 eaga This year we installed enough energy efficient lighting to light the entire city of Nottingham In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third Directors Indemnities or the nearest whole number below one third of the Directors are The Directors have the benefit of qualifying third party indemnity required to retire at each annual general meeting AGM, together provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association which with Directors appointed by the Board since the date of any notice were in force throughout the financial year and remained in force convening the previous AGM.
as at the date of signing this report.
In addition, under the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Donations issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code, Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by During the year the Company and the Group made charitable shareholders every three years and Non-Executive Directors who donations of 135,000 2007 - 250,000 principally to the have served more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
independant eaga Charitable Trust and the eaga Community Fund managed for eaga by the Community Foundation.
Having been appointed since the publication of the notice for the last AGM, Tracy Clarke will retire from the Board and, being No political donations were made.
eligible, will offer herself for election.
John Clough and Charles Payment of Suppliers Berry will retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Profiles of all three Directors can be found on page 14.
It is the Groups policy that UK operating companies should follow The Board has acknowledged and agreed the contribution of all the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
This Code requires the Company three Directors to have been extremely valuable throughout the to agree the terms of payment with its suppliers, to ensure its period and this has been borne out by an external performance suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by them.
Their re-election will be recommended by the Companys creditor days outstanding as at 31 May 2008 were Board.
The termination provisions in respect of the Executive Directors Employment issues and policies contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 20 As a co-owned business eagas ongoing relationship with the to 25. two eaga Partnership Trust companies ePT continues to be an The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Share Capital of important element of how we engage our Partners.
ePT holds the Company as at 31 May 2008 and the date of signature of more than 37% of the shares in the Company together with other this report:- assets arising from the sale of shares at flotation for a beneficial class which includes current Partners.
ePT invests in a range of initiatives and programmes that provide direct benefit to Partners Charles Berry 55,249 as a result of their employment with eaga.
Such benefits may John Clough MBE 6,336,340 include a distribution to the beneficiaries either in cash or shareIan McLeod 5,082,472 based which would be accounted for under IFRS2 and result in a Drew Johnson 5,082,472 charge to eagas Income Statement.
Any such distribution is wholly Quintin Oliver 24, 861 discretionary and ePTs independent board of directors have sole Dave Routledge 5,157,472 responsibility for such decisions in this regard.
By working closely Malcolm Simpson 88,149 with the eaga plc Board of Directors and the eaga Partners Council Tracy Clarke Nil ePC, ePT helps to uphold the essence of eaga as a co-owned, values-driven business.
x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg:x71226 Rhouse front p2 cg 5 9 08 15:11 Page 18 18 eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors We have a range of initiatives to assist in Partner engagement Equal Opportunities and participation: We are committed to creating an inclusive working environment for our Partners from recruitment through to retirement.
Our our cultural eaga Cares programme, which is in place Equal Opportunities and Dignity at Work policy promotes an throughout the Group as a mechanism that energises and environment that is free from discrimination, harassment and strengthens the Groups corporate mission and values.
The victimisation, with equity of treatment regardless of gender, colour, eaga Cares framework is now firmly set within our performance ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual and development process, which enables us to embed our orientation or religion.
All employment decisions are based on value set throughout employee behaviours and development objective criteria and are free from bias.
As a certified Two an annual Partner Engagement Survey, the results of which Ticks employer, we have demonstrated our willingness to consider are shared with all Partners and improvement action plans appropriate positive action to optimise opportunities for those formulated with team leaders committed to implementation with disabilities, including a range of flexible and home-working of the plans.
The feedback from the survey has also assisted arrangements.
Our policies also include enhanced arrangements in the development of a new Performance and Development for maternity, paternity and adoption, thus demonstrating our framework which ensures that every Partner understands the support of family life.
Groups strategic objectives and how their role fits within those objectives Remuneration Report a Partner recognition scheme known as eaga Stars which seeks The Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 25 will as required by to identify and reward those Partners who demonstrate role the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 be put to model behaviour in keeping with the eaga values and the shareholders for approval at the AGM.
go beyond what would ordinarily be expected of them in a work situation Power to allot shares and authority for the the ePC, a consultative forum of Partners elected from all areas Company to purchase its own shares of the business meets regularly with the Executive Directors.
The Directors propose to renew the general authority of the The relationship has grown over the last year as the challenges Company to make market purchases of its own shares to a total of adapting to the plc environment coupled with part ownership of twenty five million 25,000,000 Ordinary Shares representing by the Partners have seen levels of effective communication and approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital of the co-operation increase significantly.
Their input and assistance in Company and within the price constraints set out in the special developing the Companys people policies has been invaluable.
resolution to be proposed at the AGM.
There is no present The divisional ePC representative also sits on the information intention of the Company to make any purchase of its own shares.
and consultation committee ICC for the division, which ensures a cohesive information flow Articles of Association our internal publication Switched On, which is circulated to The latest version of the Companys articles of association was all Partners homes every other month, keeps our people and adopted by special resolution on 30 May 2007.
There are no their families up to date with latest developments and key areas proposals to alter those articles.
of focus across the business.
The magazine has a strong Financial instruments interactive feel which encourages Partners to participate and provide content of their own A summary of the Companys treasury policies and objectives relating to financial risk management, including exposure to our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR agenda also provides associated risks, is included in the Financial Review on pages an opportunity to engage with Partners in a diverse range of 10 to 13. innovative and exciting projects.
Further details of our CSR activity can be found on page 30 Auditors The Groups subsidiary based in Northern Ireland, Heat and The auditors,  LLP have signified their Associated Technology Limited, achieved the top position in the willingness to continue in office and a resolution reappointing 2007 Sunday Times Best Places to Work employee survey.
them as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
On behalf of the Board Christopher Judd Company Secretary 1 September 2008
