easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Executive management team From left to right Saad Hammad, Mike Campbell, Cor Vrieswijk, Andrew Harrison, Toby Nicol, Jeff Carr, Neil Mills, Tim Newing 26 easyJet plc Executive Annual report and accounts 2008 management team continued Saad Hammad Toby Nicol Chief Commercial Officer Communications Director Saad 46 joined easyJet in November 2005, bringing considerable Toby 38 joined easyJet in December 1999.
He was appointed commercial experience in international consumer-focused businesses.
Communications Director in September 2005 after six years in a range Saad has held senior positions in brand management, sales and marketing of communications and lobbying roles within the Company and has and retailing at Procter & Gamble, Thorn-EMI, Vision Express, and Minit.
been part of the Executive Management Team since mid 2004.
Toby is He was also Case Leader at the Boston Consulting Group working responsible for the Companys communications, lobbying and regulatory primarily with consumer goods manufacturers and retailers.
In addition, affairs as well as all corporate and social responsibility.
Toby also chairs the Saad was Managing Director Europe at Tibbett & Britten, the market Steering Group of Flying Matters, the aviation industrys environmental leader in consumer product logistics, and CEO of Autocascade, lobby group.
Previously, Toby was employed in senior positions for a leading a pan-European web-based yield management start-up.
Saad holds communications consultancy undertaking work across a range of diverse a degree from Oxford University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Saad is clients from IBM to bmi.
a Non Executive Director at Optos plc, the leading medical retinal Jeff Carr imaging technology company.
Group Finance Director Mike Campbell See Directors profiles.
People Director Neil Mills Mike 51 joined easyJet in October 2005 as People Director.
Before Procurement Director joining easyJet Mike worked at Wedgwood in a broad role as Director Neil 37 joined easyJet in October 1997.
He was appointed of People and Brands and Managing Director for Canada, Australia and Procurement Director in June 2008 after 11 years in a range of roles Pan-Asia.
Prior to that Mike worked for 14 years at Fujitsu in a variety across most departments in the Company.
Neil is responsible for all of development and personnel roles across Europe, Asia, Africa and the the fleet transactions and procurement across the Company and has Middle East, ending up as Chief Personnel Officer.
His early career was responsibility for the airport and ground handling costs which are in education and research.
Mike has a BSc in Mathematics and Masters second to only fuel in scale.
Neil is an accountant by training.
Tim Newing Cor Vrieswijk IT Director Operations Director Tim 49 joined easyJet in August 2006.
He has a wide range of experience Cor 50 joined easyJet in January 2007 from Transavia.
com, a Dutchacross the technology spectrum and has played a major role in the based airline, where he was Chief Operations Officer for nine years and development of the National Lottery over a ten year period, first as brings 25 years experience in the airline industry.
His responsibilities at Technical Manager for IT supplier GTECH UK before joining Camelot as Transavia.
com included flight operations, cabin operations, engineering Head of Projects and Networks in December 2000 and becoming and maintenance and ground handling, together with relevant experience IT Director in March 2002.
During this time, Tim successfully developed in marketing, human resources and IT.
Cors first degree was in engineering and delivered a series of programmes that saw a period of major followed up by a Masters Degree in organisational sciences.
technological innovation, significantly enhancing the systems architecture Andrew Harrison and key business processes within Europes biggest lottery company, Chief Executive Officer and, at the same time ensuring high reliability and availability from the See Directors profiles.
His achievements saw him recognised as the 2005 IT Director of the Year in the Jaeger-LeCoultre Telegraph Business Awards.
27 Other information Financial information Report on Directors remuneration Directors report Overview
