easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of easyJet plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of easyJet plc for the year ended 30 September We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated and Company cash flow includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts statements, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Report on and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared Directors remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the information in the Report on Directors remuneration that is described preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting as having been audited.
policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us on Directors remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Directors responsibilities.
or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Report on Directors remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing be audited.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Opinion Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We In our opinion: do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Groups affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit and cash consent in writing.
flows for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards state of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2008 and the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also cash flows for the year then ended: report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
the financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared in In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups  LLP corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors St Albans We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
17 November 2008 The other information comprises only the unaudited part of the Report on Directors remuneration, Five year summary, Shareholder information and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
43 Other information Financial information Report on Directors remuneration Directors report Overview
