Report of the Directors The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are together with the audited accounts for the year ended set out on pages 16 and 17, together with details of their membership 31 March 2008. of Board Committees.
Brief details of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are set out Principal Activity and Business Review on pages 19 and 20.
The principal activity of the Group is the distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial and commercial supplies and services, Directors interests in the shares of the Company are shown through its 27 operating companies and its distributors.
Significant on pages 20 and 28. events which occurred during the year are detailed in the Chairmans The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its statement, the Group Chief Executives review, and the Business approval.
It is responsible for the overall Group strategy and the Review shown on pages 3 to 15.
The Business Review is incorporated approval and review of major investment proposals.
The Board by reference into, and forms part of, this Directors Report.
discusses and agrees strategic plans, reviews forecasts and Results and Dividends evaluates Group and subsidiary performance.
Other day-to-day Results for the year are set out in the income statement on operational decisions are delegated by the Board to the Group page 30.
An analysis of revenue, profit and net assets by activity Executive Committee.
is shown in note 2 on pages 39 and 40.
Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.6p per ordinary familiarity with the Group by attending external seminars and share, to be paid, if approved, on 25 July 2008 which, together briefings, through participation at meetings and through visits with the interim dividend of 5.8p per share paid in January 2008, to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by amounts to a total dividend of 18.4p for the year ended 31 March receiving presentations from senior management.
are regularly updated on new legislation, including training during the year on the new directors duties brought in by the Companies Corporate Governance Act 2006.
Directors are given access to independent professional In respect of the year ended 31 March 2008, the Company has advice at the Groups expense, if they deem it necessary in order been subject to the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate for them to carry out their responsibilities.
This is in addition to Governance published in July 2003 and revised in June 2006 the the access that every Director has to the Company Secretary.
Section 1 of the Combined Code establishes The Company has continued to secure appropriate insurance 17 main principles and 26 supporting principles of good governance cover for its Directors and its officers.
in four areas: Directors: Remuneration of Directors: Accountability and Audit and Relations with Shareholders.
The following three Retirement by Rotation and New Appointment sections explain how these principles were applied.
A detailed Keith Hamill wishes to retire at the forthcoming Annual General report on Directors' Remuneration can be found on pages 24 to 28.
Meeting and will not be seeking re-election.
Directors and Directors Independence Tim Barker will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General As at 31 March 2008 the Board comprised the Chairman, who Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association is part-time, two Executive Directors and four independent and, being eligible, is offering himself for re-election.
Tim Barker Non-Executive Directors, one of whom, Keith Hamill will retire does not have a service contract.
On the expiry of Tim Barkers at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Since the year end, second three year term as a Non-Executive Director his Paul Hollingworth has been appointed to the Board as a performance was subject to a particularly rigorous review by the Non-Executive Director.
The Board is collectively responsible Board.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the Chairman for the performance of the Company.
The Board has carefully confirms that the performance of Tim Barker as Non-Executive considered the guidance criteria on independence of Non-Executive Director continues to be effective and that he demonstrates Directors under the Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board, commitment to the role.
all the continuing Non-Executive Directors bring independence of Rupert Soames was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on judgement and character to the Board and to the committees on 13 July 2007.
Rupert Soames is therefore standing for formal which they sit, and are independent of management and free from election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
any business or other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
Paul Hollingworth was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2008.
Paul Hollingworth is therefore standing for formal election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
18 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Board Committees Directors.
The Nomination Committee then meets and decides The Board has a number of standing committees consisting which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
of certain Directors, and in the case of the Group Executive This process was used for the appointment of Rupert Soames Committee and Treasury Committee, certain senior managers, and Paul Hollingworth as Non-Executive Directors.
to which specific responsibilities have been delegated and for Board Evaluation which written terms of reference have been agreed.
These terms During the year the Chairman has held meetings with the Nonof reference are available for inspection on the Companys website.
Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present.
Membership of the various Committees, including the Chairman In addition, the Board has carried out a formal evaluation of its of each Committee, is shown on pages 16 and 17.
The process comprised the Company Secretary formally receives minutes of meetings of all its committees issuing a detailed questionnaire covering the Board and its and can request presentations or reports on areas of concern.
The questionnaire covered issues THE GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE consists of the Executive such as effectiveness of meetings, how well strategy is tested Directors and certain senior managers with Operating Company and developed, Board composition and succession planning and and Process responsibilities.
The Committee meets monthly risk management controls.
The responses to the questionnaire and manages the day-to-day activities of the Group.
The Board were collated independently by the Company Secretary, who has delegated the following responsibilities to the Group Executive then prepared reports for each of the chairmen of the relevant Committee: the development and recommendation of strategic Committees.
The reports were discussed at the Board and the plans for consideration by the Board: the monitoring of the relevant committees and necessary follow-up actions agreed.
operating and financial results against plans and forecasts: and Chairman Evaluation the development of risk management and control procedures.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by Tim Barker The Board reviewed succession planning for members of the in his capacity as the Senior Independent Director, met to review Committee in July 2007. the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views THE AUDIT COMMITTEE consists of all the Non-Executive of the Executive Directors.
Following the review, Tim Barker met Directors and meets at least three times a year and more with the Chairman to discuss the feedback on his performance.
The Committee assists the Board in its Board Attendance duties regarding financial statements and continually reviews the Board and Committee Meetings operation of internal financial controls with the internal operational The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings audit team and, where applicable, external auditors.
It also reviews of the Board and of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration the scope and results of the audit with the external auditors and Committees during the year and individual attendance by the the results of the work of the internal operational audit team.
The relevant members at these meetings: Committee is also responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Keith Hamill and Paul Hollingworth have relevant financial and Number of accounting experience.
Further details of the role of the Committee meetings held are set out on pages 20 to 21. during the year 9 4 2 4 THE TREASURY COMMITTEE consists of the Group Chief Executive, Chairman the Group Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant Group H Mamsch 9 4 Treasurer, the Group Controller, the Company Secretary and the Group Executive Directors Tax Manager and sets detailed treasury policy for the Group within I Mason 9 guidelines established by the Board.
S Boddie 9 THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE consists of all the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors and meets as required but not less Directors than twice per year and is responsible for all aspects of the L Atkinson 9 4 2 4 remuneration of Executive Directors and senior managers.
Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration T G Barker 9 4 2 4 of each Director are set out in the Remuneration Report.
K Hamill 9 4 2 4 a R C Soames 6 2 1 1 THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE consists of the Chairman and b all the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman, Helmut Mamsch, N J Temple 3 2 1 3 chairs the Committee.
The Committee meets as required and a Rupert Soames was appointed to the Board on 13 July 2007. recommends to the Board candidates for appointment as Executive b Nick Temple ceased to be a Director on 13 July 2007. and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee Chairman, Group Chief Executive and periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge and experience Senior Independent Director are required on the Board and if appropriate, recommends a The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by candidate profile which is then used to brief Recruitment different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Consultants appointed by the Committee to undertake the Chairman and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established: selection process.
Initial meetings are held generally by the their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed Chairman and the Group Chief Executive with prospective by the Board.
candidates and a shortlist of individuals is selected to meet with other Nomination Committee members and the Executive Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Report of the Directors continued The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and views on strategy and performance, the results of which were for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness communicated to and discussed by the Board.
The Chairman has no involvement in the The Company also has a website www.
com day-to-day business of the Company.
The Chairman facilitates which contains up-to-date information on Group activities.
the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, and ensures Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Accountability and Audit He is also responsible for effective communication between the In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested Board and shareholders.
parties, by means of Annual and Half-Yearly Financial Reports and Interim Management and other periodic statements, the Board The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on aims to present a balanced and easily understandable assessment a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial of the Groups position and prospects.
and operational performance of the Group, and the determination of the strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
Internal Control The Group has an established and on-going process of risk Tim Barker as the Senior Independent Director is responsible for management and internal control which has continued throughout chairing the meeting of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual of evaluating the Chairmans performance and to provide a report and accounts.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness communication channel for shareholders if required.
of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed Directors Interests in Shares and implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the and the risks to which it is exposed.
Company are set out in the table below.
The Directors have In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and no non-beneficial interests: the recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 control, the Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the or date or date system of internal control.
The Audit Committee receives regular ceased to be a appointed as a reports on the performance of the system of internal control, and Director Director on its effectiveness in managing material risks and in identifying L Atkinson 2,260 2,260 control failings or weaknesses.
The Board then formally receives T G Barker 15,000 15,000 the minutes of each Audit Committee meeting.
S Boddie 75,000 25,000 The Audit Committee dedicates one meeting a year to the review K Hamill 5,183 5,183 of the risk management and the internal control system with the H Mamsch 10,000 10,000 minutes of the review being formally reported to the Board.
I Mason 112,349 62,349 Together with the provision of regular updates to the Board on a material risk issues, these allow the Board to make the assessment R C Soames 5,866 Nil b on the systems of internal control for the purposes of making its N J Temple 10,040 10,040 public statement.
a Rupert Soames was appointed to the Board on 13 July 2007. b Nick Temple ceased to be a Director on 13 July 2007.
During the period under review, no significant changes to the material risks to which the Group is exposed were identified, Directors' interests in Incentive Plans and Share Options are and no control failings or weaknesses were identified that resulted disclosed on page 28. in unforeseen material losses.
The internal control system can Up to 28 April 2008 there have been no changes in the Directors' provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material interests or rights to subscribe for shares.
Relations with Shareholders Internal Financial Controls Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups Directors to enable them to discharge their responsibilities for performance, which include meetings following the announcement financial matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 23. of the annual and interim results.
The Group Chief Executive, Group The main financial control elements are described below.
Finance Director and Chairman meet with major shareholders to Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Nonthe Board Committees, with delegation of operating responsibility Executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders through the Board Committees to management in all locations.
The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Operating company controls are detailed in Group Finance and Board on meetings with shareholders.
The Group Finance Director Group Treasury manuals that specify the controls necessary ensures that the views of the shareholders are communicated to in identified areas of financial risk.
Smaller group operating the Board through these reports.
companies are supported by Group, regional and Process Shareholders were given the opportunity to meet with and specialists in key areas.
put questions to the Chairman and other Board Directors at Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, last years Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent monthly and annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management Director is available to attend meetings with major shareholders accounts are prepared by all operating companies and Group-wide at their request.
These contain forecasts of the current financial year The Chairman and Executive Directors held meetings with a which are updated four times per year and are compared against representative group of shareholders in June 2007 to obtain their the previous forecast, the budget and prior year actuals.
Variances 20 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 are reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and by the Board.
The policy is as follows: Specific reporting systems cover treasury operations, major When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake investment projects and legal and insurance activities, which are non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times reviewed by the Board and its Committees on a regular basis.
give consideration to the provisions of the Smith Report with The Group has a team of internal operational auditors which has an regard to the preservation of independence.
annually agreed audit programme approved by the Audit Committee.
The external auditors must certify to the Company that they The team reports regularly to the Audit Committee on the results are acting independently.
of audits performed and reviews self-certification internal control questionnaires completed by operating management.
In providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not as summarised in the Smith Report : The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal control and internal audit their own work: financial control during the period covered by this report.
make management decisions for the Company: Audit Independence create a mutuality of interest: or The Audit Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity of the Companys auditors KPMG Audit Plc KPMG find themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
in their reporting to shareholders.
Before commissioning such work, the Audit Committee or The Audit Committee met four times during the year ended the Group Finance Director as appropriate must ensure that 31 March 2008 and the Group Audit Engagement Director from the external auditors are satisfied that there is no issue as KPMG was present at all of these meetings to ensure full and regards independence.
In addition to the members of the Audit The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the Committee, it was normal for the following people to receive external auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is the Audit Committee papers and attend meetings: a specific project with a cost that is not expected to exceed 1. the Chairman of the Company 50,000.
This work has to be reported to the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
If the cost is expected to exceed 50,000, 2. the Group Chief Executive the agreement of the Audit Committee is required before the 3. the Group Finance Director and Group Controller work is commissioned.
In either case, other potential providers must be adequately considered.
4. the Head of Internal Audit The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the 5. the Company Secretary external auditors or other providers of accountancy services Their attendance was at the invitation of the committee Chairman anywhere in the Group in excess of 10,000. only and does not restrict the Audit Committees independent Going Concern decision making.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue and this is reported to senior members of KPMG.
This forms part of to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
KPMG's own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee also Financial Instruments has discussions with KPMG, without management being present, For information on the Companys use of financial instruments, on the adequacy of controls and on any significant area where see note 21 on pages 54 to 59 to the annual report and accounts.
management judgement has been applied.
Compliance with the Combined Code The scope of the year's audit is discussed in advance by the During the year ended 31 March 2008, the Directors consider that Audit Committee.
Following discussions between the Operating the Company complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of Companies and the local KPMG offices and a review by Group the Combined Code, except that the current Senior Independent management, audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee Director has not attended meetings with major shareholders having and are then recommended to the Board for approval.
Professional not been requested to do so.
rules require rotation of the Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG.
This took place in July 2004 when the current Director was Payment to Suppliers appointed, replacing the previous Director who had held the post The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business for five years.
Payment is then made according to these terms, subject to the supplier fulfilling its obligations.
The The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders at the Company has no trade creditors.
Supplier payment days for the Annual General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, but beyond continuing operations of the Group outstanding at 31 March 2008 this, controls have been in place for some years to ensure that represent 39 days 2007: 43 days of average purchases.
additional work performed by the auditors is appropriate and subject to proper review.
Directors Indemnities In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG the Company entered into a deed of indemnity to the extent permitted Company has developed a policy to ensure that the provision of by law with each of the Directors, officers of the Company and the such services does not impair KPMGs independence or objectivity.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 Report of the Directors continued The Company purchased and maintained directors' and officers' Share capital liability insurance throughout 2007, which was renewed for 2008.
Full details of share options and awards and shares issued under the terms of the Companys share incentive plans can be found Neither the indemnity nor insurance provide cover in the event in note 7 to the accounts on pages 41 to 43. that the Director, officer or Company Secretary is proved to have acted fraudulently.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into 500,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The shares Employment Policies are in registered form.
The Group values highly the commitment of its employees and has maintained its practice of communicating business developments Additional information for Electrocomponents plc shareholders to them wherever practicable.
In June, representatives from around The information for Electrocomponents plc shareholders required the world met for the Group Management Meeting to share the pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 can be found on page 74 and Groups vision and strategy.
The Executive Directors have provided is incorporated into and forms part of this report.
presentations of the Group Results including the Half-Yearly Political and Charitable Contributions Financial Results.
The Group has also introduced a bi-annual The Group made no political contributions during the year.
newsletter, RS News, with stories of success and interest Charitable contributions within the UK amounted to 12,028 2007: around the world.
There are numerous consultation forums across the Group, Disclosure of Information to Auditors such as the Information Consultation Forum in the UK, which is The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this designed to facilitate a communication channel from employees Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there to senior management.
is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors Employees are appraised regularly.
The appraisal process has are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they been designed to link closely with the business planning ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of process and provides employees with a clear set of business any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys and personal objectives.
auditors are aware of that information.
Employees around the world are invited to participate in the all Annual General Meeting employee share plans.
These plans are popular with employees, The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at with approximately 37% participation in the UK SAYE Scheme 12 noon on Friday 18 July 2008 at the Company's premises, The and approximately 10% participation in the international plans.
International Management Centre, 8050 Oxford Business Park North, Oxford, OX4 2HW, is set out in a separate circular.
The Group is committed to a policy of Equal Opportunities with regard to its employment practices and procedures.
The Group By order of the Board remains supportive of the employment and advancement of Ian Haslegrave disabled persons.
The Group has a Diversity Policy which General Counsel & Company Secretary includes its clear obligations towards employees or prospective 28 May 2008 employees to ensure that people with disabilities are afforded equal employment and development opportunities.
Substantial Shareholders As at 23 May 2008 the following interests in voting rights of 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company had been notified to the Company: Number Percentage of Shares held Silchester International Investors Limited 78,630,502 18.06% Prudential plc group of companies 35,601,972 8.17% Aviva plc 27,492,997 6.32% Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 25,970,477 5.97% UBS AG 22,302,913 5.12% Legal & General Group plc 17,764,284 4.08% Oppenheimer Funds Inc. and 17,018,213 3.91% Baring Asset Management Ltd Barclays plc 13,937,895 3.20% 22 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and Parent Company accounts in accordance with We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: applicable law and regulations.
the accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the Company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law they are assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the required to prepare the Group accounts in accordance with IFRSs company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to taken as a whole: and prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance the Directors' report includes a fair review of the development with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally and performance of the business and the position of the Accepted Accounting Practice.
company and the undertakings included in the consolidation The Group accounts are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance risks and uncertainties that they face.
of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts that references in the relevant part of that Act to accounts Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director fair presentation.
28 May 2008 The Parent Company accounts are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company accounts, completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, the Directors are required to: statements regarding the future financial positions, strategy, select suitable accounting policies and then apply projected costs, plans and objectives for the managements of them consistently: future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words make judgments and estimates that are reasonable such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of and prudent: similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve for the Group accounts, state whether they have been prepared risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reflected in for the Parent Company accounts, state whether applicable such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents Company financial statements: and plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent statements.
Other than as required by applicable law or the Company will continue in business.
applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intentions or obligations The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting to update forward-looking statements contained herein.
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23
