Simon Boddie MA ACA Chairman Group Finance Director Helmut Mamsch, 63, joined as Chairman Simon Boddie, 48, joined as Group Finance Designate in September 2006 and took Director in September 2005 from Diageo plc.
over as Chairman in October 2006.
He is a He joined Diageo in 1992 where he held a Non-Executive Director of both GKN plc, and variety of senior finance positions, latterly Sappi Ltd South Africa.
Until 2007, he was as Finance Director of Key Markets.
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Logica Chairman of the Treasury Committee b c CMG plc and a member of the Supervisory 4.
Leslie Atkinson MA D. Phil Board of K S AG.
He was formerly a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of RMC Group plc Dr Leslie Atkinson, 64, joined as a Nonand a Management Board member of Executive Director in July 2000, having spent VEBA AG now E. ON.
most of his career with BP where he became Chairman of the Nomination Committee a Chairman of BP Asia Pacic.
Ian Mason MBA a member of the UK Governments Central Group Chief Executive Policy Review Staff, Vice President of the Ian Mason, 46, joined the Group in February Chamber of Shipping and served on the Board 1995 as Director of Business Development.
of the Securities and Futures Authority.
His He was appointed to the Board of Directors other Non-Executive Directorships include AEA in July 2000 as Chief Operating officer and Technology plc, Samworth Brothers Holdings was appointed Group Chief Executive in July Ltd and Witan Pacic Investment Trust plc.
Previously he worked for The Boston Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Consulting Group.
In November 2007 he was a d e appointed as a Non-Executive Director of The Sage Group Plc.
Chairman of the Group Executive Committee b c 12 3 4 5.
Ian Haslegrave LLB ACIS Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Timothy Barker, 68, joined as a Non-Executive Paul Hollingworth, 48, joined as a NonIan Haslegrave, 39, joined the Company in Director in July 2000.
From 1998 until his Executive Director in May 2008.
He is September 2006 from Viacom Outdoor Limited retirement in 2000, he was a Vice-Chairman Chief Financial officer of Mondi Group, where he was International Legal Director.
of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and from the integrated paper and packaging group.
Previously he worked at United Biscuits 1993 of Kleinwort Benson Group plc.
In the Previously, he was Group Finance Director Limited and Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer.
b mid-1980s he was Director General of the of BPB plc and prior to that Group Finance City Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
He is Director of fide La Rue plc and Ransomes plc.
a Non-Executive Director of Drax Group plc.
a d e Chairman of the Audit Committee a d e 8.
Keith Hamill BA FCA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Rupert Soames, 49, joined as a Non-Executive Keith Hamill, 55, joined as a Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
He is Group Chief a member of the Nomination Committee Director in July 1999.
He is Chairman of Executive of Aggreko plc.
Previously he was b member of the Treasury Committee Tullett Prebon plc, Alterian plc and Travelodge Chief Executive of the Banking and Securities c member of the Group Executive Committee Limited and Deputy Chairman of Collins Division of Misys PLC and a non-executive d member of the Remuneration Committee Stewart plc.
He was previously Chairman of Director of Baggeridge Brick plc.
a d e e member of the Audit Committee Go Fly, was Finance Director of WH Smith, Trust House Forte and United Distillers, and was a partner in Pricewaterhouse Coopers.
He is Deputy Chancellor of Nottingham University.
