Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 20 Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 cOrPOrAte gOvernAnce Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 21 1.
Brian Taylorson, age 53 chairman n group chief executive finance director Robert Beeston joined the Board and was David Dutro joined the Board and was Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance appointed Chairman of Elementis in appointed Group Chief Executive in Director in April 2002.
He is Chairman of the January 2007.
He joined Elementis in Elementis he was head of European Nomination Committee, non-executive November 1998 as President of Elementis chemicals M&A group at KPMG chairman of Cookson Group plc and the Pigments then became President and Corporate Finance.
He joined KPMG in senior independent director and chairman Chief Operating Officer, Elementis 2000 from the Dow Chemical Company of the remuneration committee of Worldwide, in October 2005.
He was vice where he held a number of positions D S Smith plc.
From 1992 until 2002 he president and general manager of in finance over a period of 17 years.
was chief executive officer of FKI plc.
Universal Foods Dairy and Food He holds an MA from Cambridge He spent 18 years with Dowty Group Ingredient businesses now Sensient University, is a member of the Institute before joining John Brown Plastics Technologies Corp, and also spent time of Chartered Accountants in England Machinery UK Ltd as managing director.
with ICI in their colours, polymer additives and Wales and a member of the In 1985, he was appointed managing and surfactants businesses.
David Dutro Association of Corporate Treasurers.
director of BTR Valve Group, a position was born and educated in the United He is a non-executive director of he held for six years before joining FKI plc.
States and holds a Bachelor of Science Fiberweb plc.
Andrew Christie, age 52 senior independent director A, n non-executive director A, n, r Ian Brindle was appointed a non-executive Andrew Christie was appointed a director and Chairman of the Audit non-executive director in August 2008 Committee in June 2005.
He retired as and has 25 years of investment banking Chairman of the Audit Committee in and international corporate finance April 2008 and was appointed Senior experience.
He was until March 2008 a Independent Director.
He was until 2001 UK managing director in the European UK chairman of , investment banking group at Credit was a member of the Accounting Suisse.
In his prior role at Credit Suisse, Standards Board between 1992 and 2001 he was head of investment banking, Asia and the deputy chairman of the Financial Pacific, based in Hong Kong and, before Reporting Review Panel between 2001 that, held the same position with Barclays and 2008.
He is a non-executive director fide Zoete Wedd.
He is also a non-executive of Spirent Communications plc and serves director of Ark Therapeutics Group plc as the senior independent director on the and holds an MBA and a Bachelor of board of 4imprint Group plc.
Kevin Matthews, age 45 non-executive director A, n, r non-executive director A, n, r Chris Girling was appointed a Kevin Matthews was appointed a non-executive director in April 2005 non-executive director in February 2005 and Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration in April 2008.
He was group finance Committee in April 2008.
He is chief director of Carillion plc, a construction executive officer of Oxonica plc, a and support service group, from 1999 UK-based nanotechnology company, to 2007, and previous to that he was a role he has held since 2001.
He joined finance director of Vosper Thornycroft Oxonica from Rhodia Consumer plc for ten years.
He holds an MBA and Specialties Limited and previously held is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered roles with Albright & Wilson UK Limited Accountants in England and Wales.
and ICI Chemicals and Polymers.
He He is an independent trustee for a holds a D. Phil in organic chemistry.
city law firms pension fund and a non-executive director of ARCO Limited.
Key to membership of committees A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee
