Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 22 Directors report Report and financial statements The Board recommends the election of Andrew Christie and The directors submit their report and the audited financial the reelection of Ian Brindle and Chris Girling.
Biographical statements for the year ended 31 December 2008. information on these three directors, as well as on the other directors, is shown on page 21.
Principal activities, business review and future development Employment policies For the purposes of this report, the expression Company The Group Chief Executive is the Board member responsible or Elementis means Elementis plc and the expression for employee matters and he is assisted by a VicePresident Group means the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Group employs HR specialists throughout its worldwide locations to advise on all HR The main activities of the Group are the manufacture and sale matters including training and development, and various HR of specialty chemicals.
The Business review on pages 4 to 19, performance indicators are maintained in order to monitor which forms a part of this report, contains a fair review of, and evaluate the effectiveness of employment policies.
and likely future trends and factors that might affect, the development, performance and position of the Group.
A review Elementis values the diverse backgrounds of all its people of principal risks and uncertainties is set out on pages 13 and 14 and works to create an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and policies on financial risk can be found in note 22 to and respect.
Harassment or discrimination of any kind the financial statements on page 58.
The Corporate social including that involving race, colour, religion, gender, age, responsibility report on pages 15 to 19 summarises the national origin, citizenship, mental or physical disabilities, Groups approach to health and safety, the environment, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other similarly social responsibility and community matters.
This principle applies to all aspects of employment, including recruitment, hiring, The Groups corporate headquarters are in London, UK placement, transfer, promotion, layoff, recall, termination and its operational headquarters are based in Hightstown, and other terms and conditions of employment.
Each division of the Group is managed is committed to providing equal employment opportunities on a global basis with operations at over 30 locations in for all Elementis people and all applicants for employment, eight countries.
based on individual qualifications and without regard to the The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, research and factors mentioned above.
It is Group policy to comply with development activities for new products and to improve all applicable laws governing employment practices and existing products.
not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria, and its practices include the prohibition on the use of child Results or forced labour.
Employment policies are fair and equitable The Group profit for the year attributable to equity holders and consistent with the skills and abilities of the employee of the parent amounted to 19.8 million 2007: 48.0 million.
and the needs of the business.
Elementis respects the rights of its employees to join a trade union and, out of its global Dividend workforce, just under one third of all employees are Details about the final dividend for the year are disclosed in represented by a trade union or collective agreement.
the Chairmans statement on page 2.
In terms of how our employment policies are applied to employees who have or acquire a disability, the Groups Directors policy is, wherever practicable, to provide continuing The present directors of the Company are Robert Beeston, employment under normal terms and conditions and to Ian Brindle, Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Chris Girling, provide training, career development and promotion to Kevin Matthews and Brian Taylorson.
With the exception of disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Andrew Christie, who was appointed on 11 August 2008, all these directors served on the Board throughout the financial The Board expects the Group to conduct its operations year.
Past directors include Ken Minton who retired as a based on sound ethical practices which are open and free director at the end of the 2008 Annual General Meeting on from discrimination and harassment.
Further information 24 April 2008 and Matthew Peacock who left the Board on about the Groups policy on business conduct and ethics 31 January 2008.
More information about the directors is is set out in the Corporate social responsibility report.
provided in the Corporate governance report.
Employee communications and involvement The interests of directors in the share capital of the It is Group policy to communicate with all employees on Company are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
major matters to encourage them to take a wider interest At the 2009 Annual General Meeting AGM, Ian Brindle, in the affairs of their employing company and the Group Andrew Christie and Chris Girling will retire in accordance and to make them aware of the financial and economic with the Companys Articles of Association and offer factors affecting the Companys performance.
This is done themselves for election or reelection by shareholders.
None in a variety of ways including informal consultations, of these directors has a service contract with the Company.
There are well established procedures, including regular meetings with recognised All nonexecutive directors, with the exception of Andrew unions, to ensure that the views of employees are taken into Christie who joined the Board in August 2008, took part in a account in making decisions likely to affect their interests.
performance evaluation and their performance continues to Managers throughout the Group have a responsibility to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles.
CorporAte GovernAnCe Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 23 keep their staff informed of developments and matters Directors, articles and purchase of shares of interest.
The Company operates savingsrelated share Rules about the appointment and replacement of directors option schemes allowing UK and US employees an are set out in the articles.
Changes to the articles must be opportunity to become shareholders, details of which are approved by shareholders passing a special resolution.
set out in note 25 to the financial statements on page 69.
The directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and by the articles.
The Board has the power Going concern conferred on it by shareholders to purchase its own shares The Groups business activities, together with the factors and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming likely to affect its future performance and development are AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
set out in the Business review on pages 4 to 19.
The financial position of the Group and description of the principal risks Significant agreements change of control and uncertainties are set out above in the Finance report on Other than as set out in this paragraph, there are no pages 8 to 14.
Note 22 details the Groups exposure to credit, significant agreements to which the Company is a party liquidity and market risk and its mechanisms for dealing which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change with these risks.
of control of the Company.
The Company is a guarantor under the Groups 150 million revolving credit facility which The Groups primary source of funding is a syndicated runs until July 2011.
Under the terms of that facility, in the 150 million revolving credit facility which is not due for event of a change of control, any lender among the facility renewal before July 2011.
At the year end, the Groups net syndicate, of which there are eight with commitments debt was 63.9 million.
Compliance with covenants is reported ranging from 10 million to 27 million, may withdraw from halfyearly to the syndicate of banks and involves tests the facility and that lenders participation in any loans drawn for net debt: EBITDA ratio, interest cover and net worth.
down are required to be repaid.
No breaches in covenants were reported during the year.
Additionally, the Group uses various short and medium term Under David Dutros service contract with the Company, forecasts to monitor anticipated future compliance and, compensation is payable to him equivalent to one years in the current volatile economic conditions, have further basic salary if he terminates his contract upon a change of modified the modelling to include worst case scenario control provided that the Company has not first obtained a planning in order to stress test the assumptions and identify written agreement to be bound by his service contract from the headroom on the covenant tests.
In addition, management any successor in a change of control.
There is no specific has considered the various mitigating actions that could change of control provision in Brian Taylorsons service be taken to reduce the impact of a prolonged downturn in contract with the Company but the provisions on early trading.
Such measures include reductions in fixed costs, termination set out on page 31 of the Directors remuneration a reduction in capital expenditure and reductions in those report apply and compensation equivalent to one years items of working capital within managements control.
basic salary and benefits would be payable if less than 12 months notice of termination by the Company is given.
After evaluating the covenant compliance modelling and the ongoing trading of the businesses, including the potential Significant relationships closure of operations in the UK Chromium business, the The Group has in place a number of supply contracts for key directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group raw materials that are essential to the business.
In Specialty have adequate resources to continue to operate for the Products, supply contracts are for clays, quaternary amines foreseeable future as going concerns.
For this reason they and other chemical intermediates.
The suppliers of these continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing contracts are important and, although we have sought to these financial statements.
develop a strategic long term relationship with them, we have taken steps to maintain a sufficiently broad base of Share capital suppliers to mitigate any supply chain risks.
Specialty The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, Products also owns and operates a hectorite clay mine as set out in note 39 to the financial statements on page 78. in California which reduces our reliance on third party All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid suppliers for raw materials.
The Surfactants business up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to sources a number of products from a reasonably wide them, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, base of third party suppliers for use in the manufacturing are set out in the Companys articles of association the of its products.
These include supplies for ethylene oxide, articles.
Other than those specific provisions set out in the propylene oxide, nonylphenol ethoxylate and fatty alcohols.
articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary The Chromium divisions key raw materials are chrome ore, shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them.
soda ash and sulphuric acid.
Chrome ore is sourced from From time to time the Elementis Employee Share Ownership a number of South African mining companies, while soda Trust Trust holds shares in the Company for the purposes ash is sourced from suppliers in the UK and US.
Sulphuric of various share incentive plans and the rights attaching to acid is sourced from suppliers in the US.
The business is them are exercised by independent trustees, who may take continually looking for new sources of supplies to broaden into account any recommendation by the Company.
As at its base of suppliers.
All businesses purchase energy in the 31 December 2008 the Trust held 4,736,829 ordinary shares form of natural gas, fuel oil or electricity.
It is the Groups of 5 pence each in the Company.
A dividend waiver is in practice to enter into agreements with suppliers to lock place in respect of all shares held by the Trust.
in the price of approximately 70 per cent of its energy costs for each year.
Information about individual suppliers is not disclosed as the Board considers that disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Group.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 24 Directors report Significant relationships continued Policy on payment of suppliers As its businesses are reasonably diverse in terms of the The Companys and the Groups policies concerning the customers and sectors they serve, the Group is not payment to suppliers is to agree terms of payment at dependent on any particular customer and therefore no the start of business with each supplier and to adhere to further information is given.
The Group supplies some of its these, subject to satisfactory performance by the suppliers.
products through approved distributors, who are able to The Company and the Group do not follow any code or statement provide or access technical support services, and has a joint on payment practice.
Trade creditors for the Group at venture in China at an organoclay plant and, whilst these 31 December 2008 represented 78 days 2007: 67 days of relationships are an important part of our business, the annual purchases, adjusted for currency and acquisitions Board does not consider any individual relationship to be and disposals.
The Company has no trade creditors.
The Group values all of its employees and, although some perform roles that are more important Directors and officers liability insurance to the business than others, such as technical roles which The Company maintains liability insurance for the directors might be more difficult or would take longer to replace, the and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
During the Board does not consider that the Groups success is year, the directors received an ongoing indemnity from the materially dependent on any single individual.
However, the Company, against any liability or loss that may arise out of Board has reviewed its management succession plans and, or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties following the review of remuneration structures by the and responsibilities as directors of the Company or of any Remuneration Committee, is satisfied that the Companys subsidiary, as permitted under the Companies Act 2006. incentive arrangements are appropriate to attract, retain and motivate key people within the organisation.
Directors conflict of interest During the year Brian Taylorson was authorised by the Substantial shareholders Board to continue to act as a Trustee of the Groups UK As at 24 February 2009 the Company had been notified of defined benefit pension scheme UK pension scheme the following interests in 3 per cent or more of its issued notwithstanding that this role could give rise to a situation ordinary capital: in which there is a conflict of interest.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Trustees of the UK pension Percentage of Ordinary issued ordinary scheme to benefit from the financial expertise of the shares share capital Finance Director and that his contribution at Trustees Schroder plc 44,498,934 9.93 meetings demonstrates the Boards commitment to supporting the UK pension scheme.
The Boards conflict Lloyds Banking Group plc 35,432,530 7.91 authorisation is subject to annual review and, under the Prudential plc group of companies 25,886,326 5.79 terms of the conflict resolution, reciprocal provisions have Legal & General Group plc 23,189,593 5.18 been put in place with a view to safeguarding information AXA S. A.
22,193,645 5.02 that is confidential to the Group as well as to the Trustees.
JP Morgan Chase & Co. 22,035,867 4.92 Were a conflict of interest to arise, Brian Taylorson is required to excuse himself from reading the relevant papers and absent himself from participating in relevant discussions.
Auditors No other director was in receipt of a conflict authorisation A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of from the Board during the year.
the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 16 April 2009.
Post balance sheet events Each director in office at the date of this Directors report As set out in the Chairmans statement and Business review, confirms that a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant the Board is evaluating the potential closure of the UK audit information of which the Companys auditors are Chromium facility and the impact of this is as set out on unaware and b he has taken all the steps that he ought page 7. to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Annual General Meeting Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The twelfth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 16 April 2009.
The Notice of Meeting is included Political and charitable donations in a separate document sent to shareholders.
During the year the Group donated 2,240 for charitable By order of the Board purposes in the UK 2007: 5,150.
The Company made no political donations during the year 2007: nil.
Wai Wong Company Secretary 24 February 2009
