Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 06 Business review Business commentary Elementis Specialty Products higher by more than 10 per cent, and this offset softer Elementis Specialty Products is a leading manufacturer markets in Europe and North America, particularly in the of rheology control additives that are used to enhance the coatings and construction sectors.
Sales to the oilfield performance of our customers products.
Best in class market showed strong volume growth in 2008, particularly in technical support and customer service are critical core North America, due to robust drilling activity throughout competencies of the business and provide the platform most of the year, and consumer sales showed positive to deliver added value in the coatings, oilfield exploration, growth in all of the major geographies.
construction and personal care markets.
The strategy of the business is to grow in rheology products and Operating profit was 29.1 million in 2008, including 0.2 million complementary additives through new product innovation, from Deuchem, which incurred 0.9 million of one time expansion into new geographies and bolt on acquisitions.
integration costs in the second half of the year.
Excluding In 2008 the business made an important step forward in Deuchem and currency movements, operating profit was this strategy by acquiring the Deuchem additives and 6 per cent higher than in the previous year, demonstrating Yuhong organoclay businesses in Taiwan and China.
good progress despite the general economic slow down Deuchem is a leading supplier of additives and resins to that took place in the final quarter.
Operating margin, the coating and related industries, with three sales offices excluding currency effects and Deuchem, was 21 per cent in Taiwan and eleven sales offices in China, together with in 2008, compared to 20 per cent in the previous year.
Some manufacturing and technical facilities near Taipei and in inflation in raw materials was evident during the year, but Shanghai.
The acquisition of Deuchem will significantly was relatively modest because most raw materials used in expand Elementis presence in Asia Pacific and provide a the business are not directly linked to the general platform for the Specialty Products business to accelerate commodity cycle, which caused major increases in other growth in the region.
Growth in the combined businesses businesses.
will be driven by the sale of Deuchems product portfolio to the Elementis global customer base, as well as the Elementis Surfactants opportunity to sell Elementis products through the well Elementis Surfactants is a specialty surfactant manufacturer developed Deuchem sales and technical support network offering innovative products to markets such as oilfield in Taiwan and China.
The Yuhong organoclay business chemicals, pulp and paper and household products.
will increase Elementis organoclay production in China Its strategy is to focus on higher margin markets such from 3,000 tonnes to over 10,000 tonnes, eliminating the as agrochemicals, feed, plastic and resins and reduce more costly practice of exporting organoclays from the activity in high volume commodity applications.
At the United States to Asia Pacific.
At the same time, it provides same time the business seeks to continually reduce additional capacity to serve the faster growing Chinese operating costs by more efficient utilisation of its market, utilising the newly acquired Deuchem sales network.
manufacturing facility in the Netherlands, which it shares with the Specialty Products business.
Sales in 2008 were 181.5 million compared to 141.6 million in the previous year, including 19.9 million of sales in the In 2008 sales increased by 10 per cent to 51.1 million second half of the year from the newly acquired Deuchem.
2007: 46.3 million, due to currency movements where Excluding this and currency effects, sales increased by the average Euro rate against Sterling strengthened by 4 per cent.
The business continued to experience good 13 per cent.
underlying growth in Asia Pacific, where volumes were The acquisition of Deuchem will significantly expand Elementis presence in Asia Pacific and provide a platform for the Specialty Products business to accelerate growth in the region.
business review Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 07 Operating profit for the year was 0.5 million compared to Market dynamics are likely to be less favourable in 2009, 0.9 million in 2007.
Volumes were 12 per cent lower than the particularly for our UK facility in Eaglescliffe which produces previous year as management continued their programme of less differentiated products than our US facilities, is more moving out of lower margin products, which was exacerbated exposed to Chinese competition and whose profitability by the general slow down towards the end of the year.
relies heavily on supplying intermediate products to the US Otherwise operating profit was sustained through improved business.
As a consequence, the business is evaluating the pricing, in response to increases in raw material costs, and closure of the facility in 2009. continued improvements in manufacturing efficiency.
Sales were 168.6 million in 2008 compared to 115.9 million Elementis Chromium in the previous year, an increase of 45 per cent or 39 per cent Elementis Chromium is the worlds largest supplier of at constant currency.
Volumes increased by one per cent chrome chemicals, which are used in a variety of end over the previous year.
Volumes in the second half of the markets including metal alloys, pigments, metal finishing, year were lower than in the first half, which had improved leather tanning and foundry applications.
The business by 7 per cent compared to the same period in 2007, reflecting operates within the Group from a separate legal entity the fourth quarter slow down.
During the year the business structure and has no interactions with other Group businesses continued to focus on higher margin products such as other than at the administrative level.
Its strategy is to chromic acid and chrome oxide, while the geographical provide high quality products to its customers utilising low split of sales remained relatively stable with slightly lower cost, sustainable manufacturing facilities to produce mostly volumes in North America and Europe and higher volumes higher margin products such as chromic acid and chrome in Asia Pacific.
Global supply demand balances are a significant driver of margins in the chromium chemical market and Operating profit was 27.7 million for the year compared to Elementis Chromium seeks to produce stable earnings by 14.2 million in the previous year, an increase of 95 per cent.
serving higher value markets and by utilising its flexible Currency had only a marginal impact on operating profit manufacturing base to adjust to changes in demand.
due to the Groups hedging programme.
Favourable market For the first nine months of 2008 the business experienced conditions led to operating margins improving to 16 per cent particularly favourable market dynamics due to strong compared to 12 per cent in the previous year as selling prices economic activity and changes in Chinese tax regulations.
were increased in an environment of rising raw material and In addition, temporary plant closures in China during the energy costs.
Some key raw material and energy costs increased Beijing Olympics that had the effect of reducing exports of by as much as 60 to 80 per cent.
Following a review of the chrome chemicals from that country, further benefited the future outlook for the UK facility, the business has decided business.
As a result, selling prices rose faster than input to record an impairment charge of 20.5 million against costs which, when combined with high plant operating rates, the facility in 2008.
Additional one time charges relating significantly improved operating margins compared to those to severance payments and site closure, estimated to be experienced in the previous year.
Sales volumes showed a 14-28 million, would be incurred in 2009 should the decision significant decline in the fourth quarter and the business be made to close the facility.
Most of these charges would brought forward planned maintenance shutdowns to avoid be incurred in cash over a 2-3 year period, with cash spending building excessive amounts of inventory at the end of the year.
in 2009 likely to be less than 5 million due to related reductions in working capital.
Revenue from continuing operations Operating profit from continuing operations Effect of Operating Effect of Operating Revenue exchange Increase Revenue profit exchange Increase profit 2007 rates 2008 2008 2007 rates 2008 2008 million million million million million million million million Specialty Products 141.6 14.8 25.1 181.5 Specialty Products 28.8 1.7 2.0 29.1 Surfactants 46.3 6.7 1.9 51.1 Surfactants 0.9 0.4 0.5 Chromium 115.9 7.7 45.0 168.6 Chromium 14.2 0.6 14.1 27.7 Inter-segment 4.0 3.3 0.7 Central costs 5.8 0.1 0.4 5.3 299.8 29.2 71.5 400.5 38.1 2.2 16.1 52.0 before exceptional items
