 4 12 08 16:07 Page 7 Directors and Advisers H V REID # D A HARDING # Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board 21 01 97 Appointed to the Board 06 11 03 Hubert Reid, 67, is Chairman of Midas Income and David Harding, 61, is Chairman of Coventry Building Growth Trust PLC, Deputy Chairman of Majedie Society and a non-executive director of the Royal Investments PLC and a non-executive director of Mint.
He was previously Finance Director of Railtrack Michael Page International plc.
He was previously Group plc and Group Chief Executive of the Parent Managing Director and then Chairman of the Company RTG plc until 2002.
He was also Group Boddington Group plc and a non-executive director Finance Director of Rugby Group plc and T&N plc.
He and then Chairman of Ibstock Plc, Bryant Group plc is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management and the Royal London Group.
G E TUPPEN # S E MURRAY # Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board 22 02 91 Appointed to the Board 03 11 04 Ted Tuppen, 56, led the management buy-in which Susan Murray, 51, is Chairman of FB Raphael 1 resulted in the formation of the Company in 1991.
He Limited the holding company of the Farrow & Ball is a chartered accountant and was in practice until paint and wallpaper business and a non-executive 1980 with KPMG in London, North America and director of Compass Group PLC, Imperial Tobacco plc, Europe.
He then qualified with an MBA from the and Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC and also a Cranfield School of Management before becoming director and council member of the Advertising Managing Director of a privately owned international Standards Authority.
She was previously Chief engineering company where he worked until 1989.
Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
She has also He has also worked in, and acted as a consultant to, a been Director of International Marketing for Diageo variety of businesses.
Ted is Vice-President and Plc, President and Chief Executive Officer of The former Chairman of the British Beer and Pubs Pierre Smirnoff Company, a non-executive director of Association and was awarded a CBE in the 2006 New Aberdeen Asset Management PLC and SSL Years Honours List in respect of his contribution to International plc and was a member of the the hospitality industry.
Independent Complaints Panel of the Portman Group from 1998 to 2004.
A J STEWART # D O MALONEY # Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board 29 05 01 Appointed to the Board 10 07 08 Jo Stewart, 59, is a fellow of the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
He has over 30 years of experience in David Maloney, 53, is currently non-executive the food industry, was Managing Director of Pizzaland chairman of Hoseasons Holidays Limited and a nonInternational and Chief Executive of Northern Foods executive director of Cineworld Group Plc, Ludorum plc until September 2003.
Plc, Micro Focus International Plc and Carillion Plc.
He was previously a non-executive director of Virgin Mobile Holdings UK plc and Chief Financial Officer of Meridien Services Company plc the holding company for the global hotel group Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts, Thomson Travel Group and Preussag Airlines and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and has a degree in economics from Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh.
He Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is also Chairman of the Board of trustees of the Make A Wish Foundation.
# Member of the Nominations Committee Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2008 7 15809 04 12 2008 Proof 6  4 12 08 16:07 Page 8 Directors and Advisers D C GEORGE Secretary D C George Chief Financial Officer Auditors Appointed to the Board 08 07 91 Ernst & Young LLP, No.
1 Colmore Square, David George, 57, joined the Company on its Birmingham, B4 6HQ formation as part of the management buy-in team.
A Bankers qualified accountant, he spent ten years in industry Bank of Scotland, 124 Colmore Row, including six years at Massey Ferguson Manufacturing Birmingham, B3 4AU Limited.
He then spent ten years with Grand Metropolitan Brewing Limited in various finance Financial Adviser roles, including Finance Director of The Manns and HSBC Investment Bank plc, Vintners Place, Norwich Brewery Company Limited and subsequently 68 Upper Thames Street, London, EC4V 3BJ as Finance Director of the production division of Stockbrokers Grand Metropolitan Brewing.
Deutsche Bank AG London, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB W S TOWNSEND UBS Limited, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP Chief Operating Officer Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Appointed to the Board 01 10 00 Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8AE Simon Townsend, 46, joined the Company in February Solicitors 1999, and was appointed to the Board in October CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, Mitre House, 2000.
He has worked in the pub and leisure industry 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD for over 20 years in various sales, marketing, commercial and operational roles, previously with Registered Office Whitbread plc, Allied Domecq PLC, Rank Group PLC 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, and Marston, Thompson & Evershed PLC.
He is B90 4SJ currently Chairman of the Communications Group pf Company number the British Beer and Pub Association.
