57 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Filtrona is committed to high standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management throughout the Company.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the standards of governance which are maintained across Filtronas diverse range of international businesses.
Compliance with the Combined Code As a listed company, Filtrona confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2008 the Company has complied with the 2006 version of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The Company applies the Codes principles of openness, integrity and accountability through its own behaviour, by monitoring corporate governance best practice and by adopting appropriate recommendations of relevant professional bodies.
The policies and procedures adopted by the Board and applicable to the Filtrona businesses are documented in a manual which sets out the roles and delegated authorities applying to the Board, the Executive Committee and the businesses.
This manual is updated whenever necessary.
Board of Directors The Board is collectively committed to promoting the success and strategic direction of the Company.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and stewardship to the businesses and management and takes responsibility for the strategic direction of the Company by the implementation and maintenance of its core values and governance controls.
The Board is of the view that it has a highly competent Chairman and that the people on the Board and executive teams are well equipped to drive, and capable of delivering on, the Companys strategy, proper and effective communication to employees, shareholders and other stakeholders, and the maintenance of effective controls for performance measurement controls and risk management systems.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be reviewed by it, including: group strategy approval of annual and half year results, and interim quarterly statements annual budgets treasury policies major capital and operating expenditure proposals, acquisitions and disposals health, safety and environmental policies appointments to the Board system of internal control dividend policy The Board reviews the schedule of reserved matters annually and during 2008 concluded that the level of authorities delegated to the Executive Committee and the individual businesses remained appropriate within the overall control environment maintained by the Company.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees which operate within clearly defined terms of reference approved by the Board and available on the website www.
These Committees report regularly to the Board.
During the year, there were eight scheduled Board meetings, together with an additional day of strategy discussions.
In addition to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board met on an ad hoc basis as required for particular matters.
The Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with the Directors and the Chairman also holds periodic informal discussions with the Non-executive Directors, without any of the Executive Directors being present, to review performance and monitor corporate control mechanisms.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and General Counsel, sets the programme for the Board during the year.
At each scheduled meeting, the Board considers a report from the Chief Executive on health and safety performance and current trading, a financial review from the Group Finance Director and other significant business issues such as acquisition proposals, other major investment plans, shareholder feedback, pension scheme liabilities, succession planning, and environmental performance.
Additionally, the Board receives presentations and considers reports from senior management about matters of material importance to the Company.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and all Directors participate in determining the Groups strategy and regularly reviewing the trading and financial performance of the Company.
The internal procedures implemented by the Company to ensure the Board maintains overall control for all material strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters affecting the Company are included within the internal control section of this Report set out on page 61.
Composition of the Board The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and are so defined as to ensure a clear separation of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and performance of Filtronas operations.
58 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report In the opinion of the Board, Paul Drechsler, Adrian Auer and Lars Emilson are each considered to be independent of management as detailed in the Code and there are no relationships or circumstances which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board considers that the Non-executive Directors provide an independent view in Board discussions and the development of the Companys strategy.
Non-executive Directors also ensure a sound basis for good corporate governance for the Company, challenging managements performance and, in conjunction with the Executive Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial controls and systems of risk management are maintained as appropriate to the needs of the businesses within Filtrona.
The Board is content that the Non-executive Directors devote sufficient time to the business of Filtrona.
The letters of appointment for Non-executive Directors are available for review at the Companys registered office and prior to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Paul Drechsler acts as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
In that role he is available to shareholders to discuss and develop an understanding of their issues and any concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or where such contact is inappropriate.
The Articles of Association of the Company require one third of the Directors to retire from office each year and for all Directors to submit themselves for re-election on a date which is no more than three years from the date of their appointment or last re-appointment.
The Directors retiring at the forthcoming AGM and submitting themselves for re-appointment are Jeff Harris and Steve Crummett.
Following the Board performance evaluation undertaken during the financial year, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for re-election, continue to be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
The following were Directors of the Company during the year and attended the following number of meetings during the year ended 31 December 2008: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Held 8 4 3 4 Attended Jeff Harris Chairman 8 3 4 Mark Harper Chief Executive 8 1 Steve Crummett Group Finance Director 6 Paul Drechsler Senior Independent 8 4 3 4 Non-executive Director Adrian Auer Non-executive Director 8 4 3 4 Lars Emilson Non-executive Director 8 4 3 4 2 Steve Dryden Group Finance Director 2 1 Appointed 19 March 2008 2 Resigned 19 March 2008 Information and professional development The Chairman with the Company Secretary and General Counsel takes responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The agenda for each Board and Committee meeting is considered by the relevant Chairman and papers for each scheduled formal Board and Committee meeting are usually provided five clear working days beforehand.
In addition, the Chairman maintains regular contact with the Executive Directors to discuss current trading and financial performance and other specific issues which may arise from time to time.
On appointment, Directors benefit from an induction programme tailored to their individual needs and designed to assist them in their understanding of Filtrona and its operations.
The programme, which continues throughout a Directors tenure as necessary, includes details of fiduciary duties, Companies Act requirements, dealing restrictions as outlined in the Disclosure Rules and the Model Code on directors dealings in securities contained in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Board and business related matters, meetings with senior management, site visits and the opportunity to meet with major shareholders.
Directors are free to meet individual members of the senior management team and have done so during the year under review.
The Board and its Committees receive briefings on legislative and regulatory developments and new accounting requirements as appropriate and believe that, given the experience and skills of its Directors, the identification of general training needs is best left to their individual discretion.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and General Counsel who is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
During the year under review the Company Secretary and General Counsels advice was sought in relation to share dealings.
In furtherance of their duties, there are 59 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 agreed procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional advice during the year.
Performance evaluation In the two previous years since the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in June 2005, an annual evaluation of the Boards performance has been undertaken with an internal exercise led by the Company Secretary and General Counsel with the Chairman through the use of questionnaires supplied by an external organisation.
This year, to ensure the process remained relevant and challenging, an external facilitator was used to conduct individual interviews with each Director, and a number of senior managers who have regular contact with the Board.
It was believed that this approach would enable the process to deal effectively with not only the procedural and administrative elements of how the Board operates but also some of the behavioural aspects of performance.
The external facilitator also attended a Board meeting as an observer.
An independent report the Board Evaluation was prepared and presented to the Board and the relevant committees for discussion.
The review found that the Board continues to operate effectively, but concluded that additional benefits could be derived from the Board enhancing the clarity of its focus on the key challenges facing the Group and improving its connection with the senior management team.
Following the recommendations made within the Board Evaluation, the Board has taken steps to improve the management and communication of its priorities and objectives, both within and outside the Boardroom.
As a result the Board believes that it is better able to facilitate open structured debate with the senior management team, including the respective heads of Filtronas five divisions, which respects the challenges being faced by the Company and seeks to identify the key actions required to deliver the strategic objectives of the Group.
As part of the 2008 Board performance evaluation, the Chairman reviewed the performance of each of the individual Directors and the Directors led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director also appraised the Chairmans performance without the Chairman being present.
During the year the Non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present, under the direction of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director to appraise the Chairmans performance, having first sought the views of the Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman held a private meeting with the Non-executive Directors to assess the performance of the Chief Executive.
The Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee each also had an evaluation on their work and effectiveness.
The results were reported to the Board by the respective Chairmen.
The reviews concluded that each Committee was operating effectively.
Insurance In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and to the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of those liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated this policy will be renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover to the extent that the Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Board committees Each Board committee has established clear and defined terms of reference detailing their responsibilities and powers.
The terms of reference for each Board Committee are reviewed annually and are available on Filtronas website at www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises Adrian Auer, who chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler and Lars Emilson.
The Board is satisfied that Adrian Auer has recent and relevant financial experience.
A representative of the Companys external auditor ordinarily attends all meetings of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director and Group Head of Audit are normally invited to attend the meetings.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year and maintains a formal calendar of items that are to be considered by the Committee during the year.
The timetable of these items are scheduled in accordance with the annual audit cycle.
During the year the Committee undertook the following work: Examined the full year financial statements and half year results, reviewing, challenging and approving the accounting policies, financial reporting issues and the judgement of the financial management Reviewed and considered reports from the Group Head of Audit including any issues relating to internal controls and the status of actions taken in response to any identified concerns Reviewed the performance of the internal audit function Reviewed the risk management processes including changes to the Risk Management Committee, and considered the key risks arising from the Companys activities and the response of senior management to those challenges 60 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Reviewed the progress made by the Company in its tax planning Reviewed the Companys whistleblowing policy to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation and follow-up action of any concerns raised by employees in relation to financial reporting or other matters Assessed the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The conclusion enabled the Board to endorse the recommendation of the auditors put to the shareholders at the April 2008 AGM Reviewed and approved, as appropriate in accordance with the Committees policy, proposals for the engagement of the external auditor for non-audit services Evaluated its own performance as part of the Board Evaluation and reviewed its terms of reference to ensure that they remained appropriate for the needs of the Company The Audit Committee has a policy regarding the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The policy recognises the importance of maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditor by minimising its involvement in projects of a non-audit nature.
It is, however, also acknowledged that, due to its detailed understanding of the Companys business, it may sometimes be necessary to involve the external auditor in non-audit related work, principally comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions, disposals and tax services.
The Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without the Company management being present and conducts an annual assessment of the performance of the external audit and the Companys internal audit function.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises Jeff Harris, who chairs the Committee, Paul Drechsler, Adrian Auer and Lars Emilson.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for selecting and recommending candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for conducting an annual review of the register of notified interests, and any new interests, in accordance with the Companys conflicts of interest policy.
The Nomination Committee meets as required and during 2008 it met three times.
In furtherance of these duties and when considering succession planning, the Nomination Committee looks at the balance, structure and composition of the Board and takes into account the future challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The selection process is, in the Boards view, both rigorous and transparent in order to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria set by the Nomination Committee.
With the benefit of assistance from external advisers, the Nomination Committee made a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment of Steve Crummett to the Board in March 2008.
The Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board for the reappointment of Jeff Harris as Non-executive Chairman and Paul Drechsler and Adrian Auer as Non-executive Directors following the expiry of their initial three year term of appointment in May 2008.
The Nomination Committee is engaged in the process for the recruitment of a new Non-executive Director following the notification of Adrian Auers resignation.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Paul Drechsler, who chairs the Committee, Adrian Auer and Lars Emilson.
The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is described more fully in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 48 to 56.
Shareholder communications The Company communicates regularly with its major institutional shareholders and ensures that all the Directors, including the Non-executive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders and are able to explain business developments and financial results as appropriate.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
Presentations for analysts and institutional shareholders were held during the year and meeting were held with key institutional investors to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities.
Slide presentations, made to institutional shareholders immediately after the full year and half year results are also available on the Companys website www.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet any of the Directors of the Company should they so wish.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board to enable them to gain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be made available, both at the meeting and subsequently on the Companys website.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers will be posted to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
61 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Internal control In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure that an adequate system of internal controls is in place.
Filtronas internal systems and controls are designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to ensure the integrity and reliability of information used both within the businesses and for public announcements.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-to-day management of the businesses are delegated to the Chief Executive supported by the Executive Committee and to the respective Divisional Managing Directors or Presidents as appropriate within delegated authority limits and in accordance with clearly defined systems of control.
The Executive Committee, which meets at least twice per month, is made up of the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel and the Director of Group Human Resources.
All Directors receive copies of the minutes from each Executive Committee meeting and the monthly reports submitted by the individual business divisions.
Following one of the recommendations made during the 2008 Board Evaluation the Company established a Group Operating Committee the GOC which superseded the Global Executive.
The GOC consists of the Executive Committee members and the Divisional Managing Directors or Presidents, as appropriate.
The GOC meets monthly to discuss health and safety performance, risk management, business performance, employee-related matters, including succession planning, and key operational and financial management issues across Filtronas international businesses.
Biographies of the GOC members demonstrating the range of management expertise within the Companys senior executive team appear on pages 40 to 41.
In accordance with one of the other recommendations arising out of the Board Evaluation, the members of the GOC will be participating in a leadership development programme in conjunction with an external service provider.
This programme is intended to support the GOC team in planning their individual development in alignment with the delivery of Filtronas strategic objectives and should serve to provide Non-executive Directors with further visibility on the skills and resources available within the GOC and how they function together.
Policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing review and updated as required, are communicated across the Company and designed to ensure significant risks, investment decisions and management issues are identified, considered and escalated as necessary at the earliest opportunity.
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents are responsible for ensuring the communication of and compliance with Filtronas internal controls across their respective divisions.
The Board believe that this management structure ensures a strong link between Filtronas overall corporate strategy and its implementation within an effective control environment.
Control of significant risks The Board is of the view that a rigorous ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was in place throughout 2008 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report 2008.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board with the assistance of the Audit Committee and accords with the internal control guidance for Directors as required by the Code.
A Risk Management Committee RMC, which during 2008 consisted of the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the Director of Group Human Resources, the Group Head of Audit and the Head of Tax and Treasury, meets at least four times each year and otherwise as necessary.
All Directors receive copies of the minutes from each RMC meeting.
During the course of the year, the Company Secretary and General Counsel was appointed Chairman of the RMC as the Company took steps to ensure its internal control mechanisms incorporated an appropriate separation of powers and division of responsibilities, particularly in relation to financial management and reporting issues.
The RMC enhances managements ability to review and monitor the effectiveness of risk control on a regular basis.
The terms of reference of the RMC include supporting corporate governance requirements, recommending business risk strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
They also include the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
During 2008, the RMC implemented changes to refresh the Companys approach to risk management and to assist in the recognition of, and response to, new and emerging risks in the light of challenging trading conditions and recessionary trends.
Risk review is a continuing process embedded within the businesses with divisional executives required to include risk management on agendas for their regular management meetings and to report to the RMC on actions taken to review the effectiveness of their controls.
Businesses are also required to have processes to formally identify risks, consider their financial and non-financial implications and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
The process includes the maintenance of a register for identifying and evaluating the Groups significant risks and the related financial, operational and compliance controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the identified key risks, changes in their status or the composition of the risk matrix regularly.
62 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report The RMC also reviews the environmental, social and employee issues prevalent within the Group when considering its risk management processes.
The Company has an internal audit department.
The resources of this department are augmented with independent expert external resources wherever necessary to review risk and monitor compliance with the Companys policies and procedures across its international operations.
Accordingly the resources of the department, together with the additional available resources, are considered adequate.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of internal controls based on the processes implemented by the Executive Committee and the RMC.
At each meeting the Audit Committee receives a presentation from the Group Head of Audit and the Chairman of the RMC on the steps taken to identify and reduce risks and actions designed to increase the awareness of both risk management and the importance of having effective internal controls across the businesses.
Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Company.
Taxation, treasury and insurance functions report to the Board via the Group Finance Director.
The legal and governance compliance functions report to the Board via the Company Secretary and General Counsel, whilst the Chief Executive, supported by the Director of Group Human Resources and the Company Secretary and General Counsel, reports to the Board on corporate responsibility issues.
Policies and processes are in place to ensure that the activities undertaken in relation to all such matters are designed to reduce the risk profile of the Company.
The Company operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at both divisional and corporate level.
This process includes the analysis of significant risks relating to market trends and operational performance.
Monthly performance is reported against budget and the prior year and forecasts are updated as appropriate.
Monthly management accounts analyse and explain variances and report on performance indicators, with detailed explanations for variances and movements on updated forecasts being reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee review the arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial reporting or other matters in accordance with the Companys whistleblowing policy.
Financial reporting The Directors have acknowledged, in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 47, their responsibility for preparing the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The external auditor has included, in the Independent Auditors Report set out on pages 99 to 100, a statement about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the publication of unaudited quarterly interim management statements and half year results as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority providing an explanation of material events and transactions that have taken place during the relevant period and their impact on the financial position of the Company and the Group and a general description of the financial position and performance of the Company and the Group during the relevant period.
Going concern Information on the business environment Filtrona operates in, including factors likely to affect its future development, is included in the Business Review on pages 10 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 31.
In addition, note 1 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and borrowings are included in note 21 to the financial statements.
As highlighted in note 1, the Groups financing facility of 215 million matures in May 2010.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current financing facility.
In addition, the Group has opened negotiations with certain banks regarding future borrowing facilities and no matters have been drawn to its attention that suggest that a renewal may not be forthcoming.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
