44 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2008 The Directors present their report and audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Principal activities The principal activities of Filtrona are the light manufacture and supply of speciality plastic and fibre products.
The principal activity of the Company is a holding company.
The Business Review The Companies Act 1985 requires the Company to set out in this report, a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2008, including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group the Business Review.
The information that fulfils the Business Review requirements can be found on the pages referred to below.
All the information detailed is incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
Chairmans Statement on pages 10 to 11 Chief Executives Statement on pages 12 to 17 Key Performance Indicators on pages 18 to 19 Plastic Technologies Review on pages 20 to 25 Fibre Technologies Review on pages 26 to 29 Financial Review on pages 30 to 31 Management of Principal Risks on pages 32 to 33 Corporate Responsibility Statement on pages 34 to 39 Cautionary forward-looking statement This report contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations and assumptions.
Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause actual results to differ from any future results or developments expressed or implied from the forward-looking statements.
Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this document.
The Company accepts no obligation to publicly revise or update these forward-looking statements or adjust them to future events or developments, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
Results and dividends The accompanying financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008 which were approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2009 are set out on pages 63 to 98.
The Company has paid the following dividends in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008: Per share Total p m Interim dividend paid 24 October 2008 2.70 5.5 The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.08p 2007: 5.08p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 7.78p 2007: 7.60p.
The final dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 8 May 2009 to shareholders on the register at 14 April 2009.
Directors During the year ended 31 December 2008, the Board of Directors comprised: Jeff Harris Non-executive Chairman Mark Harper Chief Executive Steve Crummett Group Finance Director appointed 19 March 2008 Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director Adrian Auer Non-executive Director Lars Emilson Non-executive Director Steve Dryden Group Finance Director resigned 19 March 2008 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Jeff Harris and Steve Crummett are retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election as Directors.
Jeff Harris does not have a service contract.
Adrian Auer has resigned from the Board with effect from 30 June 2009.
During the year, the Company implemented a detailed conflicts of interest policy for Directors.
In accordance with the terms of the policy, the Directors are required to notify the Company of all potential conflicts of interest and the Company Secretary maintains a register of all notified interests.
In October, the Board considered all the interests notified by the Directors during the year and concluded that none of them were in conflict with the interests of the Company.
Any new interests notified by Directors are the subject of review by the Nomination Committee and the Nomination Committee will conduct a review of the register of notified interests at least once a year.
At no time during the year has any Director had any material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of significance in relation to the Groups business.
A statement of Directors interests in shares of the Company is on page 56.
45 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, as well as the powers of, the Companys directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company, except, in the case of transfers of securities: i that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and ii pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the articles of association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Substantial shareholders At the close of business on 25 February 2009, the Company had been advised of the following voting rights attaching to Filtrona shares in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: % of total voting rights Invesco Limited 8.87 Prudential plc 6.49 Pennant Capital Management LLC 5.84 Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.27 JP Morgan Chase & Co 4.97 Allianz SE 4.80 Legal and General Group Plc 3.93 Ignis Asset Management Resolution Investment Services Limited 3.92 Oppenheimer Funds 3.19 Property values In the opinion of the Directors, there was no significant difference between the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2008.
Charitable and political contributions The Company made no political contributions during the year ended 31 December 2008 2007: nil.
Donations to UK charities amounted to 0.1m 2007: 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2007: nil, with all contributions being made by its subsidiary companies.
Directors indemnities As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and the Company Secretary and General Counsel, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries including the pension scheme trustee companies.
This includes liabilities to third parties.
Creditor payment policy The Company policy for payment of suppliers is to pay according to the terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers performance in accordance with those agreed terms.
Since the Company has no trade creditors, the disclosure of creditor days does not apply.
Significant agreements The Company has committed bank facilities of 215m and US$40m, which mature in May 2010 and November 2009 respectively.
Under the terms of these facilities, the banks can give notice to Filtrona to repay outstanding amounts and cancel the commitments where there is a change of control of the Company.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are a number of other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole or indeed, to any potential bidder for the Company or Group.
46 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2008 Corporate Governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2008 Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Thursday 23 April 2009 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: Authority to allot unissued shares The Directors were granted authority at the last AGM held in 2008 to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 17,138,516.
That authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
At this years AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot relevant securities: i up to a nominal amount of 17,138,516, and ii comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of 34,277,032 after deducting from such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, the section 80 authority, such section 80 authority to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2010.
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising their authority to allot unissued shares, except those relating to share options.
Allotment of shares for cash The Directors will, under Resolution 8 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, seek power until the next AGM to allot shares for cash, otherwise than in accordance with the statutory pre-emption rights, either in connection with a rights issue, or otherwise, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital at 31 December 2008, equivalent to 10,966,340 shares.
Purchase of own shares At the last AGM, held in 2008, the shareholders approved a special resolution to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
That approval will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
At this years AGM, the Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, under Resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, authority will be sought to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued share capital at 25 February 2009 for the period of one year following the date of passing the Resolution.
In accordance with the requirements of The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the maximum price for shares purchased in the market shall not exceed an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotation taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price per share shall be not less than 25p, being the nominal value of the shares.
The Directors will only utilise this authority if satisfied that to do so will result in an increase in earnings per share and that it is in the best long-term interests of the shareholders.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations allow companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The Directors may use the authority to purchase shares and hold them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted in accordance with the Regulations rather than cancel them, subject to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
No shares, were, purchased either by the Company nor were cancelled or transferred out of treasury during the year.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc has indicated that it is willing to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint them, and to authorise the Board to set their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 6 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
Derivatives Information related to derivatives is included in the Accounting Policies on page 67 to 68 and in note 15 on page 83 to 84.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Directors Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditor, confirm that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board Jon Green Company Secretary and General Counsel 26 February 2009
