Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
16 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Senior Management 1 Mr Randal Barker 5 Mr Beat Ehrensberger General Counsel and Company Secretary Mergers & Acquisitions Director Mr Barker is a UKand US-qualified lawyer and joined ENRC as General Mr Ehrensberger is the Mergers & Acquisitions Director and was Counsel and Company Secretary in September 2008.
He was previously appointed to this role in mid-2008.
His role is to lead on the Groups Group Legal Director and Group Company Secretary at Resolution plc.
mergers and acquisitions transactions and be involved in the strategic Prior to this he held positions at General Electric Company and planning, supporting and deputising for the Head of Business Lovells LLP.
He originally joined ENRC as General Counsel in 2003 and until mid-2008 was responsible for company administration, 2 Ms Mounissa Chodieva including management of legal issues and coordination of litigation.
Head of Communications and Investor Relations He began his career as Associate of the Tax and Legal Department at Ms Chodieva is Head of Communications and Investor Relations at Ernst & Young in Switzerland.
He later worked at a Zurich-based law ENRC, a position she took up in 2006 having previously held the firm and was involved in projects covering corporate, commercial and position of Vice President Corporate Finance.
Prior to that she was contractual law, including litigation and arbitration.
Vice President in Corporate Restructuring at CIM Global AG.
6 Mr Felix Vulis 3 Mr Jim Cochrane Chief Operating Officer, Kazakhstan Head of Sales and Marketing and Head of Business Development Mr Vulis has been Chief Operating Officer of Kazakhstan since Mr Cochrane is Chief Executive Officer of ENRC Marketing AG, December 2006.
Prior to joining the Group in 2001, Mr Vulis responsible for developing and implementing the sales and marketing was President of UNICHEM K, LLC.
From 1990 until 1995 he strategy of the Group and, from mid-2008, Head of Business was President and CEO of AGC Group, Inc. Mr Vulis is Deputy Development, responsible for leading the Groups strategic planning, Chairman of the Governing Board of Kazakhstan Foreign focusing on the organic development of the business, and mergers Investors Council Association.
7 Ms Zaure Zaurbekova 4 Mr Jeff Couch Deputy CFO and CFO Kazakhstan Head of Business Development Ms Zaurbekova became Deputy CFO of the Group in late 2007 and Mr Couch joined the Group in January 2009 as Head of Business has been CFO Kazakhstan since 2001.
Prior to that she was Finance Development.
Formerly he was a Director of Metals and Mining Director and later, first Vice President of Kazchrome.
She began her at Credit Suisse in London.
career in the Kazakh Research Institute of Automation of Planning and after that worked in the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 8 Mr Almaz Ibragimov 11 Mr Victor Til President of JSC Aluminium Kazakhstan General Director of JSC Kazchrome Mr Ibragimov has been the President of JSC Aluminium of Kazakhstan Mr Til started his career at one of the Kazchrome mines Molodejnaya since 2001.
From 1994 until 2001 he held various positions at the JSC in 1977 and worked in various positions within Kazchrome.
Prior to that he was Chief Engineer at the he was appointed as the General Director of JSC Kazchrome.
collective farm Pervoye Maya in Kyrgyzstan.
12 Mr Arif Shadiev 9 Mr Bereke Mukhametkaliev General Director of ENRC Logistics President of JSC Zhairem GOK Mr Shadiev held the position of Deputy General Director at LLP Mr Mukhametkaliev started his career in the metals and mining Transystema from 1999-2006.
He was appointed as General Director industry as technical geologist at the JSC Karagaily in 1994. of ENRC Logistics in 2007.
He joined RU Kazamarganets in 2000 as a geologist and by 2004 held the position of Chief Engineer.
In 2004 he became the 13 Mr Mukhamejan Turdakhunov Chief Engineer at the JSC Zharemsky GOK and in 2005 was President of SSGPO appointed as the President.
Mr Turdakhunov has held the position of President of SSGPO since 1999.
He began his career in the metals and mining industry in 1995 10 Mr Abduazim Rustambayev as the Director of the Aksu Factory of the Ferroalloys Division in the President of JSC Eurasian Energy Corporation Pavlodar Region in Kazakhstan.
Mr Turdakhunov then spent two Mr Rustambayev has been the President of JSC Eurasian Energy years as the General Director of the public corporation Khimfarm Corporation since 1999.
Prior to assuming this role Mr Rustambayev in Shymkent City, Kazakhstan.
He joined SSGPO as the First Vice held the position of General Director of the Yermakovskaya GRESS President of SSGPO in 1997.
State district power plant in Kazakhstan for three years.
Mr Rustambayev previously worked at The Regional Consumer Cooperation Society of Frunze, Kyrgyzstan as the Deputy Chief Manager for seven years.
8 9 10 11 12 13 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
18 ENRC Annual Report And Accounts 2008 Floor of the turbine hall, EEC, Aksu DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report And Accounts 2008 19 Strategic priorities Maintain and improve upon low cost operations Enhance Continue expansion and development existing Organic of existing reserves and capacity assets growth Add value and customer diversity by expanding the product portfolio Shareholder value Expand our asset portfolio and footprint in the natural resources sector, both within the region and worldwide M&A Commit to high standards of corporate responsibility The Groups strategy is built on its mission to achieve growth as a the Groups large-scale, low-cost, long-life assets, and exploit its leading natural resources group and to enhance overall value for strategic location between Russia and China.
The overall capital expenditure programme, as outlined at the The strategy is a balanced and flexible combination of: enhancing 2008 Half-year results, remains part of the strategic objective.
existing assets: organic growth: and acquisitions.
The strategy The Groups current production assets have been at or near aims to bridge the Groups current position as a leading, diversified capacity, and growing capacity over the longer term, by brownfield natural resource group largely based in the Republic of Kazakhstan, to or greenfield growth, is key.
In addition there are great opportunities its aspiration as a more broadly based international mining for the Group to develop further its value added processing of group.
Within the strategy is an optionality that enables the Group mineral resources.
to respond to growth opportunities and the current challenging environment.
Growth in shareholder value is achieved over time In the current economic environment the Group has broadened by a higher sustained performance which should then be reflected its M&A growth strategy to cover the natural resources sector in the share price and dividend as benchmarked against our peer worldwide.
This shift recognises that the environment offers mining companies.
Management and shareholder interests are significant opportunities that the Group, with its strong balance aligned through appropriate incentives linked to the delivery of sheet, should look at provided that they meet our low cost criteria, value for shareholders.
offer at least our hurdle rate of return and are something that fits with our capabilities.
Our aspirations for the Eurasian region and for In response to the more challenging economic environment the core assets worldwide remain but todays availability of attractively Groups strategy for its capital expenditure was refocused in Q4 2008 valued natural resource assets offers significant opportunities for on replacement and productivity enhancement of existing assets, all shareholders and our strategy is flexible enough for us to capitalise most particularly those projects which reinforce or strengthen on this situation.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
