Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
06 ENRC Annual Report And Accounts 2008 Bridging East and West High quality assets Diversified revenues Integrated operations Growth Management team The Groups attractiveness to investors is built on five key factors that bridge the current position of ENRC with its aspiration to emerge as an international mining group.
In addition the Group is supported by its cash flow and a strong balance sheet.
The Groups asset base includes production assets which are at the bottom of the cost curve ferroalloys and alumina or in the lower third of the cost curve iron ore pellets and aluminium.
In addition, the mineral resources are characterised by large scale mine lives of 30 to 40 years for our main products and significantly scalable through resources of between two and three times.
The asset base is represented by what are regarded in the industry as, Tier 1 assets.
The revenue base of the Group is broadly spread by geography, customer and industry, although with a focus upon steel and stainless steel.
In addition the revenue base includes secure power and logistics.
The largest business, the Ferroalloys Division, has only 26.8% of its revenue from its top 5 customers, whilst the revenue from the top customers of the Iron Ore and Alumina and Aluminium Divisions are, respectively, 64.1% and 68.3% of the revenue of the Division.
The Groups core mining and processing businesses are supported by in-house, large-scale energy and logistics capabilities.
These provide security over the supply and delivery chain and, in the case of the Energy Division, low cost power.
Together they underpin the low cost position of the Group.
These are key competitive advantages for both the industry and in the Eurasian region.
The geographical location of the Republic of Kazakhstan, adjacent to two key BRIC economies, provides the prospect for future strong growth from their demand for infrastructure investment, urbanisation and consumption.
This opens up the prospect for investment in greenfield and brownfield growth and for acquisitions in the region.
The Groups core assets expertise can also be carried worldwide to strengthen its position in its core businesses.
Local management in the Republic of Kazakhstan has a long history with the assets and has strong technical and operational expertise.
The Groups executive management has a long association with the assets and the industry.
In addition the Groups investment case is underpinned by the relative attractions of the Republic of Kazakhstan to international investors interested in the Eurasian CIS region.
Most particularly the development of commercial laws and taxation, its openness to foreign investment and a stable political climate should provide comfort.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report And Accounts 2008 07 Smelting facilities at Aksu Ferroalloy Plant, Kazchrome, Aksu DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
