Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
10 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Board of Directors 1 Dr Johannes Sittard age 65 Chief Executive Officer Dr Sittard is the Chief Executive Officer and has over 25 years experience in the natural resource and steel industries.
Prior to joining the Group in 2001, Dr Sittard was the President and Chief Operating Officer of ISPAT International NV now known as ArcelorMittal.
He is also the Chairman of International Mineral Resources BV, Chairman of Alferon and a Non-executive Director of Cunico Resources NV.
He is Chairman of ENRCs Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability HSES Committee.
2 Sir David Cooksey age 68 Non-executive Chairman Sir David Cooksey GBE was one of the pioneers of the private equity industry in Europe.
He retired as Chairman of Advent Venture Partners LLP in 2006, a firm that he founded in 1981.
He is Chairman of London & Continental Railways Ltd, Chairman of Bechtel UK Ltd and an independent director of the Establishment Investment Trust plc where he chairs its Audit Committee.
Sir David is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
3 Mr Miguel Perry age 38 Chief Financial Officer Mr Perry is the Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
Prior to joining the Group in March 2007, he worked at  in Russia and Switzerland for 15 years and was made partner in 2005.
During this period, Mr Perry gained extensive experience with companies based in the former Soviet Union and advised the Group during 2005 and 2006.
4 Mr Gerhard Ammann age 65 Independent non-executive Director Mr Ammann is currently President of Bank von Roll, a private bank in Switzerland.
Prior to joining the ENRC Board he was CEO of Deloitte in Switzerland until May 2007 and has over 30 years experience as an auditor under IFRS and Swiss Reporting standards, primarily in banking, finance and international trade.
Mr Ammann is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
5 Mr Marat Beketayev age 32 Non-executive Director and representative of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan Mr Beketayev is Vice-minister of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Before appointment to the post of Vice-minister of Justice, Mr Beketayev was advisor to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr Beketayev graduated in 1998 from the Kazakh State Law Institute.
In 2000 he completed an LLM in International Business Law at the London School of Economics.
1 2 3 4 5 6 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 11 6 Mr Mehmet Dalman age 51 10 Sir Richard Sykes age 66 Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Mr Dalman has spent over 20 years as in investment banker, working in Sir Richard Sykes is currently the Chair of NHS London, the Strategic Japan, Hong Kong, Frankfurt and London.
Mr Dalman is currently Vice Health Authority accountable for the performance of the National Chairman of Toscafund Asset Management LLP.
Prior to that he was Health Service in the capital.
Prior to that he was the Rector of Chief Executive Officer of WMG Group, a financial services firm that he Imperial College, London and the Senior Independent Director founded in 2004, and a member of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche of Rio Tinto plc.
He has over 30 years of experience within the Brse and the Board of Commerzbank AG.
biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, serving as Chief Executive and Chairman of GlaxoWellcome from 1995 to 2000 7 Mr Michael Eggleton age 40 and then as Chairman of GlaxoSmithKline until 2002.
Sir Richard Independent non-executive Director is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Eggleton has spent over 15 years as an investment professional in the United States, the United Kingdom, Turkey and Russia.
In August 11 Mr Roderick Thomson age 69 2006, he joined TRUST Investment Bank to serve as Chief Executive Independent non-executive Director Officer and Chairman of the Bank.
He is also on the board of directors Mr Thomson is an international financier, venture capitalist and of Moorgate Capital Management, a private equity asset manager philanthropist with over 40 years of international business experience.
formed by the TRUST Banking Group.
He has provided capital from his own private investment portfolios to numerous companies in the information technology, biotechnology, oil 8 Sir Paul Judge age 60 and gas, real estate and telecommunications sectors.
Independent non-executive Director Sir Paul Judge spent 13 years with Cadbury Schweppes plc, where he 12 Mr Eduard Utepov age 55 led the buyout of its food companies to form Premier Brands Ltd, which Non-executive Director and representative of the Government of the was successfully sold in 1989.
He is currently the Chairman of Schroder Republic of Kazakhstan Income Growth Fund plc, the Enterprise Education Trust, Digital Links Mr Utepov has held numerous leading positions within the state International and the British-North American Committee, President of property authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan since 1994. the Association of MBAs and of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Between 1995 and 1997 he served as Chairman of the State and Deputy Chairman of the American Management Association.
Privatisation Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and since Sir Paul is a director of the United Kingdom Accreditation Service, January 2006 has served as Chairman of the State Property and Standard Bank Group Ltd of South Africa and Tempur-Pedic Privatisation Committee at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic International Inc. of Kentucky and a Board member of the Higher of Kazakhstan.
Education Funding Council for England.
13 Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev age 49 9 Mr Kenneth Olisa age 57 Non-executive Director appointed by Mr Alijan Ibragimov Independent non-executive Director Mr Yedilbayev has wide experience working in the mining industry, in Mr Olisa is the founder and Chairman of Restoration Partners Ltd both the public and private sector.
For the past 10 years Mr Yedilbayev and a non-executive Director of Thomson Reuters PLC.
He currently has been at Gorneo Buro LLP, which provides a variety of technological serves on the Board of, or is an adviser to, several privately held and scientific services to the mining industry, where he is currently and innovative companies, including Prevx, Independent Audit, Chairman and Finance Director.
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
