80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 8 Directors' Report The directors submit their annual report and group accounts 2.
Strategy for the year ended September 30 2008.
The key elements of the group's strategy are: drive top-line revenue growth from both new and existing Certain statements made in this document are forwardproducts: looking statements.
Such statements are based on current building robust subscription and repeat revenues and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and reduce the dependence on advertising: uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ improving operating margins through revenue growth materially from any expected future events or results referred and tight cost control: to in these forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise leveraging technology to launch specialised new required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, electronic information services: the directors do not undertake any obligation to update or to making focused acquisitions that supplement the revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of group's existing businesses, strengthen the companys new information, future development or otherwise.
Nothing market position in key areas and have the capacity for in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
organic growth using the existing knowledge base of the group: and The directors' report has been prepared for the group as a keeping its net debt within a debt to EBITDA limit of whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters four times.
which are significant to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
It has In 2004, to supplement this strategy, the board set the group been prepared solely to provide additional information to a profit target of 50 million by 2008 against a base of shareholders as a body to assess the company's strategy and 21 million in 2003.
In March 2007, the target was increased the potential for that strategy to succeed and the directors' to 57 million to reflect the effect of the Metal Bulletin report should not be relied upon by any other party for any acquisition.
The profit achieved in 2007 was 65.7 million, other purpose.
beating the increased target a year earlier than expected.
The board believes this significant achievement reflects the success 1.
Principal activities of the Capital Appreciation Plan CAP incentive scheme in Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed on the London driving growth.
This was further demonstrated in 2008 when Stock Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 share index.
the profit achieved of 72.9 million exceeded both that of It is a leading international business-to-business media group 2007 and the performance target set for the second tranche focused primarily on the international finance, metals and of the CAP.
The third and final tranche of the CAP is subject commodities sectors.
It publishes more than 70 magazines, to a performance test which requires the company's profit newsletters and journals, including Euromoney, Institutional for 2009 to remain above 57 million.
It also runs an extensive portfolio of conferences, seminars and training courses and is a leading 3. Business review provider of electronic information and data covering 3.1 Group results and dividends international finance, metals and commodities, and emerging The group profit for the year attributable to shareholders markets.
Its main offices are located in London, New York, amounted to 43.7 million 2007: 31.8 million.
The directors Montreal and Hong Kong and nearly half of its revenues are recommend a final dividend of 13.0 pence per ordinary share derived from emerging markets.
Details of the group's legal 2007: 13.0 pence, payable on February 4 2009 to entities can be found in note 13. shareholders on the register on November 21 2008.
This, together with the interim dividend of 6.25 pence per ordinary share 2007: 6.0 pence which was declared on May 14 2008 and paid on June 23 2008, brings the total dividend for the year to 19.25 pence per ordinary share 2007: 19.0 pence.
Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments and foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts as set out in the income statement and note 7.
08 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 9 3.2 Key performance indicators The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators.
Gross profit and revenue are both as per note 4 in the financial statements.
2 Adjusted operating margin operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items and associates and joint ventures as a percentage of revenue.
Operating profit and revenue are both as per the group income statement in the financial statements.
3 Organic growth in profits proportion of operating profit growth that relates to organic growth, rather than acquisitions.
Operating profit is from continuing operations and excludes closed businesses and is adjusted for significant timing differences.
4 Headcount number of permanent people employed at the end of the period including people employed in associates and joint ventures.
5 Net debt to EBITDA the amount of the group's net debt to earnings before interest, tax operating profit, depreciation, amortisation and also before exceptional items but after the share option expense.
6 City PBT Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments and foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts as set out in the group income statement and note 7.
7 Adjusted PBT City PBT after the deduction of share option expense as set out on page 7.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 09 80766 pre 11 12 08 15:32 Page 10 Directors' Report continued 3.3 KPIs explained the year, including 12 acquired as part of the acquisition of The key performance indicators are all within the board's Benchmark Financials Limited BPR.
The majority of additional expectations and support its successful strategy.
These heads were recruited at BCA, CEIC and Internet Securities, indicators are discussed in detail in the Chairman's Statement Inc. reflecting their strong growth.
on pages 2 to 6, and in section 3.4 below.
4 Debt and working capital management 3.4 Development of the business of the group Net debt at September 30 2008 was 172.0 million 2007: 3.4.
1 Financial results 204.6 million which included cash of 21.2 million 2007: A detailed review of the group's results is given in the 26.7 million.
At the end of September the group's net debt Chairman's statement on pages 2 to 6. to EBITDA ratio improved to 2.17 2007: 2.85, resulting in the group's variable rate interest margin above LIBOR falling by 3.4.
2 Finance costs five basis points.
The ratio remains within the group's banking IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' covenant arrangements.
During the year the group has requires an imputed interest charge to be recognised on the focused on reducing its cash holdings in order to maximise the group's future acquisition payments under option amount available to reduce its gross debt.
This additional finance charge increased the 2008 cash held has fallen 5.5 million.
Cash generated from group's interest cost by 1.0 million 2007: 1.6 million.
IAS operations increased by 11% to 99.8 million producing 39 also requires any movements in the estimated value of an adjusted operating profit cash conversion of 123% acquisition option commitments to be recognised in interest 2007: 115%.
A discussion on debt is contained within the and in 2008 an amount of 1.7 million 2007: income of Chairman's statement on page 5.
The group has a dedicated 3.9 million was recognised.
There is no related cash effect of 300 million three-year multi-currency facility with a subsidiary these amounts.
of Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
Interest is payable on this facility at a variable rate of between 0.4% and 1.6% In addition, the group's interest cost includes 12.0 million above LIBOR.
The facility expires in August 2009 and the 2007: 1.8 million in relation to foreign exchange losses on directors have, subsequent to the year end, agreed to sign a hedges on intra-group financing.
These are matched by an new replacement facility of up to 250 million offered by equal and opposite tax credit in the group's tax line from tax DMGT.
The terms of the new facility are similar to the existing equalisation swaps designed to hedge this transaction.
facility with interest payable at a variable rate of between 1.25% and 3.0% above LIBOR dependant on the group's net Excluding these amounts, the group's net finance cost fell debt to EBITDA covenant.
At September 30 2008 there were from 13.4 million to 8.9 million, reflecting the successful 115.4 million 2007: 86.4 million of committed undrawn reduction in the group's debt and benefiting from a lower amounts directly available to the group.
interest margin, a result of the stronger EBITDA to Net Debt ratio.
The group continues to follow its treasury policy of fixing 3.4.
5 Balance sheet the interest rate on a portion of its long-term borrowings see The net assets of the group were 88.1 million compared to treasury section below.
The main movements in the balance sheet items were in: intangible assets, reflecting the 3.4.
3 Headcount recognition of 9.2 million of goodwill and other intangible The number of people employed is monitored monthly, to assets following the acquisitions and further equity purchases ensure that there are sufficient people employed to meet the of ISI, TelCap, Total Derivatives, and BPR, foreign exchange forthcoming demands of each business and to make sure that gains of 36.9 million and amortisation and impairment costs the businesses continue to deliver sufficient profits to support of 18.7 million: property, plant and equipment, increased the people they employ.
At the end of September the group by 0.7 million to 21.7 million, as a result of the 2.5 million employed 2,207 people, an increase of 47 since the start of capitalisation of the refurbishment costs of two of the group's 10 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 11 London premises offset by the freehold sale of a legacy Metal headquartered in Bogota, Colombia, BPR is one of the leading Bulletin building 1.2 million net book value plus foreign providers of company financial data, analysis and business exchange movements and regular capital expenditure across credit ratings for Colombian companies.
The business is a the group: post retirement benefits, increased 2.2 million high-quality, international, online business which generates to 2.5 million reflecting the increased pension surplus on the revenues from selling subscriptions to customers, and as such Metal Bulletin pension scheme: amounts on loans owed to closely fits our acquisition criteria.
During the summer, we DMGT, relates to a 155.7 million intercompany receivable looked closely at two other significant online subscription loan with a DMGT company which is offset by a similar loan businesses but ultimately withdrew given the state of the payable to a different DMGT company in current liabilities: markets and their high valuations.
derivative financial instruments due less than one year and more than one year, fell from an asset of 7.5 million to a Increase in equity holdings liability of 23.1 million reflecting the fall in mark to market The group continues to increase its holdings in its subsidiaries value of the group's forward currency contracts and interest and this year has paid the following: rate swaps: acquisition option commitments due in less than one year increased 7.4 million to 22.3 million In January 2008, the group purchased a further 10.85% of the reflecting the transfer of the liability from acquisition option equity share capital of Total Derivatives Limited, a leading commitments due in more than one year, further tranches of provider of real-time news and analysis about the global the group's acquisitions due for purchase in 2009: deferred fixed income derivatives market, for a cash consideration of income increased 16.1 million to 89.5 million reflecting the 2.6 million increasing its equity holding to 78.3%.
underlying growth in the group's subscription revenue: loan notes fell 4.2 million to 7.6 million, a result of loan note In February 2008, the group purchased a further 15% of the redemption during the year: committed loan facility due equity share capital of TelCap Limited, the global wholesale less than one year fell 29.0 million to 184.6 million, telecoms publisher and conference organiser, for a cash reflecting the net cash generated by the group from consideration of 2.5 million, increasing the group's equity operations: deferred tax, the net deferred tax liability has holding to 70%.
fallen from 20.1 million to 11.4 million due to the recognition of additional deferred tax assets on put option In February 2008, the group purchased a further 0.5% of the commitments and US losses and the unwinding of deferred equity share capital of Internet Securities, Inc. for a cash tax on intangible assets.
consideration of $1.8 million 0.9 million, bringing the group's equity shareholding to 93.85%.
6 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisitions remain a fundamental part of the group's growth 3.4.
In particular the board believes that acquisitions are In 2008 revenues from direct marketing, including Metal valuable for taking the group into new sectors, for bringing Bulletin, increased by 15%.
Revenue growth was achieved new technologies into the group and for increasing the across all products, in particular paid delegates and electronic group's growth by buying into rapidly developing niche subscriptions.
Return on marketing spend improved by 4%, businesses.
The group continues to look for acquisitions to including significant increased investment in Metal Bulletin support its main brands, especially in international finance, 1.4 million.
Marketing revenues taken on-line grew by energy, commodities, telecoms and law.
28%, primarily driven by effective use of search and email marketing which is beginning to replace direct mail.
Acquisitions Our emerging market content aggregator and data business, 3.4.
8 Systems and information technology ISI Emerging Markets Internet Securities, Inc, has made two The company continues to invest in its IT infrastructure.
In May 2008, it acquired BPR: 2008 a new state-of-the-art storage system was implemented Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 11 80766 pre 11 12 08 15:17 Page 12 Directors' Report continued in London to give staff high performance access to the 3.4.
9 Tax and treasury companys data and secure, remote connectivity to our officeCommittee based systems from anywhere in the world.
The office move The group's tax and treasury committee normally meets programme was completed in August this year with all Metal twice a year and is responsible for recommending policy Bulletin staff now benefiting from Euromoney's infrastructure to the board.
The committee members are the chairman, and systems.
managing director and finance director of the company, and the finance director and the deputy finance director of Investment in high-speed network and wireless technologies DMGT.
The chairman of the audit committee is also invited to continues across the group: a high performance external attend the tax and treasury meetings.
The groups treasury network links the company's main offices in Europe, North policies are directed to giving greater certainty of future America and Asia.
costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for In the UK new resilient and high capacity telecom infrastructure funding acquisitions.
was implemented during the year: a VoIP network with increased internet bandwidth provides a scalable and featureTreasury rich telephony network.
Unified messaging was implemented The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, recently to enable staff to receive voicemail over the web nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and worldwide.
A video conferencing facility has also been added it operates within policies and procedures approved by improving communication between our offices in London, New the board.
York, Montreal and Hong Kong whilst reducing global travel costs.
Total call costs were also reduced following a full review Interest rate swaps are used to manage the groups exposure of telecom suppliers and services during the year.
to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of these derivatives is matched with the A project is underway to review the company's information expected future debt profile of the group.
The groups policy security policy and refresh the controls in place for the is to fix the interest rates on approximately 80% of its term protection of the company's data.
A programme to train all debt looking forward over five years.
The maturity dates are managers in relevant information security practices is planned spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to for 2009 and new procedures will be rolled out to reinforce negate short-term changes in interest rates.
In addition all credit card processing systems and procedures are being updated to meet the new At September 30 2008, the group had 83% of its net debt standards mandated by the payment card industry.
The fixed by the use of interest rate hedges.
The predicitability of company deadline for compliance with these new standards is interest costs is deemed to be more important than the December 31 2008. possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of spreading the In 2008 disaster recovery and business continuity plans for all group's exposure to fluctuations arising from changes in businesses were updated.
The company has an active interest rates and hence protects the group's interest charge programme for testing the disaster recovery plans for all against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the group business units.
from benefitting immediately from falls in rates.
The company's websites are located at a dedicated, highThe group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of availability hosting centre.
Many sites were re-launched during transactions in foreign currencies entered into by group 2008 with fresh designs and updated technologies.
Throughout companies and by the translation of the results of foreign 2008 the company continued to invest in its e-commerce subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
The group infrastructure to help support its growing online revenues.
does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign 12 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 13 subsidiaries, but does endeavour to match foreign currency There is an unrecognised US deferred tax asset of 1.8 million borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge 2007: 5.4 million relating to capital losses arising on the for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
sale of the group's 15% interest in LAMP Technologies LLC.
The unrecognised deferred tax asset in 2007 has been Approximately 60% of the groups revenues are in US dollars.
Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign 4.
Risk management currencies into the functional currency of their own operations.
However, at a group level a series of US dollar The company has continued to develop its processes for risk management.
Management of significant risk is regularly on forward contracts is put in place up to 48 months forward partially to hedge its dollar revenues into sterling.
the agenda of the board and other senior management meetings.
Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 18 Specific risk areas that potentially could have a material impact to the accounts.
on the group's long-term performance include: Tax The underlying effective tax rate based on adjusted profit Downturn in economy or market sector The group generates significant income from certain key before tax and excluding deferred tax movements on intangible assets, prior year items and exceptionals is 27% geographical regions and market sectors for both its publishing and events businesses.
The decrease in the underlying rate from 2007 is due a reduction in statutory tax rates in Canada and the UK financial markets increases the risk of a downturn or potential collapse in one of these areas, should this occur, income is as well as a different mix of regional profits.
The group's effective tax rate decreased to a 19% credit compared to 20% likely to be adversely affected and for events businesses some abandonment costs may also be incurred.
A credit of 12.0 million relating to tax on foreign exchange losses 2007: 1.8 million has been However, the group has a strong product mix and operates in treated as exceptional as it is hedged by 12.0 million 2007: 1.8 million of foreign exchange losses on tax multiple geographical locations which reduces dependency on any one sector or region.
Management has shown a proven equalisation contracts included within net finance costs note 7.
A reconciliation to the underlying effective rate is set out in ability to switch the group's focus to new or unaffected markets e. g. following the SARS outbreak in Asia and terrorist note 8 in the accounts.
The total net deferred tax balance held is a liability of 11.4 million 2007: 20.1 million and relates primarily to Liquidity risk The group has significant intercompany borrowings and is an capitalised intangible assets, tax deductible US goodwill and rolled over capital gains, net of deferred tax assets held in approved borrower under a Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT, 300 million revolving multi-currency facility.
This respect of US tax losses and short term timing differences, UK short term timing differences and the future deductions facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items.
The decrease in the net liability is due to the recognition of previously unrecognised US deferred tax Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn asset of 5.4 million 2007: 3.2 million and the unwinding of deferred tax on intangible assets.
The deferred tax asset or impediment of management decision making by the lender.
Management regularly monitor the covenants and prepare recognised relates to Metal Bulletin group US tax losses and the IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is available and that the covenants are not close or potentially Measurement' liability in respect of the groups obligations under the put option held by IMNs minority shareholders.
The group's strategy is to use excess operating Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 13 80766 pre 11 12 08 15:05 Page 14 Directors' Report continued cash to pay down its debt.
The group has a cash conversion Interest rate risk rate the percentage by which cash generated by operations The group's borrowings are in both pounds sterling and US covers adjusted operating profit of over 100%, due to much dollars with the related interest tied to US and UK LIBOR.
This of its subscription, conference and training revenue being paid results in the group's interest charge being at risk to fluctuations in advance.
This facility is due to expire in August 2009, in interest rates.
It is the group's policy to hedge approximately however the directors have, subsequent to the year end, 80% of its interest exposure, converting its floating rate debt agreed to sign a new replacement facility of up to 250 million into fixed debt by means of interest rate swaps.
The maturity offered by DMGT.
The terms of the new facility are similar to dates are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis risk and also the existing facility.
to negate short-term changes in interest rates.
The predicitability of interest costs is deemed to be more important Under the DMGT facility, at September 30 2008, the group than the possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving lower has 115.4 million of undrawn but committed facilities interest rates and this hedging strategy has the effect of available to draw upon if required.
This is more than sufficient spreading the group's exposure to fluctuations arising from for the group to meet expected and unexpected short-term changes in interest rates and hence protects the group's interest working capital requirements.
However, given the level of charge against sudden increases in rates but also prevents the uncertainty in the global economy and financial markets, there group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
Details is a risk that the undrawn portion of the facility may be of the group's interest rate swaps are given in note 18. unavailable or withdrawn if DMGT experience funding difficulties themselves, for example if one of DMGT's lenders Foreign currency risk was unable to fulfil its lending commitments.
It is, however, The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of unlikely that this would impact the group as DMGT have a transactions in foreign currencies entered into by group wide range of funding sources, other than bank debt, companies and by the translation of the results of foreign available to them.
In addition, if DMGT were unable to fulfil its subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
commitment to Euromoney the directors are confident that the group is in a position that would enable it to secure The group does not hedge the translation of the results of adequate facilities outside of DMGT, albeit at an increased cost foreign subsidiaries.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value of to the business due to high interest charges imposed given the sterling versus other currencies could materially affect the crisis in the credit markets.
translation of these results in the consolidated financial statements.
The group endeavours to match foreign currency Market price risk borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge Market price risk is the possibility that changes in currency for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries exchange rates, interest rates or commodity prices will adversely with the related foreign currency interest cost arising from affect the value of the groups financial assets, liabilities or these borrowings providing a part natural hedge against the expected future cash flows.
The group's primary market risks translation of foreign currency profits.
are interest rate fluctuations and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge or reduce the risks of interest rate Approximately 60% of the group's revenues are in US dollars.
and exchange rate movements and are not entered into unless At a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put such risks exist.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a in place up to 48 months forward partially to hedge its dollar particular risk are not specialised and are generally available revenues into sterling.
The timing and value of these forward from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, contracts are based on managements estimate of its future US currency options and forward exchange contracts set out in dollar revenues over a 48-month period and is regularly note 18 represent the replacement costs calculated using the reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting market rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2008. in either additional forward contracts being taken out or The group has no other material market price risks.
existing contracts' maturity dates being moved forward or 14 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 15 back.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada London, New York, Montreal or Hong Kong wide disaster whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level The group has its main offices located in London, New York, a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in place up to Montreal and Hong Kong.
An area wide disaster is likely to 48 months forward to hedge the operation's Canadian cost have serious consequences with office space potentially base.
In addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice becoming unusable for several months and a lack of suitable sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Details of alternative accommodation: loss of key clients and staff in an the group's forward contracts are given in note 18. affected area and difficult communications with both customers and staff.
As a consequence of the above, the Credit risk group could suffer a loss of revenue.
The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks described above by the use of financial instruments and as a To mitigate this risk the group has detailed disaster recovery result has a credit risk from the potential non-performance by DR plans for all businesses.
All employees can work remotely.
the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are The group regularly tests its DR plans.
It has robust systems unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted in place with key locations including the UK, US, Canada to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal and Asia benefiting from dual locations of back ups, dual amount being hedged.
The group also has a credit exposure loading of live back ups for key systems and third-party to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and 24-hour support.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the amounts outstanding, with and the credit quality of, these Publishing legislation counterparties.
For the group's cash and cash equivalents The group generates a significant amount of its revenue from these are principally licensed commercial banks and publishing and hence has an inherent libel risk.
A successful investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for libel claim is likely to affect the group's reputation in the derivative financial instruments DMGT who have treasury market place where the libel claim arose and or where the policies in place which do not allow concentrations of risk publication was published.
As a consequence the group could with individual counterparties and do not allow significant suffer a loss of advertising and other add-on revenue streams.
treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AAA.
To mitigate this risk the group runs mandatory annual libel courses for all journalists and editors.
Key staff are aware of The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and other the significant nature of the risks and strong internal controls receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The are in place for reporting to senior management if a potential concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited due issue arises.
The group also has libel insurance cover.
to the large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable exposures are managed locally in the business units where they Circulation arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts based on The group publishes over 70 titles and publications and sells managements assessment of the risk of non-payment taking advertising based partly on circulation figures.
An incorrect into account the ageing profile, experience and circumstance.
claim for circulation could adversely affect the group's reputation in the applicable market place with a potential The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the knock-on effect for other titles within the group.
This could carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative lead to the permanent loss of advertisers and other financial instruments, recorded in the balance sheet.
All of the above risks have been further heightened by the To mitigate this risk the group runs rolling annual internal impact of the credit crunch resulting in increasing uncertainty audits and regularly monitors internal controls designed to in global financial markets and economies.
Detailed guidance is provided to all relevant Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 15 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 16 Directors' Report continued employees and their understanding of the rules is regularly brand could impact the group's reported profits.
There are a large number of mutually exclusive works hard to manage the quality and reputation of its brands titles and it is unlikely that an incorrect circulation claim, and products and protects these where necessary with trade should it arise, would affect the circulation of other titles marks which are monitored by external advisors.
In addition within the wider group.
Similar controls are applied to claims the group benefits from a broad range of products and brands for electronic publishing activities.
which diversifies the brand risk.
Acquisition and disposal risk Conferences and events Part of the group's strategy is to be acquisitive.
Management There has been significant growth in the events businesses review a number of potential acquisitions each year with only within the group which now account for over 40% of the a small proportion of these going through to due diligence group's profits.
A number of key events are organised as joint stage and possible subsequent purchase.
The group could venture partnerships.
Failure in these joint venture suffer an impairment loss if an acquired business does not relationships could result in loss of profit, reputation and generate the expected returns or fails to operate or grow in its damage to the specific event brand.
Measures are in place to markets and products areas.
The expected risks of a newly closely manage these key relationships and the quality of the acquired entity may be misunderstood.
As a consequence a events to ensure they remain financially successful.
significant amount of management time could be diverted from other operational matters.
The group is also subject to Events are held all over the world and rely on the ability of the disposal risk, possibly failing to achieve optimal value from delegates to travel globally.
Disruptions or reductions to global disposed businesses or underestimating the impact on the travel as a result of terrorism, pandemic or climate change remaining group businesses from such a disposal.
issues, could lead to events being cancelled or refunded.
Abandonment insurance is in place for targeted key events.
To mitigate this risk experienced senior management perform detailed in-house due diligence and call on expert external Tax advisors where deemed necessary.
Acquisition agreements are The group operates within many jurisdictions: earnings are usually structured so as to retain key employees in the acquired therefore subject to taxation at differing rates across these company and there is a close monitoring of performance at jurisdictions.
The directors endeavour to manage the tax board level of the entity concerned post acquisition.
affairs of the group in an efficient manner, however, due to an ever more complex international tax environment there will Key staff leaving always be a level of uncertainty when provisioning for tax In order to pursue our strategy, we are reliant on key liabilities.
There is also a risk of tax laws being amended by management and staff across all our businesses.
Many of the authorities in the different jurisdictions in which the group businesses products are reliant on the technological and operates which could have an adverse effect on the financial specialist expertise provided by a number of talented staff.
External tax experts and in-house tax specialists, key staff are engaged in long term incentive plans to reporting to the tax and treasury committee, work together to encourage retention.
In addition the directors remain review all tax arrangements within the group and keep abreast committed to recruitment and retention of high quality of changes in global tax legislation.
management and talent, and provide a programme of great opportunity and progression for employees including Technological change and IT infrastructure extensive training and transfer opportunities.
All of the group's businesses to some degree are dependent on technology.
Information systems are critical for the Reliance on key brands effective management and provision of services around the The group has a portfolio of significant brands.
Disruption to information technology could adversely any of these brands, or increasing popularity of a competitor affect the business and damage the group's reputation.
The 16 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 17 internet is becoming an ever increasing important revenue When the search finished, Euromoney Institutional Investor stream for the group and with this comes risk.
The internet, had found its project, to create a childrens eye clinic in Orissa, through the proliferation of free content and content the poorest state in India.
It would take three years to come aggregators, has the potential to erode hard copy advertising fully on stream.
The group's increasing dependence on information systems has also heightened the Avoidable blindness is very common in poor regions of India information security risk to the group with breaches in our and Africa.
Much of it can be cured by a simple cataract data security systems having a potential impact on our operation that costs around 12.
The key is to build the clinic business and reputation.
in the grounds of an existing hospital, in this case the Kalinga Eye Hospital, and to share many of the facilities.
Surgeons and The group is already embracing these challenges, and overall nurses would be recruited and trained to perform delicate eye sees the internet and other technological advances as an surgery on children in the new clinic under the guidance of opportunity not a threat.
Business continuity plans are in place ORBIS, the international blindness charity, which is in each business and include comprehensive back up plans for Euromoneys partner in the project.
The mission of ORBIS is to IT infrastructure, with the aim to protect the businesses from restore sight to poor people in developing countries.
The group has comprehensive would sustain itself by charging better off parents, so that no information security standards and practices in place which are child would be turned away.
Hospital teams would tour local reviewed on a regular basis.
Many of the group's businesses villages, testing childrens eyesight and encouraging parents to already produce soft copies of publications to supplement the bring them to the clinic for surgery if needed.
While the internet is an important tool for generating additional revenue the group's product mix The budgeted cost of the project was 188,000.
ORBIS provides protection for any potential unforeseen problems.
For suggested the funds be raised over three years.
Euromoney example, the group's share of profit from event businesses is Institutional Investor set out to raise the money in a year.
growing, with face-to-face meetings of increasing importance.
At the end of calendar 2006 it asked its people, the company itself, and its customers to combine in one big effort.
Social responsibility The Board decided that, in addition to the usual charity The companys strategy: Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC budget, the company would donate a further 50,000 to encourages its people to be active in charities.
In addition, the directors individually gave more than budget deliberately supports the same good causes that its 50,000.
Employees everywhere rose to the challenge, employees support, matching or better the money raised by jumping from aeroplanes, raising funds at the companys its people.
conferences and awards dinners, organising quiz evenings, running marathons and holding cake sales.
They raised a In 2007 8 it did the same, but it also set out to do something further 77,000.
The company then appealed to its extra, something much more ambitious, as described in last customers, who responded with a generosity that took the years annual report.
To remind shareholders, it searched for a total raised through 280,000.
The additional funds have special one-off charity project before choosing a single cause been channelled into other similar ORBIS projects, saving that was particularly suitable for a publishing company that childrens sight in other areas.
earns much of its revenues in emerging markets.
The criteria it selected were that the project must make a maximum Progress has been even better than expected.
The new beneficial change to peoples lives, that it would concentrate building housing the childrens eye clinic is nearing completion on children, that it would be permanent or self-sustaining, and ready for its official opening.
The clinic has its own that it would fire the imagination of the companys employees opthalmologist, Dr Susanta Jagadala, who has completed a around the world, and that it would be entirely funded one-year fellowship in paediatric opthalmology, financed by through the companys efforts.
That means that paediatric Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 17 80766 pre 11 12 08 16:49 Page 18 Directors' Report continued cases can be handled for the first time at Kalinga.
Six specialist They work with children who have been hit hardest by the support staff have also been trained, while 97 teachers and joint forces of poverty, conflict and social exclusion.
Their community workers have been trained to identify eye groundbreaking work with former child soldiers, street problems in children, all through the companys funding and children and children in prison has supported and helped the planning and supervision of ORBIS.
thousands who would otherwise not have been able to reintegrate with their community, gain access to education or The latest numbers supplied by Orbis state that in the last year enjoy sustainable livelihood support.
through Euromoneys support of outreach activity, 23,000 people in Orissa, 10,300 more than target, have received The group raised HK$121,000 7,000 for the Hong Kong medical treatment, including 4,150 children, 62,216 people Cancer Fund.
Hong Kong Cancer Fund was founded in 1987 have been screened in the out-patient department of Kalinga when limited resources were available to support the needs of Eye Hospital, at rural outreach mass screening camps in cancer patients and their families.
Over the past twenty years, remoter areas and through school screening programmes.
they have evolved from a small support group to Hong Kong's Some 22,912 people have been medically treated at the leading organisation for cancer care, delivering the philosophy hospital and at outreach camps the medical treatment at the of 'Care in Action'.
camps includes the provision of spectacles, antibiotics and patching, while 4,662 people have received sight-saving Annual charity drive surgery at Kalinga Eye Hospital.
A further 10,014 people have Each year the US group conducts a charity drive where been educated on protecting their sight at the hospital and at the business will match up to a total of $40,000 20,000 outreach camps.
per year in employee contributions made to various charitable organisations.
This is an excellent way to cover a A team from the company led by Jane Wilkinson, group broad range of charities that employees themselves may marketing director, visited Kalinga in November 2007.
It was favour and support.
given a tour of Kalinga Eye Hospital, and also visited an outreach camp and a school screening event conducted by the Christmas charity event Hospital in the rural areas of Orissa.
It also visited some of the Each year a local charity or community group is selected for project beneficiaries and their families in the rural areas, and employees to donate Christmas gifts.
This year the donations saw some of the work that has been made possible through were given to a shelter for single mothers that housed the companys support.
They were invited to participate in a party at which they were all given gifts that they had Charity dinners requested in letters to Santa.
A number of charity dinners were held during the year.
For instance, this year 134,000 was raised in support of Hope Skip lunch and fight hunger and Homes for Children.
"Hope and Homes for Children is a The group's US based company along with other companies registered charity working in Central and Eastern Europe and throughout New York City participated in a ""Feed the kids"" Africa."
Their Mission is to give hope to the poorest children in campaign conducted by City Harvest.
People were asked to the world those who are orphaned, abandoned or skip a fancy coffee or lunch and donate the cost of such to vulnerable by enabling them to grow up within the love of help feed some of the most vulnerable of our population: a family and the security of a home, so that they can fulfil children.
Blood drive Sixty six thousand pounds was raised for War Child UK, a Each year our US offices conduct an annual blood drive, 2008 charity that provides help to children affected by war in Iraq, was the most successful to date with more than 95 employees Afghanistan, Democratic Republic of Congo and Uganda.
18 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 19 6.
Future developments in the business JP Williams retired as non-executive directors from the board.
An indication of the trading outlook for the group is given in CJF Sinclair retired to coincide with his retirement from his role the Chairman's statement on page 6.
In 2009 the directors will as Chief Executive of DMGT.
JP Williams will continue to serve work towards maintaining the current success of the group as an alternate representative on the company's board in the and continue to shape the business to remain lucrative and absence of The Viscount Rothermere.
MWH Morgan was competitive in the midst of an increasingly difficult economic appointed a non-executive director on October 1 2008, taking environment.
This will include a full cost base review to ensure over from CJF Sinclair, and, according to the Articles of the business is operating as effectively as possible and Association, a director appointed during the year must retire facilitate growth in a challenging global market.
As discussed at the first available AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves on page 10, the group's financing facility expires in August for re-election.
The effect of these changes is to reduce the 2009 and the directors, subsequent to the year end, agreed a number of DMGT representatives on the company's board new facility.
The group is well placed to diversify its product from three to two.
and geographical base and remains committed to its strategy set out on page 8.
In addition a new on-line payment Following best practice under corporate governance and in processing system will be completed ensuring the UK group's accordance with the companys Articles of Association, all credit card payments remain industry compliant.
Further directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three investment will be made in the back-office project, the group's years.
Accordingly, NF Osborn, CR Brown, D Alfano and vast back catalogue of articles and information stored MJ Carroll will retire at the forthcoming Annual General electronically in a central location and available for easy Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reinterrogation.
The group will continue to invest in its systems election.
Also, as required by best practice under corporate and people, for instance a new HR system is planned for 2009 governance, all non-executive directors who have served for and management will continue to roll out the group's more than three three-year terms must submit themselves for upgraded accounting system software to other parts of re-election on an annual basis.
In addition, in accordance with the group, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, before the reelection of a non-executive director, the chairman is required The board will continue to review the portfolio of businesses, to confirm to shareholders that, following formal performance disposing, closing or restructuring any under-performing evaluation, the non-executive's performance continues to be businesses to allow the group to have the necessary resources effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
and skills to remain acquisitive.
The group will invest in Accordingly, The Viscount Rothermere and JC Botts will retire technology and new businesses, particularly electronic at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being information products.
eligible following a formal performance evaluation by the chairman, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors and their interests The companys Articles of Association give power to the board In addition, as required by the Articles of Association, Sir to appoint directors from time to time.
In addition to the Patrick Sergeant, being over the age of 70, will retire at the statutory rights of shareholders to remove a director by forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible ordinary resolution, the board may also remove a director following a formal performance evaluation by the chairman, where 75% of the board give written notice to such director.
will offer himself for re-election.
Details of the interests of the The Articles of Association themselves may be amended by a directors in the ordinary shares of the company and of options special resolution of the shareholders.
held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on The directors who served during the year are listed on pages pages 30 to 41.
The directors' interests are given on pages 40 and 41.
With effect from September 30 2008 CJF Sinclair and Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 19 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 20 Directors' Report continued 8.
Capital structure and significant shareholdings a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan Details of the company's share capital are given in note 22. agreements, property lease arrangements, directors' service The company's share capital is divided into ordinary shares of agreements and employees' share plans.
None of these are 0.25 pence each.
Each share entitles its holder to one vote at deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on shareholders' meetings and the right to receive one share of the business of the group as a whole.
Authority to purchase and allot own shares At November 12 2008, being the latest practical date before The companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its own shares expires at the conclusion of the companys next Annual approval of the accounts, notification had been received, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency General Meeting.
A resolution to renew this authority for a further period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the company: At the Annual General Meeting of the company on January 30 Nature of Number % of 2008, the shareholders authorised the directors to allot shares Name of holder holding of shares voting rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 85,810 expiring at Daily Mail and General the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in Holdings Limited Direct 69,851,416 66.3 2009.
A resolution to renew this authority for a further period BlackRock Merrill Lynch will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
Political and charitable contributions Banque Internationale Luxembourg SA has issued During the year the group raised charitable contributions of international depositary receipts IDR in bearer form in respect 290,000 2007: 390,000.
There were no political of a total of 948,800 shares 0.9% registered in its name.
Each IDR issued equates to one underlying ordinary share in the capital of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC.
Disabled employees It is the groups policy to give full and fair consideration to Details of the directors' entitlement to compensation for loss applications for employment from people who are disabled: to of office following a takeover or contract termination are continue, wherever possible, the employment of, and to given in the Directors' Remuneration Report.
arrange appropriate training for, employees who become disabled: and to provide opportunities for the career 9.
EU Takeovers Directive development, training and promotion of disabled employees.
Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is 13.
Employee involvement and training The group believes it is important to provide skills and required to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual management training for its employees around the world.
It continues to develop these programmes and tries to ensure Report, include the following: that as many employees as possible benefit from internal and external training.
The group is continually developing and There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company following expanding the training programmes provided.
20 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 80766 pre 8 12 08 19:58 Page 21 The group recognises the importance of good communication 18.
Disclosure of information to auditors in relationships with its staff.
This is pursued in a number of In the case of each of the persons who is a director of the ways, including training and regular meetings between company at November 12 2008: management and staff, which seek to achieve common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant economic circumstances affecting the groups performance.
audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 Many employees participate directly in the success of the of which the company's auditors are unaware: and business through involvement in the groups profit sharing each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she schemes, the Capital Appreciation Plan and in the savings ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself related share option scheme.
aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of 14.
Supplier payment policy the information.
Each Euromoney Institutional Investor business agrees payment terms with its suppliers on an individual basis and it This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in is group policy to make payments in accordance with these accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies terms.
The group had 80 days of purchases in creditors at Act 1985.
Directors' indemnities The company has in place directors and officers liability and corporate reimbursement insurance for the benefit of the company's directors and those of other associated companies.
The insurance has been in place throughout the year and remains in force at the date of this report.
Annual General Meeting November 12 2008 The companys Annual General Meeting will be held on January 28 2009.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the company's auditor is expected to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 21
