Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Principal activities and business review Experian is a global leader in providing information, analytical and marketing services to organisations and consumers to help manage the risk and reward of commercial and financial decisions.
Combining its unique information tools and deep understanding of individuals, markets and economies, Experian partners with organisations around the world to establish and strengthen customer relationships and provide their businesses with competitive advantage.
For consumers, Experian delivers critical information that enables them to make financial and purchasing decisions with greater control and confidence.
A review of the results for the year and an indication of future developments appear on pages 6 to 37.
Research and development investment continues to be a high priority for Experian in driving growth, particularly in relation to product development.
Research expenditure totalled US$6m during the year ended 31 March 2008 and the amount charged to the Group income statement in the year was US$6m 2007: US$5m.
Profit and dividends The Group income statement on page 66 shows a profit for the financial year ended 31 March 2008 of US$452m.
The directors have announced the payment of a second interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend of 12 US cents per ordinary share to be paid on 25 July 2008 to shareholders on the register of members on 27 June 2008.
An interim dividend of 6.5 US cents per ordinary share was paid on 1 February 2008 giving a total dividend for the year of 18.5 US cents per ordinary share.
Directors The names and biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Sean FitzPatrick was appointed as a director of the Company with effect from 1 April 2007.
Particulars of directors remuneration, service contracts and their interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in the report on directors remuneration on pages 51 to 63.
There were no changes in the directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares between the end of the financial year and 20 May 2008.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, each director is required to retire at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
In order to ensure an orderly re-election process Fabiola Arredondo, Paul Brooks and Roger Davis will retire at the annual general meeting in July 2008 and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The board carried out a formal evaluation of its performance and the performance of its committees and individual directors during the year ended 31 March 2008 and is satisfied that each of the three directors retiring at the annual general meeting contributes effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Further details regarding the evaluation are contained in the corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 50.
During the year, the Company maintained liability insurance and third party indemnification provisions for its directors.
Acquisitions and disposal The Group made a number of acquisitions in the year under review, details of which are included in note 34 to the financial statements on page 120.
On 28 June 2007, the Group completed the acquisition of an initial 65% stake in Serasa, the market leading credit bureau in Brazil and operator of the fourth largest credit bureau in the world for US$1.2 billion.
A further 5% of Serasa has been acquired since the date of the acquisition, taking Experians total holding in Serasa to 70%.
On 8 June 2007, the Group acquired the whole of the issued share capital of Hitwise, a leading internet market intelligence company.
The Company announced the acquisitions of The pH Group, the UK market leader in business-to-business marketing analytics, and N4 Solutions, a UK-based mortgage sector and financial services software provider, on 20 July 2007 and 25 July 2007 respectively.
During the year under review, the Company also completed the acquisition of remaining interests in Footfall companies in Spain and Italy.
The Company announced the sale of Loyalty Solutions, a German provider of back office services to loyalty card programmes, to easycash, a leading German point-of-sale network provider, on 26 September 2007.
40 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Directors report 65 144 Substantial shareholdings Substantial shareholders are required to notify their interests in accordance with the Companys articles of association, which obliges shareholders to comply with the notification obligations to the Company contained in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
As at 20 May 2008, the Company had been notified of the following interests in its issued ordinary share capital or voting rights: Date of Shareholder Direct Number of Percentage notification indirect ordinary of issued interest shares share capital voting rights voting rights 20 February 2008 Harris Associates LLP Direct 50,668,157 4.95% 18 April 2008 Viking Global Investors LP Direct 51,227,000 5.00% Save for the above, no person has notified any interest of 3% or more or any non-material interest equal to or more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital or in the voting rights of the Company.
Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company and changes to the Companys share capital in the year ended 31 March 2008 are set out in note K to the Companys financial statements on page 138.
Takeover Directive information The Groups banking facilities contain provisions which, in the event of a change of control of the Company, could result in a renegotiation or withdrawal of such facilities.
The 350m 6.375% Eurobonds due 2009 and the 334m 5.625% Euronotes due 2013, issued by the Group, provide that holders may require repayment of the respective bonds or notes in the event that a rating agency re-rates the bonds or notes to below investment grade following a change of control of the Company.
The Group is party to a joint venture FARES with The First American Corporation, pursuant to which the Group holds a 20% interest in FARES.
The joint venture agreement provides The First American Corporation with a call right to purchase the Groups interest in FARES in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Details of provisions relating to a change of control in directors service contracts are described in the report on directors remuneration.
The Group is party to a limited number of operational arrangements which can be terminated or altered upon a change of control of the Company, but these are not considered to be individually significant to the business of the Group as a whole or, in certain cases, it is considered that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
Details of each person with a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company and the size and nature of the holding are contained in the substantial shareholdings table above.
Both the Company by ordinary resolution and the directors may elect any person to be a director, but the number of directors shall not exceed the maximum number if any fixed by the articles of association of the Company.
Any person appointed shall only hold office until the next annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for election.
The office of a director shall be vacated on the occurrence of any of the events listed in article 92 of the articles of association of the Company.
The Company may, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, remove any director from office and elect another person in place of a director so removed.
The articles of association of the Company may be amended by the passing of a special resolution.
Some of Experians employee share plans include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described in the report on directors remuneration, non-executive directors receive a proportion of fees in shares which may not normally be transferred during a directors period of office.
All of Experians share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Experian Annual Report 2008 41 Directors report continued Where, under an employee share plan operated by Experian, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered owner, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the direction of the participant.
Financial risk management, objectives and policies Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and Experians treasury and risk management objectives and policies are set out in the financial review on pages 23 and 24, and also in note 3 to the Group financial statements.
Own shares The existing authority for the Company to purchase its own shares, which expires at the end of this years annual general meeting, was given at the annual general meeting held on 18 July 2007 and permitted the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 102,000,000 of its own shares.
The Company did not utilise the authority to make any purchases of its own shares during the period under review.
Details of the new authority being requested are contained in the circular to shareholders, which accompanies this annual report or is available on the Companys website at www.
The Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended now permits the Company to hold any shares bought back as treasury shares as an alternative to immediately cancelling them and the directors intend to decide whether to cancel shares pursuant to this authority or hold them as treasury shares based on the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole at the relevant time.
Details of the shares in the Company purchased by and held under the Experian Group Limited Employee Share Trust, the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan and the GUS plc ESOP Trust are set out in note L to the Companys financial statements on page 139.
Donations During the year the Group donated US$1.94m including a full years donation of US$0.2m from Serasa, acquired in June 2007 to charitable causes.
Funds from the GUS Charitable Trust disbursed through Experian during the year totalled US$0.14m.
In addition to cash contributions, the Groups employees are encouraged to give their time and skills for the benefit of a variety of charitable causes.
During the year the Group made no political donations.
Employment of people with disabilities People with disabilities, whether registered or not, have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures are in place to ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated and that their training and career development needs are carefully managed.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive, whether through re-training or re-deployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group.
Employee involvement The Group is intent on motivating and keeping staff informed on matters that concern them in the context of their employment and involves them through local consultative procedures.
Where there are recognition agreements with trade unions, the consultation process is established through national and local trade union representatives and through joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees and about the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance is also disseminated through management channels, conferences, meetings, publications and internet sites.
Employees are actively encouraged to become shareholders in Experian through the provision of save as you earn and other all-employee share plan arrangements which are intended to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders.
42 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Directors report 65 144 Creditor payment For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: l Agree and confirm the terms of payment at the commencement of business with that supplier: l Pay in accordance with any contract agreed with the supplier or as required by law: and l Review continually the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working relationship.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March 2008 were 39 days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgment at the time of approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Relevant audit information As at 20 May 2008, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Annual general meeting The second annual general meeting of the Company will be held at the Four Seasons Hotel, Simmonscourt Road, Dublin 4, Ireland at 9.30am on Wednesday 16 July 2008.
Shareholders who are unable to attend in person may submit questions beforehand via email to agmquestions@experiangroup.
com or on the prepaid card sent to shareholders with the notice of meeting.
The questions will be addressed at the meeting, via the Companys website at www.
com or individually as appropriate.
The notice of meeting is included in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this annual report.
It is also available on the Companys website at www.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be re-appointed as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
By order of the board Charles Brown Company Secretary 20 May 2008 Corporate headquarters: Newenham House Northern Cross Malahide Road Dublin 17 Ireland Registered office: 22 Grenville Street St Helier Jersey JE4 8PX Experian Annual Report 2008 43
