Report on corporate responsibilities Corporate responsibility CR is increasingly seen as a way to define how organisations operate with due regard for the future of both their business and the society and environment they operate in.
In its first full year of trading as an independent company, Experian has made some significant advances in its approach to CR and the sustainability of its operations.
Experian already delivers many Updated reporting Experian sees these as the main benefits to society.
On a macro scale At the beginning of the year Experian had indicators that society should use to it helps fuel the worlds economies, established six strong responsibilities.
hold the company to account.
Three including those in emerging markets, relate to what it does in the marketplace l Use and protect data properly, and at an individual level, it provides and three cover its approach to respecting all the relevant laws, consumers with information to environment, community and the helping evolve industry guidelines enable them to make better financial workplace.
and new legislation, and ensuring decisions.
a culture of compliance with the The Group reported openly on these six highest standards of integrity.
Experian is a business with skilled elements in its first year and has again, people at its core and with many for consistency and comparability, l Create social and economic benefit different external stakeholders that reported on the same elements this through our products, services and make success possible, from clients to year, but with greater transparency and capabilities, balancing commercial the general public, regulatory bodies clarity.
The full online report provides benefit with consumers rights and to NGOs.
Aware of its wider social both an overview of the Groups CR needs.
responsibilities and taking these performance and a fully substantiated stakeholders views into account, and verified data section.
For the first l Inform and empower consumers, Experian plays its part in helping to time Experian has also created an and ensure that those who interact provide solutions to some of societys eight-page summary report aimed at directly with our company receive problems and not only because of key stakeholders which, we hope, will fair and honest treatment.
Many of these encourage engagement and initiate problems, when looked at with the discussion about the Groups approach l Be a good employer to all, insight Experian can provide, create to CR.
establishing a set of expected new opportunities as well as mitigating behaviours and values, ensuring risks.
The role of the management team that everyone working for us is The governance structure created in treated fairly, given the maximum Seeing things from a social, March 2007 remains in place: a crossopportunity to fulfil their potential environmental and ethical stance, with regional CR Management Group has and that all our workplaces are safe many different stakeholders interests been strengthened with the addition and healthy.
in mind, has enabled the Group to of Victor Nichols, responsible for l Minimise as far as possible the successfully revise its approach to the global Interactive and Marketing environmental impacts associated CR in its first year of independent Services business lines and now with our business and enable trading.
Experian has updated its CEO of UK and EMEA, and Tomas employee participation, with a reporting, added depth to the role of Carmona, an experienced CR manager particular concentration on the its CR management team and created from Serasa in Brazil.
reduction of energy use and its a forward-looking CR strategy.
This effect on global warming.
strategy is helping the company embed CR principles in the way it does l Play an active part in social and business and is creating innovative economic regeneration in our opportunities to address social needs.
communities, be they local, national or global.
28 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 Report on corporate responsibilities 38 64 65 144 Improving the quality of customer information in healthcare Successful organisations depend on accurate information and there are few more fundamental pieces of information than a customers address.
A misspelt street name or transposed house number can have major implications for future communications and for the success of the relationship.
QAS, part of Experian, specialises in software that ensures customer data accuracy at the point of capture.
It has more than 10,000 clients in sectors as diverse as retailing, education and healthcare.
St Clares Healthcare System, which operates four hospitals in New Jersey, chose QAS for verifying and standardising address information during patient admissions.
Within just 90 days, the reduction in returned clinical correspondence and billing documents had paid for the QAS software.
The role this group plays has also iii Creating some big ideas using a A forward-looking strategy evolved through the year and now social and environmental focus as to assess risk and identify engages team members in: a catalyst for innovation and crossopportunities disciplinary coordination to create The CR strategy has three strands: l Participating in reviews of key ideas that can have a major social risks and opportunities looking i Embedding CR in everyday business impact.
particularly at social, environmental practice, considering social and and ethical issues.
environmental risks and benefits in normal decision-making processes.
l Championing the embedding of CR in business as usual practice.
ii Focusing the community programme to concentrate on social issues l Advising on the split and allocation where Experian already has of Group central funding for regional some expertise encouraging CR and community projects.
entrepreneurs and supporting The team has been instrumental in the better financial management skills, evolution of the CR strategy.
especially in deprived sectors of society.
Experian Annual Report 2008 29 Report on corporate responsibilities continued Looking forward Performance this year l Leadership of joint financial services One of the new roles for the CR The full report of our performance initiatives that have led to a reduction Management Group is to hold regular this year is available online at in the incidence of identity theft in horizon scanning meetings looking at www.
the risks and opportunities presented a complete picture of how Experian l Awards won in the UK for the best use by a longer-term view around each of has met its objectives and complied of data in the public sector.
It has been reviewed to discussions are the precursor to big provide assurance on the quality and l The development of a report in Latin ideas highlighting social issues and accuracy of its contents.
Headlines America that will help assess the providing the stimulus for innovative include: environmental and social impact of thought.
Already two ideas have organisations alongside financial l A fall in carbon emissions from presented themselves as a result of stability.
buildings, driven by improved energy the four meetings to date: the next efficiency and increased purchase of step will be to hold these discussions l Community giving, which has renewable energy.
across the regions through Experians increased despite tough trading CR coordinators networks.
Even without the effect of The adoption of a new global l the Serasa acquisition, community environmental policy.
Link to business strategy giving as a percentage of profit went up The six responsibilities are also from 0.30% in 2007 to 0.34% in 2008. l Findings from Experians first global intrinsically linked with the Groups employee survey, based on the business strategy.
Experians responses from nearly 10,000 73% Plans for next year business vision is that its people, data colleagues worldwide.
In the coming year the Group and technology become a necessary intends to: part of every major consumer l Inclusion in the FTSE4Good and Dow economy around the world.
People Jones Global Sustainability Indices, l Focus on stakeholder engagement and data are two key resources and the latter ranking Experian among the using the feedback prompted the associated risks, from a social top 10% of companies assessed for by distribution of the hard copy and ethical standpoint, are in part sustainability.
addressed by the discussions held in the CR Management Group.
l Extended information on the Groups l Engage the regional management stance on human rights, and in teams in further embedding social particular the steps being taken Board involvement and environmental concerns in their to ensure they are respected in The CR strategy was presented to the everyday decision making.
board and has their input and approval l Improve CR communications with and will be used in the year ahead to employees and look at how they can drive progress.
The board is given a be more involved.
report on CR progress at each meeting and directors are fully aware of their l Work with Serasa, Experians duties and responsibilities.
recently acquired company in Brazil, to improve the Groups CR reporting 1 Community giving 2008 2007 and to integrate the Serasa report 12 months to 31 March US$000 US$000 with Experians by 2009.
Financial donations from Experian subsidiaries 1,202 730 Employee time volunteered 174 157 Gifts in kind 169 332 Management costs 212 222 Funds from Experian Group Limited 737 - Total from Experian 2,494 1,441 Total as a percentage of Benchmark PBT 0.30% 0.20% Total from Experian 2,494 1,441 Employee fundraising 417 212 Donations from the GUS Charitable Trust 141 518 Total value of all giving 3,052 2,171 Total value of all giving as a percentage of Benchmark PBT 0.37% 0.30% 1 Includes a full years contribution of US$303,000 from Serasa, acquired in June 2007 30 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 Report on corporate responsibilities 38 64 65 144 Helping Government to improve the payment of child maintenance The Child Support Agency CSA is a Government organisation in the UK whose role is to help ensure that parents who live apart from their children contribute financially to their upkeep.
Child maintenance payments can be vital to the wellbeing of single-parent families, but frequently go unpaid and the CSA currently has 3.7bn of debt that remains uncollected.
As part of a major three-year Operational Improvement Plan, the CSA is now working with Experian to use the information and analysis techniques that have become so familiar within the credit industry to improve the payment of child maintenance and to get more money flowing to more children.
In particular, Experian will be helping the CSA to trace absent parents and to develop risk and affordability profiles that will enable the CSA to develop a more tailored and effective approach to individual cases.
