Board of directors John Peace 59 Don Robert 49 Paul Brooks 54 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer John Peace is Chairman of Burberry Don Robert graduated from Oregon State Paul Brooks graduated from Cambridge Group plc and Deputy Chairman and University with a degree in Business University with an economics degree Senior Independent Director of Standard Administration.
He began his career with and went on to qualify as a Chartered Chartered PLC.
He is also Chairman of U. S. Bancorp, a multi-state bank holding Accountant with KPMG.
He then joined the Board of Governors of Nottingham company, where he held positions of ICI where he worked for the Plastics Trent University, Deputy Lieutenant for increasing responsibility over 15 years.
From Division in Brussels and the Corporate the County of Nottinghamshire, a Fellow there he joined Credco, Inc. the largest Reporting Group in London.
After five of the Royal Society of Arts and Chairman specialist credit reporting company in years with GKNs Industrial Services of The Work Foundation.
Previously he the US, as President.
In 1995, Credco was Division, mostly spent as Divisional was Group Chief Executive of the former acquired by First American Corporation and Chief Financial Officer in the US, Paul GUS plc from 2000 until 2006, having been over the next six years Don held positions joined Inchcape as Marketing Services a director of GUS since 1997. as Executive Vice President of Mortgage Finance Director, based in Singapore.
He Origination Services and President of First joined Experian in April 1999 as Finance Americans Consumer Information and Director of Experian International and was Services Group.
In 2001, Don joined Experian appointed Global Chief Financial Officer from First American, becoming Chief in October 2001.
Executive Officer of Experian North America in December 2002.
In February 2005, he took responsibility for Experian globally as Chief Executive Officer of the Experian Group.
Don joined the Board of the former GUS plc in April 2005.
He is a Director of First Advantage Corporation, a Member of the Chapman University Board of Counsellors and a past Chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Association.
Fabiola Arredondo 41 Laurence Danon 52 Roger Davis 51 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Fabiola Arredondo is the Managing Laurence Danon is a member of the Roger Davis spent some eight years at Partner of Siempre Holdings, a private Executive Board of Edmond fide Rothschild Barclays, latterly as the Chief Executive investment firm based in the US.
Prior to Corporate Finance and was the President Officer of the 45,000 strong UK Banking this, she held senior operating positions and Chief Executive Officer of Printemps operation and as a member of the Board at Yahoo!, the BBC and Bertelsmann S. A. the French department store of Barclays plc.
Fabiola is currently a Non-Executive chain, until January 2007.
In 2006, she some ten years in investment banking Director of Bankinter, S. A. Rodale, Inc. led the buyout of Printemps from PPR, in London and in various positions in the World Wildlife Fund and Sesame Europes largest non-food retailer.
Prior Asia for Flemings and BZW.
Roger is Workshop, and was formerly a Nonto Printemps, Laurence held various Chairman of Life Trust Holdings plc and Executive Director of BOC Group plc and senior roles at Total Fina Elf.
Laurence Gem Diamonds Limited, a Non-Executive Intelsat Corporation.
Fabiola has a BA began her career working for the French Director of Aero Inventory plc, and is degree from Stanford University, and an Government.
She is a Non-Executive Chairman of Experians Remuneration MBA from the Harvard Business School.
Director of Diageo plc, Plastic Omnium Committee.
S. A. Lafuma S. A. and Rhodia S. A.
38 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 6 37 Board of directors 65 144 Company Secretary Charles Brown FCIS Auditors  LLP Registered office 22 Grenville Street St Helier Jersey JE4 8PX Sean FitzPatrick 59 Alan Jebson 58 Registered No.
93905 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Registrars Sean FitzPatrick is the Chairman of Alan Jebson retired in May 2006 as Group Anglo Irish Bank Corporation plc, Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings Equiniti Jersey Limited having previously been Chief Executive plc, a position that included responsibility PO Box 63 Officer until January 2005.
He is also for IT and Global Resourcing.
During a 11-12 Esplanade the Chairman of Smurfit Kappa plc, long career with HSBC, Alan held various and a Non-Executive Director of Aer positions in IT, including the position St Helier Lingus Group plc, Greencore Group of Group Chief Information Officer.
His Jersey plc and Gartmore Irish Growth Fund roles included responsibility for HSBCs JE4 8PH plc.
He is a past President of the Irish international systems, including the Bankers Federation.
Sean is a Chartered consolidation of HSBC and Midland Accountant.
systems following HSBCs acquisition Audit committee of Midland Bank in 1993.
He is a NonAlan Jebson Chairman Executive Director of Vodafone Group plc and MacDonald Dettwiler in Canada.
Alan Fabiola Arredondo is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Laurence Danon Accountants in England and Wales and is Roger Davis Chairman of Experians Audit Committee.
Sean FitzPatrick Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler Remuneration committee Roger Davis Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Laurence Danon Sean FitzPatrick Alan Jebson Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler Sir Alan Rudge 70 David Tyler 55 Nomination committee Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director John Peace Chairman Sir Alan Rudge is Chairman of The ERA David Tyler is Chairman of Logica plc Fabiola Arredondo Foundation Limited and Chairman of and 3i Quoted Private Equity Limited.
Laurence Danon the Board of Management of the Royal He is also a Non-Executive Director of Commission for the Exhibition of 1851.
He Reckitt Benckiser plc and Burberry Group Roger Davis is a past Chairman of ERA Technology plc where he chairs the Remuneration Sean FitzPatrick Limited and was Deputy Chief Executive Committee.
He spent his executive career Alan Jebson of BT until November 1997 and Chairman in financial and general management of WS Atkins until March 2001.
He beginning with Unilever in 1974 and Don Robert joined the Board of the former GUS plc continuing with County NatWest from Sir Alan Rudge in 1997 and was President of CELTEL 1986, Christies from 1989 and finally the David Tyler International B. V. a Non-Executive former GUS plc from 1997.
David was Director of S. E. S. A. AG and Special Group Finance Director of GUS plc until Advisor to General Atlantic Partners.
He it was demerged into two separate listed was Pro Chancellor of Surrey University companies Experian Group Limited and until December 2007.
Sir Alan has a PhD Home Retail Group plc at the end of 2006, in Electrical Engineering and is a Fellow of since when he has developed a portfolio the Royal Society and the Royal Academy career.
David has a degree in Economics of Engineering, a past Chairman of the from Cambridge University, is a Fellow of Engineering and Physical Sciences the Chartered Institute of Management Research Council and a past President of Accountants and a Member of the the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
