Business and market overview However, there are a number of Experian is a global leader in providing companies that Experian views as information, analytical and marketing services key competitors, which are identified below: to organisations and consumers to help manage Credit Services the risk and reward of commercial and financial There are two other national decisions.
consumer credit bureaux in the US Equifax and TransUnion.
In the UK, Experian is the clear market leader in l Experian owns and operates Markets in which Experian consumer credit services with mainly consumer credit bureaux in 15 operates local competition elsewhere.
countries and business credit Experian has a broad and balanced bureaux in nine countries.
portfolio - by product type, country In Brazil, Serasa is the market leader and vertical market.
l Experian classifies one billion in both consumer and commercial consumers by socio-demographic l In the year ended 31 March 2008, credit services, also competing type in over 25 countries around the 47% of sales came from Credit against mainly local competition.
Services, 12% from Decision Dun & Bradstreet is the only global Analytics, 20% from Marketing business credit services competitor.
As a result of this diversity, Experian Services and 21% from Interactive.
is not overly dependent on any Decision Analytics l In the year ended 31 March 2008, one geography, client, channel or 51% of sales came from North The market leader in the US is Fair economy.
While Experian as a whole America, 8% from Latin America, is clearly dependent on the economic Isaac.
Experian is the market leader 24% from UK and Ireland and 17% environments in which it operates, elsewhere and faces competition from EMEA Asia Pacific.
its broad portfolio of products and from Fair Isaac and other fragmented markets served provides some local players.
l Financial services clients account resilience when its major markets for 52% of sales, followed by 17% weaken.
New products also affect Marketing Services from direct-to-consumer, 10% from Experians performance, as does its There are some large marketing retail and home shopping, 7% from success in gaining share in its chosen telecommunications, utilities and competitors in the US, such as markets.
insurance and the balance from Acxiom and Harte-Hanks, but government, publishing media and competition elsewhere is local, Competitive position automotive.
Experian has competitors in each of l Experian has over 100,000 clients, its principal activities, but no single Interactive of which the top ten account for competitor offers the same breadth Consumer Direct is the clear market 14% of sales and the top 50 clients of capabilities to domestic and leader in the US and UK, selling 33% of sales.
multinational clients around the world credit reports and services direct or on such a scale.
l Following the acquisition of to consumers in competition with Serasa, Experian employs Equifax, TransUnion, Fair Isaac and There is limited public information approximately 15,500 people and other specialist providers.
Experians available on the market share of has offices in 38 countries.
sales are more than twice that of any Experians competitors and it is of its competitors.
frequently competing against niche, local providers of services in its different markets.
1 1 1 Revenue by activity Revenue by geography Revenue by client client profile Credit Services North America Top 10 clients Decision Analytics Latin America Top 50 clients Marketing Services UK and Ireland All other Interactive EMEA Asia Pacific 1 Excluding discontinuing activities, Consumer Direct and Serasa 1 1 Excludes discontinuing Excludes discontinuing activities activities Of the top 50 clients at least 85% have been doing business with Experian for five years or more 36 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 Business and market overview 38 64 65 144 The online lead generation market is Experian can apply its core data and Data fragmented and, despite the recent analytics expertise to find and keep At the core of Experian are economic downturn in the US and profitable customers for its clients by: comprehensive databases of credit and UK, Experian has strong market marketing information on consumers l Targeting relevant audiences positions in its chosen areas of and businesses.
Experian offers more through segmentation.
information than any single competitor, which helps make it the partner of l Creating campaign strategies Growth drivers choice for many organisations.
Experian is well positioned to benefit Each year, Experian invests heavily from a number of key drivers of longl Providing analytics to measure in maintaining complete, accurate term growth.
and up-to-date information, while continuing to add new data sources Credit-related activities Key resources that further support clients.
Experian Experian has three key resources Experians credit reporting is a also has a leadership position as the that are viewed as fundamental to fundamental building block for trusted steward of much sensitive the successful implementation of its stimulating growth in consumer information, which it has an obligation strategy.
economies through the application to protect - both to clients who are of effective credit management, the source of much of this data and People giving rise to safety and soundness in to consumers who are the subjects of Experian employs approximately 15,500 the data.
Experian therefore operates banking systems.
people, who are central to the delivery very rigorous security and control of its strategy and client experience.
Growth in Experians credit-related The Group prides itself on attracting, activities is underpinned by: developing and retaining talented, Technology ambitious people throughout its l Global growth in the availability of Experians information technology operations.
systems are fundamental to its success.
They are used for the storage, l Global expansion of its financial Succession planning is used to ensure processing and delivery of the data services clients.
that appropriate leadership resources that is the foundation of its business, are in place to grow the business and as well as for the development and l Rapidly expanding demand for delivery of the value-added solutions these plans are regularly reviewed by sophisticated analytics and software provided to clients.
that help institutions to predict and manage risk.
Much of the technology used by The management of talent is one of Experian and provided to clients Experians top priorities and the Group Marketing-related activities is developed, maintained and invests heavily in ensuring employees Emerging channels are fuelling supported by in-house teams across have the right environment and skills growth in Experians marketingits various locations.
Employees are operates continual maintenance involved in the planning and direction and management of its information Interactive channels like email and of their work, drawing on a wide range technology systems, as well the internet are information rich and of communication methods.
Employee as continuing to integrate the operate on a global scale.
These new surveys provide valuable insights into technologies of existing and acquired channels are stimulating demand employees views, while opportunities businesses.
for more targeted, faster, more to further enhance employee effective and measurable marketing engagement are integral to business campaigns.
1 Revenue by industry market profile Competitive position Global revenue US$m Financial services Direct-to-consumer Experian 4,130 Retail home shopping Equifax 1,843 Telecom utility insurance Media publishing advertising D&B 1,660 Government non-profit education Automotive Acxiom 1,384 Other Harte-Hanks 1,163 1 Management estimate of percentage of revenue by vertical market Fair Isaac 822 Excludes discontinuing activities and Serasa North America International Source: Latest full year revenue, company 10k Experian Annual Report 2008 37
