Business review Key Performance Indicators The Board and Executive Committee of Ferrexpo monitor the Groups performance over time using a range of key performance indicators KPIs.
These KPIs are reported on monthly or quarterly by management and provide a useful measure of the Groups operational, financial and safety performance.
They are reported in this Annual Report to enable all stakeholders to assess the Groups results on a clear and consistent basis.
Following the increased focus on safety and the review by DuPont, 66.4 2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 incidents that previously went unreported are now being reported.
As a result the 2008 figure is not directly comparable with previous years.
2006 2007 2008 2006 2007 2008 3 The Group calculates EBITDA as profit from continuing operations before tax and finance plus depreciation and amortisation included in cost of sales, administrative expenses and selling and distribution costs and non-recurring cash items included in other income, non-recurring cash items included in other 246.1 60.0% 138.1% 129.0 % costs plus the net gain loss from disposal of subsidiaries and associates.
The Group presents EBITDA because it believes that EBITDA is a useful measu155.7 re for 20.41 149.1 evaluating its ability to generate cash and its operating performance.
10.47 66.4 503.9 48.60 347.4 4 EPS is calculated by dividing the net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity shareholders of Ferrexpo plc by the number of Ordinary Shares.
5 Adjusted items that relate to the operating performance of the Group include impairment charges and reversals and other exceptional items.
Non-operating 2006 2007 2008 adjusting items include profits and losses on disposal of i 20 nv 0e6 stments and b 20u 0s 7 inesses, IPO c 200 o8 sts, and non-operating foreign exchange ga 2in 0s a 06nd losses.
Following the hiatus in the The Group achieved a record financial iron ore market in late 2008, these projects performance in 2008 in the face of have been slowed to retain financial challenging economic conditions in the flexibility but are being advanced at a latter part of the year.
Operational and low level to preserve their value pending managerial flexibility allowed us to both a clearer market outlook for 2009. outperform our own targets in production, sales and price up to October and Our primary focus in 2009 will be on the then to quickly adapt to the changing Groups existing mining operations.
The circumstances in the iron ore market Groups operating subsidiary, Ferrexpo in the final months of the year.
Poltava Mining FPM, performed strongly in 2008, demonstrating an established Operational goals set for the year were trend of continuous improvement in achieved, with marked improvements in operating efficiency, product quality and efficiency and product quality.
These key drivers will levels ran at record rates through most of the remain a focus in 2009 combined with year and were ultimately comparable further cost reduction programmes to 2007 following a decision to reduce targeting operating costs and optimising production in November and December in capital expenditure.
These programmes response to declining iron ore demand, in will be helped by both a lower local order to both preserve cash and optimise currency and more available capacity at unit production costs at a time of uncertainty.
We expect that this, together with significantly reduced energy Among the worlds smaller iron ore prices, will help contain cash costs of The mining operation at producers, we are very favourably located.
FPM is well developed and The Groups marketing activities in 2008 built on our status as the iron ore supplier Strategy has produced iron ore on of choice for our key Traditional and The Group holds the licences to a world Growth Markets.
We achieved contract class iron ore resource and is positioned an uninterrupted basis for price settlements ahead of the record close to core steel-producing markets.
benchmark prices set early in the year The operations have been producing and were subsequently also able to react continuously for several decades.
The flexibly to reductions in off-take levels strategy remains to exploit these reserves in the last two months of the year.
whilst maximising the return on the current operations utilising our strategic location, In 2008, 88.0% by volume of the customer relationships and low cost base.
Groups iron ore products were exported.
Approximately 87.7% of our 2008 sales by Our long-term plans are to commercialise volume were made under long-term supply our extensive undeveloped ore deposits agreements with iron and steel producers.
in a prudent and financially responsible It is our strategy to increase the number manner, whilst ensuring continuous and duration of such contracts and build production growth and cost competitiveness customer relationships and this continued in our existing operations.
The Groups principal to maintain and improve operational, financial export markets are Central and Eastern and risk management capabilities within our Europe and China.
At the end of 2008, 8.1 existing operations and our development million tonnes of iron ore were committed projects in order to maintain flexibility under long-term framework contracts with throughout the economic cycle.
Operations The Group holds the exclusive licences to The mining operation at FPM is well a world class iron ore resource, uniquely developed and has produced iron ore on positioned close to our core markets.
an uninterrupted basis for over 30 years.
Our expansion plans were advanced The mining and processing operation significantly in 2008 with the completion of is situated on a large iron ore deposit the Definitive Feasibility Study DFS for located in Ukraine which is substantially the new Yeristovskoye mine and the DFS under-exploited.
for the project to upgrade the capacity and quality of product coming from our existing Our principal business is the mining, well-established operation.
This progress processing and sale of iron ore in the form has included the commencement of of pellets, used in the production of steel.
stripping activities and further capital The Group owns and operates an investment to increase capacity in the integrated mining and processing facility, 14 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Case Study Local Procurement One of the initiatives behind Ferrexpos recent successes in cost and capital expenditure reduction has been a focus on local procurement.
Ukraine is a good source of high quality, low cost industrial supplies and equipment.
A good example is the NLMK draglines procured by the Group to undertake the stripping operation for the new Yeristovskoye mine, which were obtained at approximately a third of the price of equivalent machines produced outside the FSU, and with shorter lead times.
Two of these draglines have already been assembled and commissioned by the Group.
Ferrexpo aims to restate the capital expenditure estimates in its project feasibility studies using local procurement where possible, and move as much of its operating costs into local currency as possible.
Dragline Local procurement 15 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Business review Overview continued comprising an open cut iron ore mine, Ukraines economy is heavily reliant on the concentrating facility and pelletising plant steel industry, and as a result the country in the city of Komsomolsk.
Our operations saw strong growth and high inflation in are fully integrated from the mining of ore the first half of 2008, followed by rapid through to the production of pellets.
All contraction of the local metallurgical sector production is converted into pellets in and the beginnings of a severe economic our own facilities.
Third party iron ore downturn in the second half.
The Ukrainian concentrate is also converted into pellets steel industry is relatively high-cost and to utilise surplus plant capacity where export-focused, and Ukraine has thus this provides adequate margins.
been more severely affected than many other steel-producing nations by the The FPM operations are located on the economic downturn.
These developments Dnieper River in Ukraine in close proximity are likely to have a positive effect on our to our major customers in Central and cost base as Ukraine takes measures Eastern Europe.
FPM has access to both to ensure the survival of its mining and the Black Sea for ocean borne shipments metallurgical industry.
throughout the world and to extensive rail networks throughout Europe.
The local currency the hryvnia was informally pegged to the US dollar at To access the large and growing market approximately UAH5.05 per US dollar outside Ukraine, the marketing of iron until early 2008.
It has since weakened ore pellets for export is managed by the to approximately UAH7.70 per US dollar, as Groups specialist sales and marketing a result of continuing high inflation.
The arm, based in Switzerland with branches average exchange rate during 2008 was Ukraine remains a in Kiev and Shanghai.
beneficial place to conduct Operating environment Ukraine The country has seen high inflation in business.
The Group Ukraine remains a beneficial place to 2008, with the official domestic Producer conduct business, despite well-publicised Price Index PPI increasing by 23.0%, has operated there issues such as political instability, the and the Consumer Price Index CPI continuously through natural gas dispute with Russia and increasing by 22.3%.
The rate of annual speculation as to the wider effects of the increase in inflation peaked in July, and Soviet rule, independence Russia-Georgia war on the region.
The has since begun to moderate.
from Russia and the Group has operated there continuously through Soviet rule, independence from Market environment Orange Revolution in 2004.
Russia and the Orange Revolution in 2004.
The demand for iron ore pellets is directly The Ukrainian political sphere tends not linked to steel demand which is closely to interfere in Ukrainian business, and correlated to the global economic cycle.
As the workforce is for the most part well a result the demand for steel initially grew educated and cost competitive.
strongly in 2008 and then sharply reduced, bringing world output in line with 2007.
In Ukraine is a parliamentary presidential the latter part of 2008 the global banking republic and formerly part of the Soviet crisis combined with a wider economic Union.
The ruling coalition government slowdown impacted the construction and broke up in September and a general automotive industries, reducing steel election is likely to take place in 2009.
It demand at an unprecedented rate.
This is noteworthy that Ukraine has continued overall weakening in demand has had a to observe peaceful democratic political direct consequential effect on demand for processes regardless of government iron ore generally with the impact flowing instability.
The country intends to join the through to the Group in November.
In European Union as soon as it is able to do response the Group and many of our so.
Ukraine was granted a US$16.4bn competitors reduced supply significantly International Monetary Fund loan in late in the final months of the year.
2008 in response to the significant effects of the global financial crisis on its economy.
This loan prescribes several conditions which are likely to result in increased fiscal and economic discipline in Ukraine, which is likely to benefit our business.
Among others, these conditions include a prohibition on intervening in the market to support the Ukrainian currency, and more transparency around economic policy-setting.
16 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
