Corporate governance Directors Report The Directors present their report to shareholders for the financial In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company year ending 31 December 2008. the Articles, Messrs. Jelinek and Salamon will offer themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, Messrs. Zhevago, The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as Baring and Genovese will retire by rotation at the forthcoming a public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
Ferrexpo plc AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
listed on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and is a member of the FTSE 250 index.
Michael Oppenheimer and Dennis McShane resigned as Directors during the second half of the year.
Kostyantin Zhevago Business Review was appointed Chief Executive Director with effect from A review of the business, its principal activities and future 1 November 2008. developments can be found in the pages listed below and are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Further details about the Directors and their roles within the pages referred to incorporate details of the principal risks and Group are given in the Directors biographies on pages 8 and 9. uncertainties facing the Group, analysis using Key Performance Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in Indicators as set out in the Business Review, and the key shares of the Company and service contracts are contained relationship agreement.
in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51.
Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Review on Appointment and replacement of Directors pages 4 to 7.
Directors may be elected by the shareholders by ordinary the Business Review on pages 12 to 35 including the resolution or appointed by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 26 to 35.
Board holds office only until the next following annual general meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
Directors duties The duties set out in sections 175 to 177 of the 2006 Companies At each annual general meeting one-third of the Directors who Act came into force on 1 October 2008.
The duties that are are subject to retirement by rotation, or if this number is not three specifically referred to in the Corporate Governance Report on or a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not less than pages 38 to 43 include section 172 to promote the success of one-third, will retire from office and stand for re-election.
New the Company, section 175: to avoid conflicts of interest, section Directors appointed since the last annual general meeting are not 176 not to accept benefits from third parties and section 177 taken into account in determining the number of Directors who to declare any interests in existing or proposed transactions or are to retire by rotation.
If any Director has served more than arrangements with the Company.
three years since his last appointment, or if he has served more than eight years as a Non-executive Director, he must also stand Results and dividends for re-election.
Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 60.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles, the Companies Act 1985 and The Directors recommend a dividend of 3.3 US cents per Ordinary 2006 the Acts and any directions given by special resolution, Share.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who the Annual General Meeting the AGM, the dividend will be paid may exercise all the powers of the Company.
in UK pounds sterling on 22 May 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 17 April 2009.
Shareholders Directors and Officers insurance may receive UK pounds sterling dividends by direct bank transfer, The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability provided that they have notified the Groups registrars in advance.
Insurance in respect of legal action that may be brought Shareholders may elect to receive dividends in US dollars.
against its Directors and Officers.
Directors Directors indemnity provision The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: During the period under review, the Group had in force an Michael Abrahams indemnity provision in favour of one or more of the Directors of Oliver Baring Ferrexpo plc against liability in respect of proceedings brought by Lucio Genovese third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Wolfram Kuoni Act 2006.
Chris Mawe appointed 7 January 2008 Dennis McShane resigned 1 November 2008 Share capital and rights attaching to the Ihor Mitiukov Companys shares Mike Oppenheimer resigned 1 November 2008 The Company has a single class of Ordinary Shares of 10p each.
Kostyantin Zhevago Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, Marek Jelinek and Miklos Salamon will be appointed to the Board shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the on 27 March 2009 following the announcement made in October Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such 2008 of the acquisition of a substantial interest in the Company by resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the RPG Industries SE.
Unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
At each annual general meeting, the Board proposes to put in place annual shareholder authority authorising the 52 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Companys Directors to allot unissued shares in accordance with placed into treasury.
These repurchases were made in the light the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committee.
of cash generated in excess of current needs.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the Company Dividends and distributions are shown in note 31 of the financial statements.
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the shareholders may by ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not Variation of rights exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the rights attached to a class may pay interim dividends and also any fixed rate dividends of shares may be varied or abrogated either with the consent in whenever the financial position of the Group, in the opinion of the writing of the holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal Board, justifies their payment.
amount of the issued shares of that class excluding any share of that class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of an Under the Companys Articles, the Board may withhold payment extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in holders of the issued shares of that class validly held in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% accordance with the Articles.
interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and Transfer of shares has failed to provide the Company with information concerning Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form interests in those shares required to be provided under the Acts.
and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Registration Voting of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in the At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations on a show of hands and on a poll, one vote for each share held.
2001 and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the Under the Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy or number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to proxies to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and be transferred exceeds four.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his meeting as a corporate representative.
certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board Restrictions on voting may decline to register a transfer if it is not in the approved form.
No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect The Board may also decline to register any transfer of any share of any shares held by him if any call or other sum outstanding in which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may decline to register a respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he with a 0.25% interest if such a person has been served with a has failed to provide the Company with information concerning notice after failure to provide the Company with information interests in those shares required to be provided under the Acts.
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be Shares held in the EBT pursuant to an arms length sale.
The trustees of the Company employee benefit trust EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT as Repurchase of shares they think fit and in doing so may take into account both financial Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company and non financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or cancelled immediately upon completion Deadline for voting rights of the purchase.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the meeting not excluding The Company was given authority to make market purchases of non-working days.
up to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a resolution passed on 15 May 2008.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys 2009 AGM.
A special resolution to renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolution renewing the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares are set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this report.
Using the authority mentioned above, between 5 and 30 September 2008 the Company purchased on the market 5,945,000 Ordinary Shares of 0.10 at an average price of 1.71.
On 16 September 2008 the Company purchased on the market 19,398,814 Ordinary Shares from Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. a connected person of Kostyantin Zhevago at a price of 1.67 per share.
All of the 25,343,814 Ordinary Shares repurchased in this way, representing 4.1% of the called-up Ordinary Shares of the Company, were 53 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate governance Directors Report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 9 March 2009, the following major interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company had been notified to the Company: Number of % of the Companys Ordinary Number of total voting rights Name of shareholder Shares voting rights at date of notification 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. 300,198,313 300,198,313 51.00% 2 Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd 147,156,035 147,156,035 24.99% 3,5 Ralkon Commercial Limited 40,551,710 40,551,710 6.90% 4,5 Fayver Properties, Inc. 17,675,762 17,675,762 3.00% 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Minco Trust of which Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary.
3 Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of RPG Investments SE.
3 Ralkon Commercial Limited is wholly beneficially owned by Ihor Kolomoisky.
4 Fayver Properties, Inc. is wholly beneficially owned by Genady Bogoliubov.
5 On 20 March 2009 the Company was notified that Fayver Properties, Incs holding had increased to 18,691,205 Ordinary Shares 3.18% and that Fayver Properties, Inc and Ralkon Commercial Limited had executed an agreement under which they are bound to exercise their Ferrexpo voting rights jointly.
Significant agreements There are no circumstances connected with significant agreements to which the Company is a party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, except those referred to below: Long Term Incentive Plan The rules of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan sets out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employee rights under the plan.
Generally, such rights will vest on a change of control to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time pro-rated basis, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company, or in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent basis.
Bank loan facility Under the US$335m pre-export finance facility with ABN Amro Bank N. V. BNP Paribas Suisse S. A. and Socit Gnrale, of December 2006, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own more than 51% of the Company, the lenders are entitled to demand repayment of this facility.
Relationship Agreement Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Kostyantin Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company can be found in the Business Review page 23 and in the Corporate Governance Report page 39.
The Relationship Agreement ceases to apply if the holding of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust or Mr Zhevago individually or collectively falls below 25% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Events since the balance sheet date Information on events since the balance sheet date is provided in note 2 to the financial statements on page 71.
Market value of land and buildings Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from a valuation undertaken on 1 January 2003 as part of the Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of land and mineral reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
Policy on derivatives and financial instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Group policy on financial instruments is set out in note 43 to the Consolidated Financial Information on pages 99 to 105.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
The average creditor payment period for the period ended 31 December 2008 for the Company was 29 days 2007: 27 days.
Charitable and political donations The Group made no political donations during the year.
Group donations to charities worldwide were US$6,081,000 2007: US$2,971,000, with UK charities receiving US$nil 2007: US$nil.
54 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Risk management policies Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainty and an overview of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks are set out in note 43 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information on pages 99 to 105.
Further references to risk are made in the Business Review on pages 24 to 25 and the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance Report on page 42 which provides a summary of the internal control procedures put in place by the Board to identify key risks and review risk management and its effectiveness.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Statement on disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
A Statement of the Responsibilities of the Directors for preparing the Group and Company financial statements is set out on page 56.
Amendments to the Articles of Association Articles Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by special resolution.
A resolution will be put to the 2009 AGM to amend the Articles.
This is to incorporate changes made under the Companies Act 2006 which was enacted on 8 November 2006 and is being implemented in stages.
Annual General Meeting The second Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00am on Tuesday 19 May 2009 at The Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA.
A separate letter from the Chairman summarising the business of the meeting and the Notice convening the AGM have been sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Auditors Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and an ordinary resolution reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
This report was approved by the Board on 23 March 2009.
David Leonard Company Secretary Ferrexpo plc Registered Office: 2-4 King Street London SW1Y 6QL Registered number: 5432915 Headquarters: Bahnhofstrasse 13 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland 55 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
