Company overview Board of Directors and Executive Committee The Board The Board 1.
Michael Abrahams, CBE DL 71 Non-executive Chairman Michael Abrahams is chairman of the London Clinic, KCOM Group PLC, the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme and Amteus plc.
He was deputy chairman of Prudential plc until May 2000, and has served as chairman and as a director of a number of quoted and unquoted 1.
Kostyantin Zhevago 35 Chief Executive Officer Kostyantin Zhevago was appointed Chief Executive on 1 November 2008.
He is ultimately the controlling shareholder of Ferrexpo.
He has been a member of the Ukrainian Parliament since 1998.
6. currently a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Law Policy and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group for InterParliamentary Relations with Japan.
Since 2002, Kostyantin Zhevago has been a member of the permanent delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council and a member of the Ukrainian 7. faction of the Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union.
He has previously served The Executive Committee as chairman of the management board and deputy chairman of the supervisory board of CJSC Commercial Bank Finance and Credit Finance and Credit Bank and as a member of the supervisory board of JSC Ukrnafta.
Between 1993 and 1996, he was financial director of Finance and Credit Bank.
Kostyantin Zhevago graduated from the Kyiv State Economic University in 1996, specialising in international economics.
Christopher Mawe, FCA 47 Chief Financial Officer Chris Mawe qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers and Lybrand in 1991, having gained a First Class Honours degree in Engineering.
He has held senior financial positions for the past 16 years, firstly with IMI plc both in the UK and 11.
Europe, and then with Carclo plc as finance director.
Most recently Chris was finance director of UK Coal plc.
Oliver Baring 64 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Oliver Baring has been chairman of Mwana Africa plc since its reverse takeover of African Gold plc in September 2005.
He retired from UBS Warburg in 2001, having led the International Mining Group with 08 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 responsibility for Africa and Europe.
From 2002 to holds a Masters in International Economic Previously he had been head of the UBS 2005 he served as Extraordinary and Relations from the Kyiv National University Warburg mining equity sales team and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine in of Economics.
was responsible for its respected coverage the United Kingdom.
He also represented and sales capability.
Oliver Baring was a Ukraine in the International Maritime 11.
Viktor Lotous 44 partner in Rowe and Pitman before its Organisation.
From 1997 to 2001 he Chief Operating Officer, merger with SG Warburg.
Oliver Baring served as Minister of Finance of Ukraine Ferrexpo Poltava Mining is non-executive chairman of First Africa and, from 1995 to 1997, as Ukraines Viktor Lotous joined Ferrexpo Poltava Holdings Limited, and is a non-executive Special Representative with Vice-Prime Mining in 1986.
He is a graduate of director of Blackrock World Mining Trust Ministerial status to the European Union in Kryvy Rih Mining and Ore Institute, and plc, a member of the Advisory Council Brussels.
In 1994, he was deputy governor of the Kyiv State Economic University, of Sentient Resources Fund and nonof the National Bank of Ukraine and then specialising in Finance.
He became chief executive chairman of Ridge Mining plc.
Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for Banking engineer in 1997 and General Director and Finance.
Prior to that, he held various and Group Chief Operating Officer in 5.
Raffaele Lucio Genovese 47 positions at Agrarian-Industrial Bank April 2007.
Independent Non-executive Director Ukraine, and was appointed as its deputy Lucio Genovese is also the chief executive governor in 1992.
Simon Wandke 49 officer of Nage Capital Management, a from the Cybernetics Department, Kyiv Group Manager, Marketing and Logistics Swiss-based advisory and proprietary State University and has a PhD in Simon Wandke joined the Group in 2006. company specialising in the metals and Economics 1985 from the Institute of He was vice president strategy for the mining sector.
He has previously served Economy, Academy of Sciences Ukraine.
Minerals Group and vice president coal, as investment officer and a member of iron ore and HBI marketing at BHP Billiton the board of Taj Investment Limited with until 2001.
Between 2002 and 2006, he The Executive Committee responsibility for its Indian public and was a partner of Destra Consulting Group private investment portfolio.
Prior to in Melbourne, specialising in Change 2.
Kostyantin Zhevago that, he held a number of positions with Management.
Simon Wandke is a graduate Chief Executive Officer Glencore International, including senior of the University of Melbourne in See profile under The Board member of the Copper Division, CEO of Psychology and Marketing, and completed CIS Operations, manager of the Moscow post graduate studies in Corporate 3.
Christopher Mawe, FCA office and trader in the Ferrous Division.
He Finance at Swinburne University, Australia.
Chief Financial Officer was an assistant manager in the Audit See profile under The Board Division of  in 13.
He is a Chartered Accountant Chief Projects Officer 8.
Dave Webster joined the Group in June Group Manager, Human Resources 2006.
He previously spent five years as John Dawe joined the Group in February 6.
Wolfram Kuoni 42 project director with ProMet in Australia 2007.
He previously spent 22 years at BHP Independent Non-executive Director and before that spent 25 years at Billiton specialising in human resource Wolfram Kuoni is the founder and senior BHP Billiton specialising in business management in various corporate and partner of Kuoni Attorneys-at-Law, Zurich, performance and strategic planning.
He has a Bachelor Switzerland, and serves on a number of He has a Bachelor of Metallurgy from of Business Accounting from Curtin boards of directors.
He has over 12 years the University of Newcastle.
Dave Webster University in Western Australia.
of experience in investment banking.
Prior was Group projects officer until December to 2005, he held a number of positions 2007, when he moved to his current role 9.
Nikolay Goroshko 49 within UBS Investment Banking Zurich with responsibility for the Groups growth Chief Financial Officer, Yeristovo Project and New York, including head of the projects both at its existing GPL mine and Nikolay Goroshko has worked for Ferrexpo European Export and Project Finance its planned new mines, and oversight for Poltava Mining since 1984.
He also originated and structured Group operations.
graduate of the Kyiv Institute of National cross-border acquisitions and equity Economics, specialising in Industrial capital markets transactions.
He became Acting Group Kuoni graduated with a law degree Chief Financial Officer in April 2007 from the University of Berne, and holds and Chief Commercial Officer in charge a doctorate in law from the University of the Groups Growth Projects in of Zurich and an MBA from INSEAD in December 2007.
He is a member of the Zurich Bar.
Ihor Mitiukov 56 Chief Financial Officer, Independent Non-executive Director Ferrexpo Poltava Mining Ihor Mitiukov is the managing director Nikolay Kladiev joined FPM in June 2005. and head of country for Ukraine, Morgan Over the course of his career Nikolay Stanley and also an independent director Kladiev has spent several years as an audit of OJSK Nadra Bank, Ukraine.
He was the manager with Ernst & Young and CFO of general director of the Financial Policy a large Russian factory.
Nikolay Kladiev 09 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Business review 2 10 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 In this section 12 Key Performance Indicators 14 Overview 17 Operating Review 22 Financial Review 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Review 11 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
