Fidessa group plc 2 Overview Fidessa has continued to deliver strong growth despite the disruption and dislocation across the markets caused by the global financial crisis.
Fidessa has continued to deliver strong growth despite the focus on managing our own costs.
We expect that a number disruption and dislocation across the markets caused by the of trends will develop as a result of the global financial crisis, global financial crisis.
The market impact of this crisis, including including increased focus on more transparent exchange the failure of Lehman Brothers, the collapse of the Icelandic banks traded instruments, requirements for strong compliance and and the number of emergency mergers and rescues within the risk management and increased demand for low total cost of banking sector during 2008, has been without precedent.
ownership, all of which are key strengths of Fidessa solutions.
However, the strength of our business has allowed us to absorb We will continue to invest in new product opportunities as well these impacts and continue to grow through extending our as in the extension of our existing products throughout 2009 and customer base and delivering more products and services to believe that we can continue to grow the business during this existing customers.
period, although the level of growth is difficult to predict.
Despite the short-term challenges caused by the global financial crisis, Many of our customers have responded to the market conditions we are confident that our long-term positioning is sound and that by focusing on efficiency, cost and competitiveness, which are all we can play an increasingly important role as the markets recover.
areas where our market leading sell-side and buy-side products can make a significant contribution.
Some customers have Results migrated functions across to Fidessa as they look to standardise In 2008 strong growth in revenue has been achieved, up 40% their operation around the market leading platform, while others to 189.1 million, with the growth consistent across all regions.
have taken additional functionality within their existing Fidessa Adjusting the 2007 comparative to include a full year contribution platforms, enabling them to exploit new market opportunities.
from the LatentZero acquisition, rather than the eight months There has also been a marked increase in smaller customers included in the consolidated results, gives like-for-like revenue taking workstation solutions in order to remain competitive growth of 34%.
We have seen a small benefit in the results for and better control their risks.
As a result, Fidessas total user 2008 from the weakness of sterling in the closing months of the headcount, which was impacted in the first half of 2008 as year and at constant exchange rates the like-for-like revenue some customers failed and others reduced their staff, resumed growth would have been 33%.
Recurring revenue continued to growth in the second half.
provide the momentum in revenue growth, and grew by 51% to be 77% 2007: 72% of revenue.
Looking at the breakdown Whilst we currently have a strong order book and pipeline and are of recurring revenue across our areas of focus, indicative values for the year are that 91 million 2007: 61 million arose from seeing only a small impact on buying cycles, we are clearly facing uncertain and unprecedented market conditions which make it sell-side trading, 12 million 2007: 10 million from buy-side trading, 27 million 2007: 19 million arose from connectivity difficult to forecast accurately in the short term.
Many of our customers are facing exceptionally difficult trading conditions and and 17 million 2007: 12 million from market data.
Consultancy revenue also showed strong growth throughout the year, up 22% we are keenly aware of our role in being a supportive partner to our customers throughout this period whilst maintaining a strong to 42.0 million and representing 22% of total revenue, this Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3 The business continues to be strongly cash generative, closing the year with a cash balance of 33.1 million and no debt.
growth being helped by the full year contribution from the The overall profit before tax has grown by 111% to 36.0 million acquisition.
Our revenue was impacted by the failure of Lehman 2007: 17.1 million.
The effective tax rate is 23.1%, down from Brothers with 0.6 million of revenue lost in the period between 32.1% in 2007.
The significant reduction in the effective tax rate collapse and the signature of contracts with the new owners of is due to the majority of the Touchpaper gains being non-taxable.
Approximately 15% of our revenue is directly Excluding the effect of the Touchpaper gains the underlying tax exposed to user and transaction numbers with typical contracts rate has increased to 35.5%.
This is due to exchange rates splitting users and transactions into bands which provides good increasing the proportion of earnings from overseas regions with downward protection during the economic downturn.
Also, the higher tax rates and the release of deferred tax assets related deferred revenue in the balance sheet at the year end was up to unexercised share options where the exercise price is now 57% to 38.2 million 2007: 24.3 million, being equivalent greater than the current share price.
The cash tax rate was 28.8% to 20% of 2008 revenue that can be recognised in 2009. for 2008, up from 18.0% in 2007, as a result of the higher tax charge and fewer share incentives being exercised in 2008.
Strong growth in operating profit has also been achieved.
The adjusted operating profit was up 46% to 26.8 million Diluted earnings per share, adjusted for the operating profit 2007: 18.3 million.
This represents an operating margin of adjustments and to exclude the notional interest charge and 14.2% for 2008, up from 13.6% for 2007.
This has been Touchpaper gains, which the directors believe provides a better measured before the amortisation of acquired intangibles, the indication of the underlying performance of the business, were 1.0 million one-off charge for the patent dispute settlement 51.8 pence for the year, an increase of 35% from 38.5 pence and the 0.6 million receivable write off arising from the failure for 2007.
The IFRS diluted earnings per share were 79.1 pence of Lehman Brothers.
The unadjusted operating profit was up 2007: 33.5 pence, an uplift of 136%.
The weakness of sterling in the closing months of the year also benefitted the The total dividend for the full year is being increased in line with operating profit and at constant exchange rates the operating earnings by 36% to 24.5 pence.
The final dividend, if approved profit growth would have been 41%.
by shareholders, will be 17.0 pence, to be paid on 8th June 2009 to shareholders on the register on 8th May 2009.
The ex-dividend Included in finance income are the initial proceeds from the date will be 6th May 2009. disposal of the investment in Touchpaper.
This has netted a gain of 13.1 million in the year.
Finance income from bank and other The business continues to be strongly cash generative, closing deposits reduced as interest rates decreased and the notional the year with a cash balance of 33.1 million 2007: 24.8 million interest charge relating to the deferred consideration from the and no debt.
Some of the major items of cash flow in the year LatentZero acquisition has decreased as the first instalment of were the 13.4 million inflow from the sale of the Touchpaper deferred consideration was paid.
investment, 22.7 million outflow for capital expenditure and 7.8 million outflow for deferred consideration from the Fidessa group plc 4 Overview continued We expect that a number of trends will develop as a result of the global financial crisis, including increased focus on more transparent exchange traded instruments, requirements for strong compliance and risk management and increased demand for low total cost of ownership, all of which are key strengths of Fidessa solutions.
Invoicing at the end of the year was contingent consideration for LatentZero at a discounted value.
particularly strong, resulting in the high trade receivables balance This allowed LatentZero management to shift focus to the at the year end and this should provide healthy cash generation combined business rather than being exclusively focused on into 2009.
The net cash generated from operating activities the LatentZero business.
was 42.7 million, representing an operating cash conversion rate of 160%.
Other important events are as noted elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Staff numbers have increased with the growth of the business.
Over 20% of staff continue to be dedicated to product Risk factors development.
The average headcount for the period was 1,281, As with all businesses, the Group is affected by certain risks, up 25% from 1,027 in 2007.
Staff numbers at 31st December not wholly within its control, which could have a material impact 2008 had increased to 1,391 from 1,160, an increase of 20%.
on the Groups long-term performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from forecast and historic results.
2008 important events During 2008 the key events in the Groups development have been The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group include: the implementation of the Groups business plan and successful the current state of the worlds financial markets, customers integration of LatentZero, acquired during 2007.
The market has financial stability, M&A activity within the customer base and been driven by the fragmentation of liquidity following various within the technology sector, dependence on Fidessas core regulatory changes last year and the growth in market data and technology, competition, levels of operational spending versus connectivity requirements.
During 2008 there has been a major revenue, other economic and market conditions, continued global financial crisis which has affected many of Fidessas service of executive directors and senior managers, hiring and customers and resulted in some firms entering administration and retention of qualified personnel, product errors or defects, increased market consolidation.
Growth has been generated lawsuits and intellectual property claims.
throughout the Groups operations with particular success in the Canadian element of the Groups North American operation and In addition to the foregoing, the primary risk and uncertainty in Asia where the Group enjoyed success with its hosted offerings related to the Groups performance for 2009 is the challenging as well as significant extensions to existing systems.
macroeconomic environment caused by the global financial crisis, which could have a material impact on the Groups The Group has disposed of its holding in Touchpaper which has performance over the next year and could cause actual results netted a gain of 13.1 million and bolstered our cash resources.
to differ materially from expected and historical results.
A material downturn in buy-side trading or in company market valuations In order to allow more rapid integration of the LatentZero and could result in an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill Fidessa businesses, an agreement was made to fix the 2008 from the LatentZero acquisition.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 5 We will continue to invest in new product opportunities as well as in the extension of our existing products throughout 2009 and believe that we can continue to grow the business during this period, although the level of growth is difficult to predict.
Lava patent lawsuit Outlook In June 2003 Fidessa noted an announcement released by Lava Whilst we currently have a strong order book and pipeline and Trading Inc. now part of Citigroup that it had filed a patent are seeing only a small impact on buying cycles, we are clearly infringement claim in the US against Fidessa.
The patent relates facing uncertain and unprecedented market conditions which to the concept of displaying prices from more than one source make it difficult to forecast accurately in the short term.
Many of ECN on a single screen in the US.
In December 2003 Lava filed our customers are facing exceptionally difficult trading conditions an amendment to its lawsuit alleging unfair trade practices on and we are keenly aware of our role in being a supportive partner the part of Fidessa, in particular in relation to the pricing of to our customers throughout this period whilst maintaining products and associated services.
a strong focus on managing our own costs.
We expect that a number of trends will develop as a result of the global financial In December 2004 Fidessa announced that a Stipulated Judgment crisis, including increased focus on more transparent exchange had been entered into the record in the United States District traded instruments, requirements for strong compliance and Court for the Southern District of New York, which formally risk management and increased demand for low total cost of recorded that the patent had not been infringed by Fidessa.
Lava ownership, all of which are key strengths of Fidessa solutions.
lodged an appeal and in April 2006 the United States Court of We will continue to invest in new product opportunities as well Appeals for the Federal Circuit determined that the lower court as in the extension of our existing products throughout 2009 did not correctly interpret all the technical terms in the patent and and believe that we can continue to grow the business during referred the case back to the lower court.
This meant that the this period, although the level of growth is difficult to predict.
patent proceedings, started in June 2003, were for the most part Despite the short-term challenges caused by the global financial restarted from the beginning and all previous judgements no crisis, we are confident that our long-term positioning is sound longer stood.
Both parties were therefore expecting further and that we can play an increasingly important role as the significant expenditure on litigation in order to progress the case.
On 30th July this year Fidessa announced that a settlement agreement had been reached between it and Lava under which Fidessa will provide Lava with products and services valued at $1.95 million over the next three years.
In return Lava will license Fidessa to use the inventions covered by the patent.
Both firms agree to drop all claims and counter claims relating to this dispute.
The settlement of $1.95 million is taken as a one-off charge in Fidessas results for 2008.
