Fidessa group plc 16 Report of the Directors continued Under the Groups software testing protocols, it takes steps to prevent test trades from being executed live and to reduce the impact of such an eventuality by using a separate test site and imposing conditions on the testing such as limiting the size of test trades.
It is however possible that such an error could take place and prove very costly to the Group.
The nature of financial market data is such that it needs to be constantly updated which may mean that the Groups network capacity could at some point become saturated which may adversely affect its product and network performance.
While the Group has implemented measures to mitigate this risk contracting for sufficient network capacity using market leading providers of network services, there can be no guarantees that the Group and its communications network providers will be able to accommodate rapid growth in traffic volumes or avoid network failures or interruptions.
The Groups products include tools that support investment decisions, from asset allocations through what-if scenarios to implementation.
The tools are high performance but have to operate in a fast-moving environment which creates some timing risk.
Although the Group endeavours to negotiate its contracts with its data providers to the extent possible in order to limit its exposure, the Group has signed agreements with overseas exchanges for the provision of financial data.
Being providers which have a monopoly, some of the exchanges refuse to provide their data on terms other than their standard terms which can contain provisions which the Group would not accept under normal circumstances including, but not limited to, unlimited liability, liability for consequential loss and the application of local law.
The Groups staff are vital to the success of the business.
If the Group were unable to attract adequate skilled staff to meet its requirements or were to lose key managerial, sales, professional or technical staff this could seriously affect its business.
Succession planning is taken seriously by the Board and it is believed that long-term incentives under the share option schemes as well as the Share Bonus Plan and Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan aid staff retention.
The Group endeavours to ensure that staff are motivated by the nature of the business of the Group and the work that they carry out in their roles as employees.
They are regularly appraised and encouraged to develop their skills and where appropriate are promoted in line with their potential.
Although careful steps are taken to minimise the risks posed by disaffected employees, such as protecting the Groups systems and trying to resolve any potentially volatile human resource issues, disaffected employees with access to critical information could be inclined to harm the Group.
It is possible that they could do significant damage to the business and the reputation of the Group by impairing its systems.
They could also endeavour to misappropriate the Groups intellectual property by attempting to reveal its source codes or trade secrets or allocating passwords or access to its systems to third parties for financial gain or to cause financial loss to the Group.
As a software group, infringement of the Groups intellectual property rights by third parties or its failure to defend infringement claims from third parties could cause damage to the business although the Group has taken reasonable steps to ensure that its intellectual property rights are appropriately protected by law.
In the event that a litigious action were to be brought against the Group then this would cause the Group to incur potentially significant costs in legal fees and in the event of an unsuccessful defence to any litigation then it could become liable to pay damages to a third party reducing any profits made in that financial period.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency and on the translation of the balance sheet and income statement of foreign operations into sterling.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen.
The Group has both cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a natural hedge.
In managing currency risks the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Groups cash inflows and outflows in a foreign currency.
The Group has not entered into hedging contracts for either cash or net investment positions denominated in foreign currencies.
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 As the Group operates internationally it is subject to the tax laws and regulations of several countries.
Although the Group takes careful steps to comply with applicable international tax legislation, a tax audit in any of the countries in which it operates could expose it to a challenge to its transfer pricing policies or other treatment of revenue, costs and capital expenditure and there is a possibility that the same profits could be taxed in more than one jurisdiction.
The Groups suite of products is limited in range in so far as all its products are financial software-related.
It could fail to retain existing customers or attract a new client base which would reduce profits.
Factors beyond its control such as instability of the financial system, a material downturn in financial markets, recession, reduced stock market valuations, market disruptions or suspensions, or factors such as the insolvency, consolidation or nationalisation of parts of its customer base could adversely affect the sales of the Groups products due to the consequential reduction in the budgets of financial institutions for expenditure on technology products and their reduced ability to pay for or requirement for such products.
As a result of the current turmoil in financial markets there has been a reduction in the types of financial instrument traded and a reduction in trading volumes of financial instruments globally.
This could negatively affect Group profits because it could reduce sums billed under the Groups contracts with its customers.
The Group invests heavily in research and development of new products yet it is possible that at a future date the Group may not have the resources to respond rapidly enough to changes in customer requirements in its markets.
The strategy it adopts in developing new products may not be on target and resource may be channelled into products that are ineffective or surplus to market requirements.
The Group faces competition in each of its markets and were its competitors to develop a more strategically focused and cost effective rival product which better met the requirements of its customer base then this would reduce Group sales, prices and market share impacting Group profits and margins.
The cost of compliance by the Group with changes in laws or regulations by governments and other regulatory authorities in the countries in which it does business could have an adverse financial effect on the business as could prosecution of the Group for any breaches of such laws due to the potential resulting defence costs and penalties involved.
The Group endeavours to comply with any such changes with the help of its financial and legal advisers where necessary.
Changes to financial reporting rules and accounting standards could affect the reported assets, liabilities or profits of the Group for future periods as well as periods already reported.
In the future the Group may decide to acquire new businesses or companies and or dispose of companies or businesses.
Any given acquisition or disposal will entail costs but has the potential to increase the profitability of the Group.
Although in depth due diligence would be carried out by the Group and its advisers prior to undertaking such a transaction, an acquisition could have a negative effect on the profits of the Group in the event that a target acquired could not be successfully integrated into the Group, were unable to adapt to the Groups culture, if disaffected staff from the acquired company were to leave the Group or if the acquisition did not prove as valuable to the Group as anticipated.
The Group has grown rapidly in recent years.
As it grows, it needs to expand its existing resources and its infrastructure.
The acquisition of additional office premises, the recruitment and training of new staff and the incidental expenditure that these measures will entail, will incur significant extra cost and if the Group is unable to manage such growth effectively its financial condition could be adversely affected.
4 Results and dividends The financial results and position are shown in the financial statements.
A fuller explanation of the results and position is provided in the Overview, the Finance Review and the Operations Review.
An interim dividend of 7.5p per ordinary share was paid on 29th September 2008.
The directors propose a final dividend of 17.0p per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 8th June 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8th May 2009, with an ex-dividend date of 6th May 2009.
Fidessa group plc 18 Report of the Directors continued 5 Change of control The only significant agreements with change of control provisions are the Companys share option schemes, the Share Bonus Plan and the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan, all of which contain change of control provisions under which on a change of control of the Company, options and awards would vest in full subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at the time.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
6 Share capital Details of the authorised called-up and fully paid share capital of the Company are set out in note 18 to the financial statements.
It is proposed that the Companys authorised share capital is increased this year: please refer to note 6 of the Notice of Annual General Meeting attached to this Annual Report for more details.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares and the powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys shares and no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
7 Principal shareholders The following have notified the Company as being interested in 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 13th February 2009.
The last holding notified to the Company is below.
Percentage Ordinary of issued 10p shares share capital Standard Life Investments Limited 2,758,909 7.8% Aegon UK plc Group of Companies 2,709,420 7.7% FIL Limited 1,755,160 5.0% Schroders plc 1,709,867 4.9% Legal & General Group Plc 1,527,930 4.3% CJ Sharples 1,450,352 4.2% Lloyds TSB Group Plc 1,431,635 4.1% DA Taylor 1,153,049 3.3% 8 Changes to Articles of Association As a result of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act expected to be fully in force by 1st October 2009 replacing the Companies Act 1985, the Company wishes to update its Articles of Association to reflect the changes brought about by the 2006 Act and to make changes reflecting the growth of the business since the current Articles of Association were adopted, as well as making some minor technical or clarifying changes.
A resolution to adopt the revised Articles of Association the New Articles will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 28th April 2009.
A summary of the proposed changes is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting attached to this Annual Report.
A copy of the New Articles, a copy of the current Articles of Association and a copy marked to show the differences between them will be available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company, at the offices of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP at City Place House, 55 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5EH and at the Annual General Meeting itself until the close of the meeting.
9 Authority to purchase own shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 22nd April 2008, shareholders approved a general authority for the Company to re-purchase up to 3,462,918 ordinary shares in the market.
This represented approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time.
No purchase of shares has been made pursuant to this authority, and there is no present intention to use such authority, but the directors consider it desirable that the possibility of making such purchases under appropriate circumstances remains available.
A similar authority will be requested at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, again limited to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Board intends only to exercise this authority if it believes that it will lead to an increase in earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 10 The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust 1997 is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of Fidessa staff.
It has an independent, professional trustee, RBC cees Trustee Limited formerly Abacus Corporate Trustee Limited and is currently financed by advances from the Company.
Rights to dividends have been waived by the trust and it waives its right to vote the shares.
The costs of administering the Employee Benefit Trust are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
The trust acquired its shares in the Company for use in connection with the Companys Performance Related Share Plan at the time of the placing for the flotation in June 1997.
The Company Share Option Plan 2006 further details of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report was approved by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Meeting held in February 2006 and the Company can request the trust to transfer its shares to satisfy grants made on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee under this scheme too.
11 The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan.
It has an independent, professional trustee, Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, and is currently financed by advances from the Company.
All rights to dividends have been waived by the trust and it waives its right to vote the shares.
The costs of administering the trust are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
The trust acquires its shares in the Company from the market at the same time as participants in the Share Bonus Plan acquire their participating shares.
During the year the trust acquired 77,158 ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company.
The trusts holding at 31st December 2008 was 162,033 ordinary shares.
The trust purchases shares to match purchases and provide a National Insurance Contribution hedge against purchases of ordinary shares by participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan.
12 Research and development The Group has continued its commitment to research and development and places a high priority on maintaining and improving the functionality, quality and competitive position of its business software products.
During the year the total expenditure on research and product development was 20,734,000 2007 restated at 14,588,000.
This is measured on a direct cost only basis with no overheads allocated.
13 Employment policies The Groups employment policies, including the commitment to equal opportunity, are designed to attract, retain and motivate the very best staff regardless of colour, nationality, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, age, religion, disability or any other characteristic protected by law.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Wherever possible the employment of employees who become disabled will be continued and appropriate training and career development will be offered.
The health and safety of the Groups employees, customers and visitors is of primary importance.
Therefore, the Group is committed to creating and maintaining a safe and healthy working environment by managing its activities so as to avoid unnecessary or unacceptable risks.
Health and safety audits and risk assessments, including fire risk assessments, are carried out regularly and workstation assessments for staff are carried out frequently throughout the year.
Good and effective employee communications and openness with staff are important and the Group promotes the understanding and involvement of all its employees in the Groups business aims and performance.
The policy of providing employees with information about new products, operations, and the performance and development of the Group has continued through the Groups intranet, product seminars and through regular staff meetings at which progress updates on the Group are given by the directors and senior management.
Any employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination, behaviour or practice at Fidessa are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of their manager.
These concerns will be investigated promptly and appropriate action taken and feedback given to the employee concerned.
Any attempt to deter employees from raising proper concerns will be treated as a serious disciplinary offence.
The Group has implemented an anonymous reporting box on its intranet where employees can raise any such concerns which will be copied to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and dealt with promptly.
Fidessa group plc 20 Report of the Directors continued 14 Environmental social and ethics policy Fidessa group plc is a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
The purpose of the FTSE4Good Index Series is to identify companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
The board has identified and assessed the significant risks to the Companys value arising from social, environmental and ethical matters and the enhanced value that can arise from an appropriate response to these issues.
The Group has an environmental as well as a social and ethics policy and these are regularly reviewed and communicated through the Groups website and intranet.
The Group aims to apply good social, environmental and ethical practice in its business operations and meets the relevant statutory requirements.
During 2008 the Company acquired a new purpose built office in London replacing three older and less environmentally friendly sites.
The new office is fitted to modern building and environmental standards and incorporates energy efficiency features.
The Group, by the nature of its business as a software product and services office-based environment, has no manufacturing facilities which pose major environmental issues.
The greatest environmental impacts associated with daily operations are considered to be the computing requirements of our data centres and staff.
There are also our daily operations which involve the use of electrical and electronic equipment, the use of paper and the disposal of waste.
The Group endeavours to have systems that reduce its environmental impact in line with its business needs.
Direct energy use from business and transport constitutes a major proportion of greenhouse gas emissions and the Group endeavours to reduce its carbon footprint.
Some of the measures it has introduced to reduce its environmental impact are: a cycle to work scheme which was implemented during 2008: the use of virtual servers resulting in significant savings reducing energy usage by a factor of 25 to 1: continuation of the roll out of a system for the automatic shutdown of non-essential computers overnight and at weekends to conserve energy: encouraging responsible use of energy and water as far as it is economic to do so and encouraging staff to promptly report any unnecessary wastage and to be vigilant about leaking taps and lights and air conditioning being left on: where practical, recycling its waste products: and less reliance on the use of paper due to default settings on office printers to encourage duplex printing where practical as well as greater use of email rather than paper based correspondence including the use of email for customer Christmas greetings rather than paper cards.
The Operations Director produces a yearly annual environmental report.
The 2008 report showed that the Groups improvement targets for the year had been met.
An audit covering the Companys environmental social and ethics policy was carried out during 2008 and no risks were identified.
Several improvement suggestions as a result of the audit were raised and appropriate action taken.
An environmental report on the activities of the Company is presented each year to a meeting of the Audit Committee.
Employees are encouraged to follow good principles of social behaviour.
These are reflected in the Groups social and ethics policy.
The policy is regularly reviewed and when deemed appropriate revised and published to all employees.
The Group continues to participate in and support the local communities where it carries out its business, as it believes this benefits the Group as well as the local communities.
Employees are encouraged to participate actively in raising money for local, national and international charities through fundraising events, several of which are typically held each year.
Details of these events are normally published on the Group intranet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 15 Donations The total amount of charitable donations made by the Group during 2008 was 37,000 2007: 5,000.
Donations were made to various medical, childrens, homeless and wildlife charities.
There were no political donations.
16 Payments to creditors It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree terms and conditions for their business transactions with their suppliers.
The Company and the Group seek to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever they are satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
As at 31st December 2008 the number of days of annual purchases represented by the year-end creditors for the Company amounted to 22 days 2007: 27 days and for the Group amounted to 23 days 2007: 32 days.
17 Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
18 Auditors In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Susanna Freeman Secretary 13th February 2009
