Board of Directors 1 Martin Gilbert LLD MA LLB CA 3 Dean Finch BSc MBA ACA 5 Sidney Barrie LLB 4,5 Chairman: Chief Operating Officer, North America Commercial Director: 3 4,5 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Company Secretary Appointed to the Board as Commercial A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the Director in February 2004 and subsequently Appointed to the Board in August 2005 founders and Chief Executive of Aberdeen as Commercial Director and subsequently appointed Finance Director later that year.
He was appointed He also had responsibility for all of the Groups Company Secretary.
He joined the Group to the Board of FirstGroup plc in 1995. from Paull & Williamsons, solicitors in rail activities including refranchising.
He joined He is Chairman of Chaucer Holdings PLC the Company in 1999 as Commercial Director Aberdeen, where he was a senior partner and a director of a number of investment and Head of Corporate acting for a number of the Rail Division and was subsequently trusts.
He is a Non-Executive Director of appointed Managing Director of the Rail of listed and private companies.
He had Primary Health Properties PLC.
Age 52. a long association with the Group in an Division in August 2001.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG where he advisory capacity going back to the original 2 Moir Lockhead OBE employee buy-out of GRT Bus Group PLC.
worked for 12 years specialising in Corporate Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive: Transaction Support Services including In his current role he has responsibility for 4,5 Chairman of the Safety Committee a range of commercial activities across the working for the Office of Passenger Rail Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since Franchising on the privatisation of train Group.
Age 57. the Groups formation in 1995.
In 2007 he was mechanical engineer he joined Grampian appointed as Chief Operating Officer, North 6 Nicholas Chevis FCMA 4,5 Transport in 1985 as General Manager and Acting Finance Director America, responsible for the integration of went on to lead the successful employee Appointed Acting Finance Director in August the businesses of Laidlaw International, Inc. buy-out of GRT Bus Group PLC.
In 1996 2007 prior to which he was Group Financial in the enlarged North American operations he was awarded the OBE for services to Controller.
He joined the Group in 1997 of the Group.
Age 41. the bus industry and he is a past President as Finance Director of one of the Groups of the Confederation of Passenger Transport.
He was 4 David Leeder BSc FILT 4,5 Age 63.
Director of International Development subsequently appointed Finance Director of the Groups rail division following the Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
He joined the Group in 2001 as Managing acquisition of Great Western Holdings in 1998 and was also responsible for the Director UK Bus and assumed his present role as Director of International Development Groups light rail operations.
During this time he was also a key member of the Groups rail and Marketing in 2005.
He has held various senior posts in the transport industry including franchising team including the bidding for and integration of the Groups new rail Chief Executive of Travel West Midlands and subsequently Group Marketing Director of businesses.
He has held senior finance and planning positions in a number of sectors National Express Group plc.
He is Vice Chair of the Commission for Integrated Transport.
including at Volvo Car UK and Revlon Max Factor.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, he is also a past President of the Confederation of Passenger Transport.
1 2 3 4 5 6 28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Report of the Directors 7 David Dunn CA 9 John Sievwright MA CA 11 Audrey Baxter DBA LLD DipAcc BA 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed to the Board in May 2002, he is Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive a Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Director in August 2006.
She is Chief Director in December 1999.
He is a Chartered Officer of International for Merrill Lynch & Co. Executive of Baxters Food Group.
She has Accountant and is Non-Executive Chairman A Chartered Accountant, he has held various held a number of non-executive positions of Brammer plc.
He is also a Non-Executive senior management positions in banking in and was formerly a member of the Scottish Director of Croda International plc.
London, New York, Dublin and Japan.
He is Business Forum and the Scottish Economic a member of the North American Board of Council.
8 James Forbes CBE MSc BSc CEng MIEE the Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin.
12 Martyn Williams 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Employee Director Appointed to the Board in April 2000, he is Appointed to the Board as Employee Director 10 Professor David Begg DSc BA 1,2, 3 the former Chief Executive of Scottish and Non-Executive Director in January 2003, he is currently serving a Southern Energy plc.
His career began with Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive second term as Employee Director.
He is the South of Scotland Electricity Board and Director in August 2005.
He is Chairman employed as a customer services supervisor he has since held various senior posts in the of Tube Lines Limited and Northern Way in Swansea and has worked for the Group electricity industry.
Transport Compact and a director of for 30 years.
He is a visiting 1 Member of the Audit Committee professor at Plymouth University and an 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee adviser to Greater Manchester Passenger 3 Member of the Nomination Committee Transport Executive.
He is also the publisher 4 Member of the Safety Committee of Transport Times.
Until 2005 he was 5 Member of the Executive Committee Chairman of the Commission for Integrated Transport and a Non-Executive Director of the Strategic Rail Authority.
7 8 9 10 11 12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29
