Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report continued Within the property figures, there were four distinct The tax charge in 2008 included a charge of 27.2m effects on the results.
First, the mark to market of the to cover the increase in the deferred tax liability investment properties held by the Group which arising from the change in the corporation tax rules includes land and buildings leased out to port related covering Industrial Buildings Allowances.
The annual revaluation of these assets charge has no immediate cashflow effect in itself but produced a reduction in value of 19.2m compared will increase the cash tax paid annually by with an increase in value in 2006 and 2007 of 24.1m approximately 1.5m.
The cash tax charge overall for and 12.8m respectively.
This is a non-cash item and 2009 will, however, be significantly reduced.
arising from a shift in market yields and is not directly reflective of the growth in overall ports income, Dividend security of income or ports profitability.
In the light of the current economic climate, the Board has reviewed the Groups dividend policy The second effect was on the carrying value of our which was established in 2005.
The Board remains property development assets.
The mark to market confident that the ports earnings are in the main exercise was carried out by DTZ who have reviewed robust but, given the UK economic outlook and the the approach to the valuation of the Groups property fact that property values are not expected to recover development assets.
A more detailed explanation of materially in the near future, the Board considers that the valuation approach by DTZ is covered in the it would be prudent for dividend cover to be higher Glossary at page 128.
We have reviewed the future than it has been in recent years.
recoverability of the amounts included within inventories in the Balance Sheet in the light of the Accordingly, the Board has decided to rebase the full reduction in Market Value of the Groups property year dividend.
The recommended final dividend is development assets at the year end.
These assets therefore 12p per share 2007 31.95p making a are, in the main, held at historic cost.
As a result, the total dividend for 2008 of 28.6p 2007 47.7p.
The total decrease in Market Value has not been reflected full-year dividend is twice covered by underlying in the Income Statement or Balance Sheet.
However, earnings per share of 58.7p.
The Board intends that after taking into account the areas of the land bank the Company will continue to pay out dividends of not currently considered realisable for development one third in November and two thirds in May.
The by DTZ, the reduction in expected ultimate sales Board expects that this rebased full year dividend will 06 proceeds, and the long-term nature of these be sustainable.
developments, we have written off 27.7m against the previous carrying value of work in progress of If approved by the shareholders at the Annual 53.1m.
This write-down is a non-cash item.
General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 8th May 2009 to all shareholders on the register as The third effect was the 19.7m write-down in value at 14th April 2009. of the Groups interest in Ocean Terminal OTL, which has arisen principally as a result of an adverse Ports market yield movement and is a non-cash item.
Our ports business has a relatively even distribution of revenues amongst the main commodity areas: The fourth effect was the write-down of 3.9m in respect of property trade receivables as a Liquid Bulks consequence of the diminution in value of the Dry Bulks Groups security over sites already sold.
There are Paper and Forest Products no further sites in this category.
