review of the property divisions cashflow capitalise on these growth opportunities, such as requirements which will result in a significantly the land outside the Port of Tilbury, in due course.
reduced spend in 2009 compared with 2008.
Cash We believe that these projects have the potential will only be expended where there is a clear benefit to generate attractive long-term returns for to valuation from the spend or in pursuance of a our shareholders.
Our remaining obligated expenditure is approximately 10m which will be Outlook carried out over the next few years.
The Groups main focus in 2009 will be to manage our businesses efficiently and prudently, in order to Renewable Energy withstand the recessionary pressures and develop We have entered into a strategic joint venture with a growth platform to position us for a recovery in the Scottish and Southern Energy plc SSE to pursue economy.
This will involve increasing the customer joint interests in renewable energy sources.
In May base and improving the quality of customer 2008, planning approval was granted to Port of contracts, managing our costs more efficiently and Tilbury for the erection of four large wind turbines our cash more effectively.
Property expenditure will within the port and we are considering whether to be tightly controlled with the emphasis on increasing lease or sell the site.
the value of our property assets and continuing our dialogue with CEC on our various planning There is a growing recognition that deepwater ports applications in order to take advantage of future are ideal locations for energy generation plants from benefits from improved transport links.
renewable sources such as biomass and waste.
We see potential to develop a number of such plants Trading in January was lower than last year, although and have already received several enquiries.
many areas of our business continue to trade well.
Trading in February both at Tilbury and in Scotland At Tilbury, proposals are currently going through has shown signs of improvement over last year.
planning and in Scotland several potential sites have The stability of a large part of our ports revenue been identified and are the subject of interest.
These base places us well to cope with the challenges that developments will help us create value through we expect as a result of the weaker UK economic consented sites and also through the benefits of environment.
Against this background, we expect 09 importing significant quantities of bulk materials.
to deliver a robust overall performance.
People We are extremely grateful to all who work for Forth Ports for their efforts and contributions over the Christopher Collins last year.
Chairman Prospects We continue to have a number of potential projects offering attractive long-term growth prospects for the Charles Hammond ports business.
In aggregate, these different projects Group Chief Executive total over 50m of potential spend.
In todays market, Annual Report it is more a question of positioning the business to 16th March 2009 and Accounts 2008 2008 was the year where we demonstrated the quality and breadth of our ports business.
We delivered results and created opportunity in 2008 despite a deteriorating economic and market situation.
