Trends in the Ports Business Key Performance Indicators Ports are increasingly finding themselves as active The Board uses the annual budget as the base for participants in the supply chain for the movement of measuring the Groups performance.
This means that, rather than just marketing non-financial targets are set for individual senior shipping and handling capabilities to shipping lines, managers and for the businesses within the Group.
there are a variety of customers who, at various At the Annual Strategy Review, the Board considers points in the supply chain, can control the movement the financial projections over a three year time of goods and to whom the port will be marketing its horizon.
The overarching aim is to increase the value services, including the producer of the commodity, of the Group for the benefit of the shareholders.
In the shipping line, the distributor of the commodity the current economic climate, it is unlikely that there and in some cases agents and trade boards.
Our will be a return to the high values ascribed to our main ports all have good access for landside property assets in 2007 2008 for some years and so distribution and also, in the case of both Tilbury and this Key Performance Indicator KPI has been Grangemouth, good access for the export of goods eliminated.
The KPIs which are used to measure this increase None of the ports has the depth of water to handle in value are: the new generation of container ships of 12,000 TEUs and more.
The normal capacity at Tilbury is ships of 1 Underlying port operating profit about 4,500 TEUs and at Grangemouth less than 2 Growth in value of the property assets 2,000 TEUs, although in 2007, a Maersk vessel of 3 Growth in value of the port assets over 8,000 TEUs came alongside the berth at TCS.
4 Dividend per share As ship size increases in the container market, fewer main ports in Europe will be able to handle the These KPIs are discussed in more detail in the largest vessels but this will also entail a more Business Review and Chairman and Group Chief developed network of transhipment and feedering Executives Statement.
In using the underlying port terminals which may also see an increase in operating profit as a KPI, the Board is looking to vessel size.
With this in mind, both Tilbury and increase the trading profit from the ports business Grangemouth are well placed to see growth in this excluding certain other financial effects such as 27 sector of the market with additional capacity for at revaluation changes to investment properties and least the next five years and with an anticipation of significant one-off costs.
The movement in the value of property assets is The trends in traffic type suggest that container and measured on an annual basis by the independent ro-ro traffic will continue to increase at a rate greater valuation carried out on the property development than the average GDP of the UK and nearly all of this assets.
traffic will be European and therefore can be handled easily by our ports.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued Liquid bulk continues to be an important constituent encouraging dialogue between workforce and of the make up of the Groups business.
This management to identify potential problem areas to tonnage has gradually declined over the last five to minimise risk.
We encourage national vocational seven years although with the Buzzard Field now on qualifications and support staff who wish to pursue stream, there has been an increase in liquid bulk relevant academic qualifications.
Our labour stability movements in 2007 and 2008 which should continue index remained steady at 91% in 2008. for the next few years.
Prior to North Sea oil coming on stream in the mid-70s, the UK was a net importer The land under our ownership covers 648 hectares of liquid bulk and already there are signs that this and we also own over 1,900 hectares of seabed may repeat itself with the import of LNG through adjacent the waterfront at Edinburgh.
The way in various ports in the UK.
which we manage these land assets is critical to the future success of the Group.
We have shown in Dry bulk cargoes have been consistent in total Tilbury that we have the expertise to work with our volume terms over many years, however, the customers to move businesses around the port to individual commodity mix has changed over that obtain greater value from the asset but we also work period of time.
A good example of this would be that with our customers to help them maximise the although grain has played an important part in the benefits that they receive from being located in our Tilbury traffic for many years, it was only in the ports.
In Leith, a similar type of expertise is required mid-1990s that bulk animal feed was imported except that the interaction is between the continuing through the port.
port business at Leith and the requirements to develop the assets for property use.
In our view, this The thrust of our ports business is to manage our can only be achieved by a unified management assets efficiently and improve the return we get from structure which, although decentralised for the individual operations through more efficient use of day-to-day business, is controlled centrally at a our resources thereby releasing further assets for strategic level.
We are therefore, as a Group, seeking future development either in the ports or property to increase the value of our port assets by businesses.
This is unlikely to change in the near encouraging long-term agreements with major future.
customers to secure income stream and enhance value and at the same time, develop our property 28 Resources assets over a long-term period to regenerate the area around the port and so increase the value of our land Our two greatest resources are our employees and both absolutely and by reducing the value gap our physical asset base.
We employ 1,250 people between the Waterfront and the City centre.
throughout the Group and our pension scheme encompasses over 900 pensioners and 400 deferred pensioners.
If the total number of persons employed within our various ports is included, then our economic activity encompasses many thousands more who are reliant on the trade through our ports.
The ports industry is such that our employees tend to remain with us for many years.
Health and safety is paramount and we pay particular attention to the training and retraining of our employees,
