Business Review Group Ports The strong underlying trading performance of the Total volume of traffic through the ports increased by ports in 2008 was achieved against a backdrop of 5% to 48.7 million tonnes compared with 46.3 million a dramatic deterioration in the global economy and tonnes in 2007.
Liquid bulk tonnages increased to a very steep decline in the value of property, 34.4 million tonnes, up 7% on 2007.
Dry cargo particularly in the second half of the year.
As a result, tonnages increased marginally to 14.3 million tonnes.
we achieved strong growth in our underlying port operating profits with excellent trading performances At the end of December 2008, Bidwells, as from Tilbury and Scotland.
independent Valuers, carried out a valuation of the investment properties held by the Group.
The As a result of market conditions, the Market Value of valuation produced a decrease of 18.7m in respect our property assets decreased significantly although of the port investment properties and 0.5m in the the Board believes that their long-term potential property investment properties, an overall reduction remains considerable.
This compares with a revaluation increase in 2007 and 2006 of 12.8m and 24.1m respectively.
Group revenue increased by 13% to reach 185.9m.
The downward movement in valuation of the Port revenue increased by over 15% to 184.3m investment properties is only as a result of property 2007 159.5m.
Property revenue amounted to yield movements and has no bearing on the security 1.6m compared with 5.5m in 2007 as there were of the revenue shown or strong growth performance no land sales in 2008. in the ports business.
Both Scottish Ports and Tilbury continued to benefit from an increase in the The underlying port operating profit amounted to underlying rent per acre during the course of 2008, 47.6m, up from 38.7m in the previous year, an however, this was not sufficient to offset the change increase of 23%.
The revaluation decrease in the in the yield year on year.
port investment properties amounted to 18.7m, compared with an increase in valuation in 2007 of Tilbury 12.2m.
During the year insurance proceeds from the Tilbury produced yet another strong financial collapse of a container crane and income received performance on a throughput which was up under a rental guarantee amounted to 4.7m gross.
There was a 10% 23 increase in throughput within the Conventional asset The underlying property operating profit amounted area, driven mostly by ro-ro traffic where there was to 0.5m compared with a loss of 1.3m in 2007. a 70% increase in that traffic, a 10% increase in the Against this the carrying value of the property grain division which benefited from a major increase development costs within inventory were written in exports and a 5% increase in the volumes at the down by 27.7m reflecting, principally, a large Enterprise Distribution Terminal.
Short sea container reduction in the underlying value of the land available volumes were down by nearly 6% at just over for development.
In addition, the security taken some 145,000 boxes compared with just under 153,000 years ago to protect outstanding sums due on boxes in 2007.
The volume of traffic handled by our previous years property sales fell to such an extent operating tenants in such areas as cement, scrap that the remaining two major property debtors have and aggregates was also down in 2008, but this was been written down by 3.9m.
due principally to the reduced level of business from Cemex to enable the new blending and milling facility Annual Report and Accounts to be built and did not affect the increased guaranteed tonnage.
2008 Business Review continued A large number of contracts were reviewed and 3.7m.
The Groups share of profit was up by 60% at renewed during the course of 2008 as part of the the half year but, as referred to in the Groups Interim normal ongoing review process.
At the end of 2008, Statement, the deep sea container market saw a the Board approved an investment of under 3m to dramatic fall in volumes during the course of the upgrade the ro-ro facility in-dock at Tilbury subject to second half of the year.
Having geared up for a much reaching an agreement with the customer on an higher annual volume, the cost base latterly was too increased guaranteed minimum throughput and an high to support the lower volume.
In common with extension to the existing contract through to 2013. many other deep sea ports, TCS has reviewed its cost base in order to remain competitive in 2009.
In May 2008, Tilbury received planning approval to erect four large wind turbines within the port to Nordic provide electricity for its own use and third party Nordic had a difficult year but nevertheless produced use as part of its drive to lower its carbon energy a profit which was still earnings enhancing.
In conjunction with our new strategic business through Chatham was affected in the partner, SSE, we have been evaluating the cost of the second half of the year by a reduction in volume from project against the increasing cost of the wind its two major paper customers, one of which was turbines versus falling electricity prices.
Separately, significantly below budget in 2008.
The recycling we have also been looking at the value of the business was affected by peaks and troughs in planning approval to assess how we crystallise delivery volumes to the Tilbury MRF which made the this value.
A decision is expected during the course control of costs much more difficult.
In addition, the of 2009. collapse of prices for recycled materials could not be counteracted immediately by increases in gate fee Following Tilburys purchase of 65 acres of land income to compensate.
just outside the port, we have had detailed meetings with both the Thurrock and Thames Gateway As part of the integration of Nordic, the accounting Development Corporation and Thurrock Council information was transferred to the Group accounting over the future use of this land.
The plan is subject system.
When this information was being validated to public consultation.
Thurrock Council are in some control issues were identified.
Further control agreement with the plan and intend to include it in procedures have been implemented to raise 24 their own local development plan due for completion the quality of the management information in the by mid-year 2009.
We therefore intend to submit an Nordic group.
OPA this year for port-related expansion and development on the site.
In 2009, good progress has been made with Nordics major customers to improve the port profitability During the year we worked with the ODA in trialling and to mitigate, as much as possible, the adverse movements of various products from Tilbury to the effects of the fall in commodity prices within the Olympics site.
The ODA have recently approved recycling business.
further dredging works to allow larger barge movements to the site.
This can only be to the benefit The recycling joint venture in Lincoln was not of the existing barge operation from Tilbury.
successful in obtaining planning approval for a new MRF and so the planning costs of approximately Tilbury Container Services TCS increased its 150,000 were written off in the year.
volumes by 12% to reach 342,000 boxes.
Our share of the operating profit amounted to 3.7m 2007 Scottish Ports and Marine Dundee The Scottish business performed strongly in 2008.
The tonnage at Dundee in 2008 amounted to Container volumes were again well up throughout 1 million tonnes 2007 1 million tonnes.
Agripod the year at Grangemouth.
The Hound Point volumes agricultural tonnages were up by 7%: unfortunately increased by over 8% and the Braefoot Bay volumes with the contraction in the house building sector, increased by 14%.
In addition, operating efficiencies timber tonnages reduced from 66,000 tonnes to improved in all of the ports.
Grangemouth Rosyth and Fife Ports Container volumes amounted to 157,225 boxes Tonnage through Rosyth and Fife Ports amounted to in 2008, an increase of 11% compared with 2007.
0.2 million tonnes compared with 0.6 million tonnes Both shipside and roadside productivity improved in 2007.
Although the coal traffic ceased at Rosyth in significantly during the year, benefitting customers.
March 2007, it still accounted for 0.4 million tonnes in Whisky exports were well up compared with last year.
that year with no equivalent tonnage in 2008.
Rosyth A new drivers reception area was completed at the also experienced its share of the economic downturn end of the year and this has improved the flow of in the timber and construction industry with a landside and haulier operations at the terminal.
reduction in timber and plasterboard tonnages of approximately 76,000 tonnes.
Dry cargo tonnages remained steady at 0.3 million tonnes with increases recorded in paper and pulp The Superfast ferry service between Rosyth and and fish and fishmeal being offset by a reduction in Zeebrugge ceased operations in September, iron and steel tonnages.
The second half of the year however, we are delighted that Norfolkline, a saw the introduction of the new Sennebogen subsidiary of Maersk, is due to start a new service hydraulic handling machines which have significantly in mid-May.
It is hoped that the service will build up improved the productivity and overall efficiency of our from the initial three sailings per week to six sailings general cargo operations.
The final two machines per week should the demand warrant it next year.
The became fully operational in February 2009. new vessel will offer both a freight and passenger service and there is a significant amount of interest in Leith the service from the freight community in Scotland.
25 Total throughput remained steady at 2 million tonnes with increases in grain, aggregates, iron ore and steel Property pipes being offset by a reduction in the coal volume Our property business has been significantly affected which was down by 0.2 million tonnes although still by the dramatic turnaround in the property sector in above the guaranteed minimum throughput.
the UK with, most notably, the massive fall off in housebuilding and lack of available mortgages Discussions continue with CEC, and various other contributing to a major decline in the value of land.
parties, on a new cruise liner facility for Edinburgh Within this context the positive work of the property outside the existing lock gates of the port.
It is team in building value was more than offset by the recognised that there would be a significant benefit market decline.
to Edinburgh and Scotland in having a cruise liner facility which could take larger cruise liners which On the planning front, the LDOPA which was would otherwise not be able to berth in the port.
submitted in September 2007 was approved by Annual Report the Planning Committee of CEC in August 2008. and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued In December 2008, the Scottish Government decided In conjunction with Applecross Properties Limited, that the application would not be called in and we have prepared an OPA for up to 179 units on four referred it back to CEC for determination.
Also in plots at Western Harbour.
The OPA will be submitted December, we submitted an OPA for The Harbour, during the first quarter of this year.
Leith Docks development formerly called the Hub.
Detailed discussions with CEC on this application will Over the course of 2008, we have reviewed the take place during the course of 2009.
Jones Lang property infrastructure spend on three separate LaSalle have been appointed to review the scheme occasions and have brought down the spend from and will advise the Group on its timing and marketing 22.6m to 4.4m in 2009.
This spend covers an to potential partners.
This will only be taken forward ongoing requirement to meet existing commitments when market conditions improve.
together with a spend which is required to follow through with The Harbour, Leith Docks OPA and the The Granton Harbour revised masterplan was other minor OPAs referred to earlier.
Our aim is to approved by CEC on 25th February 2009.
The effect spend only where, with the grant of planning of this is to increase the number of townhouses and approval or with the completion of works, value will open spaces within the development.
be created which is in excess of the actual spend.
Since the Interim Statement, the value of OTL has declined further, reducing to a Market Value of 90m at the end of December 2008.
This resulted in a reduction in valuation borne by the Group of 19.7m in the full year.
At this valuation, OTL would have been in breach of its Loan to Value covenant, however, it was agreed with Bank of Scotland BOS that the Loan to Value test would be suspended until 30th April 2010 and retested at a minimum lower level of 78m.
The refinancing will require Forth Ports to inject a further 5m into OTL by way of loan stock.
In addition, both shareholders 26 agreed to lend a further 1.5m each to cover the likely cost of physical alterations to the shopping centre and towards capital inducements for new tenants.
This latter sum will only be expended on the basis that it produces a greater uplift in value than the initial sum spent.
Towards the end of 2008 we received planning approval to carry out various changes to the front entrance of Ocean Terminal.
