Remuneration Policy provides that the termination payment for all The Companys policy on remuneration is to attract, Executive Directors is based on their existing salary retain and incentivise the best staff recognising that and benefits.
they are key to the ongoing success of the business.
In accordance with this policy, the overall packages The dates of the letters of appointment of the awarded to Directors are intended to be competitive Non-Executive Directors are as follows: and comprise a mix of performance related and basic Christopher Collins 26th July 2000 remuneration, taking into account the goals of Gerry Brown 4th September 2003 corporate governance.
Basic remuneration Struan Robertson 4th September 2003 represents approximately one third of total potential David Richardson 6th May 2005 remuneration with the short-term bonus scheme and James Tuckey 26th June 2007 long-term incentive plan each accounting for up to one third of the balance.
Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for up to two three year terms which may be extended Each of the Executive Directors, the Non-Executive for a further three years after a rigorous review.
The Directors, the Group Company Secretary, the Company also applies an age limit of seventy years Managing Director of Property and the Director of of age for Non-Executive Directors, however this age Scottish Ports have agreed to a freeze in their salary limit is proposed to be removed in the New Articles of or fees for 2009.
No termination payments are payable to Non-Executive Directors.
In 2008, the Company operated three variable remuneration plans, the Short-Term Bonus Scheme, Short-Term Bonus Scheme the 2002 LTIP and the 2006 LTIP.
Details of these are Awards under the Short-Term Bonus Scheme are set out on pages 60 to 63. based on the achievement attained by the Executive Director of the challenging targets approved by the The Board continued the policy that only base salary Remuneration Committee.
These targets include is used for pension purposes.
Further details of the growth in the underlying profit of the ports pension arrangements for Executive Directors are set operations, increases in the net asset value of the out on pages 65 to 66.
59 property portfolio and the achievement of operating targets across the Group.
A bonus of 70% of salary Directors Service Contracts may be earned by meeting these targets with a The dates of the service contracts of the Executive maximum available bonus of 100% of salary for Directors are as follows: achievement in excess of the targets.
The weighting Charles Hammond 11th March 1992 is approximately 80% financial to 20% non-financial Wilson Murray 11th March 1992 targets.
Perry Glading 26th September 2001 The application of the metrics for 2008 would have Each of the service contracts is terminable on resulted in bonuses being payable in full to the 12 months written notice by the Company or Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee, on 6 months notice by the Executive Director.
however, exercised its discretion to reduce the level New Executive Directors will be appointed on the of bonuses payable because of the diminution in basis of a one year rolling contract unless there are value of the Companys development properties.
Annual Report and Accounts exceptional circumstances.
