Containers and Ro-Ro At Grangemouth there was a strong performance Imports or exports of these commodities will be from the container business.
In addition, we have required, even in a period of economic downturn.
invested in four new Sennebogen hydraulic material We estimate that some 80% of our revenues at the handlers for use in our general cargo business in beginning of the year are secure, either contractually Scotland.
These have already made significant underpinned by lease or minimum volume guarantee improvements to our productivity and efficiency in or evergreen given the recurring nature of handling short sea cargoes.
throughputs and the supply chain pattern of the commodity.
The balance of our revenue base is Our piped cargoes remained strong throughout the generated from spot markets.
Our ports revenues year in Scotland, producing stable income flow for are, therefore, substantially underpinned with the business.
The Nordic group financial result was adversely The ports business produced an excellent affected by two factors: firstly, the significant collapse 2 performance in 2008.
The underlying EBITDA of commodity prices from the end of the third quarter increased to 61.5m compared with 53m in 2007. in 2008: and secondly, the bunching of At Tilbury, there were strong performances in grain, commingled waste inflows into the MRF at Tilbury at the Enterprise Distribution Centre and in the ro-ro which resulted in an uneven flow of recyclable business.
Scotland saw an increase in container materials.
This, in turn, increased the cost base at the volumes of 11%.
Coal and steel pipes were useful same time as the commodity price decrease.
contributors in 2008 and liquid bulks performed Measures have already been instigated to improve strongly, particularly at Hound Point.
the revenue earning capacity of the MRF with increased inward gate fees to offset the commodity The requirement for land facilities and port services price risk, stricter controls on the inflow of materials, at Tilbury remained strong throughout the year.
tighter cost controls and process improvements to A number of customer contracts were renegotiated the machinery.
successfully and several long-term customers, recognising the relative shortage of facilities at Property Tilbury, sought to renegotiate existing contracts The property division made an underlying operating earlier than contractually required.
The senior 07 profit of 0.5m in 2008 compared with a loss of management at Tilbury have worked hard with the 1.3m in 2007.
Olympic Delivery Authority ODA to promote Tilbury as the prime waterborne distribution centre for The net decrease in the Market Value of the Groups the Olympics.
Tilbury has already seen an increase in property development assets and the change of volume from the Olympics effect and expects further approach taken by the Valuers have been described substantial increases over the next few years.
The overall change in value reflects a positive progress has been made with the planning movement of 55m being added to the valuation authorities on our application to have our 65 acres of offset by a net reduction of 277m.
land outside the port rezoned for port use.
The momentum to sign up new contracts has continued The 55m increase in value was largely attributable into this year with over ten new or restructured to steps taken or milestones achieved by the Group contracts being signed with customers.
in its development strategy, the main components Annual Report of which are: and Accounts 2008 2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Chairman and Group Chief Executives Report continued a achievement by the property division of targets With the virtual shutdown of property markets, we and milestones in improving the quality and have already taken steps to reduce materially our prospects of the development assets and the projected property spend and our property resource.
development projects becoming more We will focus on maintaining and growing our established as a result of the consent for the income, particularly at Ocean Terminal, obtaining LDOPA 46m : and viable planning consents and working to facilitate public sector spend on infrastructure for the site.
The b value being added through infrastructure achievement of these goals, together with a recovery expenditure incurred 6.5m.
in property markets, will give us a strong platform in the future to attract a development and or financing The 277m net reduction in value was a result partner.
This will allow the long-term potential of these of deteriorating market conditions, the main assets to be realised and, over time, to realise cash.
components of which are: Notwithstanding the substantial reduction in Market a a reduction in residential unit sales rates as a Value, the Groups progressive approach to result of falling values and lack of demand in developing its property estate over time has the property market 135m : generated a considerable amount of profit and cash and gives the Group significant long-term potential.
b sales of residential units being deferred due to Since 1991 1992, when Forth Property Developments the slow down in property markets 79m : was established, a total of nearly 100m has been spent on developing the Groups property assets.
c reduced long-term growth rates for residential Over that period, the Group has generated cash of units 54m : 127m from land sales and has received dividends of 3 38.6m in aggregate from its property subsidiaries.
d adverse yield movement in respect of Ocean As at 31st December 2008, net debt in the property Terminal 21m : subsidiaries was 40.2m.
e reduction in commercial and industrial values A highlight of 2008 was the approval by CEC of the 08 20m : and LDOPA within a period of twelve months.
The property team also submitted an Outline Planning f offset by a positive saving of 32m following Application OPA for The Harbour, Leith Docks a review of development costs.
development on 10th December 2008 the Hub area is now known as The Harbour, Leith Docks.
As a consequence of the change of approach and The OPA incorporates proposals for the first two market conditions, over 80% of the Groups villages of the Leith Docks plan which include a development land bank is currently regarded by DTZ mixed-use development of 1,900 residential units, as having no immediate value for development.
The Board continues to believe that the property portfolio is a unique asset which has long-term 2009 will see continuing discussions with CEC on the potential for development when there is a recovery in OPA for The Harbour, Leith Docks which, we believe, property markets and infrastructure links to the site will position us well for a future upturn in the property become more established.
The property team has carried out a detailed 3 Excluding minority interests
