Management structure The group is responsible for the cash held on behalf of its customers.
The group operates a management structure that is appropriate to the Increases in the value of cash lost through criminal attack may increase scale and breadth of its activities.
Business performance and strategies the costs of the groups insurance.
Were there to be failures in the are reviewed continuously by regional, divisional and group control and reconciliation processes in respect to customer cash these management.
Potential issues requiring management attention are could also adversely affect the groups profitability.
therefore identified and there is a wide range of expertise available throughout the organisation, which is utilised as necessary to address 4.
Onerous contractual obligations these issues.
Should the group commit to sales contracts specifying disadvantageous pricing mechanisms, unachievable service levels or excessive liability it 3.
Authorisation procedures could impact its margins and profitability.
The group has clear authorisation limits and procedures which are cascaded throughout the organisation.
Inappropriate sourcing of staff process is in place, under which certain contracts are reviewed by the The groups greatest asset is its large and committed work force.
However, were the group to source inappropriate staff, whether it be as permanent employees, temporary workers or sub-contractors, the 4.
Group standards result could be detrimental to the groups reputation and could Each of the groups businesses applies the systems and procedures adversely affect the groups growth and profitability.
appropriate to its size and complexity.
However, the group requires that these conform to group standards in respect of matters such as 6.
Poor operational service delivery operational and financial controls, recruitment and vetting, financial Should the group fail to meet the operational requirements of its reporting, contract risk management, business continuity planning and customers it could impact its reputation, contract retention and growth.
Further standards, including those in respect of IT systems, are applied on a divisional or regional basis.
7. Financing If due to adverse financial market conditions insufficient or only very 5.
Internal audit costly financial funding were available, the group might not be in a The Internal Audit department operates under a wide remit, which position to implement its strategy as it plans to do or invest in includes ensuring adherence to group authorisation procedures and acquisitions or capital expenditure, adversely impacting its growth and control standards.
A separate dedicated cash audit function monitors profitability.
compliance with the groups standards on cash management and reconciliation.
Defined benefit pension schemes A prolonged period of poor asset returns and or unexpected increases 6.
Diversified sources of finance in longevity could require increases in the current levels of additional The groups treasury department monitors the groups financing cash contributions to defined benefit pension schemes, which may requirements and extends its sources of finance as necessary.
For constrain the groups ability to invest in acquisitions or capital example, during the last two years the group has raised around $1.1bn expenditure, adversely impacting its growth and profitability.
of funding in the form of long-term loan notes from the US private placement market.
Regulatory requirements Security can be a high-profile industry.
There is a wide and ever-changing 7.
Market engagement variety of regulations applicable to the groups businesses across the Most of the risks to which the group is exposed are market risks.
Failure to comply with such regulations may adversely affect the to better understand and influence the market, the group is committed groups revenues and profitability.
to a policy of proactive engagement across its geographic range, with customers, industry associations, government regulators and employee The group has a robust risk assessment and control process in place to representatives.
identify and mitigate the controllable risks faced by the organisation.
The groups diversity The group operates around 150 businesses across over 110 countries and across a range of product areas.
Most of the risks detailed above are market-specific and, therefore, any particular issue should only impact part of the groups operations.
24 Operating & Financial Review continued OUR PEOPLE Core aims and standards G4S has defined a number of core standards and processes to ensure that employees are treated with respect, fairness and dignity at work in line with the G4S values.
These standards and processes cover issues such as: handling of disciplinary matters and recruitment and selection processes grievances health and safety performance appraisals employee representation and identification of training needs communication Ethical employment goals Our Business Ethics Policy sets out the groups core standards in relation to our employees, for example by supporting the principles of international standards such as the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
With significant G4S operations in many developing markets, real commitment to these international standards is essential.
Investing in the workforce We place great focus on attracting and retaining the right talent at all levels, to ensure the continued success of the organisation.
Our international spread requires great strength and depth in management to allow us to continue operating and growing throughout diverse markets.
In addition to our award winning international leadership development programme, we are investing in regional and country level employee development programmes around the world.
At front line level too, we continue to invest in practical training programmes to help refine the skills and capability of our service delivery staff.
Through the commitment of our international training community, we share best practice, training materials and approaches around the world, ensuring that our employees benefit from the most appropriate training to enable them to deliver a great service to our customers and to create a pipeline of talent moving through the organisation.
Diversity This is already a source of strength for the group and one that gives us a key competitive advantage.
With such a diverse workforce, we are better placed to understand the needs of our customers and identify opportunities for innovation and improvement.
OUR EMPLOYEES ARETHE PUBLIC FACE OF G4S AND WE RECOGNISE AND RESPECTTHEVALUETHEY ADD TOTHE BUSINESS BY DELIVERING EXCELLENT SERVICE DAY AFTER DAY.
G4S plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 ACROSS 585,000 EMPLOYEES, EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK G4S EMITS AN AVERAGE OF 90T 50 DIFFERENT NATIONAL INITIATIVE LAUNCHED IN CO e EMISSIONS PER 1M OF 2 LANGUAGES ARE SPOKEN.
During 2009 10 the One in three of our countries will undertake an G4S Climate Action Programme employees works in North employee survey at least co-ordinators will identify and Africa and the Middle East, once every two years.
implement opportunities for one in six in Africa and one reducing our carbon emissions in eleven in Latin America.
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Background As a major global organisation, we play a significant role in the lives of hundreds of thousands of people both directly through employment and indirectly through our involvement in the communities in which our employees live and work.
We take that role very seriously and encourage all of our businesses to actively raise standards and invest in the communities in which they operate.
At a group level, we also invest in programmes which contribute positively to the community and environment and we set international standards and policies to which our businesses must operate.
Business Ethics G4S is committed to operating to the highest levels of business ethics throughout its operations.
We have an extensive business ethics policy which describes the companys minimum expected standards in a wide range of areas such as: human rights ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and bribery and corruption Rights at Work compliance with the law health & safety accounting standards whistle-blowing and complaints This policy is communicated to managers throughout the group and, on an annual basis, they are required to declare individually their personal commitment by endorsing the policy and confirming compliance within their own area of responsibility.
Strict adherence to the principles of the business ethics policy is required of all group employees.
Compliance with the policy is monitored through our internal and external audit functions and through the groups whistle-blowing facilities.
The risk-based three year group audit plan ensures that all businesses across 110 countries, including those in small and remote locations, receive at least one visit during the three year audit cycle.
We take our responsibilities in this area very seriously and take swift and robust action against any non-compliance.
Environment G4S recognises that its business activities have a direct and indirect impact on the natural environment and is committed to proactively managing these impacts in a responsible manner.
The G4S Environmental Policy and the G4S Climate Action Programme were launched in 2008.
The policy outlines the key commitments from G4S to protect and preserve the environment for future generations and the programme will ensure everyone is encouraged to contribute to protecting and preserving the environment.
The Climate Action Board meets monthly to review progress on the programme and reports directly to the group chief executive and provides a written statement to the group management board on a quarterly basis.
More information on the G4S Business Ethics Policy, corporate responsibility and related data and case studies will be available in the G4S Corporate Responsibility Report 2008 26
