12 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 25 per cent on the previous year.
Our X CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED sophisticated systems and merchandising function ensures that we get the correct Over time, we have signed up over 10 products in the right quantities to million GAME Reward Card members every destination.
across the UK and our international s Property management A major part businesses.
of successful retailing is the location and s ECommerce We relaunched our management of retail outlets.
Our rigorous eCommerce service game.
co. uk in review procedures mean that we open September 2007.
As the UKs leading online stores in the right demographic and specialist video games retailer, we offer geographic locations.
We constantly assess customers a range of multi-channel store performance, ensuring that our lease services that replicate the specialist service commitments allow us to manage the in our stores.
This year the Group will increase portfolio efficiently to maximise profitability.
investment to accelerate the expansion of our multi-channel offer both in the UK WHERE WE SELL and internationally.
We deliver our specialist proposition throughout the Group worldwide, using a consistent These activities have served us well in operating model.
building brand recognition in all the territories Outside the UK and Ireland we operate in which we operate and in generating a in France, Iberia, Scandinavia and Australia.
strong performance for the year.
We have Total revenues from our international businesses seen considerable growth in loyalty and of 387.3 million 2007: 214.9 million membership, excellent results for mystery represented 26.0 per cent of Group revenues.
shopping and improvements in service Total international sales increased by across the chain.
80 per cent, with a 37.9 per cent increase in the l sales.
SUPPORTING THE SPECIALIST PROPOSITION France To maintain our leading specialist proposition All of the former Maxi-Livres book stores, it has been vital that we ensure all elements which we acquired in October 2006, have of our support functions are working to the now been retted and branded as GAME very highest standards: and the 50 store portfolio delivered a pleasing s Buying We have maintained long-term trading performance in their first year as pc and successful relationships with all of the and video games specialist stores.
key hardware and software suppliers in the Iberia market.
This ensures we receive a good Over the course of the year we have allocation of products for our customers.
experienced a strong roll-out of stores, Together, we are able to maximise new launches and generate unique product allowing us to consolidate our number deals and offers.
Working closely with each one position in the market.
supplier also helps us to create marketleading campaigns.
Scandinavia Managed from our central ofce in Stockholm, s Distribution and merchandising In such we have stores in Sweden, Norway and a fast-paced market, where launch dates Denmark in all the major retail hubs.
are key, it is crucial that products are available for the customer as fast as Australia possible.
Distribution centres for each of This is the newest market for the GAME business our business units are dedicated to moving and we have achieved considerable growth large volumes of products quickly and over the last financial year, opening 35 new efficiently to final destinations, whether that stores to make a total of 51. is our stores or direct to customer homes via online orders.
In the UK, for example, our distribution centre despatched over 30 million units in 2007, an increase of over 01 OUR PERFORMANCE 13 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 To maintain our leading specialist proposition it has been vital that we ensure all elements of our support functions are working to the very highest standards.
We recognise that eCommerce is an important area in the pc and video games market and we will continue to invest in and develop our multi-channel proposition, building our offer online to reect the same brand values our customers recognise and trust.
In the past two years, we have invested over 5 million in our eCommerce offering and will commit a further 5 million this year.
OUTLOOK The excellent performance for the year is a result of our efficient operating model, our investment in our stores, our people, our supplier relationships, and our creation of a leading specialist proposition that is designed to exceed our customers expectations and build long-term loyalty.
We look forward to the current year with confidence.
We will continue to develop our consumer proposition, both online and in our stores, realise the benets from the Gamestation acquisition in the UK and build further on our successful international expansion programme.
Lisa Morgan Chief Executive 14 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 Q&A WITH LISA MORGAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE 01 OUR PERFORMANCE 15 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 With nearly half of all your stores now With other retail brands moving online, what outside the UK how are you maintaining have you done to improve your online offering?
Developing our multi-channel offer has been Our strategy has always been to have very important for us too.
ECommerce has experienced local management who seen both considerable focus and investment are committed to driving the business.
over the past few years and we are seeing Our role at Group level is to give local significant improvement in performance.
management the support and tools to We retail online in the UK through three maximise their performance.
well recognised brands: GAME, Gameplay We do not seek to micro manage the and Gamestation.
We have great management in We relaunched our GAME website place that we trust to manage their business in September 2007 and we saw a great day to day.
response from customers which resulted We communicate frequently and in improvements in customer conversion hold regular meetings with our Country and growth in overall sales.
Our online retail sales have grown from We have a formal programme in place around 4 million in 2003 to over 58 million where we not only review performance but in 2007. where they can encourage each other and We plan to invest a further 5 million in their teams to share best practice and ideas.
this area in the current year.
So what is your strategy on further acquisitions What challenges do you face from Digital and given cyclical, market and pricing Distribution and Online Gaming?
threats, is now the right time?
Digital Distribution currently represents a Our strategy is unchanged.
We specialise very small part of the total market.
Games in pc and video games and the key challenge are much larger than music or movies, which is nding the right opportunity rather than makes them less convenient to download a matter of timing.
To date we We continually review acquisition participate in this channel by offering our opportunities.
Our preferred acquisition customers the opportunity to download is to buy an existing business that has pc games from our GAME and Gameplay an experienced local management team, websites in the UK.
ideally with around 10 to 25 stores and Online gaming, whether it be pc-based a market that is meaningful in size, with or via the Xbox 360, is becoming more popular good growth prospects.
with core gamers, and we serve them with all the software, hardware, peripherals and How are you combating the increasing timecards that they need to enjoy the best threat from supermarkets and online retailers?
The video games market has always been a competitive market.
Whats your long-term outlook for GAME Group?
We recognise it is essential to maintain GAME has changed dramatically over the last a different and compelling customer offer, five years in terms of the quality of our consumer whether it be in-store or online and our offer and the scale and geographic reach specialist difference is key.
These include our easy to navigate store At the same time the market has increased environment, our great range, offers and in size to a 3.2 billion market in the UK promotions, enthusiastic, well trained staff, alone, with three major console hardware and our more unique benets such as our manufacturers playing a critical part in trade-in and preowned programme and its growth.
our popular customer Reward Card.
Video games are now mainstream We genuinely believe that we offer a whole entertainment.
Along with your typical hit video package one that is designed to give our games, products like Brain Training, Singstar, customers a superior shopping experience.
Guitar Hero and now Wii Fit are entertaining But we never sit back we are constantly males and females of all generations.
looking at ways to improve and this ensures All things considered, Game Group is we stay ahead of our competition.
well placed for the medium and long term.
16 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 BUSINESS REVIEW
