10 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 a new website for our primary platform X CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED game.
co. uk and upgraded our logistics infrastructure.
We anticipate further significant growth in eCommerce turnover and operating Acquisitions Gamestation profits this year.
On 2 May 2007 we acquired Gamestation, a specialist pc and video games retailer with All of our international businesses now have 217 stores in the UK.
The Ofce of Fair Trading transactional websites that we will continue reviewed our acquisition of Gamestation and, to develop.
on 9 August 2007, referred the acquisition We launched a digital distribution service to the Competition Commission, from which offering our customers the opportunity to download pc games.
This is a minimal but point we operated under agreed legal hold growing part of the market.
On 15 January 2008 the Competition Commission unconditionally cleared the transaction.
The non-recurring EMPLOYEES costs of the Group complying with these The Groups growth and results could not have been achieved without the fantastic requirements were 4.2 million.
For many, particularly We have been very pleased with the those at Gamestation and in our new stores, performance of the Gamestation business.
it was their first year in the Group and I would We originally expected synergies of 7 million like to welcome and thank them and all of our to be achieved in the 12 months from acquisition: however on 3 March 2008 the other staff for their dedication and enthusiasm.
Board announced that it considers that CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK these can be realised fully within the The first quarter has seen a very encouraging current financial year.
start to the year particularly given that the There will be a total non-recurring comparative period in 2007 included the charge of approximately 7 million related launch of Playstation 3. to integrating the acquisition, of which In the first 13 weeks to 26 April 2008 the Group 2.8 million has been incurred this year.
l and total sales were up by 20.1 per cent Furthermore, there will be capital expenditure and 64.3 per cent respectively.
In the UK and required to achieve the integration of around Ireland l sales and total sales were up by 4 million.
25.6 per cent and 78.6 per cent respectively.
We will continue to operate both GAME In our international business l sales and and Gamestation as separate brands, which total sales were up by 8.8 per cent and will allow us to appeal to the widest range 34.3 per cent respectively.
of customers that make up the pc and The unprecedented range of popular video game playing market.
products has broadened the demographic appeal to new customers of all generations.
International It has also favourably altered the short and Our international business has grown from medium-term outlook for our industry.
With a small acquisitions in France and Spain in 2001 large and growing installed base of hardware to 512 stores contributing operating profits of in the market, a strong line-up of new software 13.2 million 2007: 6.1 million.
We opened launches and the benets of full year a net 116 stores in the year with 40 of these ownership of Gamestation in prospect, the in France, 43 in Iberia, 35 in Australia and Board remains very confident in the outlook two closures in Scandinavia.
We have also for the 53 weeks to 31 January 2009. closed or acquired 14 franchises in the year.
Our profitability is continuing to improve as we achieve greater economies of scale in these international markets.
ECommerce and Digital Distribution The Group eCommerce turnover increased by 147 per cent to 58 million 2007: 23.5 million.
Peter Lewis The operating profits increased to 2.9 million Chairman from 1.8 million.
The capital investment in our eCommerce offering has been over 5 million in the past two years.
In the UK we launched 01 OUR PERFORMANCE 11 THE GAME GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007-2008 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW EXPANDING OUR GROUP To drive growth in every part of our business and in every market in which we operate, we put our relationship with our customer at the heart of our activities.
Lisa Morgan THE GAME GROUP SPECIALIST Chief Executive PROPOSITION To drive growth in every part of our business and in every market in which we operate, we put our relationship with our customer at the heart of our activities.
The key components of this relationship are: s Compelling shopping environment Both on the high-street and online we aim to deliver customers an enhanced shopping experience.
s The quality of our staff Our staff are trained This has been a momentous year both for to offer advice on the broad range of the Group and for the pc and video games products now available and are dedicated industry.
Our specialist business has benefited to delivering the highest levels of customer greatly, not only from a buoyant market but care and service.
also from the solid foundations we have s Product range and choice We present put in place.
the customer with the widest range of pc Our acquisition of Gamestation has and video games products.
Our specialist considerably enhanced our UK market position buyers negotiate unique offers, leading and given us a second specialist brand allowing promotions and innovative hardware access to a much wider range of customers.
Video games are now mainstream s Preowned and trade-in programme entertainment, appealing to and entertaining The ability to trade-in and buy preowned a broad spectrum of customers.
In the UK, pc games at GAME and Gamestation is a real and video games sales exceeded 3.2 billion benefit for customers.
Trading in games is in 2007, compared to 3 billion sales for a unique way for customers to save money, recorded music in the UK or 1 billion for using their old games as currency against cinema receipts.
Preowned games enable As a specialist retailer we offer a compelling us to offer a wider range and better value shopping environment, both on the high-street to todays more price-conscious consumer.
We offer an extensive product range, s Customer Loyalty and Customer a trade-in and preowned programme, Relationship Management The GAME offers and promotions, and most importantly Reward Card gives us a unique relationship enthusiastic and knowledgeable staff to best with our customers.
We reward our customers help consumers nd the products that meet with points on every purchase which can their needs.
be used as discounts against future As a result, for the third consecutive year purchases.
The transactional data allows us the Group reported excellent l sales.
to track purchasing trends and learn about our changing needs.
It also helps us plan tactical direct marketing, advertising and other campaigns to increase loyalty.
