Business Review Research & Product Development The five year selection and testing programme for the new The foundation of Genus business is its bulls that continually regenerate and enhance the stud Research & Development investment.
was expanded by some 40 Holsteins this year and will be Genus re-invests between 7% and 8% expanded by a further 20 to 30 bulls in 2008 9. of sales in Research & Development, In creating and selecting new animals for this programme, because of the five year lead time, the Company needs directing approximately 86% of this to look ahead to the likely needs of agriculture at the amount to the continuous regeneration time the bulls will graduate.
Over the last five years, the programme has concentrated on all round performance with and augmentation of the elite animals an emphasis on robustness.
From publicly available data, in its six international bull studs and its we can confirm that the Genus stud is well ahead of its two extensive porcine nucleus herds.
competitors in the range and competitiveness of the bulls in the testing programme for graduation in the coming year.
The remaining 14% is used for commercially targeted These potential graduates also rank highly in the traditional fundamental science projects aimed at creating a scientific conformation traits that carry the highest price premium.
breakthrough that will differentiate further the Companys products from those offered by competitors.
The new graduates for 2008 add considerably to the strength of the stud, although none are yet quite of the level to fideExpenditure in this financial year rose to 18.4m 2007: throne Shottle.
In the forward development programmes, in 17.7m largely as a result of the increased cost of anticipation of the world shortages in agricultural output and grain purchased as feed for the animals in the genetics higher prevailing feed costs, the Company had already begun programmes.
Expenditure on inventive capability remained to change the weighting of the traits in the selection process.
broadly in line with the previous financial year.
This change will be accelerated in 2008 9 and in future years Strong progress was made in both the bovine and porcine to increase the proportion of bulls in the stud that confer genetic programmes.
This provided the foundation for the high output and feed efficiency in their progeny.
10% growth in semen volume and the significant market Porcine Product Development share increases mentioned earlier in this report for both the porcine and bovine businesses.
The primary objective of the rolling three year porcine development programme is to improve the genetics in the The Company also made progress with its fundamental Companys range of nine major pure lines of animals.
These science programme meeting all the milestones set for pure lines are used to create elite boars and gilts for the leading projects, with particular progress being made with Groups operating businesses to multiply locally and thereby sexed semen development, semen output and gene marker supply pure-bred and identification.
cross-bred animals Bovine Product Development to regional The Genus bovine stud is perhaps the most genetically elite Genus re-invests customers.
It comprises 195 beef and dairy between bulls carefully selected for their ability to confer in their progeny a combination of 24 desirable traits providing 7%-8% benefits in terms of quality, output and robustness.
of sales in Research & In the dairy sector, the stud is led by globally elite bulls such as Shottle, Bolton and Boliver.
Shottle semen has become Development the most sought after semen in the world and, by virtue of its increasing appeal, we have been able to increase its price yet again this year.
Shottle has achieved premier ranking in the US listings: an accolade never before achieved by a UK bred bull.
16 I Annual Report 2008 Research & Development Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Research & Product Development Business Review 02 - 05 Research & Product Development continued All competitors achieve improvements to their pure lines by In these ways, the Company is able to achieve more applying quantitative genetics within their nucleus herds.
progress than would normally be expected from the level of Genus has accelerated this basic process by the adoption expenditure it currently directs towards fundamental science.
of cross-bred genetic trials in commercial herds and, more In managing projects, Genus researchers have to justify recently, by the selective use of gene markers from the project expenditure against the achievement of exacting fundamental science programme.
These measures have milestones, carefully set to monitor progress towards the combined to increase the rate of genetic improvement in commercial targets identified.
the reporting year by 17%, compared with the much lower This year we achieved: average rate normally achieved by the industry.
An improvement in the process for handling semen in the In selecting animals for the breeding programme, sexed semen sorting process currently commercialised by 06 - 23 measurements are made on up to 45 fundamental traits Genus.
This improvement could potentially remove its and emphasis continues to be placed variously on growth capacity constraint.
rate, feed conversion efficiency, meat quality, reproductive performance and reduced mortality in the dam lines.
An increase to 150 in the number of gene markers approach is providing pleasing results in the context of future identified for low heritability porcine traits.
been adopted and are being used in the genetic selection programme.
Three main sire lines have emerged from the Companys development programme.
The PIC 65 is directed to best 3.
Improvements to the semen extension processes that will growth rate and overall performance, with robustness being increase further the semen output of the top selling and a particular goal in the PIC 27 and meat quality in the PIC highest priced bulls.
This improvement is now being field 15.
Thus, the product range is broader than that of any tested for implementation in 2009. competitor and there is an ideal product available for every type and size of pig producer.
Fundamental Science 24 - 40 The Company project manages much of its fundamental research in educational establishments and with specialist research companies.
Most of the work Genus carries out in semen physiology and freezing is done in-house.
In addition, Genus carefully monitors work undertaken by more than 500 research establishments around the world so that it can quickly identify the progress made in other biotech industries Expansion and decide whether such progress could of Wisconsin Bovine Stud be adapted for use in the animal genetics sector.
41 - 104 Construction of new porcine genetic nucleus Annual Report 2008 I 17
