Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Business Overview Business Overview Business Overview 02 - 05 Strategy Ahead of plan by one year, the Company completed in the period its five year strategic target of creating a fast growing FTSE 250 company.
The principal ingredients for the long-term strategy to maintain the growth of the business, include: 06 - 23 1.
To utilise the capital from the placing in November 2007 to extend capacity in Genus facilities to supply the high level of growth projected for the next five years, in particular to: 1.1 complete the construction of a new porcine nucleus herd to provide sufficient capacity for the market potential and to provide a herd large enough to enable the Company to commence its plan to produce custom lines for more of its larger customers: and 1.2 expand the bull stud in Wisconsin sufficiently to The rapid growth of the Company was achieved during a increase production capacity to 20 million doses per period in which world agriculture had been struggling in year from an increased range of elite bulls.
World food shortages, now apparent, and the 2.
To concentrate research and development investment growth of developing economies should create a much more 24 - 40 selectively on sexed semen and the use of gene markers in vibrant business environment over the next decade, and the the porcine and bovine development programmes, while potential for exceeding historic growth levels should be high.
increasing the Companys efforts to achieve solutions for the targeted breakthroughs in other areas.
To change the emphasis in marketing and distribution to prioritise the building of the business in China and the Far East, Eastern Europe, Latin America and India while ensuring that the product offering and customer service are enhanced in the traditional markets of the western world.
In these more mature markets, the Company will look to increase its market share further in the way that it has demonstrated over the last five years.
In the developing markets the Company will attempt to capture 41 - 104 a greater proportion of the new growth available than its competitors, thereby aiming to secure at least the market share achieved in the most important markets of the developed world.
The Company will look favourably upon potential investments in bull studs and porcine nucleus herds in the developing markets.
To continue to control costs through productivity improvements and administrative savings following Genus investment in global Oracle business systems.
