Business Review Introduction Corporate Governance Financial Statements Group Performance World Agricultural Markets Business Review 02 - 05 World Agricultural Markets In the dairy sector, the industry production shortfall The historical pattern of long-term first became apparent in 2007 and caused milk prices agricultural surpluses evaporated in 2007 to rise then.
Thus, the impact of increased grain prices because a number of climatic and disease had a more limited effect on dairy farming profitability.
This impact was further diluted for those farmers that events eliminated world buffer stocks.
primarily rely on grassland as their source of animal feed.
The historical cutbacks to agricultural production in western However, many of the larger producers achieved higher world economies left the industry ill-equipped to respond outputs through supplementary feeding regimes and to this capacity shortfall.
In 2008, stocks still remain low although they suffered profit reductions, they remained and, in cereals, the shortage of grain needed to meet the profitable because of their greater productivity.
increasing demand to feed humans, animals and the newly 06 - 23 By the end of the reporting period, forward prices for created demand for ethanol production, caused prices to slaughter animals had begun to reflect the full cost soar.
This massive increase impacted Genus business during of production and it is expected that farmers will be the reporting period in two ways: returning to profitability in 2009.
It increased the price of grain purchased to feed the pigs and dairy sectors are expected to be well short of capacity and bulls in the Genus genetics development programme and Genus believes farmers are eager to expand but are by 1m, notwithstanding buying forward in the market.
constrained by a historical lack of profitability and under Without these forward purchases the increase would have investment in facilities.
This will present an opportunity been 1.5m.
for Genus in beef and pigs where Genus added value products provide farmers with the potential to achieve 2.
It immediately rendered the businesses of smaller pig and greater output at reduced costs from existing facilities.
beef customers of Genus unprofitable pending increases Genus expects the market opportunities in the dairy in slaughter prices to cover the higher cost of production.
sector to continue to be buoyant.
Larger producers, capable of buying forward, delayed the full impact of the cost increases until later in the year and 24 - 40 this helped bridge the gap until slaughter prices began to rise at the end of the reporting period.
Genus added value 41 - 104 products provide farmers with the potential to achieve greater output at reduced costs from existing facilities Annual Report 2008 I 09
