Business Review Genus Products Bovine Porcine The Genus stud of 195 bulls had In anticipation of a rise in feed prices to work hard to meet the demands that have affected developed world pig of a buoyant dairy market and the farming profitability this year, Genus inherently wasteful sorting process for hastened to the market in 2007 the PIC sexed semen.
Market share increases 380 boar which produces progeny were won through the Companys with the best feed conversion on the worldwide distribution strength.
With three of the Companys bulls, Shottle, Bolton and Boliver This and the new dam lines subsequently introduced, also amongst the highest regarded in the world, their capacity with good feed conversion and improved robustness, have was sold out as was the Companys increased capacity for spear-headed sales in the developed world.
Following test marketing in Brazil and a limited In these markets, meat prices were depressed and record launch in the USA in the previous financial year, the Company feed prices prevailed throughout the reporting period such increased global capacity and completed the roll-out of the sexed that many of Genus customers were loss-making.
Against semen product worldwide, under the trademark ABS Sexation.
this background, the robustness of the PIC royalty business Sexed semen sales now represent 4% of the Companys bovine model can be demonstrated by the increase in royalty income semen volume but 13% of bovine semen revenue.
achieved, which rose by 5% when compared with 2007.
In much of the world outside Western Europe, dairy farming The Group has been accelerating the use of the porcine consolidation has moved forward apace during the last royalty sales model in country markets where its use five years.
Large and highly productive dairy farming units is appropriate.
The effect has been to reduce revenue, have been created, most comprising many thousand, rather strengthen margins and to reduce the sensitivity of profits to than hundreds of cows.
For these farms, Genus has used variations in the hog price.
its unrivalled international market strength to develop The global figures shown on page 11 illustrates the impact an integrated Reproductive Management Service RMS that the royalty model has had on sales at a time when hog supported by a computer assisted Genetic Mating Service prices have been low and farmer profitability has been poor.
Initially pioneered in the USA, these services are being Royalty income is more insulated against market downturns launched into all countries where units or Groups of units than direct sales which are dependent upon both short term make this added value proposition attractive.
This initiative volume demand and hog prices.
has increased the cost base in the bovine business sector but has won market share from competitors unable to match the service.
Another benefit of this service is that it provides Genus with a stronger forward order book as farmers enter into a semen supply contract.
10 I Annual Report 2008 Genus Products Introduction Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Genus Products Business Review Business Review 02 - 05 Genus Products Genus Products continued In 2008, direct sales income fell slightly, both because of During the year PIC won the USA business of Cargill and the continuing switch to the royalty model and because began to supply Cargill in Brazil.
Cargill is one of the largest customers delayed investment in new genetics due to poor pig producers in the world and had previously been supplied industry profitability and low meat prices.
These low meat by Monsanto.
This win will progressively increase royalty prices reduced both the meat element of porcine direct sales income over the next few years as Cargills porcine units are and the value and hence income from by-product animals repopulated with PIC genetic material.
from the porcine nucleus herds.
However, royalty volume rose as farmers continued to produce from royalty bearing genetics purchased in previous years and some farmers purchased new royalty bearing genetics.
Royalties, by their nature, carry a high margin whereas the margin on direct 06 - 23 sales is much lower and dependent upon a genetic premium above a variable hog price.
The increase in the royalty sales margin has more than offset the market led decline in the direct sales margin.
This illustrates the robustness of the business model being adopted by the Company.
Adjusted operating 24 - 40 2008 2008 2007 2007 Year ended 30 June m m m m Royalties 37 35 Porcine semen 6 6 Direct Sales: 41 - 104 Genetic element of direct sales 38 40 Meat element of direct sales 29 67 32 72 By-product & other revenue 17 19 Total revenue 127 132 Note: Royalties are largely volume related and comprise payments for the Companys intellectual property.
Direct sales are both volume and hog price related.
The genetic element of direct sales includes the premium paid by customers for the Companys intellectual property.
By-products are wholly hog price related and are the animals not selected in the genetics programme for breeding.
