Business Overview Genus creates advances to animal breeding through biotechnology and sells added value products for livestock farming and food producers.
Its nongenetically modified organism technology is applicable across all livestock species but is only commercialised by Genus in the bovine and porcine farming sectors.
Genus worldwide sales are made in seventy countries under the trade marks ABS dairy and beef cattle and PIC pigs and comprise semen and breeding animals with superior genetics to those animals currently in production.
Customers animals produce offspring with greater production efficiency, Porcine milk and meat output and quality, and use these to supply The Genus porcine business sells breeding males, females the global dairy and meat supply chain.
The Company owns nine pure-bred pig lines The Groups competitive edge has been created from the which it is continuing to develop in its two nucleus herds, ownership and control of proprietary lines of breeding located in the USA and Canada.
These animals are crossed animals, the biotechnology used to improve them and its and then multiplied in around 170 predominantly subglobal production and distribution network.
contracted multiplication units located in all the Companys markets around the world.
Genus research and product development expenditure for the year to June 2008 was 18.4m 2007: 17.7m.
More than 100 million slaughter pigs produced each year Approximately 14% was spent on research, and 43% contain Genus genetics and Genus views these pigs as those respectively on bovine and porcine product development.
with the highest value that can be produced with the lowest production cost of any of Genus competitors supplying large Bovine integrated pig production units.
Genus operates bovine studs in the USA, Canada, Brazil, Headquartered in Basingstoke, England, Genus companies UK, Italy and Australia.
More than 190 world leading beef operate in 30 countries on six continents, with laboratories and dairy animals of the main commercial breeds are in located in Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
The Companys production in these studs.
A further 2,000 are in various operations are managed using a territorial matrix of the stages of product development.
The breeding selection Americas region and the Europe & The Far East region, programme tests approximately 400 dairy bulls per year in supported by consolidated global Research, Development and a rolling five year programme which includes creating and Production facilities.
measuring the output of 40,000 daughters.
The commercially active stud has a replacement rate of 25-35% of bulls per annum.
Approximately 13 million doses of semen are collected from these studs each year.
The semen is frozen in tanks containing liquid nitrogen so that it can be kept indefinitely and can be transferred and sold throughout the world.
Genus is unique amongst its competitors in that it operates a global insemination service through a network of employees and self-employed exclusive agents who operate under the ABS trademark.
