Business Review The GKN Way How we sustain and develop our business For 250 years certain characteristics have been common to the way GKN operates: a culture of continuous improvement, a focus on technology, development of our people and, underpinning these, fundamental and enduring values which extend beyond the purely commercial aspects of our activities.
Today we call them the GKN Way.
40 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 40 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review The GKN Way Living the Values Conducting our business with integrity We will comply with all relevant laws and GKN is a group of 40,000 people from many different regulations wherever we operate and locations around the world, with diverse backgrounds conduct our business with integrity and in and differing experience.
The GKN Way brings them all such a manner as to reinforce our reputation.
together with a common global approach to the way we sustain and develop our business.
It encompasses Our ethical standards policy requires all employees to a culture of continuous improvement, a focus on maintain the highest standards of integrity, honesty technology, development of all our people to raise their and fair dealing.
We support the Universal Declaration capability and, at its heart, the GKN Values.
of Human Rights and do not tolerate the use of child labour or forced labour in our own operations and, The Values govern our relationships with all our through our supplier management policy, we require stakeholders whether they are shareholders, employees, equivalent standards through our supply chain.
We customers, suppliers or the communities in which we will continue to reinforce our reputation through high operate.
They are underpinned by the GKN Code which, standards of conduct to underpin shareholder value.
together with a series of underlying policies, provides a framework for the behaviour of all our employees Working with our suppliers whatever their job and wherever they are located.
We will deal honestly and fairly with our suppliers and subcontractors.
The GKN Code is designed to ensure that our business in all its aspects continues to be run in an ethical, Our suppliers play an integral part in the sustainability socially responsible and sustainable manner.
The Code of our business and it is essential that they conduct Principles are shown in yellow text throughout this their business in a manner that supports our review.
Although only formally launched in 2006, there commitment to world class performance.
Our supplier are many examples throughout our 250 year history of management policy encourages Group companies the application of the Codes principles in the conduct to develop and maintain value adding relationships of our business.
Some historical and some recent with our supply base.
It prohibits companies from engaging suppliers that offer inadequate health and examples are provided throughout this review.
All the safety standards for employees, infringe internationally recent examples are winners of 2008 Group Excellence accepted standards of workers rights, use child or awards.
The awards encourage a culture of continuous forced labour, adopt unsound environmental practices, improvement in everything we do and recognise truly have poor standards of social responsibility or that outstanding performance across our business.
fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations.
In the current difficult trading conditions we are closely monitoring the financial health of our suppliers to ensure that we are aware of any significant issues and can provide assistance where appropriate.
In 1859, the Dowlais Iron Co. completed construction of Goat Mill, the worlds most powerful rolling mill.
This enabled the company to mass-produce rails up to 70 ft in length without impacting quality.... more recently A GKN Driveline team of torque technology specialists demonstrated excellent global cross-functional customer service in designing and developing a new low cost all wheel drive system for Renaults H79 programme which has been proven to outperform previous off the shelf products.
Customer satisfaction was demonstrated by the award of follow on business on other all wheel drive programmes.
Customer Service Excellence award GKN Drivelines plant in Cheonan, South Korea, improved its quality performance significantly over the period 2006 to 2008 achieving 22 consecutive months with no quality concerns or complaints from customers.
This represents a world class performance and is a model for all other GKN plants.
Product Quality Excellence award www.
indd 41 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review: The GKN Way continued Safeguarding shareholders interests A continuous improvement culture We aim to maximise shareholder value We aim to provide excellent products and whilst safeguarding shareholders services to our customers and seek to win investment by combining high standards new business through fair competition.
of business performance with high At the very core of how we operate in GKN is a culture standards of corporate governance and risk of continuous improvement in all that we do.
has been a consistent characteristic of our business over We describe in the corporate governance statement, on two and a half centuries, we have recently formalised pages 54 to 58, the governance and control procedures our approach with the application of the techniques we have adopted to ensure that strong stewardship of Lean Enterprise in our business and production of the Group contributes to the sustainability of our processes worldwide.
All sites are required to develop business.
The Governance and Risk Sub-Committee of an annual continuous improvement plan which engages the Board plays a central role in this with responsibility every employee in driving more value through increased for developing strategy and for providing oversight and process efficiency and the elimination of all forms of direction on all matters relating to governance, risk waste including unnecessary cost and time.
Each plan management and corporate social responsibility.
As part is aligned to a sites business objectives and sets out its of our internal control procedures, Group companies are continuous improvement actions.
The use of common required to confirm compliance with the GKN Code measures across the Group enables us to benchmark and policies.
performance against defined goals and against world class standards.
A summary of those risks which could have a material impact on the future performance of the Group is Over 300 continuous improvement leaders from our given on pages 37 to 39.
All Group companies must global operations have been trained to coach and have a business continuity plan so that, should a risk facilitate employees in the use of Lean techniques.
materialise which threatens GKN assets, employees, In addition, 170 individuals will graduate from the production or the environment in which we operate, Mastering Continuous Improvement Leadership we are in a position to minimise disruption of our MCIL development programme in 2009 and a business with the least inconvenience to our customers.
further 1,200 leaders are participating in a series Each plan must conform to Group guidelines and be of core skills workshops.
prepared following consultation with all key internal and external stakeholders.
In the beginning... A continuous improvement culture in the nineteenth century Lady Charlotte Guest Head of the Dowlais Iron Co., 1854:... and unless we keep quite ahead as to improvements and the most advantageous and enlightened system of working we shall be quite unable to keep any position at all much less than we now occupy at the head of the trade and this will involve continuous labour and immense skill and energy.... more recently The GKN Driveline torque technology plant in Nagoya, Japan, used Lean Enterprise techniques of value stream mapping to drive process improvements and reduce the manufacturing lead time within the plant from 10 to 4.3 days resulting in increased stock turns on direct materials from 19.3 to 34.6.
Production and Business Process Excellence award 42 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 42 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review The GKN Way Sub-Committee, which comprises senior divisional Delivering advanced technology engineering executives, to identify those technologies, Delivering advanced technology and first class beyond the individual divisional technology plans, engineering capability to our customers has, for a that are necessary for growth and to focus resource on long time, been a key strategic objective for GKN.
developing GKNs position in these areas.
To underline its importance, at the start of 2008 a new position of Group Technology Officer was created with responsibility for developing the Group technology plan to secure the appropriate technology for GKNs long term strategic objectives.
The Group Technology Officer works closely with the Technology In the beginning...
In 1856, the Dowlais Iron Co. acquired the first British licence to use the new Bessemer process for making steel.
The process revolutionised steel manufacture by greatly increasing the scale and speed of production whilst decreasing labour requirements and cost.
William Menelaus Engineer at Dowlais Iron Co., 1857: When iron makers went mad with excitement about the Bessemer invention, it was only an indication of how strongly they felt the necessity for improvement.... more recently GKN Aerospace Astech Engineered Products has developed a manufacturing process that can form compound curves to their proprietary resistance welded titanium honeycombed sheets.
This new process has supported the winning of engine exhaust business with Boeing on their 747-8 programme and reinforces GKNs technological leadership in aero engine components.
Through the performance Developing our people development process individuals discuss their career and We will treat our employees justly and development plans with their manager against the GKN with respect, recognising their abilities Leadership Framework which defines what is needed and differences, and reward them for their to be successful at every level in the organisation.
output from these discussions is used in the succession Critical to the success of our business is the capability planning process.
We are committed to supporting Further work has been undertaken during the year to employees through investment and training enabling establish core leadership development programmes them to contribute to their full potential so that GKN can for leaders across the Group following the successful maintain a high performance business which delivers launch in 2008 of the Global Leadership Programme first class customer service.
Our objective is to create for the 70 most senior executives within the Group.
For an environment in which highly skilled and motivated our first line managers we have launched the Essential people can achieve the exacting standards demanded in Leadership Development Programme to develop the skills our business, can develop their careers and provide GKN necessary to lead their part of the business and in which with a sustainable competitive advantage.
over 2,000 GKN leaders will participate.
To support the Our Organisation Planning Process is strengthened Lean Enterprise programme and in particular the recovery each year with an increasingly extensive analysis of the from the current trading downturn in our markets, a needs of the organisation, the available resource and programme has been put in place to develop mid level the capability required to deliver the Groups strategic managers commercial and financial skills in leading and objectives.
Following a gap analysis, appropriate sustaining large scale change.
development plans are put in place, integrated into the business plans at site and Group level, and reviewed In the beginning...
In 1820 Josiah Guest opened a school for the children of Dowlais Iron Co. employees and the following year it was attended by 200 boys and 100 girls.
He built a further school in 1844 and two years later an infants school was added.
The first night school for boys and workmen was established in 1848 with average evening attendances of 150.
They were taught reading, writing, history, geography and grammar.
In 1855 Lady Charlotte Guest completed a new school, which was centrally heated, offering places for 650 boys and girls and 680 infants.... more recently Employees at GKN Drivelines plant in Faridabad, India, helped start a development centre for underprivileged young girls and women in an area where 70% of females receive no formal education.
The centre, which is attended by 70 females, provides basic education as well as vocational skills.
Driveline employees continue to help with the day to day activities of the centre.
Hearts of Gold award 44 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 44 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review The GKN Way Under our employment policy all Group businesses Engaging more fully with our employees Employees must adopt practices which ensure that employees are The extent to which our employees are engaged in by region treated justly and with respect and that their abilities, the business is an important indicator of our ability as at 31 December 2008 differences and achievements are recognised, thereby to deliver on our business strategy.
During 2008 we ensuring a positive, inclusive working environment.
conducted the first global employee survey and 85% n UK 4,700 Employment decisions must be based on qualifications of employees worldwide took the opportunity to n Continental Europe 14,300 and merit and all businesses must ensure a working participate.
Positive feedback included employees views n Americas 12,800 environment free from all forms of discrimination and on GKNs health, safety and environmental performance, n Rest of the World 8,200 from any form of conduct which could be considered and over 70% of employees said they would recommend including subsidiaries to be harassing, coercive or disruptive, together with GKN as a place to work.
Each GKN location worldwide and joint ventures working conditions which are safe and healthy.
has identified areas for improvement as a result of the survey and actions are now being progressed as part Employee-related policies are designed to encourage of each business continuous improvement planning individuals to report and discuss problems on a process.
The Group has also implemented a Positive confidential basis and provide expeditious and Climate Index whereby, at each location, a cross section confidential grievance procedures.
GKN operates of employees participate in a mini survey as part of a international whistleblowing hotlines run by external facilitated focus group to ensure that improvements are and independent third parties which are available being made with regard to employee engagement.
The hotlines ensure that employees can make on an anonymous basis if preferred Effective two-way communication is at the heart of Employees confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety employee engagement and within GKN we have a by business and wrongdoing.
The policy requires that employees variety of mechanisms at all levels of the organisation as at 31 December 2008 are able to make such disclosures without fear of to support this, including daily team meetings, recrimination.
Any matters reported are investigated presentations, intranets and newsletters.
Consultation Automotive and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
mechanisms exist worldwide across the Group to n Subsidiaries 18,700 Initial feedback is given to the relevant employee within provide open communication between management n Joint ventures 3,500 14 days.
and employees whether or not unionised.
The European Powder Metallurgy n Subsidiaries 6,000 Works Council, which covers all European businesses, OffHighway has operated since 1995. n Subsidiaries 3,900 Aerospace n Subsidiaries 7,900 In the beginning... Providing recreational facilities for the workforce At the end of the nineteenth century, the Nettlefold family built sports facilities for their employees including cricket and football pitches, tennis courts, a bowling green and a fishing pool.
Joseph Chamberlain of Nettlefold & Chamberlain built an Institute which served as a schoolroom for the youngest employees and as a meeting place for older employees.... more recently A cross-divisional and central team of HR managers developed and implemented a standard Group-wide employee survey process in 2008 with the objective of achieving a quantifiable improvement in employee alignment and engagement.
The process involves both the measurement of levels of employee satisfaction and the implementation of identified improvement actions.
People Excellence and Best Practice award www.
indd 45 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review: The GKN Way continued The specialists forum of safety and environmental Health, safety and professionals has developed action plans for environmental performance implementing OHSAS-compliant safety management GKN is committed to continuous improvement in systems and a policy for purchasing only energy health, safety and environmental performance.
In addition, a dedicated internal With regard to health and safety our goal is zero website has been established to facilitate knowledge preventable accidents.
Our commitment to protecting sharing.
the environment is focused on both minimising the impact of our operations and on making a contribution towards a sustainable future through the design of our Reporting on performance products.
Compliance with applicable health, safety and environmental laws and regulations is a fundamental Our performance against the key health and safety obligation for all our businesses.
and environmental indicators is measured on a regular basis and reports are made quarterly to the There are two internationally recognised standards Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk and to the by which management systems for safety and Executive Committee.
A half yearly report is also environmental performance are assessed: OHSAS made to the Board.
Significant health and safety and 18001 for safety and ISO 14001 for environmental environmental incidents are reported to Executive performance.
Central to these is a requirement Committee members within 24 hours and reviewed for continuous improvement driven by regular at the Committees next meeting.
measurement and evaluation of performance, identification and implementation of action plans, and In early 2008 a new web based reporting tool was measurement of results.
launched Group-wide to facilitate both the collection of data and, more importantly, its analysis and use In June 2008, the Executive Committee mandated by management at all levels to help drive improved that all GKN locations achieve compliance with performance.
Group businesses are required to OHSAS 18001 and our businesses are working confirm and certify the accuracy of the data that they toward that goal.
At the end of 2008, 35 locations had report.
achieved certification to this standard.
115 locations, representing 90% of the workforce, have achieved A specialists forum, comprising divisional and certification to the ISO 14001 standard.
corporate centre representatives, meets as required to discuss best practice as well as specific issues Involvement of our workforce is essential to achieving in relation to the management of accidental risk our health, safety and environmental goals.
In pursuit that either its members or the Sub-Committee on of our goal of zero preventable accidents we focus on Governance and Risk believe require attention.
strong, visible and supportive leadership accompanied by a commitment from employees to take ownership of their own health and safety and that of their immediate colleagues.
The RADAR programme Risk Awareness, Detection, Action and Review launched Group-wide in 2008 represents one of a number of behavioural safety tools deployed within the Group and allows our workers to improve safety conditions in their work area.... more recently Using Lean Enterprise techniques, employees at GKN Sinter Metals Dubois, US, created a safety system which builds on the RADAR programme and enhances employee involvement and safety awareness through the audit of other departments work space and practices.
At the end of 2008, Dubois had achieved three years without a lost time accident.
Safety Excellence award 46 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 46 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review The GKN Way Accident frequency rate AFR Accident severity rate ASR Number of lost time accidents per 1,000 employees Number of days shifts lost due to accidents and occupational ill health per 1,000 employees 8 200 6 150 4 100 2 50 0 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Each business is required to target aggressive annual We will provide employees with a performance improvements.
Targets are set primarily healthy and safe working environment.
at plant level where they can best reflect the particular Accident frequency rate AFR and accident severity needs, risks, and priorities of each site.
In 2008, 77% rate ASR are key health and safety performance of plants maintained or improved their excellent AFR indicators for the Group and our performance against performance and 71% met their AFR targets.
For ASR, these in 2008 is reported on page 11 and is shown in performance was maintained or improved by 76% of the charts above.
2008 is the eleventh consecutive plants, and 66% met their targets.
Over that period our During 2008 there were 10 health and safety AFR and ASR performance have improved by 93% and enforcement actions against GKN companies in Brazil, 86% respectively and our serious injury rate SIR has the UK and the US with fines totalling $21,600 issued improved by 85%.
However, our SIR increased slightly in by the relevant authorities.
There were no fatalities of 2008 compared with 2007 levels but remains at a very employees or contractors on GKN sites.
low level.... more recently Working with the local university, employees from GKN Driveline do Brasil have developed a project to use waste in the form of phosphate sludge generated in the precision forming plant, which would normally be sent to landfill, to produce red ceramic bricks on an industrial scale.
Over 95% of the waste produced at the plant is recycled.
Environmental Excellence award At the OffHighway plant in Rockford, US, a team of employees carried out a number of activities with a view to achieving significant reductions in non-cooling water usage and waste streams.
They succeeded in reducing water consumption by 33 million gallons per year bringing cost savings as well as preserving natural resources.
indd 47 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review: The GKN Way continued We will play our part in the protection of the Energy consumption per unit of production kWh tonne environment in both the operation of our 6,000 facilities and the design of our products.
5,000 We measure the impact of our operations on the 4,000 environment against the key performance indicators 3,000 of energy consumption and associated carbon dioxide 2,000 CO emissions, water usage, waste generation and 2 1,000 recycled waste.
Operating sites are required to set Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway 0 Automotive Metals targets, particularly on energy consumption, water use and waste generation, in line with our commitment to Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales n 2006 n 2007 n 2008 continuous improvement.
Our performance against these measures in 2008 is CO emissions per unit of production kg tonne 2 reported on page 11 and is shown in the charts opposite.
2,400 Most businesses either maintained or improved their 2,000 performance with certain exceptions.
GKN Sinter 1,600 Metals operates a continuous production process with 1,200 very high furnace temperatures with the result that 800 in times of lower production as in the second half of 400 2008 it is difficult to reduce energy consumption by Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway 0 a corresponding amount.
The business energy and Automotive Metals CO consumption per unit of production therefore 2 Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales n 2006 n 2007 n 2008 show an increase compared with 2007 with a similar increase in water usage.
The continued high level of waste generation at Hoeganaes is accounted for by the 3 Water consumption per unit of production m tonne removal of a slag stockpile at its Gallatin plant in the 10 US classified as waste, the ferrous content of which was separated for on-site recycling with the non-ferrous 8 content being recycled for off-site construction purposes.
6 The relatively high water consumption at OffHighway 4 is due to the use of water from a borehole at our major 2 manufacturing site in Lohmar, West Germany.
This is used in a once through cooling process and is discharged Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway 0 Automotive Metals without contamination into surface water.
Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales n 2006 n 2007 n 2008 During 2008 there were four environmental enforcement actions against GKN companies in the US and Denmark.
Fines totalling $2,000 have been issued by the Waste generation per unit of production kg tonne relevant authorities.
We experienced no major spills or 450 environmental incidents.
375 A common theme across both our Automotive and 300 Aerospace businesses is the drive through technology 225 developments to produce lighter weight products, 150 offering opportunities for manufacturers of car and light 75 vehicles and of aircraft to improve fuel economy and 0 Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway Automotive Metals thereby reduce CO emissions.
Examples of these are 2 n 2006 n 2007 n 2008 Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales given throughout this annual report.
Recycled waste % of total waste 100 80 60 40 20 0 Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway Automotive Metals n 2006 n 2007 n 2008 48 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 48 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review The GKN Way support by the Company of some $500,000, GKN Contributing to our communities employees have provided project management skills We will contribute positively to the to help ensure the success of the projects.
The project communities in which we operate.
work is continuing this year and will have a sustainable Building on the success of GKN Mission Everest in impact on the lives of many.
2007 which inspired our employees worldwide to Throughout our 250 year history there have been many contribute an extra $1.7 million of support in their examples of GKN, and its predecessor companies, local communities, in 2008 we launched GKN Hearts making a positive and significant contribution to their of Gold to encourage and sustain a continuing high local communities.
Our commitment today is stronger level of engagement by GKN people with their local than ever since we believe that these communities are communities.
Our employees have again demonstrated a vital ingredient in the sustainability of our enterprise.
tremendous compassion, undertaking projects that will We are very proud of the significant contribution made make a sustainable improvement in the lives of local by our employees worldwide who, in this endeavour, people.
The contribution of all employees who took truly live the GKN Values the GKN Way.
part has been recognised with a Hearts of Gold badge, monthly certificates have been awarded to specific projects and Group awards made to the best overall team project and the best individual achievement.
In line with the commitment we made in 2007, we have again supported four childrens charities in Africa to provide houses and school buildings for orphans, fresh water supplies, and protection against malaria and other diseases.
In addition to a commitment of financial In the beginning...
In the first half of the nineteenth century the population of Merthyr Tydfil increased massively, living conditions were poor and there were repeated outbreaks of cholera.
Death rates were very high with the average life expectancy for ironworkers only 17 years.
G T Clark, the manager of the Dowlais Iron Co. both a doctor and an engineer, was instrumental in the construction of a fresh water reservoir and sewers during the years 1858 to 1868.
This done, cholera was finally banished from Merthyr.... more recently Gangaram Vithoba Mane, a machine tool operator at our Sinter Metals plant in Pimpri, India, began raising funds in 1991 to build a school for local children whose parents could not afford to pay for basic education.
Today the school, which he continues to administer and manage, has 825 pupils and 15 teachers.
