Andrew Reynolds Smith Chief Executive Powder Metallurgy and OffHighway Business Review: Powder Metallurgy POWDER METALLURGY Powder Metallurgy comprises: GKN Sinter Metals and Hoeganaes GKN Sinter Metals is the worlds largest manufacturer of sintered components.
It uses powdered metals to manufacture precision automotive components for engines, transmissions, and body and chassis applications.
It also produces a range of components for industrial and consumer applications, including power tools, bearings, white goods and garden equipment.
Hoeganaes produces metal powders, largely ferrous based, used in the manufacture of sintered components.
Technology and Innovation 24 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 24 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review Automotive Powder Metallurgy OffHighway Aerospace Sales 13% of total Group sales 618m 2007 602m GKN is a world leader in powder metallurgy, a technology which can produce a wide range of automotive and industrial components more efficiently and at less cost than Trading Pro t Loss conventional processes such as casting and forging.
It is well placed to serve global markets with operations across the world: a new plant in Chivilcoy was officially opened by 2 m the President of Argentina during the year.
2007 29m on a management basis Continuing evolution of powder metal technology With around 80% of Powder Metallurgys sales to automotive customers, alignment to the developing technology trends in automotive markets such as improved fuel efficiency and reduced CO emissions is 2 a key focus of the business.
Latest developments driven by demand for high precision engines and transmissions, stainless steels for corrosion and the use of new materials have led to successful resistant applications, and special alloys for environments contract wins for components such as helical gears subject to extreme temperature and corrosive conditions.
for e-steering systems, ramp thrust drives for torque In addition, the ferrous based metal powder used vectoring, high strength synchroniser hubs for new by GKN is manufactured using approximately 98% transmissions, and rotor and stator sets for variable valve recycled steel and is complemented by the ability to timing systems.
produce components at, or close to, net shape enabling Powder metal technology enables a exible design of a reduction in material waste and associated energy complex shapes which can be manufactured from a wide consumption.
range of material: low alloyed steels for structural parts of www.
The powder production business maintained Products Powder its near 50% market share in North America and also GKNs Powder Metallurgy business consists of two Metallurgy sales improved market share in both Europe and Asia.
elements: GKN Sinter Metals producing sintered by product type components and Hoeganaes producing metal Although the recent priority has been to realign cost powders, the raw material for component production.
structures in the face of the global economic downturn, n Sintered products: This combination provides a number of advantages, the medium and long term strategy remains intact with GKN Sinter Metals 84% including technology development.
Powder is largely growth in the powder metallurgy market expected to be n Metal powder: iron based, although growth is also being seen in the Hoeganaes 16% at higher rates than the end markets it serves.
Growth use of aluminium and alloys.
is being driven primarily by continued evolution of powder metal technology which will provide access to GKN Sinter Metals new applications and evolving trends in the automotive GKN Sinter Metals utilises powdered metals to market such as emissions related products.
manufacture precision automotive components for engines, transmissions and body and chassis Against this backdrop, the objective remains to achieve applications as well as a range of components for other value creating growth ahead of markets served on a industrial and consumer applications.
global basis by: GKN estimates that it has around a 15% global market exploiting the technology synergies between GKN Sinter Metals share in the sintered product business, approximately Hoeganaes and GKN Sinter Metals to extend the sales double the size of its nearest competitors.
The business by region of origin application of powder metallurgy solutions in its end is well placed to serve global markets with operations in markets: the Americas, Europe, South Africa and Asia Pacific.
continuing to develop new products which meet the n Europe 54% Hoeganaes emerging requirements of new engine, emissions and n Americas 40% Hoeganaes produces principally ferrous based metal n Rest of the World 6% transmission technologies: and powder, the raw material for ferrous based sintered continuing the development of the business in high components.
It is the largest producer of metal powder growth economies.
in North America with approximately 50% market share.
Some 45% of Hoeganaes powder production 2008 Performance is sold to GKN Sinter Metals.
It has also continued its Sales in the year were 618 million compared with 602 development outside the US, especially in Europe and million in 2007.
The underlying sales decline, after the emerging Asian markets, driven by the increased use currency translation benefit of 68 million, was 52 of powder metal components, particularly engine valve million 8%.
control applications related to emissions improvement.
The North American Powder Metallurgy business Markets experienced difficult trading conditions throughout the Approximately 80% of divisional sales are to automotive year, with the impact of weak sales to General Motors and markets which are discussed in detail on page 20, the prolonged American Axle strike in the first half being with around 29%, either directly or indirectly, to the followed by the steep decline in overall US automotive North American operations of Chrysler, Ford and General builds in the second half.
The European Powder Metallurgy business achieved The balance of 20% is to a range of other industries, good growth in the first half of the year with sales 5% including office equipment, white goods and home and ahead of 2007, but experienced a steep decline in the garden.
All of these markets weakened during 2008 with second half such that full year sales were 16% below expectations for a continuing decline in 2009.
Hoeganaes external customer sales were ahead of Divisional strategy 2007, as a result of market share gains in Europe and In the period from 2004 to 2007, the business Asia Pacific and increased surcharge revenues.
Total focused on the continued profitable growth of the tons shipped however were down 8% compared with European sintered parts and powder business and the 2007, the revenue impact of which was offset by higher restructuring and rationalisation of the North American customer surcharges.
Technology development was also undertaken to position the business to GKN Sinter Metals businesses in the emerging markets take advantage of new trends in automotive markets of South America and Asia experienced growth of 12% including lower emissions and higher fuel efficiency.
in the first half of the year, but second half sales were broadly level with the comparative period in 2007 and GKN Sinter Metals also continued to position its sales in the final quarter of 2008 were down compared operations to benefit from high growth economies with with 2007. new capacity established in India, South America and 26 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 26 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review Automotive Powder Metallurgy OffHighway Aerospace GKN is the only manufacturer involved in the complete powder metallurgy process, from production and blending of metal powder to the manufacture of precision sintered components.
A high proportion of new business wins in 2008 were for new applications on the latest automotive technologies, where the demand for smaller, lighter and more fuel efficient vehicles offers new opportunities for the latest powder metal technologies.
Despite a 6 million positive impact from currency the year of 1,200, coupled with short-time working in all translation, Powder Metallurgy reported a full year loss plants during the fourth quarter.
Additional actions to of 2 million in 2008, compared with a trading profit of reduce the fixed cost base are also in place for 2009.
The underlying profit decline, which Net restructuring costs and asset impairments in 2008 arose predominantly in the second half of the year, was totalled 106 million 2007 14 million.
Of these, 81 driven by the reduction in volumes, the impact of the million related to the impairment of assets in GKN Sinter American Axle strike and raw material cost volatility.
Metals North America and an impairment of 11 million The divisional operating margin in 2008 was 0.3 % arising from the rationalisation of manufacturing activity 2007 4.8%.
Return on invested capital was 0.5 % across Hoeganaes North American plants.
costs of 6 million were charged in the year and were in relation to redundancies, short-time working and other The main raw material in the Powder Metallurgy reorganisation costs.
business is scrap steel, prices for which were highly volatile in 2008, peaking in September at approximately Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets in the $900 per ton, three times higher than the 2007 average.
period totalled 33 million 2007 38 million with Powder alloying materials including nickel, copper and depreciation of 32 million 2007 28 million.
The molybdenum remained at historically high levels for ratio of capital expenditure to depreciation was 1.0 most of the year, before declining sharply in the final times 2007 1.4 times.
The management of input costs to remove New business wins related to emerging technology volatility, recover costs and eliminate recovery lag from trends continued with a particular focus on applications customers was a key focus for the year.
Significant to improve fuel efficiency and reduce emissions, such as changes were made to achieve this with Hoeganaes variable valve timing in engines and high performance moving to a monthly customer surcharge for all input gear sets in automatic transmissions.
In addition, the Sinter Metals business now wins included manual transmission gears where the has surcharging mechanisms in place on around 80% of potential of design for Powder Metal continues to its business.
enable performance differentiation over competing Actions implemented to respond to significant declines technologies.
in sales volume included a total headcount reduction in www.
