Business Review Financing and Risk This section describes the treasury, funding and liquidity management activities undertaken by GKN.
It also summarises the financial and non-financial risks which GKN faces in its global operations.
36 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 36 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review Financing and Risk All of the Groups committed revolving credit facilities Financing have a single financial covenant requiring EBITDA of The following section describes the way in which the Group subsidiaries to be at least 3.5 times net interest payable.
manages and controls its treasury function and ensures it EBITDA of subsidiaries is before restructuring and is financed in an appropriate and cost-effective manner.
impairment charges, amortisation of non-operating Treasury management intangible assets and other non-cash charges arising All treasury activities are co-ordinated through a central on business combinations, profit and losses on sale function Group Treasury, the purpose of which is to or closure of businesses and the change in the value manage the financial risks of the Group and to secure of derivative and other financial instruments.
Net short and long term funding at the minimum cost to the interest payable excludes the finance element of postGroup.
It operates within a framework of clearly defined employment costs.
For the 12 months to 31 December Board-approved policies and procedures, including 2008 this ratio stood at 8.0 times.
permissible funding and hedging instruments, exposure Financial resources and going concern limits and a system of authorities for the approval and At 31 December 2008 the Group had net borrowings of execution of transactions.
It operates on a cost centre 708 million.
In addition, it had available, but undrawn, basis and is not permitted to make use of financial committed borrowing facilities totalling 402 million.
As instruments or other derivatives other than to hedge referred to above, new revolving credit facilities totalling identified exposures of the Group.
Speculative use of 180 million became available to the Group in January on such instruments or derivatives is not permitted.
completion of the Filton acquisition.
Of the Groups total Group Treasury prepares reports at least annually to the committed borrowing facilities, 350 million is due to Board, and on a monthly basis to the Finance Director and expire in July 2010. other senior executives of the Group.
In addition, liquidity, The Directors have assessed the future funding interest rate, currency and other financial risk exposures are requirements of the Group and the Company and monitored weekly.
The overall indebtedness of the Group is compared them to the level of committed available reported on a weekly basis to the Chief Executive and the borrowing facilities.
The assessment included a review Finance Director.
The Group Treasury function is subject to of both divisional and Group financial forecasts, financial an annual internal and external review of controls.
instruments and hedging arrangements for the 15 Funding and liquidity months from the balance sheet date.
Recognising that The Group funds its operations through a mixture of a number of industries and especially the automotive retained earnings and borrowing facilities, including bank sector continue to be affected by the sharp global decline and capital markets borrowings and leasing.
The relative in demand, the Directors considered a range of potential proportions of equity and borrowings are governed by scenarios within the key markets the Group serves and specific Board-approved parameters.
These are designed how these might impact on the Groups cash flow, facility to preserve prudent financial ratios, including interest, headroom and banking covenants.
The Directors also dividend and cash flow cover, whilst also minimising the considered what mitigating actions the Group could take overall weighted average cost of capital to the Group.
to limit any adverse consequences.
The Groups borrowing facilities are arranged by Group Having undertaken this work, the Directors are of Treasury and the funds raised are then lent to operating the opinion that the Group has adequate committed subsidiaries on commercial arms length terms.
In some resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future cases, operating subsidiaries have external borrowings, and so determine that it is appropriate for the financial but these are supervised and controlled centrally.
The statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through borrowing Risks and uncertainties at a range of maturities.
Wherever practicable, pooling, Set out below are those risks which could have a material netting or concentration techniques are employed to impact on the Groups future performance and cause minimise gross debt of the Group.
financial results to differ materially from expected and historical performance.
Additional risks not currently At 31 December 2008 the Group had committed revolving known or which are currently regarded as immaterial could credit facilities of 445 million utilising 12 different also adversely affect future performance.
banks of which 43 million was utilised.
In addition, 45 million of uncommitted bank lines and overdraft were The current global economic recession has magnified available of which 20 million was drawn.
On 5 January existing risks and created new ones.
The Group has an 2009 on completion of the acquisition of the Airbus UK extensive risk management structure in place designed wing component and sub-assembly facility at Filton, 180 to identify and assess the likelihood and consequences million of additional committed revolving credit facilities of these risks and to manage the actions necessary with a five year maturity became available.
A detailed description of the Groups procedures to manage risk is given in the Capital market borrowings of 675 million include corporate governance report on pages 57 and 58. unsecured issues of 325 million 7% bonds maturing in May 2012 and 350 million 6.75% bonds maturing in Financial risk October 2019.
The Group is exposed to a variety of market related risks, including refinancing risks and the effects of changes in In total, the Groups revolving credit facilities have foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
In the maturities ranging from 2010 to 2013.
The weighted normal course of business, the Group also faces risks that average maturity profile of the Groups committed are either non-financial or non-quantifiable, including borrowing facilities was 5 years.
This leaves the Group well country and credit risk.
placed in the short term to withstand sudden changes in liquidity in the financial markets, although the tightening of available credit means that it may be more difficult and more expensive to refinance the Groups borrowing facilities as they mature.
indd 37 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review: Financing and Risk continued Refinancing risk medical and life insurance arrangements.
The majority of Committed revolving credit facilities totalling 350 the DB plans are in the UK, North America and continental million mature in July 2010 and all or part of these Europe.
Retiree medical arrangements are limited to North America and the UK, where all schemes are closed.
Funded facilities would normally be refinanced during 2009.
The terms of the refinancing, including the time frame, cost obligation deficits, mostly in the US and UK, increased and quantum, are expected to be more onerous given by 402 million to 435 million at 31 December 2008. the current credit market conditions.
This is likely to be Unfunded obligation deficits, primarily in continental further exacerbated by the downgrade of the Groups Europe, increased by 101 million to 399 million.
credit rating to sub-investment grade in January 2009.
Deterioration in asset values, changes to real long Currency risk term interest rates or the strengthening of longevity The Group has transactional currency exposures arising assumptions could lead to a further increase in the from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in deficit or give rise to an additional funding requirement.
currencies other than the subsidiaries functional currency, Furthermore, foreign exchange rate volatility can impact the most significant being the US dollar and the euro.
the Groups foreign exchange policy, transaction exposures Taxation risk are hedged, once they are known, mainly through the use of The Group operates in over 30 countries and as a forward foreign exchange contracts.
consequence is subject to many complex tax laws and tax The Group has a significant investment in overseas authority audit procedures.
operations, particularly in continental Europe and the Amounts accrued for tax liabilities are based upon Americas.
As a result, the sterling value of the Groups managements judgement taking into account their balance sheet can be affected by movements in exchange interpretation of tax law in each country and the rates.
In prior years, the Group sought to mitigate the likelihood of settlement where there is a tax dispute.
effect of these translational currency exposures by Actual tax liabilities could differ from the accruals made matching the net investment in overseas operations with by management and the difference would give rise to an currency borrowings, synthetically created using forward adjustment in a subsequent period, which could have a foreign exchange contracts.
This policy was suspended at material impact on the Groups income statement and or the end of 2008 due to the continuing volatility of foreign cash position.
Market and customer related risk Interest rate risk Global economic and political risk The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to GKN operates in a number of emerging markets including minimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported Asia Pacific and Latin America.
To achieve this, it maintains a target range of wide range of risks including political, regulatory, fixed and floating rate debt for discrete annual periods.
environmental and socio-economic, it is also in a Interest rates on all debt capital market issues remain at position to benefit from potentially significant growth fixed rates whilst the balance of debt is at floating rates.
opportunities and a diversified business base.
At 31 December 2008, 83% of the Groups gross financial liabilities were at fixed rates of interest, whilst the Cyclical nature of markets weighted average period in respect of which interest has Approximately 57% of 2008 sales of subsidiaries were to been fixed was 7 years.
automotive vehicle manufacturers and 23% for original equipment on aircraft or aircraft components.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the The automotive industry, in common with other capital event of non-performance by counterparties to financial goods industries, is affected by macro-economic instruments, which include trade debtors.
conditions and consumer demand and preferences.
Economic conditions became extremely challenging Credit risk relating to financial institutions is mitigated in many of the worlds economies in 2008.
There has by the Groups policy of selecting only counterparties been a material deterioration in the number of vehicles with a strong investment graded long term credit rating, manufactured and sold, which is likely to continue normally at least AA or equivalent, and assigning throughout 2009 and potentially beyond.
financial limits to individual counterparties.
The military aircraft element of our business is affected by With the concentration of customers noted below, the political and budgetary considerations, particularly in the financial failure of any one of them could have a material US.
Civil demand is affected by the number of passenger impact on performance.
Increasing emphasis is placed on miles flown and revenue per seat which, in turn, is the monitoring of credit exposures in the current economic a function of economic growth, fuel costs, personal climate, with regular reporting to divisional management spending power and perceived security risk.
In the civil and the Executive Committee.
In addition, credit terms and aerospace market, the current economic conditions are overdue debtors are closely monitored and appropriate beginning to impact demand with a further softening action taken.
At 31 December 2008 the largest individual anticipated during 2009 and 2010. debtor balance was 0.7% of Group sales.
For further information see note 19 to the financial statements.
The availability of credit to consumers and airlines could impact purchases of vehicles and aircraft with a In addition to the inherent specific financial risks and consequential effect on the level of build rates and orders their management referred to above, there are other, in all of our businesses.
more general, financial risks that could have a material adverse effect on the business, its financial condition or The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by acting results of its operations.
aggressively to reduce its cost base when demand for its products fall, through plant rationalisations, short-time Pension and retiree medical risk working, Lean manufacturing techniques and other cost We operate both defined benefit DB and defined base reduction initiatives.
contribution DC pension plans, together with retiree 38 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKN Front ALT.
indd 38 09 03 2009 14:17 09 03 2009 14:17 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Business Review Financing and Risk Competitive markets and competition customers.
Active monitoring of the financial viability of The Groups markets are very competitive and our ability our suppliers is undertaken and contingency plans exist, to compete for contracts depends on the effectiveness including second sourcing of key materials, to ensure continuity of supply.
In most cases this would result in of our products and our ability to manage costs and maintain customer relationships.
additional costs which may or may not be recoverable.
Furthermore, close relationships with our supply base Customer concentration and relationships and clear communication of movements in demand help The Group portfolio is built around a broad-based, to support continuity of supply.
GKNs sales to original diversified business across a wide range of geographic, equipment manufacturers could also be adversely customer and product offerings.
The nature of the affected by the failure of other tier one suppliers.
automotive and aerospace industries does mean, however, that a significant degree of customer Commodities concentration exists.
Approximately 60% of our sales The Group has ongoing exposure to the price of a number revenue is from 25 major global customers.
The loss of, of commodities, in particular steel, titanium, aluminium, or damage to, certain of these relationships, particularly copper, nickel and molybdenum.
This exposure is managed in the light of the rapid decline in automotive volumes by entering into supply contracts to reduce short term seen in the latter part of 2008, or a significant worsening volatility of price and supply.
In addition, where commodity of commercial terms with these customers could have a costs increase, agreements are in place to surcharge material impact on the Groups results.
The Group is not customers in order to protect the Groups profitability.
dependent on contractual or other arrangements with any IT systems reliability, security and change individual customer.
Our IT systems and networks are secured by back-up systems, hardware, virus protection and other measures Technological change The markets for our products and services are but any interruption could lead to disruption in service.
A characterised by evolutionary change driven by consumer breakdown of security or damage arising from any cause preference for increased safety and environmentally could affect our operational performance or revenue.
Many of the Groups Management resources products are technologically advanced or use leading Active management of our people around the world edge processes in their manufacture.
In order to maintain is critical to the success of our business.
Training and the competitiveness of our products, we make focused development initiatives and reward systems are in place investment in research and development to achieve to support the recruitment and retention of appropriately technological leadership in our key businesses and retain qualified and skilled personnel.
It is also essential that the competitive advantage which this leadership provides.
key technical staff remain in place to support the Groups Acquisitions engineering skill base.
Furthermore, as restructuring The Group has grown both organically and through takes place, we ensure that we do not diminish the overall capability of the Group.
Capturing the value and integrating the operations and people of acquired businesses is a Environmental risk complex process.
The Group manages the associated The environmental laws of various countries and our risks by carrying out extensive pre-acquisition due customers requirements impose obligations on our diligence, carefully managing the integration process and businesses to operate in an environmentally friendly carrying out post-acquisition audits.
Failure to do so could result not only in financial Manufacturing and operational risk consequences but also in damage to our reputation and Manufacturing strategy may impact shareholder value as well as our employees Strategies are developed with the objective of and communities in which we operate.
In environmental manufacturing in the most competitive locations for terms, our manufacturing processes are not inherently our customers requirements.
Failure to meet customer high risk, nevertheless, great care is taken to prevent requirements upon relocation of production could impact any adverse impact arising.
Further details of how this is upon both short and longer term customer relationships.
managed are given on pages 46 and 48.
We have considerable experience of implementing operational change and a wealth of experience to draw Insurance on to minimise this risk.
In the current economic climate, The Group insures against the impact of a range of the Group is undertaking strenuous efforts to align its unpredicted losses associated with business assets such cost base through the flexing of variable costs labour as buildings, plant, machinery and ensuing financial and material as well as fixed cost reductions to lower our impact arising from interruption to the business, as well breakeven point.
as its liabilities whether statutory or not arising from employees, products and services supplied or the public Product quality and liability at large.
For non aviation products, insurance takes the The nature of our products means that we face an inherent form of a significant level of capped self-insured retention risk of product liability claims if failure results in any claim at the Group level within GKNs own captive insurance for injury or consequential loss.
However, our customers company, Ipsley Insurance Ltd Ipsley, which does not require high levels of quality assurance and manufacturing insure the risks of any other entity and a much lower systems in place to ensure that our quality record is world level of self-insurance or deductible at the subsidiary class in both Automotive and Aerospace.
Catastrophe insurance is then purchased in the levels of insurance are in place covering product liability, commercial insurance market over and above these although the Group does not generally insure against the levels of retention.
Ipsleys current participation in cost of product warranty or recall.
GKNs principal insurance programme is 10 million per incident capped at 20 million in any one year.
Due to the Supply chain The Groups manufacturing processes may have nature of the risk, the Groups aviation products liability dependencies on the availability of specific equipment insurance is placed solely in the commercial market.
An inability to supply because of their non-availability would affect sales and relationships with www.
