Board of Directors Roy Brown 62 Sir Kevin Smith, CBE 54 Marcus Bryson 54 E Member of Executive Chairman C N Chief Executive E C N Chief Executive Aerospace E Committee Appointment and election Appointment and election Appointment and election C Member of Chairmans Appointed a non-executive Director Appointed Chief Executive in January Appointed to the Board in June 2007 Committee in 1996 and became Chairman in May and last re-elected in 2008.
A Member of Audit Experience Experience Committee Experience Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Joined GKN with the acquisition of Former executive Director of Unilever Director, Aerospace.
Prior to GKN he the Westland Group in 1994 and has R Member of plc and Unilever NV from 1992 to held various positions in BAE Systems extensive experience of the aerospace Remuneration 2001 with responsibility for the plc over a 20 year period, latterly industry.
Having joined Westland in Committee Groups activities in Europe, Africa as Group Managing Director New 1984, he held a number of finance and N Member of and the Middle East.
Former non-executive commercial roles within the business Nominations non-executive Director of Brambles Director of Scottish and Southern prior to its acquisition by GKN.
He Committee plc, Brambles Ltd Australia, British Energy plc.
Former Co-Chairman of the was appointed Chief Executive GKN United Provident Association Ltd Governments Manufacturing Forum.
Aerospace Services Europe in The Company Secretary BUPA and the Franchise Board of Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical 2000 and Chief Executive Propulsion is secretary to the Lloyds of London.
Chartered Engineer, Society and Companion of the Systems and Special Products in non-executive Board Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Chartered Management Institute.
Joined the Executive Committee Committees, the Engineers and Fellow of the Institute as Chief Executive Aerospace in responsibilities of which of Engineering and Technology.
are described in the January 2006.
External appointments corporate governance statement, the Audit Non-executive Director of Abbey Committee report and the National plc and Alliance & Leicester Directors Remuneration plc.
Senior Independent Director of report.
Member of the CBI International Advisory Board.
In addition to the executive Directors and the Company Secretary, the other members of the Executive Committee are as follows: Arthur Connelly 51 Chief Operating Officer, GKN Driveline Douglas McIldowie 53 Group Human Resources Director Helmut Mamsch 64 Sir Christopher Meyer, KCMG 65 Richard Parry-Jones, CBE 57 Walter Rohregger 49 Non-executive Director C A R N Non-executive Director C A R N Non-executive Director C A R N Chief Executive, GKN OffHighway Appointment and election Appointment and election Appointment and election Appointed to the Board in December Appointed to the Board in August Appointed to the Board in March 2008 2003.
Standing for re-election in 2009. and last re-elected in 2008.
Experience Experience Experience Has considerable experience in Former British Ambassador to the Has extensive experience of the international business, having worked United States and Germany and automotive industry having worked for for over 20 years in international also served in the British Diplomatic the Ford Motor Company for 38 years, trade and shipping.
He joined VEBA Service in Russia, Spain and the latterly as Group Vice-President Global AG now E. ON AG in 1989 and was European Community, Brussels.
Product Development and Group a management Board member from Former Chief Press Secretary to Chief Technical Officer.
Until 2007, he was Prime Minister John Major, and Royal Academy of Engineering and the non-executive Deputy Chairman former non-executive Director of The Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
of LogicaCMG plc and a member Sanctuary Group plc and GlobeTel External appointments of the Supervisory Board of Communications Corporation.
Chairman of the Welsh Assembly K S Aktiengesellschaft.
External appointments Government Ministerial Advisory External appointments Chairman of the Press Complaints Group.
Visiting Professor within Non-executive Chairman of Commission and non-executive Director the Department of Aeronautical Electrocomponents plc and nonof Arbuthnot Banking Group plc.
and Automotive Engineering at executive Director of Sappi Ltd South Loughborough University.
of the New Automotive Innovation and Growth Team.
50 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 50 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 50 09 03 2009 15:58 09 03 2009 15:58 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Governance Board of Directors Andrew Reynolds Smith 42 William Seeger, Jr. 57 John Sheldrick 59 Chief Executive Powder Finance Director E Non-executive Director C A R N Metallurgy, OffHighway Appointment and election Appointment and election and Industrial Services E Appointed to the Board in September Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Appointment and election Appointed to the Board in June 2007 Experience Experience and last re-elected in 2008.
Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior ViceJoined Johnson Matthey plc as President and Chief Financial Officer executive Director, Finance in 1990 Experience of GKN Aerospace.
In June 2007 he and has been Group Finance Director Joined GKN in 2002 as Managing became a member of the Executive since 1995.
Prior to joining Johnson Director Operations Europe for the Committee as President and Chief Matthey he was Group Treasurer of Groups Driveline division.
In 2004 Executive Propulsion Systems and The BOC Group plc.
He is a former he became Chief Executive of GKN Special Products.
Appointed Finance non-executive Director of API Group Sinter Metals and was appointed to Director in September 2007.
Fellow of the Association of the Executive Committee in 2006. to GKN, he held a number of senior Corporate Treasurers and Fellow of the Prior to GKN, he held various general finance positions at TRW Inc spanning Chartered Institute of Management management and functional positions over 20 years, latterly as ViceAccountants.
at Ingersoll Rand, Siebe plc now President Financial Planning Invensys plc and Delphi Automotive External appointments and Analysis.
Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc.
External appointments Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council.
Sir Peter Williams, CBE 63 Grey Denham 60 Nigel Stein 53 Senior Independent Director C A R N Company Secretary E Chief Executive Automotive E Appointment and election Experience Appointment and election Appointed to the Board in June 2001 Joined GKN in 1980 and was head Appointed to the Board in August and became Senior Independent of the Group Legal function for 2001 and last re-elected in 2008.
Last nine years before being appointed Experience re-elected in 2008.
Prior Joined GKN in 1994 and has held Experience to GKN he was a Senior Lecturer in a range of commercial, general Joined Oxford Instruments plc in 1982, law at Nottingham Law School and management and finance roles, most became its Chief Executive in 1985 in-house counsel to the then state recently as Group Finance Director.
and was Chairman from 1991 until his owned machine tool companies.
He is Appointed Chief Executive Automotive retirement in 1999.
Former Master of a barrister and former Chairman of the in June 2007.
Prior to GKN, he gained St Catherines College Oxford, former Primary Markets Group of the London experience in the commercial vehicle President of the British Association Stock Exchange and of the CBI in the and manufacturing sector and held for the Advancement of Science and West Midlands and Oxfordshire.
former Chairman of the Engineering senior financial positions with Laird External appointments and Technology Board.
Fellow of Group plc and Hestair Duple Ltd. the Royal Society and of the Royal Non-executive Director of Charter Member of the Institute of Chartered Academy of Engineering.
International plc and non-executive Accountants of Scotland.
Director and Trustee of Young External appointments External appointments Enterprise UK.
Non-executive Director of Wolseley plc Chancellor of the University of Leicester.
Non-executive Director and Director of The Society of Motor of WS Atkins plc.
Chairman of the Manufacturers and Traders Ltd. National Physical Laboratory, Member of the Council for the Foundation for Science and Technology, Trustee of Marie Curie Cancer Care and Treasurer of the Royal Society.
