Governance Corporate Governance On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction Re-election of Directors pack which includes background information about GKN and its The Companys articles of association require Directors to seek Directors, and details of Board meeting procedures, Directors duties re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, and responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a all Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first AGM number of other governance-related issues.
This is supplemented by following their appointment by the Board.
Any non-executive Directors a briefing with the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating who have served for more than nine years are subject to annual the induction of new Directors both into the Group and as to their roles re-election.
Details of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at and responsibilities as Directors.
The Director meets with the Chief the 2009 AGM are given in the notice of meeting circular.
Executive and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the Relations with shareholders general Group strategy and each individual business portfolio.
Plant GKN is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has visits and external training, particularly on matters relating to the role a well-established communication programme based on the Groups of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees, are financial reporting calendar.
This programme enables the Directors to arranged as appropriate.
gain an understanding of the views and opinions of its shareholders.
In Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be its communications with shareholders, GKN aims to present a balanced identified in annual individual performance reviews or on an ad hoc and understandable assessment of the Group.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken Company Secretary.
Training and development of Directors in 2008 as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which nontook various forms, including visits to GKN plants both with the Board executive Directors are encouraged to participate.
This includes as a whole and on an individual basis and participation by executive presentations of the full and half year results, and meetings between Directors in the GKN Global Leadership Programme.
institutional investors both in the UK and overseas and the Chief All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Executive, Finance Director, Head of Investor Relations and External Company Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that the Board is Communications and other executive Directors.
Periodic meetings fully briefed on all legislative, regulatory and corporate governance with representatives of major institutional shareholders, other fund developments.
In addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of their managers and the financial press are also held.
Feedback is sought duties, take independent professional advice at the Companys by the Companys brokers after meetings and presentations to ensure expense.
that the Groups strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and to develop further an understanding of shareholder Performance evaluation views.
This feedback is included in twice-yearly reports to the Board The Board has undertaken its annual formal evaluation of its own on meetings with existing and potential investors.
In addition, external performance and that of its Committees.
The process involved each brokers reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors.
Director, as well as other attendees of Board Committee meetings, completing a detailed questionnaire covering issues such as The Chairman offers major shareholders the opportunity to meet with Board remit and objectives: composition, training and resources: him to discuss matters relating to governance and strategy.
Feedback corporate governance: stakeholder engagement: Board meetings, to the Board is provided by the Chairman on any issues raised with him.
visits, procedures and administration: Committee terms of reference The Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with and other specific Committee-related questions.
The results of the shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed through normal evaluation and recommendations for improvements were reported channels of communication.
to the relevant Committees before the Board as a whole agreed Shareholders who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during appropriate changes.
These were minor and included changes to the the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings modus operandi of the Chairmans Committee and procedural matters have ended.
Details of the level of proxy votes received are advised to relating to Board meetings.
It was also agreed to review annually the shareholders at the meeting and are published on GKNs website.
Written responses are given to letters or emails received from The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated through shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically, one-to-one interviews with the Chairman.
To assist this process, a copies of the annual and half year reports.
The investor relations number of assessment areas were identified in advance and used as a section of GKNs website provides further detail about the Group, framework for conducting the appraisal interviews.
Sir Peter Williams, including share price information, webcasts and presentations as Senior Independent Director, led the review by the non-executive of annual and half year results, other presentations made to the Directors of the Chairmans performance, which took into account investment community, and copies of financial reports.
the views of the executive Directors.
Similarly, the views of the other Directors were taken into account by the Chairman in his review of the Chief Executives performance.
No actions were considered necessary as a result of any of these evaluations.
com 55 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 55 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 55 09 03 2009 15:58 09 03 2009 15:58 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Corporate Governance continued Directors conflicts of interest Audit Committee Following the changes made to the Companys articles of association The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting and at the 2008 AGM and the subsequent introduction of section 175 of the audit processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and Companies Act 2006 on 1 October 2008 which allows the Directors to risk management system.
The Committee meets at least four times a authorise potential and actual conflicts of interest, formal procedures year and consists of all the independent non-executive Directors under for the notification and authorisation of such conflicts have been the chairmanship of John Sheldrick.
A report by the Committee on its approved by the Board.
These procedures, which enable the Directors activities in 2008 is given on pages 59 and 60. to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation, Remuneration Committee ensure that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being The Remuneration Committee is responsible for approving the terms of considered can authorise conflicts, and require the Board to review service and setting the remuneration of the executive Directors and the the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis Company Secretary in accordance with a remuneration policy which is when necessary.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to newly approved annually by the Board.
It is also responsible for determining appointed Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
the fees of the Chairman and the terms upon which the service of executive Directors is terminated having regard to a severance policy Board Committees adopted by the Board, and for monitoring the remuneration of senior The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are managers just below Board level.
It also prepares for approval by the available upon request and on GKNs website.
Board the annual report on Directors remuneration set out on pages Executive Committee 61 to 71.
The Executive Committee is tasked with leading, overseeing and The Committee has access to such information and advice both from directing the activities of the Group.
It is responsible for reviewing within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems divisional and Group strategy plans, approving and leading the necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of consistent implementation of business and operational processes, and executive Directors remuneration.
identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and deciding how they are to be managed.
The Committee normally The Committee meets periodically when required and consists of the meets monthly.
independent non-executive Directors under the chairmanship of Sir Peter Williams.
The Committee consists of the executive Directors and the Groups senior executive team under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
Nominations Committee The current membership of the Executive Committee is given on The Nominations Committee leads the process for identifying, and page 50. makes recommendations to the Board on, candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving full The Executive Committee has three sub-committees consisting of consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs members of senior management: of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the the Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Sir composition of the Chairmans and Nominations Committees and Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, is responsible for driving operational the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration best practice globally through the application of Lean business Committees.
It keeps under review the structure, size and composition processes: of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the non-executive Directors, and makes the Technology Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Arthur recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Connelly, Chief Operating Officer of GKN Driveline, is responsible The Board has agreed procedures that are followed by the Nominations for setting policy and providing guidance and direction in relation Committee in making appointments to the various positions on the to technologies employed across all business areas, and provides Board and as Company Secretary.
These procedures, under which the input to the Executive Committee to contribute to the formulation Committee agrees a description of the role, experience and capabilities of the Groups business strategy: and for a Director, are available on GKNs website.
The Committee has the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship access to such information and advice both from within the Group and of Grey Denham, Company Secretary, has responsibility for externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
This developing strategy for and providing oversight and direction on all may include the appointment of external executive search consultants matters relating to governance and compliance, risk management where appropriate.
The Committee meets periodically when required and consists Chairmans Committee of the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive under the The Chairmans Committee is a forum for the Chairman and Chief chairmanship of the Chairman except when the Committee is dealing Executive to brief and obtain the views of the non-executive Directors with the appointment of a successor as Chairman when the Senior on particular issues.
The Committee meets periodically as required Independent Director chairs the Committee.
and consists of the non-executive Directors together with the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman.
56 GKN plc Annual Report 2008 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 56 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 56 09 03 2009 15:58 09 03 2009 15:58 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Governance Corporate Governance Companies also have to confirm annually whether they have complied Directors attendance record with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with the policies The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of which support the GKN Code.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2008 was as follows: As part of GKNs enterprise risk management programme, risk profiling Audit Remuneration Nominations is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify business, reputational Board Committee Committee Committee and accidental risks and highlight action required to mitigate such Director 11 meetings 4 meetings 10 meetings 1 meeting risks.
This process is aided by the use of a risk profiling software tool which provides a consistent set of risk definitions, a common approach Roy Brown 11 1 to probability and impact, and strengthens the ability to consolidate Sir Kevin Smith 11 1 measurement of risk.
Marcus Bryson 11 Helmut Mamsch 10 3 10 1 The objective of the Groups risk management processes is to ensure Sir Christopher Meyer 8 4 8 1 the sustainable development of GKN through the conduct of its Andrew Reynolds Smith 11 business in a way which: Richard Parry-Jones 8 9 2 3 8 8 1 satisfies its customers: William Seeger 11 John Sheldrick 10 4 9 1 develops environmentally friendly products and processes: Nigel Stein 11 Sir Peter Williams 10 4 10 1 provides a safe and healthy workplace: Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date protects against losses from unforeseen causes: of appointment.
minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce Internal control resources: The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges prevents pollution and waste: its responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and receives regular reports on such matters.
maintains proper relationships with suppliers and contractors: and The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which we Groups ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk and for deciding how these are to be managed.
In addition to a formal of failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to quarterly review of risk management by the Executive Committee, eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide members are expected to report to the Committee as necessary the reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement occurrence of any material control issues, serious accidents or events or loss.
that have had a major commercial impact, or any significant new risks which have been identified.
Such matters are reported to the next The review process Board meeting and or Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
As part The Board reviews the Groups systems of internal control and risk of its remit, the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee develops strategy management on an ongoing basis by: for and provides oversight and direction on all matters relating to risk setting the strategy of the business at both Group and divisional management.
It reports formally on an annual basis to the Executive level and, within the framework of this, approving an annual Committee and to the Board.
budget and medium term projections.
Central to this exercise is a Continuing processes under the oversight of the Executive Committee review of the risks and opportunities facing each business and the and its Governance and Risk Sub-Committee are in place for all parts steps being taken to manage these: of the Group to assess the major risks to which their operations are reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated exposed and the way in which such risks are monitored, managed forecasts for the current year.
Comparisons are made with budget and controlled.
The risks covered by these processes include those and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to relating to strategy, operational performance, credit risk and the optimise operational and financial performance: financial viability of customers and suppliers, finance including risk financing and fraud, product engineering, business reputation, human retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment resources, health and safety, and the environment.
These processes policy, and the approval of major capital expenditure, major are summarised in a risk map which is reviewed annually by the Audit contracts and financing arrangements.
Below Board level there Committee.
A summary of those risks which could have a material are clearly defined management authorities for the approval of impact on the future performance of the Group is given on pages capital expenditure, major contracts, acquisitions, investments 37 to 39. and divestments, together with an established framework for their appraisal, which includes a risk analysis and post-implementation Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review plan and, where appropriate, a post-acquisition review: their business risks and to report on whether there has been any material breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
com 57 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 57 15860GKNPLC BACK A. indd 57 09 03 2009 15:58 09 03 2009 15:58 15860 09 03 2009 Proof 12 Corporate Governance continued receiving regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, having approved the operating policies and controls for this function, and keeping under review the Groups pension fund arrangements: performing at least annually a review of the Groups insurance and risk management programmes: receiving an annual report, following its review by the Executive Committee, on corporate social responsibility matters, which includes the environmental, health and safety performance of the Groups operations: and reviewing an annual management development and succession plan.
The Executive Committee also reviews management development issues at least annually.
The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee concerning the operation of the systems of internal control and risk management.
This report, together with the reviews by the Board during the year of the matters described above, enables the Board to form its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee during 2008 to discharge this responsibility are described in the Audit Committees report on pages 59 and 60.
To assist it in this role the Committee liaises closely with the internal audit department which, using a risk-based audit programme, reviews and tests the systems, controls, processes, procedures and practices across the Group.
The Head of Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Finance Director, meets regularly with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The departments reports are seen by the relevant members of the Executive Committee and are summarised quarterly for the Audit Committee.
The resolution of any control issues raised by Board members or in reports reviewed by the Audit Committee is discussed in Committee with management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the period covered by this annual report.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with the guidance on internal control appended to the Code the revised Turnbull Guidance, have been in place throughout that period and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board also confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
Compliance with the Code It is the Boards view that, throughout 2008, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
