100 GSK Annual Report 2008 Financial statements Directors statement of responsibilities the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Directors statement of responsibilities in relation to accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued the Group financial statements by IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Business review section contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements the business and the position of the Group, together with a for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
In Disclosure of information to auditors preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors have also elected The Directors in office at the date of this Report have each to comply with IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards confirmed that: Board IASB.
The Group financial statements are required by law to give so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the end of information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any select suitable accounting policies and then apply relevant audit information and to establish that the companys them consistently: auditors are aware of that information.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance and prudent: with the provisions of Section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985. state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as Going concern basis adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Internal control position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates with the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal Regulation.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report safeguard the assets of the Group and ensuring the operation of and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
systems of internal control, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Combined Code The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial 2008, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set Reporting Council, as described under Corporate governance out in Financial statements on pages 102 and 180 of this Report.
on pages 60 to 77, and has complied with its provisions except as The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group described on page 76. financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services report on page 101.
Authority, the auditors have considered the Directors statement The Group financial statements for the year ended 31st December of compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code 2008 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in which are specified for their review.
hard-copy printed form and made available on the companys Annual Report website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2008, with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Corporate governance section of the Annual Report Sir Christopher Gent 2008 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: Chairman 3rd March 2009
