4 GSK Annual Report 2008 Our strategy The pharmaceutical industry is experiencing a time of unprecedented Corporate responsibility challenge.
Patent expiries, regulatory issues and increased pressures Running our business in a responsible way is fundamental to from healthcare providers have combined to create an environment our success and inseparable from our strategic priorities.
where our sector is associated with lower growth and higher risk.
We operate in a way that reflects our values, seeks to understand We are addressing these challenges through three key strategic and respond to stakeholder views and connects our business decisions priorities which we believe will transform GSK into a company that to ethical, social and environmental concerns.
In this way we aim delivers more growth, less risk and an improved financial performance.
to minimise the negative impacts and maximise the positive benefits of our business.
Key challenges The patents on many medicines that have driven sales growth in our Responsibility is vital in all parts of our business and we understand the industry over the last decade are coming to an end.
These medicines need to be open about how we are operating.
We also understand may not be replaced by products of equivalent financial size.
that transparency is a key factor in building trust with our stakeholders and have implemented a number of initiatives to improve the In addition, there are increasing pressures on pharmaceutical transparency of our activities.
companies to deliver products with demonstrable benefits over current treatments.
No longer do we merely have to discover and Comprehensive information on our approach to responsibility develop products that help people do more, feel better and live issues can be found in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report longer.
We now have to justify that our products represent the at www.
com responsibility greatest value for healthcare providers.
At the same time, the pharmaceutical sector has been exposed to controversy regarding ethical and patient safety issues.
As an industry, we are in danger of eroding what trust we already have when we actually need to be building stronger relationships with governments, regulators and the general public.
These factors have combined to move the industry from one which was expected to deliver high growth at low risk, to the very opposite.
Three strategic priorities In 2008 we established the following three strategic priorities: Grow a diversified global business Deliver more products of value Simplify the operating model We believe these priorities will enable us to navigate the coming years successfully and retain our leading-edge as a company able to meet patients and healthcare providers needs into the future.
Updates on our progress will be published on our website at www.
com and also feature in our regular financial results.
GSK Annual Report 2008 5 Grow a diversified global business We are reducing risk by broadening and balancing our portfolio, diversifying into new product areas that show potential, while also fully capturing opportunities for our products across all geographic boundaries.
The plans which underpin this strategic priority: Drive growth in the pharmaceutical business in our core markets Deliver our ambitious vaccines forecast Fulfil the potential of emerging markets Expand our business in Japan Grow the Consumer Healthcare business To find out more go to page 6 Deliver more products of value We are striving to build one of the strongest pipelines in the industry.
We are transforming R&D to ensure that we not only deliver the current pipeline but are also able to sustain a flow of new products for years to come.
The plans which underpin this strategic priority: Focus on the best science Diversify through externalisation Re-personalise R&D Focus on return on investment To find out more go to page 8 Manufacturing Simplify the operating model R&D Pharma GSK is a complex organisation.
We recognise that we need to simplify our operating model further, changing the way we work, removing unnecessary processes and structures which slow us down and distract us from our mission.
The plans which underpin this strategic priority: Evolve our commercial model Re-shape manufacturing Streamline our processes Reduce working capital To find out more go to page 10 Vaccines Consumer healthcare 6 GSK Annual Report 2008 We are reducing risk by broadening and balancing our portfolio, diversifying into new product areas that show potential, while also fully capturing opportunities for our products across all geographic boundaries.
Specifically, we expect to generate future sales growth by strengthening our core pharmaceuticals business and supplementing it with increased investment in growth areas such as vaccines, biopharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
We are also seeking to unlock the geographic potential of our businesses, particularly in emerging markets and Japan.
We have made good progress on this priority during 2008, and we believe there remain many opportunities for GSK to diversify further.
Grow a diversified global business Our plans We are targeting sustained growth in our vaccines portfolio, by launching new vaccines and working to expand our franchise in Drive growth in the pharmaceutical business in our Japan and emerging markets.
core markets Our established strengths in the small molecule pharmaceutical During 2008, Cervarix our new cervical cancer vaccine, was sectors of larger markets such as the USA, UK, France, Germany, successful in approximately 60% of all tenders, achieving several Italy and Spain remain central to our business.
During 2008, we notable successes including Europes largest vaccination programme received European approval for Tyverb for advanced breast cancer, against cervical cancer, which is taking place in the UK.
The year also Volibris for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, saw Rotarix, Boostrix adult indication and Kinrix receive approval Avamys a new allergic rhinitis treatment and US approval for from the FDA.
Promacta for the treatment of thrombocytopenia and Entereg for postoperative ileus.
In our US pharmaceuticals business we have Fulfil the potential of emerging markets initiated a major change programme, refocusing marketing to Emerging markets feature a less-defined distinction between demonstrate value and introducing new product offerings which pharmaceutical, over-the-counter and retail market structure and focus on volume opportunities.
our ability to operate across this spectrum is a clear competitive advantage.
We have an opportunity to improve this capability and Deliver our ambitious vaccines forecast further energise our business in fast-growing emerging markets.
Increasingly, healthcare providers recognise the important role that vaccines play in preventative healthcare.
Our proven capability and strong pipeline, plus the high barriers to entry faced by our competitors, mean that this is expected to be a source of future growth for GSK.
GSK Annual Report 2008 7 Grow the Consumer Healthcare business In 2008, we entered into an alliance with Aspen Holdings of South Africa.
This new relationship gives us priority access Our Consumer Healthcare business continues to commercialised products from a portfolio of over 1,000 to drive growth through a portfolio of powerful potential products.
brands in three key segments: over-the-counter OTC medicines, Oral healthcare and Nutritional Healthcare.
As the year ended we acquired a BMS portfolio in Egypt and reached agreement to acquire a BMS portfolio in Pakistan.
The brand portfolio, which includes alli for weight loss, Panadol In early 2009 we also agreed with UCB to acquire its current a range of analgesics, Sensodyne toothpaste and Lucozade is marketed product portfolio in a range of territories.
supported by a strategy focused on innovation, marketing excellence, geographic expansion and acquisitions.
Expand our business in Japan Japan is a key market for GSK investment and growth.
We have In September 2008 we launched Sensodyne into the Chinese an extensive product pipeline and expect to launch more than 40 market, our first major consumer launch in the country for a decade.
products in this market over the next five years.
We are now preparing to launch alli, the first OTC weight loss product approved by the European Commission, across Europe.
Major approvals in this market recently were Lamictal for epilepsy and Adoair for COPD.
To find out more visit us at www.
com 8 GSK Annual Report 2008 We are striving to build one of the strongest pipelines in the Diversify through externalisation industry.
We are transforming R&D to ensure that we not We recognise that we do not have a monopoly on the best science.
only deliver our current pipeline of new pharmaceuticals, Therefore we have proactively expanded collaborations with vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products, but are also able external partners as well as with academia to access innovation and to sustain this flow of new products for years to come.
As we move towards a more diversified business we will Recent alliances with organisations such as Cellzome and the concentrate on developing a higher volume of mid-size Harvard Stem Cell Institute and acquisitions such as that of Sirtris and products for more clearly-defined patient populations.
Genelabs are providing us with competitive advantage in important This will help develop a lower risk portfolio which is not areas of research.
dependent on the performance of one or two large products.
In the last year, we completed or expanded 21 new drug discovery Positive steps have already been taken, with 30 late-stage alliances adding significant breadth and scale to our R&D activities.
assets currently in our pharmaceuticals and vaccines pipeline.
There are currently 70 discovery units working either inside the Our objective is to sustain this throughput of products over company or externally.
Biopharmaceuticals will play an increasingly important role in our future portfolio.
Offering a worldwide market of approximately Our plans 40 billion with projected compound annual growth of 18% over the next five years, biopharmaceuticals are compounds capable of Focus on the best science being manufactured by living organisms, usually cultured cells.
Around 75% of assets in our pipeline are entirely new compounds or vaccines, demonstrating our strong drive Currently only 6% of our pipeline comprises biopharmaceuticals, towards innovation.
which is below the industry average.
We have significantly expanded our biopharmaceutical pipeline through in-house discovery, the During the year we rebalanced our Drug Discovery organisation acquisition of Domantis and by in-licensing late-stage products.
to improve efficiency and focus on the areas of new science that There are currently 10 clinical research programmes underway we believe are most likely to lead to new medicines.
Together including five assets in late-stage development.
with vaccines, GSKs R&D is now focused on eight therapy areas: Biopharmaceuticals, Immuno-inflammation, Infectious diseases, Metabolic pathways, Neuroscience, Oncology, Ophthalmology and Respiratory.
Deliver more products of value P e l p o e P GSK Annual Report 2008 9 Re-personalise R&D Focus on return on investment We want to create an environment where there is no impediment We have adopted a more disciplined approach to how and where we to our best scientists making the kind of discoveries which will allocate resources within R&D.
More than 35% of discovery projects transform the companys future by delivering value to patients, have been terminated following our therapy area rebalancing exercise healthcare providers and shareholders.
and reviews by the new Drug Discovery Investment Board.
2008 saw the creation of Discovery Performance Units DPUs within As part of the same process, all our 35 Discovery Performance Units our Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDDs.
Each DPU is a now have three year funding in place to develop their projects.
compact, fully-empowered, focused and integrated team which has responsibility for a small part of the pipeline.
We realise that reimbursement is the key to long-term financial performance and we are working hard to bring a health outcome We have also created new, integrated R&D Units for focus to R&D which will in turn deliver greater value to healthcare Biopharmaceuticals and Oncology.
The R&D centre we established providers.
For example, in Europe direct dialogue now exists in China in 2007 is now 200 people strong and has recruited between payer organisations and our R&D teams to improve our experienced scientists who are dedicated solely to GSKs understanding of the perceived benefit and value of new products.
com y t i v i t c u d o r P s t c u d o r 10 GSK Annual Report 2008 GSK is a complex organisation.
We recognise that we need to simplify our operating model further, changing the way we work, removing unnecessary processes and structures which Manufacturing slow us down and distract us from our mission.
Our global restructuring programme is a vital catalyst of our strategy.
We believe it will radically change our business model giving us the capability to support a more diverse, R&D growing business that is also expected to be more profitable Pharma in the long-term.
Simplify the operating model Our plans We continue to improve the efficiency of our sites, by applying benchmarked studies and seizing opportunities to do more with less.
Evolve our commercial model In addition, we are simplifying our operating model to clarify roles We have reorganised so that we now have one single commercial and responsibilities, to improve prioritisation and decision making support structure for Europe, Emerging Markets and Asia and to introduce simpler, more efficient ways of working.
In the USA, we have radically restructured our pharmaceuticals business.
This includes the transformation of the US Streamline our processes sales force as well as the decision to designate a single headquarters We are simplifying our organisation to speed up decision-making for US Pharmaceuticals, located at Research Triangle Park, North and improve alignment to our business priorities.
There are Carolina to reduce complexity and streamline our US operations.
many different programmes and initiatives across GSK including a comprehensive programme to simplify and reduce costs in IT.
Re-shape manufacturing Through an innovative partnership with Microsoft Online we Manufacturing is a key capability at GSK and we are taking an will produce financial savings, improve productivity and enhance ambitious approach to re-shaping our operations.
We are moving to collaboration internally and with our external partners.
match network capacity more closely to volume and are leveraging our network of sites and contractors to ensure the flexibility to sustain growth and adapt to changing business models.
Vaccines Consumer Healthcare GSK Annual Report 2008 11 Manufacturing R&D Pharma Simplify the operating model We are striving to ensure that cross-business processes and structures are simpler and more efficient.
For example, a number of reviews are currently underway to simplify our support functions infrastructure and create a leaner corporate centre.
Reduce working capital Our current working capital requirement is around 8 billion.
In September 2008, we started a programme which has successfully delivered cash flow benefits of more than 500 million, which we are using to invest in our strategic priorities.
