qxp:Layout 1 12 9 08 13:21 Page 1 Right time... Growth in rail travel On average, around 950,000 people travel on our trains every day Better 90% Since privatisation the quality of rail travel has improved signicantly.
As a result, 90% of trains in the UK 2 the number of rail passengers in the UK has increased by 45% in the past decade now arrive on time.
and in 2007 more people travelled by train than at any time since the second world 1 war.
Sustained investment by train operating companies, coupled with a clear and nancially underpinned political commitment to a growing railway, has resulted in high quality, frequent and reliable services.
Cheaper 2.89 Contrary to public perception, rail travel can be very economical for both For only 2.89 per person per commuting and discretionary travel, especially in light of the increasing cost of day, one adult plus two children petrol.
The cost of commuting between London and Brighton by rail is around 20% are entitled to unlimited off- 3 cheaper than the cost of petrol alone for the average driver.
In addition, real savings peak travel on Southeasterns can be achieved by planning journeys in advance or travelling off-peak.
With increased Kent Rover Area for three days, trafc congestion, rail can provide a convenient, quick and cheaper alternative to including key routes such as private car use.
Greener 1.7% Rail has superior environmental credentials to private car use and is one of the Rail contributes just 1.7% greenest forms of mass transit.
Growth in rail is key to the sustainable development of total UK transport CO 2 of the UK and plays a vital role in reducing carbon emissions and trafc congestion.
emissions, whereas the car 4 Integrating rail with other forms of green travel is important.
discounts for electric cars, integrate our buses with rail timetables and have increased secure cycle storage at our stations, by approximately 2,100 additional spaces on our Southern network.
1 Source: Association of Train Operating Companies ATOC.
com Based on a Ford Mondeo 2.0 petrol fuel consumption 35.8mpg and a Southern London to Brighton annual season ticket.
4 Source: National Atmospheric Emissions Inventory 2006, data included in DfTs Carbon Pathways Analysis July 2008.
