Overview What we do Greene Kings main businesses are managed pubs and restaurants: tenanted and leased pubs: and brewing and distribution.
Our Scottish business, Belhaven, operates the same three profit streams separately from the rest of the UK operations.
In total we operate 2,587 pubs and restaurants, two breweries Bury St Edmunds and Dunbar and a number of regional depots.
Our head ofce is in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk.
Retail Destination Pubs, Local Pubs and Loch Fyne Restaurants This business includes our managed pubs and restaurants within England and Wales.
In total, there were 792 outlets trading at the year end.
The main brands Number of pubs Number of pubs formats include Hungry Horse, Hardys House, Old English Inns and Loch Fyne Restaurants.
There are 492 pubs in our Local Pubs division, catering for their local communities across the country.
96 31 Pub Partners tenanted and leased pubs Tenancy Leased Pub Partners operates all of our tenanted and leased partnerships within England and Wales.
At the year-end there were 1474 outlets within Pub Partners, split 21% leased and 79% tenancy.
Pub Partners business model is based upon ensuring optimum 79% 21% profit achievement for both licensee and Greene King.
Maintaining licensee viability is our main aim and we run industry-leading support and training programmes.
Brewing Company industry-leading brands Brewing Company is responsible for the brewing, distribution, marketing and selling of our leading portfolio of ale brands, including Greene King IPA, Old Speckled Hen and Abbot Ale.
Brewing Company operates one brewery, in Bury No.
1 St. Edmunds, serving the whole of England and Wales, ensuring optimum efficiency 1 cask ale in UK of our brewing operation.
As well as to our own pubs, we also sell our brands and third-party products to other pub-owning companies, supermarkets and to customers in the free trade.
Belhaven Scotland Belhaven, our Scottish division, mirrors the Greene King model with managed and tenanted pubs operating alongside a brewing division.
Belhaven was acquired by Greene King in 2005 and continues to be operated separately.
At the year end, Leading Belhaven operated 321 pubs, 95 of which were managed.
ale in Scottish on-trade GREENE KING PLC 2 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08 Hungry Horse Every Hungry Horse pub is a friendly Old English Inns A wonderful selection of character local that goes out to impress everyone with its quality inns and hotels set in some of the most beautiful parts family food offer, sense of fun, and affordable prices.
We offer historic buildings, real log res We pride ourselves on being central to our local and beams, great cask ale and quality food for business community and providing great value.
trips, breaks and getting away from it all.
Hardys House A Hardys House is the best choice Loch Fyne Restaurants The home of superb seafood Number of Number of for quality pub food, friendly atmosphere and the and shellsh, we acquired Loch Fyne Restaurants in inns hotels restaurants personal touch in its locality.
We offer our customers August 2007.
At that time there were 36 restaurants remarkable hospitality and want to ensure we across the UK and by the year-end, this had risen to 39. cater for families, women and our golden years Each is very different, but with the same warm and customers equally.
The team works hard to provide great service via approachable and knowledgeable staff 66 39 who serve our fresh and fabulous food with a smile.
Number of outlets Tenancies Our tenanted model is based on a more Leases Our leased model offers longer, assignable hands-on approach to working with our licensees.
agreements with fully repairing and insuring liability Agreements are generally for five years, with the repair sitting with the lessee.
Agreements are generally liability shared between the tenant and ourselves.
for 15 years and assignable after four years.
These These agreements are an excellent t for first-time agreements tend to attract more entrepreneurial 1,474 licensees and those that dont wish to take on the licensees who require more freedom to run the extra responsibility of a lease.
business as they would like.
Greene King IPA A multi medal winner including gold Abbot Ale The no.
1 selling premium ale in London in the Champion Beer of Britain Awards and the best and the no.
2 premium cask beer in the UK.
Another selling cask beer in the UK.
As well as being the ofcial of Greene Kings award-winning traditional ale brands, beer of England Rugby and Harlequins, it ies the ag Abbot Ale is brewed longer for a stronger taste and for quality real ale.
The Export version has just been is a favourite with the nations discerning beer drinkers.
named Best Export Strong Pale Ale in the World.
Old Speckled Hen The leading premium ale brand in No.
2 supermarkets and last year voted a Superbrand One to premium ale premium cask ale Watch.
The brand has doubled in size in the last seven 1 AC Nielsen On Trade Survey MAT to March 2008 2 1 years and is widening the appeal of ale among a younger, in supermarkets in UK 2 AC Nielsen Scantrack data MAT to 17 05 08 style conscious crowd.
It is our leading export brand.
Beers of the World June 2008 Managed pubs At the year end, Belhaven operated Brewing Belhaven Best is Scotlands leading ale.
95 managed pubs, none of them overtly branded.
It has an ABV of 3.2% on draught and is the ofcial Food has become an increasingly important part beer of Scotland Rugby and the Scottish Golf Union.
of the operation, with sales growing by almost Other brands include 80 -, Twisted Thistle and 50% since acquisition.
Number of pubs Tenanted pubs At the year end, Belhaven operated 226 tenanted pubs, across most of Scotland.
The geographical reach extends every year through single-site acquisitions and the team prides itself on 321 being the most considerate landlord in Scotland.
GREENE KING PLC 3 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
