Tribute to Sir Michael Darrington.
Mike at Fell Dyke Community Primary School, Greggs 100th Breakfast Club by Ian Gregg and Derek Netherton As the two people who have been While Mikes guiding principle was that a for the Greggs brand at the end of the However, figures never tell the full story.
What is for sure is that we are all greatly Chairman of Greggs during Mikes business should change through evolution year.
Central to Mikes very successful indebted to Mike for such magnificent and time as Managing Director, we wanted not revolution, he was not afraid to take leadership of the business was his care wise leadership of a great business.
Then, in June 2008, he welcomed Ken to join together to pay tribute to all significant strides forward if he felt that for the people whose lives are touched by Greggs will miss him tremendously and McMeikan into the business to follow him that he has achieved during the 26 this was right for Greggs.
In 2000 he started the Greggs we are sure that everyone connected in leading Greggs as the CEO: as when years that he has been at the forefront was the Bakers Oven acquisition in 1994 Breakfast Club scheme which now with it will wish him every success and Mike himself joined Greggs 25 years of the leadership of the Company.
which brought a further 424 shops into provides over 6,000 primary school happiness in the future.
earlier, he saw that the outside experience the business and gave Greggs a presence children with a free, healthy breakfast.
Ian recalls Mike joined Greggs in 1983 Ken would bring would be a key ingredient in the South East based around the Giving something back to the local as Managing Director when it was still a in helping to make a successful change bakeries in Twickenham and Enfield as communities in which Greggs is involved Ian Gregg private company: he had previously been to a nationally-run business.
Equally well as an exposure to in-store bakeries has been a cornerstone of how Mike Derek Netherton at United Biscuits and I realised that his important was that he felt Ken shared with and catering.
sees that a responsible and caring 10 March 2009 experience, including that gained from him his passionately held views about the company should operate.
It was entirely working in a large public company, would Another very important milestone was the importance of the Greggs values to how appropriate that he was knighted in the be very valuable to Greggs as the opening in 1997 of the central savoury the business should be run.
2004 New Years Honours List for Company looked to the future.
I felt that production unit at Balliol Park outside Under Mikes leadership, the Company services to business and the community we shared the same ideas and values as Newcastle.
Mike had seen the major has grown from 260 shops to over 1,400: and that he was chosen as the North to how a business should be run, and opportunity that the growing takeaway the turnover from 40 million to 600 East Business Executive of the Year in that we would be a good team.
Little did market offered to Greggs: to make the million: and the number of employees 2005.
I realise quite how successful this most of this, we needed to increase from 4,000 to over 19,000.
Today, Greggs partnership would be, nor the extent of substantially the production of our high Derek adds Mikes philosophy about sells its tasty products to over a million the progress that the company would quality savouries.
At the same time, it was people was summed up for me when he customers a day throughout most of the make with Mike at the helm!
becoming increasingly clear to Mike that said that, of the three main stakeholders UK.
Since flotation, the dividend has grown Greggs had the ability to be a significant in a business, his order of importance The first major change was the flotation of every year and, by Mikes retirement, was national brand, so he put in place the was employees, then customers, then the business on the London Stock higher than the share price at flotation: gradual rebranding to Greggs of those shareholders.
He said that happy Exchange in May 1984 at a price of 135p the return to those shareholders who shops which still operated under local employees led to contented customers per share.
The Company was very well wisely held on to their shares was over names.
who returned for more and hence to received by outside investors who liked 6,000%: very few companies, whatever satisfied shareholders.
How right he has the story that we had to tell.
When Greggs In 2006, with great care and with concern their business, have a track record like been!
floated, we had four bakeries in for the implications for the people within this, and none of the other major retailers Newcastle, Glasgow, Manchester and the business, Mike guided the comes close to matching it.
The Company management to see that the divisional continued from strength to strength under structure that had worked so well in the Mikes leadership, both by the steady past was not going to be appropriate for addition of new shops to be serviced by a growing, and national, brand with the the existing bakeries, but also by aspirations and opportunities that he acquisition.
We bought bakeries and could see.
Under his leadership, the shops in Birmingham and Treforest, foundation stones for the Greggs of the taking the business into new areas such future were put in place, including the as the Midlands and South Wales.
creation of the new role of Retail Director Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 6 7
