Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board recognises the importance of, and is committed to, The Board Raymond Reynolds Retail Bob Bennett Senior Independent high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and Director, 49, was appointed to Director, 61, was appointed to Composition high ethical standards in all of its business dealings.
the Board on 18 December 2006. the Board in December 2003.
He The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive He joined Greggs in retail trained as a Chartered Accountant The Board considers that it has complied, throughout the year and four non-executive directors as follows: management in 1986.
During the with Spicer & Pegler and was under review, with the principles of governance set out in late 1990s, as general manager Group Finance Director of Northern Derek Netherton Chairman, 64, Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate governance he built a significant new business Rock plc from 1993 until his spent his career in investment published by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined for Greggs in the Edinburgh retirement at the end of January banking and retired in 1996 from his Code effective during the financial year.
The only exception region, and in 2002 he was 2007.
He is a non-executive position as joint head of corporate is that Sir Michael Darrington, formerly Managing Director of appointed Managing Director of director of Redrow plc and Expro finance at J Henry Schroder & Co the Company, has remained on the Board as a non-executive Greggs of Scotland.
He is a non-executive director to assist with the transition to a new Chief Executive, member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees: director of St Jamess Place plc.
He appointed from outside the Company.
This has resulted in he has been Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2004 and was appointed to the Board on there being less than half of the Board excluding the Julie Baddeley, 57, was appointed became the Senior Independent Director in 2008.
1 March 2002 and was appointed Chairman comprising independent non-executive directors, to the Board in March 2005.
She Chairman in August of the same contrary to Code provision A.
3.2. has held senior executive roles in year.
There have been no significant Roger Whiteside, 50, joined the The following statements, together with the Directors the Woolwich plc where she was changes to the Chairmans other commitments during 2008.
Roger is Remuneration report on pages 71 to 80, describe how the responsible for Information He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Managing Director of the Leased relevant principles and provisions of the Combined Code were Technology and Human division of Punch Taverns plc.
He applied to the Company in 2008 and will be relevant to the Resources, Accenture and Sema was Chief Executive of the Company for the 2009 financial year.
Julie is a nonKennedy McMeikan, Chief Thresher Group off-licence chain executive director of Camelot Executive, 43, joined the Board on from 2004 - 2007.
Prior to this, he Group plc, the Department of 1 June 2008 and became Chief was one of the founding team of Health, Chrysalis VCT plc and is Executive of the Company on 1 Ocado, the innovative online an Associate Fellow of the Said Business School, Oxford.
Ken was Retail grocer operating in partnership is a member of the Nominations and Audit Committees and Director of J Sainsbury plc, having with Waitrose, and served as Joint has been Chair of the Remuneration Committee since 2005. joined them in 2005 after a short Managing Director from 2000 - 2004.
He began his career at period as chief executive of Tesco Marks & Spencer, where he spent 20 years, ultimately in Japan.
Prior to this, he had spent Sir Michael Darrington FCA, 67, becoming head of its Food Business.
Roger is a member of the 14 years in operational roles within qualified as a Chartered Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees of the Board.
Tesco, becoming chief executive of Accountant and then spent 17 the Europa Foods convenience store business following its years with United Biscuits, latterly acquisition in 2002, with responsibility for its integration into the in General Management.
During Andrew Davison, LLB, Company Tesco Express format.
this time he attended the PMD Secretary.
Andrew, a solicitor, was course at Harvard Business appointed as Company Secretary School.
He is a member of The Richard Hutton FCA Finance and was appointed Managing London Stock Exchanges North Director, 40, was appointed to the Director in January 1984.
He held East Regional Advisory Group, a Board on 13 March 2006.
He this position until he retired in July former Chairman of the Law qualified as a Chartered Accountant 2008, when he became a non-executive director of the Societys Standing Committee on with KPMG and gained career Company.
He is not a member of any of the Board's standing Company Law and was a member experience with Procter & Gamble committees.
of the Consultative Committee for before joining Greggs in 1998.
He the Fundamental Review of was appointed Finance Director on Company Law, sponsored by the DTI, which led to the passing 10 May 2006. of the Companies Act 2006.
During 2008, Sir Ian Gibson and Stephen Curran retired from the Board.
Kennedy McMeikan and Roger Whiteside joined the Board and Sir Michael Darrington became a non-executive director on his retirement as Managing Director.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 28 29 Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Effectiveness scrutinise the performance of management The Companys articles of association endeavour i to ensure that the accounting as an Audit Committee.
The Committee identifying suitable candidates from which in meeting agreed goals and objectives require that all directors must retire and and financial policies of the Company are also has access to the Group financial the Committee selects a short list and The Board, under the chairmanship of and monitor the reporting of performance.
seek election at the first AGM following proper and effective: ii to assist the Board team and to its auditors and can seek conducts interviews.
The final candidate Derek Netherton, meets regularly to All directors receive induction training on appointment.
Thereafter, any non-executive is then subject to formal recommendation in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by further professional advice, at the discharge its duties.
At these meetings, it joining the Board and regularly update director who has served on the Board for by the Committee and approval by the monitoring the integrity of the accounts Companys cost, if required.
reviews Group strategy, performance, and refresh their knowledge through more than nine years must seek re-election Board.
This process was adopted for the and information published by the resources, risk management procedures The Remuneration Committee currently reading, attendance on relevant courses annually.
One half of the remaining selection of Ken McMeikan as the new Company: iii to review the internal and other matters reserved for the Board.
consists entirely of independent nonand or activities outside the Company.
directors, being those who have been in Chief Executive.
financial controls and the Groups Whilst the executive responsibility for executive directors Julie Baddeley - Chair, office longest since last re-election, and approach to risk management: iv to running the Companys business rests As part of the process of maintaining an Each of the Committees is provided with Bob Bennett and Roger Whiteside.
The any other director who has not been monitor compliance with the Listing Rules ultimately with the Chief Executive, Ken awareness of the Companys activities and sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
Committees main duties which it elected or re-elected at either of the two and the recommendations of the McMeikan, the non-executive directors assessing the ability of the management discharged during the year are to preceding AGMs, must seek re-election Combined Code: and v to maintain an ensure that the strategies proposed by team, several members of the senior determine the basic salary, benefits in at each AGM.
appropriate relationship with the Relations with shareholders the executive directors are fully discussed management team are invited to attend kind, terms and conditions of employment, Companys external auditors and review and critically examined prior to adoption.
Board meetings and or to present papers All directors are able to receive training performance-related bonuses, share The Chairman ensures that there is the effectiveness and objectivity of the During 2008, the scheduled Board and to the Board.
This process also affords and to take independent professional options and pension benefits of the effective communication with individual and audit process.
Committee meetings and the number of senior managers the opportunity to bring advice at the expense of the Company.
executive directors and the Chairman on institutional shareholders through the meetings attended by each current matters to the attention of the Board.
They also have direct access to the During the year, the Committee, in behalf of the Board.
The Committee is announcement of regular trading director were as follows: Company Secretary, who is responsible performing these functions, reviewed the also responsible for the operation of the updates, as well as general presentations The Board is satisfied that a strategy is in for advising the Board, through the annual and interim accounts issued to Companys share option schemes and after announcement of the interim and place for orderly succession to the Board Chairman, on all governance matters.
shareholders, compliance with financial for monitoring the framework for, broad preliminary results and the posting of and to positions of senior management, reporting standards and the size and policy in respect of, and levels of results on the Companys website.
The The Chairman meets with the nonremit of the internal audit function.
The remuneration of the Companys senior Main Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Board receives reports on any comments executive directors annually without the Committee also considered and made management.
A separate executive Committee Committee Committee received from shareholders following executive directors present.
The Senior recommendations to the Board in relation director committee sets, after discussion these presentations.
Independent Director meets the nonNumber of meetings held 6 3 7 4 to the independence and objectivity of the with the Chairman, the fees for the nonexecutive directors without the Chairman The Board considers that the AGM is the Derek Netherton 6 - - 4 external auditors including the impact of executive directors so as to ensure that present annually to appraise the Chairmans main forum for communication with any non-audit work undertaken by them no director is involved in setting his or performance.
The performance of the Ken McMeikan investors, with the Chairmen of the Board and their suitability for re-appointment.
The Directors Board, its Committees and of all directors appointed 1 June 2008 3 - - - and its Committees available to answer The Audit Committee determined the Remuneration report is set out on pages is evaluated annually by a formal and any issues raised and any newly Richard Hutton 6 - - - scope of the external audit in discussion 71 to 80 of this annual report.
Each director completes appointed directors being available to meet with the external auditors and agreed their a questionnaire.
The results are fed back Raymond Reynolds 6 - - - The Nominations Committee currently shareholders.
In addition, the Company fees in respect of the audit.
to the Chairman and the Senior comprises Derek Netherton - Chairman, Secretary and the Companys Brokers Mike Darrington 6 - - 2 Independent Director and then to the The Committee normally meets with the and all of the non-executive directors draw the attention of the Board to all Board for discussion.
These discussions Julie Baddeley 6 3 7 4 Finance Director and the external excluding Mike Darrington.
are used to identify actions to improve auditors in attendance, although time is Committees main functions which it The Board also reviews briefings and Bob Bennett 6 3 7 3 effectiveness and also to identify set aside annually for discussion between discharged during the year are to review comments by analysts in order to maintain Roger Whiteside individual and collective training needs.
the Committee and the external auditors the balance and constitution of the Board: an understanding of market perceptions appointed 17 March 2008 4 1 4 1 and with the internal auditors, in each to advise the Board as to whether of the Company.
The Senior Independent case in the absence of all executive directors retiring by rotation should be Director is available to shareholders if they Board Committees directors.
The Committee has the power nominated for re-election by the members: The Board has adopted a paper identifying have concerns which contact through so as to maintain an appropriate balance to engage outside advisers if it sees fit.
and to approve and manage the process the separation of the roles of the Chairman The Board delegates some of its activities the normal channels of the Chairman, of skills and experience within the The Committee also monitors and reviews for setting the specification for all Board and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman to the following committees, each of Chief Executive or Finance Director have Company and on the Board.
the effectiveness of the internal audit appointments, identifying candidates who sets the agenda for Board meetings and which has written terms of reference, failed to resolve, or for which such contact ensures that the Board is supplied, in a After carefully reviewing the guidance in which are available on the Companys activities.
meet that specification and making is not appropriate.
timely manner, with information in a form the Combined Code, all of the continuing website.
The Company Secretary acts as recommendations to the Board on the The Combined Code requires the Board At the AGM, the balance of proxy votes and of a quality appropriate to enable it to non-executive directors are considered secretary to each of these Committees.
basis of merit and compliance with to be satisfied that at least one member cast for and against each resolution and discharge its duties.
The Board considers by the Board to be independent in objective criteria in respect of all new The Audit Committee currently consists of the Audit Committee has recent and the number of abstentions is displayed.
that it effectively leads and controls the character and judgement and to be free Board appointments.
of three independent non-executive relevant financial experience - the Board All substantial issues, including the Company.
All directors take decisions from any business or other relationship directors Bob Bennett - Chairman, Julie is satisfied in this respect and is confident In recruiting additional directors, the receipt of the annual report and accounts, objectively and in the interests of the or circumstance which is likely to affect Baddeley and Roger Whiteside.
The that the collective experience of the Nominations Committee defines the role are proposed at the AGM as separate Company.
The non-executive directors or to interfere with the exercise of their Committees main functions are to members enables them to act effectively and uses external consultants to assist in resolutions.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 30 31
