Directors Report and Business Review for the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Risk Management Operating Board The Company continually monitors Financial Reporting and up to the date of approval of the being eligible, offer themselves for remarket trends, the performance of its annual report and accounts.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the The Operating Board, answerable directly The Company operates a comprehensive competitors and the performance of its Groups system of internal control, which to the Chief Executive, is responsible for financial control system.
Divisional Accountability, Audit and Going Concern own products and retail formats.
covers all aspects of the business, and implementing decisions of the Main Board Financial Controllers have responsibility The Board acknowledges its responsibility Directors Indemnities and conflicts Consumer research is carried out and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, and providing protection against the for implementation of the Companys to present a balanced and understandable key market reports are monitored.
any such system can only be designed major risks by various techniques, As at the date of this report, indemnities financial management policies within each assessment of the Companys position to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk including strategic planning, monitoring, are in force under which the Company operating division.
Each Divisional Operational and prospects.
This is fulfilled by the of failure to achieve the Companys supervision and training.
has agreed to indemnify the directors, to Financial Controller works closely with their statements contained in the Chairmans The safety of our products, employees objectives and, therefore, is only able to the extent permitted by law, in respect of divisional General Managers to monitor Risk Committee statement and Chief Executives report, and customers is paramount.
Detailed provide reasonable, and not absolute, losses arising out of or in connection performance against plan.
In addition, which supplement the statutory accounts assurance against material misstatement systems are in place to ensure that we The Risk Committee, consisting of the with the execution of their duties, powers assets and liabilities are scrutinised at themselves.
A statement of directors or loss.
The directors regularly review the are operating safely and these systems heads of each management function or responsibilities as directors of the several levels on a regular basis and risks to which the Company is exposed, as responsibilities in respect of the preparation are subject to regular audit to ensure within the business, has responsibility for Company.
The indemnities do not apply remedial action is taken where required.
well as the operation and effectiveness of accounts is given on page 37. analysing, assessing, measuring and compliance.
High priority is given to in situations where the relevant director A comprehensive annual planning of the system of internal controls.
This is A statement of auditors responsibilities understanding the Companys risk implementing any resulting has been guilty of fraud or wilful process is carried out, which determines an ongoing process which involves the is given in the report of the auditors on environment, as well as devising a sound recommendations.
expected levels of performance for all identification, evaluation and management risk management strategy for review and page 38. aspects of the business.
Each Divisional Detailed plans are in place for all our of the significant risks faced by the Under the authority granted to them in approval by the Board.
The Risk After making enquiries, the directors have Financial Controller can also report major production facilities to maintain Company.
Key elements of the internal the Companys articles of association, the Committee reports its findings and a reasonable expectation that the Group directly to the Group Finance Director on business continuity in the event of any control system, which have been in important changes to the Board on a Board has considered carefully any has adequate resources to continue in matters of financial control.
In 2009 a new potentially disruptive occurrence.
place during the whole of the year under regular basis through personal situation declared by any director operational existence for the foreseeable accounting system has been introduced review and up to the date of approval of presentation, narrative reports and key pursuant to which he has or might have a future further details of this assessment with some responsibility for financial this annual report and accounts, are: performance indicators internal and conflict of interest and, where it are included in the Basis of preparation management being passed to a shared Policies and Procedures external to the organisation and through considers it appropriate to do so, has on page 42 and note 2.
For this reason, service centre.
The Risk Committee authorised the continuation of that Policies and procedures, covering control they continue to adopt the going concern Board of Directors also feeds the results of its assessments situation.
In exercising its authority, the issues across appropriate aspects of the basis in preparing the accounts.
back into the Operating Boards business The Board takes a proactive approach to directors have had regard to their business, are defined and communicated Whistle Blowing planning process at least annually.
The the management of all forms of risk, and statutory and other duties to the Company.
to the respective managers and staff at risks are assessed on a regular basis views risk management as a vital The Company has whistle blowing all levels.
Adherence is monitored and Fixed assets across all functional areas but, in constituent of its role.
At each Board procedures in place, which enable reported upon.
particular, the areas of food safety, health meeting, the effectiveness of the controls In the opinion of the directors, the market employees to bring matters to the and safety, information flow, asset relating to the most significant risks i. e. value of all of the Groups properties is not attention of the senior management and protection and regulatory requirements.
those which may restrict the Companys significantly different from their historical for the confidential, proportionate and Health and Safety ability to meet its objectives are monitored net book amount.
independent consideration and follow-up The Board considers the key risks to the and reviewed.
The Audit Committee, on The Company is committed to improving of any matter so raised.
The whistle Group to be as follows: behalf of the Board, conducts a formal continuously the working environment, blowing procedures are reviewed review of risks and risk management with the objective that accidents and work Directors and their interests regularly by the Audit Committee.
procedures and reports its findings to the related ill health should progressively be Organisational The names of the directors in office during Board.
Remedial action is determined reduced.
Health and Safety Officers and the year together with their relevant The success of the Company is dependent where appropriate.
For some key risks, Occupational Nurses are appointed in Internal Audit interests in the share capital of the upon the efforts and abilities of its where it is felt necessary, specialist every Division and operational policies employees.
The Company has established Company at 27 December 2008 and 29 The internal audit function visits every advice is sought from external agencies and procedures are subject to both remuneration packages that will attract, December 2007 or at date of appointment and professional advisers.
The Board also Division on an annual basis and reviews internal and external audit.
Targets are retain and motivate individuals with if later are set out in note 25 to the reviews, at least annually, the level and performance of the Division across a range set and programmes are devised to appropriate skills and experience.
scope of insurance cover maintained accounts.
Details of directors share of financial and non-financial requirements, implement them.
This approach involves Organisational structure is regularly within the business.
The Board receives options are set out in the Directors reporting findings to senior management a rigorous health assessment, during reports from management on significant reviewed and there are group-wide Remuneration report on pages 71 to 80. and direct to the Audit Committee.
which hazards are identified, risks processes for the training and development changes in the business and external In accordance with the Companys Articles assessed, control measures applied and The Board confirms that it has reviewed environment which might affect the risk of all employees.
of Association, Mike Darrington, Derek improvement actions agreed to manage the effectiveness of the system of profile.
It has also set in place a system External factors Netherton, Bob Bennett, Raymond residual risks.
internal control covering all material of regular hierarchical reporting which Reynolds and Ken McMeikan retire from controls, including financial, operational, provides for relevant details and Changes in the retail trading environment the Board.
All, except Mike Darrington, compliance and risk management assurances on the assessment and control or in customer preferences will clearly who has decided not to seek re-election, systems during the year under review of risks to be given to it.
have a significant effect on the business.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 32 33
