Directors Remuneration Report continued Overview of Remuneration Policy As Mike Darrington retired from his full time position as Group Managing Director on 31 July 2008, his bonus payment is pro-rated for the 7 month period of his executive appointment.
Ken McMeikan was appointed to the Board from 1 June 2008.
His bonus payment is pro-rated accordingly.
Objective Performance period Basis of delivery For 2009 the maximum target bonus levels will be established on the following basis: Base Salary Reflects market levels based Reviewed annually Individual performance on role and individual skill and and contribution Elements of bonus experience recognised to ensure Maximum bonus Financial Strategic Personal market competitiveness achievable as a % target target objectives of basic salary Annual Bonus inc Profit Share Incentivises achievement of annual Reviewed annually Balanced approach based targets and objectives consistent with on financial, strategic Ken McMeikan 90% 60% 20% 20% the short to medium term strategic and personal objectives Richard Hutton 70% 60% 20% 20% needs of the business Penalty applied to strategic and personal objectives if Raymond Reynolds 70% 60% 20% 20% financial target missed Whilst each element can be measured separately, failure to exceed the profit level achieved in 2008 will result in no bonus being earned for either the LTIP Incentivises long term value creation Annual award Award subject to financial or strategic elements.
Alignment with shareholders interests Three year performance demanding EPS targets Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Retention incentive period Maximum reward will only occur for upper quartile Under this scheme, the Committee invites the participants including executive directors to use a proportion not more than 50% of their post tax annual performance bonus including profit share to acquire shares in the Company and will then grant nil cost options to match the pre-tax value of the sum invested with a match of up to 2:1 available.
These nil cost options will be exercisable normally after three years and only if certain performance criteria have been met.
For Pension Provides a market competitive level Cost increases in line Defined contribution benefits the initial award, made in 2007, performance targets were set as average growth in earnings per share of 3% above RPI for a 1:1match and 7.5% above of provision with good flexibility with salary growth RPI for a 2:1 match, with a straight line graph indicating the relevant match for performance in between.
For the award in 2008 the performance targets are while minimising risk to the Company set as average growth in earnings per share of 3% above the RPI for a 1:1 match and 10% above the RPI for a 2:1 match, providing a further stretch in order to achieve the maximum award.
Given the low level of bonus payments for 2008, the Committee will not offer participation in the LTIP in 2009.
Annual Bonus Other share based incentive schemes The Committee seeks to structure annual bonus arrangements so as to encourage long term sustainable growth in the Companys profits and, therefore, is satisfied that the structure will not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently encouraging irresponsible behaviour.
The Committees There have also been occasional grants to the executive directors of options over shares in the Company, pursuant to one or more of the share option policy is that all bonus payments to executive directors should be non-pensionable.
schemes operated through the Committee.
These include both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved long-term share incentive schemes, designed to encourage the executive directors and other employees to hold shares in the Company and to enhance share values.
For 2008 the maximum target bonus levels were established on the following basis: In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the total number of new shares and shares held in treasury over which the Company may grant options Elements of bonus is limited and the Company has chosen to allocate a significant proportion of the shares available to the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme Maximum bonus Financial Strategic Personal open to all employees, including executive directors.
Any future grants of options to executive directors pursuant to the Senior Executive Share Option achievable as a % target target objectives Schemes will be based upon the need to secure individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at the date of appointment of basic salary or to help to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, especially if the LTIP is not available to a particular individual, or where the Mike Darrington 95% 65% - 35% Committee considers it appropriate.
No options were granted to executive directors pursuant to the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes in 2008.
However, as they will not be offered participation in the LTIP in 2009 and the proposed new Performance Share Plan will not be available until 2010 if approved Ken McMeikan 90% 70% - 30% by shareholders, the Committee intends to grant options to the executive directors pursuant to the Senior Executive Share Option Schemes in 2009.
Richard Hutton 70% 60% 20% 20% The above policies enable the executive directors to receive potentially significant benefits in addition to their basic salaries, but only if value has been Raymond Reynolds 70% 60% 20% 20% created for shareholders.
The Committee considers that, although the non-performance related elements of the executive directors remuneration packages are substantial, the performance related elements are significant in terms of providing motivation to the executive directors to improve shareholder value.
Each element can be measured and rewarded separately.
However, a penalty is applied if the financial target is not met.
The penalty is a 1 3rd reduction if Performance Share Plan the financial target is missed by up to 5% and a penalty of 2 3rd reduction if the financial target is missed by between 5% and 15%.
If the financial target is missed by more than 15% then no bonus will be paid for any element, although the individual directors would still be eligible to participate in the all employee Shareholder approval is being sought in 2009 for the introduction of a Performance Share Plan from 2010.
The plan would replace the current Long Term profit sharing scheme.
Incentive Plan which is dependent on the level of annual bonus and hence balanced towards short term performance.
The introduction of a Performance Share Plan, under which an award of shares will be made in line with the level awarded under the current LTIP, restricted for three years and vesting in full or part, subject to the achievement of a combination of EPS growth and total shareholder return targets, will provide a greater focus on achieving key long term business goals and increased shareholder value.
Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Greggs Annual Report and Accounts 2008 72 73
