14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 42 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the consolidated Profits and dividends financial statements of Halfords Group plc the The Groups results for the year are set out in the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings Consolidated Income Statement on page.
the Group for the 52 weeks to 28 March 2008.
The profit before tax on ordinary activities was 90.2m Principal activities 2007: 80.9m and the profit after tax amounted to Halfords Group plc is a public limited company 64.0m 2007: 57.4m.
incorporated in England, registered number 04457314, with its registered office at Icknield Street Drive, The Directors propose that a final dividend of 10.35p Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE.
per ordinary share be paid on 30 July 2008 to shareholders whose names are on the register of The principal activity of the Group is the retailing of members at the close of business on 13 June 2008.
This payment, together with the interim dividend of auto, leisure and cycling products.
The Group operates 4.75p per ordinary share paid on 7 January 2008, from 430 stores in the UK, and via overseas branches, makes a total for the year of 15.10 pence per ordinary 17 stores in the Republic of Ireland and three in the share.
The total final dividend payable to shareholders Czech Republic.
The principal activity of the Company for the year is estimated to be 22.2m.
Lloyds TSB is that of a holding Company.
Offshore Trust Limited, trustee of the Halfords Employee Share Trust, has waived its entitlement to Business review dividends.
The Chairmans statement on pages and, the Business Review on pages and and the Finance Performance monitoring Directors review on pages and provide a review The successful delivery of the Groups strategic of the business and progress against its key objectives is monitored by the Board through Key performance indicators during the year and Performance Indicators KPIs and the periodic descriptions of possible future developments and the review of various aspects of the Group operations.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, and Board considers the following KPIs as appropriate form part of this Directors Report.
measures for the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Corporate governance The Corporate Governance report on pages to forms part of this Directors Report.
Financial and operational Definition Revenue and like-for-like sales Growth in revenue measures delivery against our store growth objectives and through like-for-like revenue the strength of our customer offer.
Operating profit Continued growth of operating profits enables the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Number of store openings The Group is committed to bringing its products offering to as many consumers as possible through the development of its property portfolio.
This also contributes to revenue growth.
wefit werepair jobs Halfords unique service fitting proposition is key to maintaining our differentiation from more mainstream operators.
Fitting and repair jobs completed represents a good measure of awareness and execution of this core proposition.
Donations Halfords reached a target of 100,000 for the Trust with During the year the Group contributed 30,000 2007: stores selling special pin badges, holding events and 40,000 to charities in the UK, including donations to individual employees undertaking all sorts of BEN, a charity supporting individuals and families challenges ranging from running marathons to holding linked to the motor industry and associated trades, and charity auctions.
a donation to the Warwickshire Firefighters Fund following the death of four locally stationed firemen in a The Groups policy is not to make any donations for fire at Atherstone-on-Stour in November 2007. political purposes.
However, the Companies Act 1985 defines the term donations very widely and, as a During 2007 Halfords partnered its first ever Charity Of result, certain expenses legitimately incurred as part of The Year, the Meningitis Trust.
Colleagues throughout the process of talking to Government at all levels and 42 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 43 Owning shares in the Company is an important way making the Groups position known, are now of strengthening colleagues involvement in the reportable.
Although during the year no such development of the Groups business and bringing expenditure or political donations were made, together their and shareholders interests.
The Group resolutions were passed at the 2005 Annual General therefore encourages the Groups colleagues to Meeting that provided for limited authority for such participate in its Sharesave Scheme.
expenditure, such authority remaining valid until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in Directors 2008, and as such the Company will be asking for this The following persons were Directors during the limited authority to be renewed at the Annual General 52 weeks to 28 March 2008: Meeting to be held on 23 July 2008.
Richard Pym Colleagues Ian McLeod resigned 29 February 2008 The Board seeks to instil high standards of customer Nick Wharton care and service in the Group and the commitment of Paul McClenaghan appointed 31 March 2007 every colleague to this business requirement is Nigel Wilson considered to be critical.
The Group has established a Keith Harris framework of communication for colleagues Bill Ronald concerning business performance and Company benefits.
Group-wide training reinforces the Groups In accordance with the Companys Articles of commitment to colleague involvement and Association, Nigel Wilson and Keith Harris are retiring development.
by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election The Group is committed to the principle of equal at that meeting.
opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or colleague receives less favourable Directors interests treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, The Directors interests in shares and options over race, ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, age, or shares in the Company are shown in the Directors is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which Remuneration Report on pages to.
cannot be shown to be justified.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable and No Director had a material interest at any time during which seek to promote entry into and progression the year in any contract with the Company or any of its within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely subsidiary undertakings, other than his service by application of job criteria, personal ability and contract.
During the year the Company maintained liability The Group gives full and fair consideration to insurance for its Directors and officers.
The Directors of applications for employment made by disabled the Company, and the Directors of each of the persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit of an abilities, wherever suitable opportunities exist, and indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of training and career development support are provided, Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a where appropriate.
Should a colleague become qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined by disabled when working for the Group, efforts are made section 309A of the Companies Act 1985, was in force to continue their employment and retraining is throughout the year and is currently in force.
Directors indemnities A whistle-blowing policy and procedure is in place and has been notified to staff.
The policy enables them Article 141 the Companys Articles of Association to report any concerns on matters affecting the Group provides that every Director is entitled to be or their employment, without fear of recrimination, and indemnified out of the assets of the Company against reduces the risk of things going wrong or of all costs and liabilities incurred by him in the execution malpractice taking place and remaining unreported.
In of his duties or the exercise of his powers or otherwise addition, the Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to in connection with his duties, powers or office including matters of discrimination, harassment and bullying in any liability incurred by him in defending any all aspects of its business operations, whether they proceedings, civil or criminal, which relate to anything relate to sex, race, national origin, disability, age, done or omitted to have been done or omitted by him religion or sexual orientation, and policies and as an officer of the Company and in which judgement procedures are also in place for reporting and dealing is given in his favour or in which he is acquitted.
com Halfords Group plc 43 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Directors Report 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 44 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Directors Responsibilities Major Shareholders The statement of Directors responsibilities in preparing At 4 June 2008, the Companys share register of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements can be substantial shareholdings showed the following found on page of the annual report.
interests in 3% or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares: Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors of the Group have taken all the steps that Number % of they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make of issued themselves aware of any information needed by the Holder shares shares Groups Auditors in connection with preparing their Newton Investment Management report and to establish that the Auditors are aware of Resolution Asset Management that information and so far as the Directors are aware M&G Investment Management there is no such information of which the Groups Autobacs Seven Co. Ltd Auditors are unaware.
The Directors are responsible Jupiter Asset Management for maintaining the integrity of financial information F&C Asset Management which includes the Annual Report, together with Capital Group Companies other financial statements, presentations and Legal & General Investment announcements on the Groups website Management halfordscompany.
Legislation in the UK Rathbones concerning the preparation and dissemination of Aberforth Partners financial statements may differ from legislation in New Star Asset Management other jurisdictions.
Artemis Investment Management Supplier payment policy The Takeover Directive The Group does not follow any formal code or standard As at 28 March 2008, the Companys authorised share on payment practice, but agrees terms and conditions capital was 2,950,000 divided into 295,000,000 for its business transactions when orders for goods ordinary shares of 1p each nominal value ordinary and services are placed, and includes the relevant shares.
On 28 March 2008 there were 214,348,661 terms in contracts, where appropriate.
These ordinary shares in issue.
These ordinary shares are arrangements are adhered to when making payments, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
subject to the terms and conditions being met by suppliers.
The number of trade creditor days All ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting outstanding at the period end for the Group was 43 rights and the rights to receive dividends.
The Company is a holding acquired through Company shares schemes and plans company and had no trade creditors at the end of the rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no financial year.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts: to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no known arrangements under which the financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
44 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149 14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 45 Auditors The rules about the appointment and replacement of  LLP has indicated its Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of willingness to accept reappointment as the external Association.
Directors may be appointed by the auditor of the Company.
A resolution proposing its Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A reappointment is contained in the Notice of the AGM Director appointed by the Board holds office only until and will be put to shareholders at the meeting.
the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
At each AGM one-third of the Directors rounded down will Going concern retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and Group has adequate resources to continue in business those who have been longest in office since their last for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing must retire within a three-year period.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be Annual General Meeting approved by the shareholders in accordance with the The AGM will be held at the Alveston Manor Hotel, legislation in force from time to time.
Clopton Bridge, Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire, CV37 7HP, on Wednesday 23 July 2008 at 12.30 pm.
The Company does not have agreements with any The notice of the AGM and explanatory notes Director or employee that would provide compensation regarding the special business to be put to the meeting for loss of office or employment resulting from a are set out in a separate circular to shareholders takeover except that provisions of the Companys accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
share schemes and plan may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes By order of the Board and plans to vest on a take over.
Alex Henderson The Company has Term and Revolving facilities and Company Secretary under the terms of these credit facilities, the Company is required, in the event of a change of control, to give 4 June 2008 notification to the facility agent and if so required by the majority lenders the facilities may be cancelled.
Authority to purchase shares On 8 June 2006 the Company announced a share buy-back programme, to be effected over the following two years, of up to 50m.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 25 July 2007 shareholders approved a special resolution authorising the Company to purchase a maximum of 22,204,640 shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 22 June 2007, such authority expiring at the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2008.
The 50m share buy-back programme was completed ahead of schedule on 31 January 2008, and the Directors will continue to optimise the Groups balance sheet to enhance shareholder returns and intend to continue the share buy-back as a flexible tool in balance sheet management.
In the 52 weeks to 28 March 2008 9,453,738 shares of 1p each 2007: 9,003,956, representing a nominal value of 94,537 2007: 90,040, have been purchased and cancelled, representing 4.4% of the Companys issued share capital as at 28 March 2008.
The aggregate consideration including stamp duty paid for the shares was 30.3m.
com Halfords Group plc 45 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Directors Report
