BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT Strategic review We operate in relatively non-cyclical markets with resilient growth drivers.
This enables us to increase shareholder value via organic growth and acquisitions.
MACRO-ECONOMIC, REGULATORY AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT RETURN ON SALES Our expectation for 2008 09 is that the macro-economic environment will be generally favourable to our growth strategy.
We expect a higher risk of instability in the global economy but anticipate that for us any demand reduction in specic markets will be more than offset by: rising demand in developing regions: extending sales channels and gaining market share in developed regions: % and more value-enhancing acquisitions.
Increasing environmental and safety legislation in our markets is favourable to us since it 18.4 creates demand for our products.
Global, national and regional product approvals and technical validations are an increasing cost and technical challenge, but also form an increasing barrier to market entrants.
REVENUE GROWTH TO ASIA While a slowdown in the more mature economies may moderate our rate of organic growth, we have a resilient business mix.
Many Halma products sell into highly regulated markets characterised by low sales cyclicality.
Demand resilience due to many of our products being driven by non-discretionary customer spend, together with the diversity of our product portfolio, % geographic market spread and a significant contribution from service income, upgrading and replacement products provide protection from unfavourable macro-economic trends.
21 While our markets are competitive, sales are spread across a wide range of industries: our largest single market is re detection approximately 15% of revenue and our largest individual customer constitutes less than 3% of Halma revenue.
This wide spread of activity means that competition issues are analysed at subsidiary company or operating sector level and our competitive environment is considered in the Sector reviews on pages 16-27.
GROUP STRATEGY AND FORWARD VISION We have a clear vision of how the world is changing.
Increased regulation and legislation, longterm demographic trends and generally higher safety, health and environmental expectations are relevant examples.
As the world changes, our customers and their needs change too.
Within our operating businesses growth strategies tend to have a three to five-year horizon.
However, at Group level, our strategy for acquiring businesses, developing positions in markets and investing in manufacturing resources has a horizon of 10 years or more.
We position our businesses in markets which we identify as relatively non-cyclical.
We select markets with good prospects of long-term, sustained growth whatever the prevailing macroeconomic conditions.
Our criteria for choosing markets is that they are underpinned by resilient growth drivers.
OUR PRIMARY GROWTH DRIVERS Demand for energy and water resources Worldwide growth in energy and water consumption is relentless.
The total world consumption 1 of marketed energy is projected to increase by 57% from 2004 to 2030.
Despite the predicted economic slowdown in the USA, Asian economies are forecast to grow by 7.6% in 2008, with 2 the PRC economy expanding by 10%.
As an indicator of rising energy demand, Asian electricity 1 generation is predicted to rise annually by more than 4% from 2004 to 2030.
These trends favour our Industrial Safety businesses as investment in oil exploration and power generation continues to rise.
Growth in population, ageing and urbanisation While population growth, ageing and urbanisation are sales drivers with a global dimension, their impact on our businesses is different regionally.
For example, population growth and urbanisation drives demand for our Infrastructure Sensor products in Asia while the ageing population in the Western World drives demand for health products.
By the end of 2008 more than half of the worlds population, 3.3 billion people, will be living 3 in urban areas, rising to almost 5 billion by 2030.
The next few decades will see unprecedented urban growth, particularly in the developing world.
Urbanisation drives investment in nonresidential buildings like shops, ofces, schools and hospitals, the primary market for our infrastructure sensors.
1 International Energy Outlook 2007, Energy Information Administration US Government 2 Asian Development Outlook 2007, Asian Development Bank 3 State of World Population 2007, UNFPA United Nations See Financial highlights Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 11 DIRECTORS REPORT Strategic review continued Poor water quality and the urgent need to conserve water resource stimulate demand for our water leak location equipment, water quality testing kits and UV water treatment systems.
Increasing demand for healthcare Many factors are fuelling the growing worldwide demand for healthcare and our health related products.
The USA, the worlds largest healthcare market, is expected to grow at an annual rate of 6.7% from 2007 to 2017.
US healthcare spending will rise from 16.3% of GDP in 2007 to 19.5% 4 in 2017.
In the developed world population ageing creates rising demand, whereas in the developing world economic development is making healthcare affordable to an increasing number of people.
Throughout the world, advances in medical technology enable new medical procedures, stimulating demand for new instruments and equipment.
Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety Each year as many as 270 million people suffer occupational accidents and 160 million contract occupational diseases.
Approximately two million people die from work-related accidents and 5 diseases annually.
To combat this, governments worldwide introduce increasingly rigorous safety and environmental legislation to provide improved safety and quality of life.
Failure to address these risks carries a huge potential cost to our customers.
Globalisation also drives demand for safety equipment.
Western multinational businesses see the development of transnational safety and health standards as good business practice, effectively exporting high safety standards to the countries they operate in.
In time, these practices become integrated into the regulatory frameworks of the host countries.
This is a process we see evolving in Asia currently.
New technology During the past year, Halma companies spent 4.7% of revenue 18.6m on R&D and introduced around 90 new products into their market niches.
Although we develop leading edge technology in some businesses, for example our Photonics business, most of our R&D is spent on taking proven technology and applying it in new ways using our market leading understanding of the application challenges.
Our R&D resources are placed in each of the subsidiary companies to ensure market needs are understood and met efficiently.
This agility results in products with superior performance and value for customers delivering strong product margins and sustained revenue growth.
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Organic growth Our strategic priorities for 2008 09 are to continue to deliver organic growth and maintain a balance between investment and profitability.
The ability to grow and to make additional investments is an important element of our progress over the past three years.
Acquisitions We want to accelerate our rate of growth by acquisition.
We have invested more resources in our search for acquisitions and to ensure newly acquired businesses are integrated effectively.
The characteristics of target businesses and their markets are most important.
They have to be a good t with our operating culture and strategy in addition to being value-enhancing nancially.
Asian business expansion We are seeing continued progress and opportunities in Asia where revenue grew by 21% this year and represents around 11% of the Group total.
The Halma China hubs created in 2006 resulted in 16 Group companies with a presence in the country, up from three originally.
Since then we have made small investments in Fire and Gas Detection and are creating a manufacturing hub in Shanghai which will be operational in mid-2008.
We are establishing a new Halma India hub in Mumbai which will be operational by the end of 2008.
Management development We will continue to strengthen our management.
Our increased investment in training has improved the quality and exibility of our senior management and resulted in greater movement of managers across Group companies.
Active management of our people resources is a key factor in our ability to sustain long-term growth.
Executive Board responsibilities are adjusted regularly to match our strategic priorities.
High rate of innovation Innovation is continually improving from an already high standard.
Our emphasis is on both product and process innovation since the latter often results in significant competitive advantage for niche businesses.
The quality of entries in our monthly and annual innovation awards, together with the high number of new products launched each year, underline this success.
4 Outlook Healthcare Properties 2008, Grubb & Ellis Company US 5 Decent Work, Safe Work, International Labour Ofce 12 www.
