DIRECTORS REPORT Strategic review continued Risks and resources These are the major risks and uncertainties facing us and what we are doing to identify, manage and mitigate them.
We seek to continuously grow our profits, growth criteria is an important part of our strategy managed.
The Group is currently increasing generating a high return for shareholders over for developing the Group, as is ensuring the new contributions with the overall objective of the long term.
We view risk within the context businesses are rapidly integrated into the Group.
paying off the deficit in line with the We aim to pay sensible multiples for businesses Actuarys recommendations.
of this objective as well as in absolute terms.
In any business the inherent risks that are an whose technology and markets we typically know well.
In the past year, we have increased integral component of business activities must TREASURY RISKS be identied, managed and mitigated.
Our key the resource allocated to these activities, focusing The Group does not use complex derivative on sectors where we see the greatest means of risk control is the choice of the financial instruments and no speculative opportunity.
These new resources are targeted to markets in which we operate and the people treasury transactions are undertaken.
Foreign increase the pipeline of opportunities and ensure and methods we use to exploit those market currency risk is the most significant treasury post-acquisition integration is successfully opportunities.
We perceive our primary related risk for the Group.
operational risks to emanate from remoteness denominated net assets and transactions are of operation and the actions and quality of our hedged but future currency profits are not R&D employees.
Accordingly we invest heavily in hedged.
The Sterling value of overseas profit identifying, recruiting and training talented New products are critical to our organic growth earned during the year is sensitive to the people who are able to manage these risks and underpin our ability to earn high margins strength of Sterling, particularly against the US while delivering the excellent results we require.
and high returns over the long term.
R&D is of Dollar and the Euro.
The Group is exposed to Our choice to operate in the safety products necessity a risky activity but by devolving control a lesser extent to other treasury risks such as and health-related technology markets, and of product development into the autonomous interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
These the depth of market knowledge we have built operating businesses, we spread the risk and financial risks are discussed more fully in note up within the Group, allows us to adequately ensure that the resource is as close to the 26 to the accounts.
evaluate and assess the risks we encounter customer as possible, giving the maximum throughout our operations.
Protection of our intellectual LAWS AND REGULATIONS We do not place undue reliance on any one property is important to our continued success.
Group operations are subject to wide-ranging Group company nor does any one Group Whilst no single product or process is critical to laws and regulations including employment, company rely heavily on one customer or the Group as a whole, all appropriate actions are environmental and health and safety transaction.
In managing the portfolio of taken to protect our intellectual property rights.
There is also exposure to litigation companies within the Group and in managing and contractual risk.
All Group companies have the transactions in any one company, we seek FINANCIAL IRREGULARITIES AND INCREASING an employee handbook detailing employment to spread our risks.
We have processes in place SPAN OF CONTROL practices, including the need to report any to ensure any major transactions are reviewed We recognise that the size and remoteness of major legal or contractual risks.
The Groups at the appropriate level, including at Board level some operations may not permit full segregation emphasis on excellent financial control, the if necessary.
of duties and that Internal and External Audit deployment of high quality management Another factor limiting risk is that our products procedures may not always identify a financial resource and strong focus on quality control are predominantly critical components or irregularity.
This risk increases as we pursue our over products and processes in each operating instruments which are warranted as t for strategy of geographic expansion often into business helps to protect us from adverse the purpose rather than systems or intangible regions with different accounting bases and litigation and contractual issues.
Each operating products where satisfactory performance is cultures.
Therefore the Group ensures that there company has a health and safety manager contingent upon third parties.
is adequate local management and financial responsible for compliance and our resource in each operational location and performance in this area is excellent.
ORGANIC GROWTH AND COMPETITION regularly reiterates to the subsidiary company The Group faces competition in the form of ofcers their duciary responsibilities, ensuring INTANGIBLE RESOURCES ADDRESSING RISK pricing, service, reliability and substitution.
Our they are adequately trained in financial matters The main intangible resources which deliver focus on improving our rate of innovation is a whilst maintaining a culture of openness to competitive advantage and which support our direct result of assessing these risks and promote disclosure.
Group companies operate strategic objectives are: the patents and trade determining how best to concentrate our efforts.
a common set of reporting procedures and marks which protect our products: our Maintaining the high quality of our products is accounting policies, disseminated via the employees, whose understanding of our critical.
In addition, all businesses maintain Group intranet.
technology, customers needs and the management information systems that provide dynamics of the markets we operate in, enable local management with valuable product and PENSION DEFICIT us to maintain leadership in many markets: market data.
By empowering and resourcing Monitoring the funding needs of the Groups and the enviable reputation enjoyed by our local operations to respond to changing market pension plans is essential to funding our pension brands for superior product quality and market needs, we have shown that any adverse impact obligations effectively.
Our UK dened benefit leading customer support.
Our businesses of downward price pressure and competition pension plans are closed to new members.
build competitive advantage and strengthen can be mitigated.
There is regular dialogue with pension fund barriers to entry in many ways including trustees and pension strategy is a regular Halma patents, product approvals, technical ACQUISITIONS Board agenda item.
The Groups strong cash innovation, product quality, customer service The identication and purchase of businesses ows and access to adequate borrowing facilities levels and branding.
We look for these qualities which meet our demanding financial and mean that the pensions risk can be adequately in the businesses we seek to acquire.
com 470 million people live in regions with severe water shortages, predicted to increase to 3 billion by 2025 International Water Association Alabama, USA
