BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic principles KPIs We apply five strategic principles to We use financial Key Performance Indicators create shareholder value.
Operate in specialised global markets offering long-term growth underpinned Strong organic growth 8% 5% % across all sectors by robust growth drivers achieving organic 2007 Group target for the third growth rates above the blended long-term 8 consecutive year.
growth rate of our markets of around 5%.
Build businesses which lead specialised global markets through innovative products High margins with 18.7% 18% % continued investment differentiated on performance and quality 2007 Group target including costs of 18.4 rather than price alone.
Recruit and develop top quality boards to lead our businesses and nurture an Continued progress 8% 5% % entrepreneurial culture within a framework driven by strong top 2007 Group target line growth.
7 3 ROTIC RETURN ON TOTAL INVESTED CAPITAL 4.
Acquire companies and intellectual assets that extend our existing activities, enhance our Excellent returns for 14.0% 12% entrepreneurial culture, t into our decentralised % the Group well in 2007 Group target excess of our WACC operating structure and meet our demanding 14.1 of 8.4%.
3 ROCE RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED 5.
Achieve a high Return on capital employed to generate cash efficiently to fund organic High returns at 60% 45% % operating company growth, closely targeted acquisitions and 2007 Group target level.
4 R&D AS A PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE Another year of 4.3% 4% % increased investment 2007 Group target producing over 90 4.7 new products.
5 OPERATING CASH TO PROFIT Good cash conversion 106% 100% % after funding working 2007 Group target capital and assets 104 for growth.
See pages 32 to 35 for non-financial KPIs 1.
Organic growth measures the change in the revenue and profit from continuing Group operations.
The effect of acquisitions made during the current or prior financial period has been equalised by subtracting from the current year results a pro-rated contribution based on their revenue and profit at the date of acquisition.
Return on sales is dened as adjusted profit before taxation from continuing operations expressed as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
ROTIC and ROCE are non-GAAP measures used by management in measuring the returns achieved from the Groups asset base.
See note 3 to the accounts for details of the calculation basis.
Research and development expenditure as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
Cash generated from operations expressed as a percentage of adjusted profit from continuing operations.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 13
