Over 3,000 Permalog leak detectors monitor the underground water pipe network in the city of Birmingham, Alabama, USA to help conserve water in this drought-stricken region.
Permalog is a state-of-the-art, battery-powered acoustic sensor and data recording device which ts on mains water pipes via magnetic force and periodically sends a no leak radio signal or an alarm if a leak is detected.
Our water distribution system consists of almost 4,000 miles of transmission lines.
Leaks waste resources and raise costs for the city.
The Permalog sensors do a great job at nding leaks and have become an integral part of our water system.
Geoff Goodwin Director of Water Recovery, Birmingham Water Works Board City water supply Halmas making a difference DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review Infrastructure Sensors We make products which detect hazards to protect people and property in public and commercial buildings.
Infrastructure Sensors contributed 42% of Group revenue 167m and 38% 29m of Group profit.
Our principal products are sensors for re, security, automatic doors and elevator safety.
There are four sub-sectors see right.
WHERE WE OPERATE Belgium Japan Brazil New Zealand Canada Republic of Ireland China Singapore Czech Republic South Africa France Spain Germany UK India United Arab Emirates Italy USA STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS Organic revenue and profit growth Successful reorganisation of Elevator and Security businesses New sales ofces in Asia, Europe and the USA New Elevator products factory in Czech Republic Created joint venture for Fire products in China Launched over 30 new products STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Increase organic profit growth driven by revenue growth benefit from reorganisation in Elevator and Security businesses Increase regional sales and technical support ofces Introduce more new products from R&D and bolt-on acquisitions Relentlessly improve manufacturing efficiency 1 1 2 3 4 KPIs Revenue growth profit growth Return on sales ROCE R&D Sector Performance % % % % % 8 2 17.0 61 5.1 Group Target 5% 5% 18% 45% 4% GROWTH DRIVERS Growth in population, ageing and urbanisation Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety New technology 5 1.
Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year gure.
Return on sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
See note 1 to the accounts 16 www.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FIRE DETECTION SECURITY AUTOMATIC ELEVATOR SENSORS DOOR SAFETY SENSORS Market trends and growth drivers Legislation remains the primary growth driver in the Fire market.
There is a continuing global trend towards increasingly rigorous re safety regulations.
In the developing world, re product standards are often based on North American and European norms, which favour our products.
Recent revisions to Chinese re detector standards are causing several smaller local suppliers to exit the market.
Worldwide, demand for re detectors is steady with an annual estimated growth rate of just under 5%, predicted to continue until at least 2011.
Asia is the fastest growing sector with 1 average annual growth of 6.1%.
In the past year we saw continuing re market consolidation with more independent manufacturers acquired by multinationals.
Customers are moving towards more sophisticated re detection technologies such as addressable detectors, network systems and video-based smoke detection.
We work alongside our customers to ensure we are well placed to meet these needs in the future.
Our Security Sensors sell into a global security market with a projected annual growth rate to 2012 2 of 7.8%.
We see opportunities to increase our market share through better product innovation and customer service levels particularly outside our traditional strongholds, the UK and South Africa.
3 We estimate the market for Automatic Door sensors is growing by 3% to 4% annually.
However, within this there are geographic and specic application niches which are growing at a faster rate due to rising safety standards for example industrial door sensors and access for those with disabilities.
Elevators are typically refurbished and upgraded every 15 to 25 years to meet current safety regulations.
Worldwide, there is an installed base of 8 million elevators and each year around 4 400,000 new elevators are installed.
We expect the global elevator market to continue to grow at 5% to 6% annually, but with wide regional variation in the ratio of more profitable modernisation work to new construction.
The US market is an even mix of new build and modernisation, concentrated in large cities, where building re codes are the main sales drivers.
The mature European market is mostly 5 modernisation work with demand strongly driven by the EN81 safety standards which continue to be gradually adopted by individual countries.
New construction dominates the Asian elevator market, with the notable exception of Japan.
Sector strategy In this sector our principal strategic goal is to be the leading supplier of safety-critical sensor products and supporting technology for infrastructure monitoring in non-residential buildings.
We choose safety-critical products because these are non-discretionary spend items for non-residential buildings driven by regulatory requirements.
Our businesses are positioned as the expert supplier of safety-critical components, not as complete system builders or installers.
We aim not to compete with the global businesses that install complete building monitoring systems and position ourselves as an independent supplier to all of them.
This demands that we continue to expand our commercial, technical and manufacturing presence internationally.
For example, to increase Fire product sales we are strengthening local customer relationships and improving market intelligence.
To achieve this, we continue to set up new sales ofces in Europe, the USA and Asia.
We also plan to increasingly decentralise product development to accelerate new products designed to meet local standards.
To defend our market positions, we regularly review our intellectual property portfolio, ensuring global protection and policing our patented technologies.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 17 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued Infrastructure Sensors A continuing strategy is to build competitive advantage through manufacturing excellence.
The goal is to achieve advances in both quality and productivity so that our customers get market leading service levels consistently wherever they are located.
In early 2008, we agreed a new manufacturing joint venture for Fire sensors in China to help satisfy increasing demand in Asia.
In our Security business, we will continue to invest in new products, processes and people to grasp our international expansion opportunities, particularly into North America and Asia.
Strategic partners are in place to assist our aim of being a strong global player, complementing our market leadership in the UK and South Africa.
We have obtained new international product approvals, improved our manufacturing platform and rationalised our new product development programmes.
We are developing new intruder detection systems based on microwave and infrared sensors and have developed novel wireless communications technology for easier system installation and integration.
In addition to strengthening our position as the dominant world supplier of Automatic Door sensors for pedestrian doors, we are introducing novel new products to increase our share of the industrial door market.
A major new product to be launched in 2008 09, featuring a laser sensor, will reinforce our technology leadership and drive sales growth in this market.
During the past year we completed the implementation of the regional Elevator strategic reorganisation started in late 2006.
The creation of product focused manufacturing and R&D resources with a regionally aligned sales organisation is aimed at increasing profits through stronger revenue growth.
We believe we can shorten product lifecycles, maintain technological leadership via R&D, cut production costs and extend sales channels thereby maintaining a strong competitive advantage even against low cost competitors.
An international in-country sales presence is a key differentiator and we now operate 23 elevator sales ofces worldwide.
Three new ofces were opened in France, the USA and India during 2007 08 alone.
Sector performance Fire sector revenue and profits were at record levels as we continued to gain market share, notably in Europe.
Product margins improved due to product design and process innovations.
We achieved record sales of Security Sensors despite significant internal reorganisation to ensure success in our future global expansion plans.
Underlying profitability improved during the second half of the year indicating that the benets of these strategic changes are starting to emerge as planned.
Revenue and profit at our Automatic Door sensor business also set new records.
During 2007 08 we achieved strong progress in the USA and China and more modest progress in Europe.
Greater penetration of our products into specialist markets such as hospitals and schools contributed to growth.
Performance of our Elevator businesses was at during the first half of 2007 08 due to higher investment and overhead costs and showed some improvement during the second half.
1 Condential market research 2 World Security Equipment, The Freedonia Group Inc. 3 Internal market research and condential industry sources 4 Freedonia Industry Study 2016 World Elevators and elevator manufacturers websites 5 BS EN81-80:2003.
Rules for the improvement of safety of existing passenger and goods passenger lifts SECTOR OUTLOOK Our markets in this sector are underpinned by robust regulatory drivers for non-residential buildings generating demand from both modernisation of existing structures and new construction.
Therefore, they have proved to be resilient throughout the macro-economic downturns of the past.
We expect stable trading conditions to continue in our major market, Europe 61% of sector revenue including the UK, whilst our relative exposure to the US market only 19% of sector revenue will mitigate the impact on the sector of any major downturn in that region.
New sales channels, investment in worldwide product approvals and new products will create further opportunities in developing regions.
The Infrastructure Sensors sector is well placed for continued growth in 2008 09.
com The proportion of urban dwellers is predicted to rise from 3.2 billion in 2005 to 4.9 billion by 2030, roughly 60% of the worlds population World Urbanization Prospects, 2005.
United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Population Division 2006 Mumbai, India Our safety systems protect elevator passengers at the Hiranandani Estate, a huge complex within the Mumbai conurbation in India.
Halma elevator door sensors use up to 154 infrared beams to ensure that passengers entering or exiting lifts are detected and doors held open.
Infrared light curtains are a very positive product for elevator doors, and ensure the safety of passengers as they enter or leave the elevators.
Mr C K Pithawalla Director, Hiranandani Constructions Pvt.
Ltd Halmas making Public building a difference DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued Health and Analysis We make components and products used to improve personal and public health.
We also develop technologies and products which are used for analysis in safety, environmental and leisure related markets, including water.
Health and Analysis contributed 34% 135m of Group revenue and 37% 28m of Group profit.
WHERE WE OPERATE Australia South Korea China Switzerland France UK Germany USA Holland STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS Organic sales and profit growth Acquisition of Riester extending Health Optics Successful integration of Labsphere New sales resources and distributors in export territories More than 40 new product launches Inter-company collaboration producing unique new products Disposal of non-core business, Post Glover Lifelink STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Achieve organic profit growth through revenue growth Acquire businesses with familiar technology in similar markets Improve the quantity and quality of new product development Encourage more internal collaboration Accelerate investment in Asia 1 1 2 3 4 KPIs Revenue growth profit growth Return on sales ROCE R&D Sector Performance % % % % % 16 16 20.7 68 5.0 Group Target 5% 5% 18% 45% 4% GROWTH DRIVERS Demand for energy and water resources Growth in population, ageing and urbanisation Increasing demand for healthcare Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety New technology 5 1.
com See note 1 to the accounts WATER PHOTONICS HEALTH FLUID OPTICS TECHNOLOGY Market trends and growth drivers Demand for Water management products is driven by increasing regulatory control and water shortages due to nite resources, population growth and climate change.
Estimates 1 suggest that the US water industry is growing at 4% to 6% per year and at even faster rates elsewhere.
However, in absolute terms, the major markets remain in the UK and Europe.
Third party patent protection, covering the use of UV to treat drinking water in the USA, ended 2 thereby reopening the US market.
Our systems recently achieved NWRI validation for wastewater 3 reuse: USEPA drinking water validation will follow during 2008 09.
System validations are increasingly important, with US validation standards now required by many countries.
Our Photonics products sell into highly diverse niche markets.
These include biomedical, life sciences, analytical instrumentation, research, education, space, defence, homeland security, semiconductor and industrial applications.
At the leading edge of science and technology, our businesses continually spin off new applications and new customers.
For example, the widespread change to low-energy lighting, driven by environmental concerns, is creating strong demand for our light measurement products used for quality control, validation and new product development.
We maintained global leadership in light integrating spheres which capture light and miniature spectrometers which analyse light.
Whilst we are growing internationally, about two-thirds of Photonics sales are in the USA.
Growth depends on government science budgets for education, defence and homeland security and corporate spending by our OEM customers.
However, demand for products used in health analysis is underpinned by regulatory drivers which make these markets relatively resilient and non-cyclical.
We anticipate continued growth even in unfavourable economic conditions due to the exibility of our technology and the diversity of our end markets.
Demand for our Health Optics products continues to grow in response to rising incomes and access to healthcare in the developing world, and an ageing population and rising health expectations in the developed countries.
We estimate that the health optics market is growing 5% annually in developed economies and 2% to 3% worldwide.
Rising international and local product registration requirements add cost to new healthcare product development but also represent an increasingly high barrier to market entrants reinforcing the strong brand strength we have in our chosen markets.
The strength of the Euro boosted export growth for both our US and UK based optics companies to record levels.
In Fluid Technology, demand remains strong, especially from the fast-growing medical and environmental monitoring markets.
We have seen further consolidation of customers and expect this merger and acquisition trend to continue, and believe this offers us further opportunity for growth.
Sector strategy To remain the world market leader in Water leak reduction instrumentation, our strategy is to offer water utilities worldwide the most comprehensive range of leakage monitoring equipment available from one source supported by strong local sales and technical resources.
This requires continual investment in establishing resources in export markets and in new product development, increasingly in close cooperation with our customers.
Our Water UV companies are organised to focus on either municipal or industrial applications.
This strategy allows the companies to develop specialist applications experience and deliver enhanced customer service for the precise customer needs in their market segment.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued Health and Analysis In Photonics and Health Optics our primary strategy is to drive organic profit growth by extending our geographical presence in sales, product development and manufacturing.
We will also increase exploitation of our proprietary knowledge and patents.
R&D spending will continue at above average rates to maintain technology leadership.
We will encourage greater inter-company collaboration and seek complementary acquisitions.
Our Fluid Technology strategy is to extend our product portfolio and increase sales representation in new markets via organic growth and acquisitions.
Sector performance Sales of Water products set new records and delivered good organic profit growth.
Growth was particularly high in the UK where new products penetrated new wastewater monitoring markets and we also saw useful progress in Europe.
Our Photonics businesses achieved record revenue and profit.
The new Chinese photonics facility has contributed to sales growth and is now starting to play a key role in procurement and product development.
Our Health Optics companies also achieved record revenue aided by expansion of their worldwide distribution network and record numbers of sales staff in overseas markets.
There was growth in all major geographic regions.
The recent Riester acquisition will help to increase our footprint outside the USA and UK with the expectation that Europe and the Rest of World revenue will grow as the further contribution from Riester comes through in the coming year.
Riester manufacture premium handheld instruments for general medical practitioners.
These include blood pressure monitors, ear nose and throat instruments, opthalmoscopes and stethoscopes.
Good collaboration is already underway between Riester and our existing Health Optics businesses.
They can sell Riesters instruments to their ophthalmology market and also supply ophthalmoscopes for Riester to sell into their general medical market.
Geographically, Riesters strength in South America and other Spanish speaking territories plus one or two markets in Asia complements our existing strength in the UK and USA.
Riester gives us new distribution into the general medical market which may benefit other businesses in our Health and Analysis sector in the longer term.
Record revenue and profit were achieved by our Fluid Technology businesses.
This stemmed from continued higher investment in distribution and engineering resources focused on growing market share.
Growth came from a strong core business demand plus new customers.
1 American Water Works Association 2 NWRI U. S. National Water Research Institute awaiting validation documents 3 USEPA U. S. Environmental Protection Agency SECTOR OUTLOOK There are positive, resilient market drivers creating favourable conditions for growth in our Health and Analysis sector.
Across this sector increased manufacture, procurement and product development in developing countries will protect margins and enable continued revenue growth.
Increasing demand and regulation to raise Water supply efficiency and drinking water quality, plus environmental pressures on wastewater usage, will create favourable conditions for our Water businesses.
Increased cooperation on international sales distribution and new product development, between our Water businesses, should deliver continued growth during 2008 09.
In Photonics, we expect continued rapid growth in developing markets, particularly China.
This growth should more than offset any disruption to US government spending caused by the presidential election in November.
The overall outlook for Health Optics is for continuing sales and profit growth at market rates.
The first full year of trading at our recent acquisition, Riester, will boost this sub-sectors results in 2008 09.
We expect demand to stay steady for our Fluid Technology products and look forward to continuing profit growth in the year ahead.
New operations are to be established in China and the Czech Republic to strengthen our presence in Asia and Europe.
com Healthcare spending in OECD countries is increasing rapidly and is projected to triple from US$2.7 trillion in 2002 to US$10 trillion by 2020  HealthCast 2020: Creating a sustainable future, 2006 Liverpool, UK Halmas head-mounted ophthalmoscopes with integral power supplies allow doctors to examine the interior of patients eyes quickly and efficiently at Royal Liverpool University Hospital, UK.
Our latest ophthalmoscopes have brighter, whiter LED light sources that illuminate the retina to reveal greater detail and image clarity.
We have used Halma ophthalmoscopes for many years.
We see over one hundred patients each morning so they receive heavy use.
The new, rechargeable, wireless indirect is a great boon and has proved to be very reliable.
Mr David Wong FRCS FRCOphth, Consultant Ophthalmologist St Pauls Eye Unit, Royal Liverpool University Hospital Eye clinic Halmas making a difference DIRECTORS REPORT Sector review continued Industrial Safety We make products which protect property and people at work.
Industrial Safety contributed 24% of Group revenue 94m and 25% of Group profit 19m.
WHERE WE OPERATE Australia Saudi Arabia China Singapore Germany Tunisia France UK Holland USA India STRATEGIC ACHIEVEMENTS Good organic revenue and profit growth Increased exposure to energy markets drove revenue growth Established manufacturing in China for Gas Detection products Acquired SRD to strengthen Asset Monitoring sub-sector STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Increase organic profit growth driven by revenue growth Accelerate new product development, particularly for energy markets Improve manufacturing operations Continue expansion into Asia and Eastern Europe Seek acquisitions to add new products and distribution channels 1 1 2 3 4 KPIs Revenue growth profit growth Return on sales ROCE R&D Sector Performance % % % % % 17 21 20.6 77 3.6 Group Target 5% 5% 18% 45% 4% GROWTH DRIVERS Demand for energy and water resources Increasing regulation and rising expectations of health and safety New technology 5 1.
See note 1 to the accounts 2 24 www www.
