DIRECTORS REPORT Sustainability review Achievements KPIs We deliver sustainable value to our Non-financial Key Performance Indicators customers and shareholders.
KPIs are used by the Board to monitor progress on Group initiatives: financial KPIs are considered on page 13.
CO EMISSIONS: TONNES M OF REVENUE 1.
Halmas carbon policy was approved by the 2 Board at the beginning of the year and calls Good progress towards 42 10% reduced carbon for a 10% reduction in the carbon footprint 2007 reduction emissions relative Group target by 2010.
40 to revenue made in the policys first year.
Halma conducts an annual survey of its employees to assess how well the Groups Survey of senior 5 5 managers showed an values are aligned with its employees and 2007 Group target improvement to seven 7 how well the Group communicates its values desired values now to employees.
SUBSIDIARY DIRECTORS MANAGERS WHO HAD COMPLETED 3.
The Halma Executive Development HEDP HMDP BY MARCH 2008 Programme HEDP has been supplemented Continued with a Halma Management Development 26% 50% % commitment to 2007 Group target Programme HMDP aimed at middletraining our people.
50 managers and the necessary skills they need in their current and future roles.
GOVERNANCE AND COMMITMENT TO Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY and improving the environment.
Our brands lead the world in a number As Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range of technologies which help to minimise environmental damage.
of products for the protection and improvement to quality of life for We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in people worldwide, safety is critical to the Group and is a major priority common with all businesses, our activities have an environmental for management.
Likewise, the reduction of the Groups carbon impact.
Our strategy is not to have capital-intensive manufacturing footprint has received elevated attention in the current year in order to processes, so the environmental impact of our operations is relatively meet the Boards stated objective of a 10% reduction in relative carbon low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
We also recognise usage in the three years to March 2010. that we can improve our own environmental performance and Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and so resources are now being deployed to actively reduce our Customer Satisfaction.
These core values have been selected following own carbon footprint.
extensive surveying of employees across the Group.
Our culture is Halma was designated a member of the FTSE4Good UK index on its one of openness, integrity and accountability.
We encourage our establishment in July 2001. employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
We recognise that our A summary of our progress and performance for all areas of employees determine our success and therefore have invested in corporate responsibility follows.
Halma has developed meaningful and encouraged their development more this year than ever key performance indicators KPIs that reect the importance the before, not only with our intranet training facilities and Halma Executive Group places on corporate responsibility and enable the Board Development Programme, but also through clearer leadership and to monitor the Groups progress in meeting its objectives and decisive action.
By ensuring that our team has the approach and responsibilities in these areas.
skills required to succeed we are better placed to meet the challenges The biggest area of emphasis over the past two years has been the of the future.
transformation of the Groups environmental policy into a carbon policy We recognise the necessity of safeguarding the health and safety of our stating actual targeted reductions for the Group to achieve own employees whilst at work and operate so as to provide a safe and over a set timescale.
Halma has an excellent health and safety comfortable working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
record and a culture of safety is deeply embedded within the Group.
Our policy is to manage our activities to avoid causing any unnecessary We want to recognise the effort behind this exemplary record and or unacceptable risks to health and safety and the environment.
We have will promote our safety culture more visibly over the coming year.
an excellent long-term record for addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and for developing products that protect the environment and improve safety at work and in public places.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HALMA AND THE ENVIRONMENT We have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and for developing products that protect the environment and improve safety at work and in public places.
Our products Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead the world in a number of technologies which help to minimise environmental damage.
Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage detection, gas emissions monitoring, water and efuent analysis, UV water treatment and optical sensing.
We tirelessly promote the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the need to use dangerous chemicals, as well as products that minimise the waste of clean water.
Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring environmental changes and controlling the damaging impact of industrial activities is long-term.
We make safety equipment for use at work, in public places and in transportation systems that contribute to increased personal safety by ensuring safe practice at work, protecting people from re and making elevators and automatic doors safe and effective.
We are the major world supplier in several of these areas.
Carbon policy The Groups policy on carbon is published on our website and has been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
A senior executive in each of our higher-impact business units is responsible for implementing the carbon policy at local level.
The Finance Director, Kevin Thompson, has principal responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the policy.
Environmental management system We are committed to developing and implementing an environmental management system EMS throughout the Group to measure, control and, where practical, reduce our environmental impacts.
We have developed performance indicators that assist local management in implementing the policy and ultimately developing an EMS.
The requirement for an EMS and the related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, which represent over 50% of Group production facilities in terms of external turnover.
All Group companies are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the international environmental accreditation, where warranted, and since last year Elfab Limited has obtained ISO 14001 approval.
The requirement to implement an EMS will be extended to the rest of the Group in the medium term.
In terms of revenue, currently 20% of the Group has ISO 14001 approval.
Our impact The environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
FTSE4Good has assessed Halma as having a low impact on the environment.
Nevertheless, Group companies are encouraged to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and emissions and reduce the use of materials in order to reduce their environmental impact.
The Group established baseline data in 2004 05 on emissions to air and water, water and energy consumption, and waste production, the results of which are updated on the Halma website each year.
The data collected for the past three years has enabled the Group to set comprehensive and quantiable objectives for reducing its environmental impacts in those areas and to set targets for reduction in key areas.
The collected data confirms that the main areas of impact on the environment are energy consumption and solid waste disposal.
The Group does not operate a fleet of distribution vehicles although we do own a number of company cars.
From May 2007, we implemented a cap on permissible CO emissions of all UK company vehicles and will extend this requirement to the 2 rest of the world in due course.
This limit has been reduced in 2008 and will continue to be reduced annually so as to consistently reduce our vehicles environmental impact.
We have also set a fuel consumption standard for company vehicles in the USA.
Having identied the main areas of impact, we are now committed to their reduction and minimisation.
Using the baseline data the total Group carbon emissions for 2006 07 were calculated as being approximately 15,000 tonnes, an average of approximately 42 tonnes per million of revenues.
We plan to reduce the Groups total carbon emissions relative to revenues by 10% by 2010, and have made reasonable progress in 2007 08 with total Group carbon emissions of averaging 40 tonnes per million of revenues.
We worked with an international environment and energy consultancy to facilitate this reduction by providing each subsidiary with the means to identify tailored initiatives for energy efficiency.
This is complemented by internal programmes, including the use of our own wireless communications technology to monitor energy usage and use of the Group intranet to allow for inter-company communication, reporting of data and feedback.
This initiative has, and will continue to, lead to cost savings for the Group as well as preparing us for compliance with anticipated climate change legislation.
Our carbon policy can be found on the Halma website.
The Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported both in the Annual report and on our website.
Halma p. l. c. Annual report and accounts 2008 33 DIRECTORS REPORT Sustainability review continued The Group participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project for both the current and prior years and is committed to examining the establishment of green procurement policies and increasing our use of recycled materials.
HALMA AND ITS PEOPLE The Group has a policy of equal opportunities and preventing harassment, which applies in relation to recruitment of all new employees and to the management of existing personnel.
This gives us access to the widest labour market and enables us to secure the best employees for our needs.
We offer all of our staff training relevant to their roles and we believe that this contributes to an increase in employee motivation and job satisfaction.
The culture alignment survey results mentioned below support this trend.
Periodically we complete a survey of employees to determine whether our core values are authentic in our organisation.
The survey establishes the values individual employees wish to see in our operating culture and to what extent they exist in our existing culture.
In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five of the values they wanted to see in our business were actually present.
In 2008, our survey of senior managers showed that seven desired values were present in our business.
This indicates a healthy level of alignment between the culture we aspire to have and the culture we have today.
No survey is capable of capturing all the appropriate sentiments, but our executives, who regularly visit all Group companies, agree that definite healthy improvements in the Group culture have occurred over recent years.
The Group will continue to monitor the survey results to enable us to better support our people bringing these values and strengths to work so that they and we may derive further benefit from them.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Employee consultation The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the Group intranet and the annual financial statements.
Employee representatives are consulted routinely on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
An employee share plan has been running successfully since 1980.
It is open to all UK employees and aligns the interests of all UK employees to those of shareholders.
Health and safety The Group manages its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risks to health and safety.
The policy is understood by all Group companies, and given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local health and safety regulations is delegated to the board of directors of each Group company.
We believe health and safety training is important and it is carried out within companies as appropriate.
Adequate internal reporting exists in order that the Groups Finance Director may monitor each companys compliance with this policy.
Major injuries recorded 2008 2007 Days lost due to work-related injuries 691 652 Total recorded injuries to all employees 388 716 The Group has collected details of its worldwide reported health and safety incidents which are available on our website at www.
We are pleased to report that there were no fatalities during 2007 08 or 2006 07, and we achieved a considerable decrease in both serious and minor injuries in comparison with low levels in 2006 07.
People development 2007 08 saw the continuing success for the Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP which is based on our recognition of the fundamental part our people play in the success of the Group.
HEDP is an integrated development plan for our senior people including the next generation of Managing Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
Our objective is to provide these individuals with the tools and training to achieve more in their existing role and potentially to advance through the organisation if their achievements merit it.
Training 2008 2007 Cumulative number of candidates that have completed HEDP 90 50 Cumulative number of candidates that have completed HMDP 104 34 www.
