Directors Report Governance A focused team the board 1.
Paul Stoneham, 46 Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Chairman of the Board and of Appointed non-executive Director on Appointed non-executive Director on the Nomination Committee on 1 July 2001.
30 April 2002, she is Chairman of the 24 November 2004, he is a member of He joined Hays as a non-executive Director Remuneration Committee, a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration on 1 July 1998 and became Deputy the Audit and Nomination Committees Committees.
Formerly Managing Director of Chairman on 11 November 1999.
A and is Senior Independent Director in Boots Healthcare International and former qualied engineer with an MBA, his career accordance with the Combined Code.
A President, Global Business Development has spanned several United Kingdom and founder Director of British Linen Advisers for the Colgate-Palmolive company.
continental groups, including three years a specialist corporate finance adviser 8.
Richard Smelt, 51 as Managing Director of Vitec Group until 2002, previously she was a Corporate Independent Non-Executive Director plc and 10 years as Chief Executive Finance Director and then Head of Appointed non-executive Director on of Electrocomponents plc.
On 1 June Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort 15 November 2007, he is a member of the 2008 he joined the Board of Barratt Benson.
She is Chairman of the Alliance Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Developments PLC and became Trust plc, a non-executive Director of He will become the Group Human non-executive Chairman on 1 July 2008.
HMV Group plc and was appointed a Resources Director of Northern Rock plc non-executive Director of Signet Group 2.
Alistair Cox, 47 on 15 September 2008, and prior to that plc on 9 January 2008.
Chief Executive he was Group Human Resources Director Appointed to the Board on 1 September 5.
William Eccleshare, 52 of Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
2007, he succeeded Denis Waxman as Independent Non-Executive Director 9.
Alison Yapp, 42 Chief Executive on 15 November 2007.
Appointed non-executive Director on Company Secretary and General A Chartered Engineer, he was previously 24 November 2004, he is a member of Legal Counsel Chief Executive of Xansa plc and formerly the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Appointed Company Secretary and General Regional President of Asia for Blue Circle Committees.
He is Chairman and Chief Legal Counsel on 30 January 2006.
Industries latterly called Lafarge Group.
Executive of BBDO Europe, Middle East A qualied Solicitor, with over 15 years and Africa.
Formerly Chairman and CEO of 3.
Paul Venables, 46 experience within a number of international Young & Rubicam and Wunderman Europe.
Group Finance Director groups, she was previously Company Appointed Group Finance Director on 6.
Paul Harrison, 44 Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of 2 May 2006.
A Chartered Accountant, he Independent Non-Executive Director Charter plc, an international engineering came to the Group from DHL Logistics, a Appointed non-executive Director on company, and prior to that held senior division of Deutsche Post World Net.
Prior 8 May 2007, he is Chairman of the legal positions in Johnson Matthey plc to the acquisition of Exel plc by Deutsche Audit Committee and is a member of the and Cookson Matthey Ceramics plc.
Post in December 2005, he was Deputy Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Group Finance Director and a member of A Chartered Accountant, he is the Group the executive board of Exel plc.
During 13 Finance Director of The Sage Group plc.
years with Exel he held a number of senior finance and operational roles, including Finance Director of Exels European and Global operations.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 37 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance pack including detailed monthly management accounts, briefing papers on commercial and operational matters and major capital projects including acquisitions.
The attendance of those Directors in place at the year end at Board and Committee meetings held during the year was as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee No.
Attended R A Lawson 10 2 1 A R Cox 8 C W Eccleshare 10 3 2 7 P S Harrison 9 4 2 6 L M S Knox 10 4 2 7 2 Bob Lawson R J Smelt 6 3 Chairman P H Stoneham 8 3 1 5 P Venables 10 The Board of Hays plc is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and bases its actions on the principles set out in the June 1 appointed 1 September 2007.
2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council.
A procedure exists for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, under the guidance This statement describes how the Company applies the principles of of the Company Secretary and at the Companys expense.
have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who Throughout the year ended 30 June 2008, the Company has, without is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are exception, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
On appointment, Directors receive a formal induction, which includes Board visits to relevant business units and functions.
These are tailored to the The Board provides leadership and stewardship.
The Board comprises individual needs of the Directors and continue throughout their tenure.
the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and five independent Briefing sessions on legislative and accounting developments are held non-executive Directors.
Six Directors served throughout the financial for the Board when appropriate.
Mr A R Cox was appointed an executive Director on 1 September 2007.
Messrs D R Waxman and B G Wallace retired as Directors on Board independence 15 November 2007.
Mr R J Smelt was appointed a non-executive The roles and responsibilities of Chairman and Chief Executive are Director on 15 November 2007.
The biographical details for all of the separate.
A formal division of each individuals responsibilities has been Directors appear on page 37, and demonstrate the range of experience agreed and documented by the Board.
Mr B G Wallace stood down as a and independent judgement they each bring to the Board on all matters.
non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 15 November 2007 and on that same The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its date Mrs L M S Knox became Senior Independent Director.
decision including the review of the financial results, material contracts, Group strategy, investor relations, Board appointments, dividend The non-executive Directors bring an independent view to the Boards recommendations, major capital projects and acquisitions and discussions and the development of its strategy.
Their range of experience disposals.
The Board met ten times during the year.
ensures that managements performance in achieving the business goals is challenged appropriately.
In conjunction with the executive Directors, The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, plans they ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management the programme for Board visits both in the UK and overseas, and are both rigorous and adequate for the needs of the business.
presentations from senior executives during the year.
During the year the Board visited the Companys Asia Pacific Division, reviewing All the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be operations and receiving presentations from local management independent as detailed in the Code.
The letters of appointment for non-executive Directors are available for The agenda for the Board and its Committee meetings is considered review at the Registered Office and prior to the Annual General Meeting.
by the relevant Chairman and issued with supporting papers during the For information regarding the Annual General Meeting please refer to preceding week.
For each Board meeting, Directors receive a Board the separate Shareholder Circular.
