Directors Report Governance Significant direct and indirect holdings of securities As part of creating a stimulating place to work, there are a number of As at 1 September 2008 the Company had been notified of the following ways to ensure our employees are involved in the business including voting rights attaching to Hays shares in accordance with the Disclosure senior management briefings, employee briefing groups, email messaging and Transparency Rules: and the intranet.
To encourage employees to have a stake in the business, there are also a number of share schemes.
% of Total Voting Rights Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd 11.40% As a responsible employer of thousands of people, the Group is committed to Equal Opportunities and its policy ensures that everyone has the Baillie Gifford 5.99% opportunity to contribute to the business regardless of age, gender, R E Frost 5.81% ethnicity, sexuality, physical appearance, religion, education and beliefs.
Lloyds TSB Group and its subsidiaries 4.92% The Group has a structured approach towards internal recruitment and Barclays plc 3.95% promotion with decisions based on an individuals ability to perform the Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 3.95% role.
This means that full consideration is given to disabled applicants where they have the right skills and abilities for the role.
Should an An update will be given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, in the employee become disabled whilst working for the business, every effort separate Shareholder Circular.
is made to find a suitable alternative role and to assist with any retraining.
The Groups commitment to training and development includes Directors indemnities and insurance consideration of any special training needs of disabled employees.
The Company continues to maintain Directors and Officers liability insurance.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Payments to creditors it is the Companys policy for each Director and the Company Secretary It is the Groups policy to make payments to suppliers in accordance & General Legal Counsel to be indemnified by deeds of indemnity.
with agreed terms provided that the supplier has performed in accordance Mr A R Cox and Mr R J Smelt entered into deeds of indemnity on with the relevant terms and conditions.
Creditor days for the Group for 1 September 2007 and 7 December 2007 respectively.
the year ended 30 June 2008 were an average of 25 2007 26.
The Company creditor days at 30 June 2008 were 25 2007 26.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any individual to the Charitable and political donations Board.
The Board may appoint any individual willing to act as a Director Charitable donations made during the year totalled 70,000 2007 nil.
either to fill a vacancy or act as additional Director.
The appointee can Details of the Groups donations are given on page 35.
No payments only hold office until the next annual general meeting whereupon he were made to political parties.
will be put forward for re-election.
The Articles of Association prescribe that there shall be no less than Post-balance sheet events five Directors and no more than 15.
Should the number reduce below As part of the share buy-back programme, the Company has purchased five then the Board shall as soon as practical appoint an individual to an additional 1,717,597 shares held as treasury shares, for a total cost fill the vacancy.
The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the of 1.4 million, after the year end.
Auditors At each annual general meeting, any Director who was re-appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP have indicated that they are willing to continue or re-elected at or before the annual general meeting held in the third in office.
Their reappointment, at a remuneration to be agreed by the calendar year before the then current year must retire by rotation so Directors, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
that in total not less than one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
Powers of Directors The Directors are responsible for the management of the business Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and may exercise all powers of the Company subject to UK legislation, The Companys Articles of Association can only be amended by a any directions given by special resolution and the Memorandum and special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting a special resolution will be put At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 15 November to shareholders proposing amendments to the existing Articles of 2007, shareholders gave the Company permission, until the conclusion Association primarily to accommodate provisions contained in the of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 12 November 2008, to Companies Act 2006. purchase up to 213,830,083 Ordinary shares of 1p of the Company.
Employees The Board has indicated its intention to continue to return surplus cash The Group is committed to developing its employees and investing to shareholders via the on-market purchase of its own shares, where in training tailored to meet the needs of the business, including both the cash is not required to finance the organic expansion of the business, structured training and on-the-job training and briefings.
A leadership acquisitions and dividend payments.
Shares will only be purchased if development programme for our top global leaders is under way as to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and is in part of our continued commitment to developing talent in our business.
the best interest of shareholders generally.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 45 Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information The Board will be seeking the approval of the shareholders to renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as detailed in the separate Shareholder Circular.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 15 November 2007 the Directors were authorised to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,751,779 being approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital.
This power has not been used and will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
A resolution will be proposed at the next annual general meeting to renew it.
Change of control significant agreements The Company has entered into one significant agreement which contains provisions which allow a counterparty to alter and amend the terms of the agreement following a change of control of the Company.
The details are as follows: a revolving credit facility with a number of banks for 460 million was entered into on 8 February 2006.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders are entitled to renegotiate certain terms.
As at 30 June 2008, 344.2 million of this facility had not been drawn down.
There are no provisions contained within the service contracts of executive Directors that will trigger in the event of a change of control.
There are a number of commercial contracts that would alter in the event of a change in control but none is considered to be material in terms of the potential impact on the Group in this event.
Certain of the Companys share award plans contain provisions which permit awards or options to vest or become exercisable on a change of control in accordance with the rules of the plans.
This Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 46 has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: A R Yapp Company Secretary 1 September 2008 Registered Office 250 Euston Road London NW1 2AF Company Registered in England and Wales No.
com Remuneration Report operational performance over the next 12 months, but with a significant proportion 70% deferred into shares: and cash conversion targets i. e. operating profit converted into cash should be incorporated into the DAB and should also replace the Economic Profit target in the PSP.
The Committee is proposing the following structure for the year ending 30 June 2009: no change in overall incentive potential but a rebalancing of the package: a reduced award will be made under the PSP of 50% of salary previously 150% for executive Directors, subject to achievement of targets based on Earnings Per Share EPS and Group cash conversion measured over a three year performance period: the annual bonus opportunity is to be increased for executive Lesley Knox Remuneration Committee Chairman Directors and Management Board members in order to drive a higher proportion of total reward off annual performance.
In the current climate this enables clear focus on achievement I am pleased to introduce the report of the Board covering the of operational as well as strategic targets: and remuneration policy and practice for the Company.
a significant proportion 70% of any bonus earned will be paid The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year in shares: and addressed the following main matters: Firstly 25%, through the existing DAB arrangement as it links a amendments to the award structure for executive Directors and short-term performance to longer term shareholder value.
other senior managers for the 2008 9 financial year under both Matching will be subject to achievement of targets related to the Performance Share Plan PSP and Deferred Annual Bonus EPS, International net fees as a percentage of total fees and Plan DAB : cash conversion over a three year period: b various matters relating to the appointment of the new Chief Secondly a further 45% of annual bonus will be compulsorily Executive, Mr A R Cox, the retirement of the former Chief deferred into restricted shares for three years subject to Executive, Mr D R Waxman, and the early retirement, after continued employment only: a long period of ill health, of the former Finance Director, Mr N A McLachlan: and the remaining 30% of any bonus earned will be delivered in cash, which is broadly similar to the level of cash bonus available under c the annual salary review and annual bonus determination for the the current incentive arrangements.
executive Directors, and review of the levels of remuneration paid to the Management Board.
The Committee believes these changes will help to retain and motivate During 2008 the Remuneration Committee also reviewed the current management to deliver challenging performance in 2009 while ensuring that at least 70% of the total incentive potential is delivered in shares incentives structure for executive Directors and other Management Board members for the year ending 30 June 2009, to identify if any over the longer term.
changes were required in light of the following challenges: We anticipate that consultation with several major shareholders will indicate strong shareholder support for these amendments.
the retention and motivation of executives in the current economic downturn: Brian Wallace stood down as a Director of Hays plc on 15 November the difficulty in setting stretching but credible long-term performance 2007.
I would like to thank him for his contribution to the Committees targets against a backdrop of increased economic uncertainty and work over the last six years.
Richard Smelt joined the Committee, limited long-term visibility: and following his appointment to the Board.
Richard was Group HR Director for the Carphone Warehouse Group plc and will be appointed Group the need to continue to invest in certain long-term projects such HR Director of Northern Rock plc on 15 September 2008. as IT which will be taken into account in setting targets.
The Remuneration Committee unanimously recommends that As a result of the review, the Remuneration Committee concluded shareholders vote to approve the Remuneration Report at the the following: 2008 Annual General Meeting.
the total incentive potential for executives should not be increased: the current incentive plans should continue to be used in 2009.
Lesley Knox However, the incentive mix should be re-weighted towards shortChairman term performance targets to focus managements attention on Remuneration Committee Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 47
