Directors Report Business Review Principal Risks Principal risks Macro economic environment most companies is always subject to the Technology systems The performance of the Group has a very risk that a large customer might be unable The Group is increasingly reliant on a close relationship and dependence on the to full its obligations to the Group, which number of technology systems in providing its underlying growth of the economies of the might materially impact the Groups results.
These systems are housed countries in which it operates.
The Group in various datacentres and the Group has The public sector accounts for approximately strategy is to continue to grow the size of capacity to cope with a datacentre loss as a 20% of the Groups total net fees.
The public its International businesses in the countries result of a significant event through the sector markets that the Group operates in in which the Group currently operates and establishment of disaster recovery sites include a large number of national and local within new countries in which the Group which are physically based in separate government organisations.
This will reduce locations to the ongoing operations.
the Groups exposure or dependence on Contractual risk The Group is also reliant upon a number any one specic economy.
Clients increasingly require more complex of important suppliers that provide critical levels of compliance e. g. reference checking The Group has also expanded its business information technology infrastructure.
It in their contractual arrangements.
The Group into countries where the specialist continually monitors the performance and takes its responsibilities seriously and recruitment markets are less developed robustness of these suppliers to ensure contracts may be allocated to dedicated and are therefore less dependent on the business critical processes are safeguarded teams with audits performed to reduce the performance of the countrys underlying as far as is practicably possible.
economy in the short term.
The Group is in the process of upgrading The placing of temporary workers represents some of its key operational and financial Competitive environment a greater inherent risk than permanent systems.
Such changes have an element In the United Kingdom & Ireland and placements.
Wherever possible, contracts of inherent risk.
The Group has taken steps Australia & New Zealand, the markets for include clauses placing the responsibility for to mitigate these risks via the governance the provision of permanent and temporary supervision and control of the worker with the structure in place, ensuring that the Group recruitment are competitive and fragmented.
client, exclude any consequential loss and has high quality project management In these more developed markets, competitor limit the Groups total liability under the and IT resources working alongside our risk manifests itself in increased competition contract.
The Group has clear guidance in operational managers on the projects, for clients and candidates and in pricing place on approval of contractual terms and utilisation of specialist external resource pressures and during the year, in the monitors the application thereof, especially and utilising a robust project management United Kingdom, the Group experienced any exceptions to our standard liability process.
The Group will be monitoring some margin pressure within its temporary position and insurance protection which this carefully across the life of the project.
business in the major specialist activities.
require Group Finance Director approval.
In Continental Europe & Rest of the World Regulatory environment and People and Asia excluding Japan, the markets for legislative changes The business is reliant on the ability to recruit, the provision of recruitment services remain The specialist recruitment industry train and develop people to meet the Groups less developed and the market place is is governed by an increasing level of growth strategy.
The Group is focused on more fragmented.
The markets in compliance, which varies from country ensuring it has competitive pay structures Continental Europe and Asia are, however, to country and market to market.
The which are linked to performance, a developing quickly.
Group takes its responsibilities seriously, succession planning process and a process is committed to meeting all of its regulatory The Groups strategy is to rapidly grow our to develop talent to meet expansion needs.
responsibilities and continues to strengthen businesses in the International territories.
its internal controls and processes with In addition, management are focused on respect to legal obligations.
The Groups competitors in its markets range allocating resources to the best from large multi-national organisations to opportunities available.
As the employment laws are changed and small, boutique, privately owned businesses.
harmonised in certain geographies, they Foreign exchange The Group is continually subject to existing bring with them new risks and opportunities.
The Group has significant operations outside and new competitors entering into the The temporary market is more heavily the United Kingdom and as such is exposed markets in which it operates.
The competitive regulated and changes in legislation to movements in exchange rates.
Currently, threat is from small start-up operations to e. g. changes in managed service the Group does not actively manage its large multi-nationals as the costs of entry company legislation, the planned removal exposure to foreign exchange risk by the into the specialist recruitment markets can of the staff hire concession and changes use of financial instruments.
The impact of be relatively low, although these costs have to temporary worker rights can have an foreign exchange will become more important risen with the increased levels of compliance impact on the Groups profitability.
for the Group as the scale of its International required from local regulators and clients.
In the current year, 42% The Group ensures that its policies, Commercial relationships of total net fees were generated by the processes and systems reect best The Group benets from close commercial International businesses, of which 36% was practice where possible and meet relationships with key clients in both the Euro or Australian dollar and this is expected the legal requirements of the markets public and private sectors.
Within the private to increase in the future.
The Group will in which it operates.
sector the Group is not dependent on any continue to monitor its policies in this area.
single key client: however, the Group, like Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33
