Operations Review: Exploration Kurdistan Region of Iraq Heritage drilled its first well in Kurdistan in 2008, less than 15 months after being awarded the licence 14 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Map showing the Miran Block in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq Kometan and Qamchuqua.
Both the Miran In October 2007, the Group signed a PSC with the Kurdistan Regional Government KRG structures have the potential to contain billions of barrels of oil from multiple potential zones.
covering the Miran Block in the southern part of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq.
The Kurdistan Heritage has demonstrated its operational efficiency and commitment to the region Region of Iraq is an autonomous northern region in federal Iraq bordering Syria, Iran and by completing the seismic survey and commencing a drilling programme less than Turkey.
Since the passing of the Petroleum Law in Kurdistan, in August 2007, the KRG has 15 months after the licence was awarded for a previously unexplored block.
awarded 21 PSCs with Heritages PSC being the second awarded.
Being an early entrant In March 2009, the Company announced that in this region, the Group is strongly positioned to benefit from development of this significant drilling of the Miran West-1 well had been completed and reached a total depth of 2,935 hydrocarbon-prone region especially as the already-stable security situation continues to metres.
The well encountered oil shows over an interval of 1,100 metres, with excellent oil improve.
Other oil and gas companies have been operating in this area for several years shows in the three principal proven reservoir formations in the region.
Good quality, light without major interruption.
There is believed to be huge undiscovered potential in the region, sweet oil was recovered to surface.
We are in the process of undertaking a series of estimated, by the US Geological Survey, at approximately 40 billion barrels of oil and drill stem tests over a gross interval of approximately 500 metres.
60 trillion cubic feet of gas.
Additionally, it has been reported that 80% of all wells drilled in Based on the encouraging seismic evaluation Iraq have encountered hydrocarbons.
and drilling results of the Miran West-1 well, Heritage is formulating plans for further drilling The Miran Block covers an area of 1,015 square kilometres and is located approximately on Miran in 2009 in order to plan for a fast track development.
65 kilometres from the Kirkuk oil field where remaining reserves are estimated to be in excess of 10 billion barrels.
The Miran structures are on trend with the Taq Taq field.
In the second quarter of 2008, Heritage acquired 332 kilometres of good quality 2D seismic which showed two very large anticlines, Miran West and Miran East, which together cover an area of approximately 330 square kilometres.
The seismic data also indicates that the reservoirs are fractured in a radial pattern which appears similar to the neighbouring Taq Taq field.
Area Date Heritage Licence sq km Awarded Equity Partners Operator After interpreting the seismic data, Heritage accelerated the Miran work programme and 1, 2 Miran 1,015 October 2007 75% Genel Energy Heritage contracted a rig in October 2008.
Drilling commenced on Miran West-1 in December 1 Third party back-in rights exist which, if exercised fully, could result in a minimum holding of 56.25% 2008, targeting the three main known producing reservoirs in the region: Shiranish, 2 Heritage equity reduced from 100% following exercise of back-in rights in April 2009 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 15
