Directors Report The Directors of Heritage Oil Limited the Company submit their Key Performance Indicators report together with the consolidated audited financial statements Heritage uses a number of financial and operating Key Performance for the year ended 31 December 2008 for the Company and its Indicators KPIs against which it monitors performance.
Due to subsidiaries the Group.
being listed on the LSE for less than one year there are no year-onyear comparisons but comparative data will be built up and reported The Company was incorporated on 6 February 2008 in Jersey on in future years.
Additionally the KPIs will also be developed as the under the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended the Jersey Companys operations evolve.
Year to Companies Law to become the ultimate holding company of the 31 December 2008 Group.
It changed its status to a public company on 25 February 1 2008 in preparation for the listing of its ordinary shares on the Main LTIFR 0.03 Staff turnover 3% Market of the London Stock Exchange the LSE on 31 March 2 2008 the Listing.
The Companys registered office is in Jersey.
Production from continuing operations % 80% 3 Reserves and Resources Additions % 272% Prior to the Listing, the holding company of the Group was HOC, a Average realised price 5% Canadian registered company whose common shares Common 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 10,000 hours worked.
Shares were traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX.
As 2 Excludes production from Block 8, Oman which was sold in April 2009. part of the Listing, the Group was reorganised and HOC became an 3 Management estimates.
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company the Reorganisation.
The Reorganisation culminated in the Common Results and Dividends Shares being fide-listed from the TSX and a new class of The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December exchangeable shares being created and issued by HOC 2008 are set out on pages 53 to 56.
Subject to the terms of the reorganisation, holders of Common Shares could exchange their Common Shares The Company and HOC have not declared or paid any dividends for either Ordinary Shares of the Company Ordinary Shares since their incorporation and do not intend to pay dividends in the which are traded on the LSE or for Exchangeable Shares that are foreseeable future.
The future payment of dividends will depend traded on both the LSE and the TSX.
Further details of the Listing on the earnings and financial condition of the Company and and Reorganisation can be found in the prospectus dated 28 March such other factors as the Board of Directors of the Company 2008 the Prospectus available on the Companys website at consider appropriate.
Capital Structure Principal Activities and Business Review The Company has two classes of shares, namely the Ordinary The Group is an independent, international oil and gas exploration, Shares and a special voting share of HOC the Special Voting development and production Group with a focus on Africa, the Share.
As described previously, the Companys indirect subsidiary, Middle East, Russia and South Asia.
It has exploration projects in HOC, has Exchangeable Shares outstanding that are convertible Uganda, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, the DRC, Malta, Pakistan, into Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Tanzania and Mali, and a producing property in Russia.
Producing assets in Oman were sold on 7 April 2009.
The Group operates The Ordinary Shares and the Special Voting Share carry no right to through a number of subsidiaries which are set out on page 57. fixed income.
A review of the business including future developments and The Ordinary Shares have a right to one vote for every share at performance of the Group is contained in: general meetings whilst the holders of Exchangeable Shares have the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3: rights through the Special Voting Share held by the trustee of the the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 6: Voting and Exchange Trust to one vote at general meetings for every the Operations Review on pages 10 to 27: Exchangeable Share on the same basis as if they had exchanged the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31: and them for Ordinary Shares.
For clarity, the Voting and Exchange Trust the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 to 33. is a Canadian trust that holds the Special Voting Share for the benefit of the registered holders of the Exchangeable Shares In addition, the Company has published a separate Corporate pursuant to the terms of a Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement Social Responsibility report to be sent to shareholders with this dated 27 February 2008.
Details of how to vote and deadlines for exercising voting rights will A description of the significant risk factors and uncertainties facing be set out in the Notice of AGM.
the Group is set out in the Financial Review on page 31 and also in the Directors Report on page 49.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of certificated shares which are not fully paid or where the register of transfer is not in the acceptable form.
Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 47 Directors Report continued The issued share capital of the Company and total voting rights Directors Election and Rotation of the Company as at 31 March 2009 are as follows: With regard to retirement and re-election of Directors, the Company 252,083,374 Ordinary Shares of the Company are issued and is governed by its Articles of Association the Articles, the outstanding, which constitutes 98.8% of the total voting rights Combined Code of Corporate Governance and the Jersey of the Company.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director 3,024,108 Exchangeable Shares of HOC each carrying one during the year but any person so appointed must stand for election voting right in the Company, are issued and outstanding, which at the next AGM.
One-third of the Directors must retire from office at constitutes 1.2% of the total voting rights of the Company.
A retiring Director is eligible to stand for re-election.
Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares, Exchangeable Shares, In accordance with the above provisions, Salim Hassan Macki, options granted under the employee share scheme and interests having been appointed since the last AGM, will retire, and being in the LTIP are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on eligible, offer himself for election at the forthcoming AGM.
In page 46. addition, Gregory Turnbull and John McLeod will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
Powers of the Directors After Listing, in the period between 31 March 2008 and Subject to the Companys Articles, relevant statutory law and any 31 December 2008, a total of 1,182,012 Exchangeable Shares direction that may be given by the Company in general meeting, were exchanged into Ordinary Shares.
the business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company.
Major Shareholders In accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Directors Indemnity Provisions Rules, the shareholders listed below have notified the Company Under the Companys Articles the Directors are indemnified out of of their interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company as at the assets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred by 31 March 2009: reasons of having been a Director of the Company.
Ordinary Shares 1 Name held % Held Annual General Meeting 3 2 Albion Energy Limited 84,540,340 33.14 The AGM will be held at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey Capital Research and Management on 18 June 2009.
Formal notice of the Annual General Meeting Company 18,683,814 7.32 including details of special business will be set out in the Notice Lansdowne Partners Limited 17,901,624 7.02 of the Annual General Meeting and on the Companys website at Firebird Global Master Fund, Ltd 14,384,000 5.64 www.
Harrier Holdings Ltd re LCAM 12,241,395 4.80 Registrar 1 Includes voting rights attaching to the Special Voting Share as well as the The Companys share registrar is Computershare Investor Services Ordinary Shares.
Channel Islands Limited, Ordnance House, 31 Pier Road, St Helier, 2 Number of Ordinary Shares held by both Albion Energy Limited and Jersey, JE4 8PW, Channel Islands.
3 The ultimate owner of Albion Energy Limited is Anthony Buckingham.
Creditors Payment Policy Albion Energy Limited Albion and Anthony Buckingham entered It is the Company and Groups policy to settle all debts with into a relationship agreement with the Company on 28 March 2008 creditors on a timely basis and in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement as part of the Listing.
The purpose credit agreed with each supplier.
Average creditor payment days of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that transactions and for the period under review were approximately 45 days.
relationships between the Group, Albion and Anthony Buckingham are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Employees As at 31 December 2008, the Group had 132 employees including Directors full-time contractors, consultants and Directors based in the The following Directors held office during the reporting period: following locations: Appointment dates Jersey 2 Michael Hibberd Chairman 18 March 2008 Canada 5 Anthony Buckingham CEO 25 February 2008 Russia 40 Paul Atherton CFO 6 February 2008 Europe 27 Gregory Turnbull 18 March 2008 Uganda 28 Salim Hassan Macki 12 August 2008 Kurdistan Region of Iraq 14 John McLeod 18 March 2008 Tanzania 10 General Sir Michael Wilkes 18 March 2008 South Africa 6 Total 132 Biographical details of all directors can be found on page 34.
With the exception of General Sir Michael Wilkes and Salim Hassan Macki, all the Directors were previously, and continue to be, Directors of HOC.
48 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Significant Risk Factors and Uncertainties In April 2009, bondholders with $5.9 million of bonds gave notice of the exercise of 59 bonds.
These bondholders received 1,255,317 A variety of material risk factors have been identified that could have an impact on the Company, including risks relating to operations, Ordinary Shares.
countries in which the Group operates, the Group structure and Important Events Since the Year End risks relating to the Ordinary Shares and the Exchangeable Shares.
Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in note 26 to The most significant risk factors impacting on the Group are the financial statements on page 80. considered to be: exploration and development expenditure and success rates: Audit and Auditors factors associated with operating in developing countries, The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this political and regulatory instability: Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there title disputes: is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are oil and gas sales volumes and prices: and unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought reliance on key employees.
to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys The above risk factors could adversely affect the cash flows to a auditors are aware of that information.
material extent that the Group may, in certain circumstances, need to obtain further debt or equity financing in the future.
A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the upcoming AGM.
Further information on risks and internal controls can be found in the Financial Review on page 31.
Fees billed by KPMG, the Companys auditors and its associates, during 2007 and 2008, may be summarised as follows: Financial Risks and Financial Instruments Information on financial risk management, including credit and 2008 2007 liquidity risks and information about financial instruments are set out US$ US$ in the note to the financial statements on pages 64 to 65 and page Audit and audit related services: 66, respectively.
Group audit of annual and review of interim statements 276,900 456,135 Political and Charitable Donations Prospectus and information circular 97,087 The Group has undertaken a wide range of community schemes, including public health, education, environment, public facility and 373,987 456,135 community relations based programmes, further details of which can Non-audit services: be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 34 Tax compliance and advisory 110,124 8,704 to 35.
The Group did not make any political donations during 2008.
Transaction services 537,900 648,024 8,704 Change of Control Agreements The Company confirms that there are no significant agreements to Statement of Directors Responsibilities which it is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and a change of control following a takeover bid except those the financial statements for the Group in accordance with applicable disclosed below: law and regulations.
the Executive Directors service contracts contain certain provisions in relation to change of control as disclosed in the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group financial Remuneration Report: statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required the Long Term Incentive Plan rules contain a provision whereby to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with in the event of a change of control all awards will vest in their International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by entirety subject to the achievement or otherwise of the the EU and applicable law.
performance conditions: and on 16 February 2007, HOC issued 1,650 $100,000 convertible The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as bonds at par to raise $165,000,000 by way of a private adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the placement.
Issue costs amounted to $6,979,268 resulting in net Group and the performance for that period.
The bonds have a maturity of five years and one day and an annual coupon of 8.00%.
Bondholders In preparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: have the right to convert bonds into Ordinary Shares at a price select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of $4.70 per share.
$9,900,000 of bonds have been converted, consistently: leaving 1,551 $100,000 bonds outstanding.
Bondholders have present information, including accounting policies, in a manner a put option requiring the Company to redeem the bonds at par, that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable plus accrued interest, in the event of a change of control of the information: Company, together with a cash payment of up to $19,700 on provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific each bond will be made to the bondholder, the amount of which requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand depends upon the date of redemption and market value at the the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions date of any change of control event.
on the entitys financial position and financial performance: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 49 Directors Report continued prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, it is inappropriate to presume the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them for safeguarding the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for the preparation of a Directors Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the statutory and audited information on the Companys website.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, may differ from requirements in other jurisdictions.
Going Concern After making due enquiries, the Directors have made an informed judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the Board on 28 April 2009.
Anthony Buckingham Chief Executive Officer 28 April 2009 50 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008
