Gregory Turnbull Chairman and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mr. Hibberd has extensive international Mr. Macki was a Member of the State Mr. Turnbull is the Regional Managing energy project planning and capital markets Council, Former Ambassador, Government of Partner of the Calgary office of the law firm experience.
He has been President and CEO Sultanate of Oman and has been a Director of McCarthy Ttrault LLP.
Mr. Turnbull has of MJH Services Inc. a corporate finance of Oman Oil a wholly owned Government extensive knowledge of corporate governance advisory company, since 1995, prior to which Company since 1996.
Mr. Macki holds issues and has acted for many boards of he spent 12 years with ScotiaMcLeod in a Masters degree in Petrochemical directors and special committees in that corporate finance and held the position of Engineering and has spent most of his regard.
Mr. Turnbull started his career with Director and Senior Vice President, Corporate working life in the oil industry, where he is the law firm of MacKimmie Matthews in 1979.
He is Co-Chairman of Sunshine highly regarded internationally.
He holds, or From 1987 to 2001, he was a partner with Oilsands Ltd. and currently serves on the has previously held, many senior executive Gowlings LLP formerly Code Hunter LLP.
In boards of directors of AltaCanada Energy positions in various private and state owned 2001 and 2002, he was a partner with the law Corp. Canacol Energy Ltd.
Challenger entities in Oman and internationally.
He joined firm of Donahue LLP.
Mr. Turnbull has been a Energy Corp. Iteration Energy Ltd. Pan the Group on 12 August 2008. partner with the law firm of McCarthy Ttrault Orient Energy Corp. Ramtelecom Inc. and LLP since July 2002.
He joined the Group in Zapata Energy Corporation.
General Sir Michael Wilkes KCB, CBE 1997. served as a Director of Rally Energy Corp. Non-Executive Director until October 2007 and as a Director of Deer General Sir Michael Wilkes retired from 7.
John McLeod Creek Energy Limited until December 2005. the British Army in 1995 as Adjutant Non-Executive Director Mr. Hibberd joined the Group in March 2006.
General and Middle East Adviser to the Mr. McLeod is a Professional Engineer British Government on defence matters.
with over 38 years of varied domestic and 2.
Anthony Buckingham As Adjutant General, Sir Michael was the international oil and gas experience.
He is the Chief Executive Officer most senior administrative officer within the President of McLeod Petroleum Consulting Mr. Buckingham is the founder of the Army and a member of the Army Board.
Limited, President, CEO and a Director of Group.
He commenced his involvement During his distinguished career, he has seen Tuscany Energy Ltd. Paris Energy Inc. and in the oil industry as a North Sea diver active service across the world while also California Oil and Gas Corporation.
He has and subsequently became a concession commanding at every level from Platoon to held positions and served on various boards negotiator acting for several companies Field Army including commanding the 22 including Constellation Oil & Gas Ltd. and including Ranger Oil Limited and Premier Oil Special Air Service Regiment and serving as CanArgo Energy Inc. as President and CEO of plc.
He was previously a security adviser to the Director of Special Forces.
Sir Michael is a Arakis Energy Company, as VP, Operations of various governments.
Non-Executive Director of AIM listed Stanley Pengrowth Gas Company, CEO and director Gibbons Group.
In addition he holds nonof Rally Energy Corp. and Canoro Resources.
Paul Atherton executive positions on a number of private Currently, Mr. McLeod serves as a director of companies including Britam Defence and Diaz Resources Ltd. and March Resources Chief Financial Officer Mr. Atherton is a qualified accountant, Trico Ltd and chairs the Advisory Board of Ltd.
He is immediate Past-President of PegasusBridge Fund Management Limited, the Association of Professional Engineers, having qualified with Deloitte & Touche, and holds a degree in geology from Imperial a homeland security Company.
He joined the Geologists and Geophysicists of Alberta.
He has a corporate finance background with specific experience in the international mining and resource sectors.
He joined the Group in 2000 and joined the Board of Directors in 2005.
34 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 1 4 7 2 5 3 6 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35
