qxp 31 3 09 13:56 Page 70 70 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Governance Annual report 2008 Senior management 5 3 4 2 1 1.
Bassam Kanaan, Executive Vice President & 2.
Nabil Rizk, Corporate Vice President & 4.
Majda Labadi, Corporate Vice President Chief Financial officer Bassam joined Hikma in Chairman of West-ward Pharmaceuticals Human Resources Majda joined the Company 2001 and played a leading role in preparing the Nabil joined the Company in 1991 from in 1985 as a purchasing manager at Hikma Company for its IPO in 2005.
Prior to joining Pioneer Pharmaceuticals, Inc. a division of Pharmaceuticals Limited.
Majda was promoted Hikma, he started his career in 1986 with Dow Chemical, where he worked as Vice to Vice President of Injectables and General Deloitte & Touche in Los Angeles where he President of Operations.
From 1976 to 1983 Manager Hikma Farmacutica in 2001 and held worked until 1992 in the position of audit he served in various capacities with Hudson this position until February 2009 when she was manager.
Between 1994 and 2001 he was the Pharmaceuticals, a division of Cadence appointed Group Vice President for Human CFO of PADICO.
He currently serves on the Corporation including Manager of Quality Resources.
Majda holds a masters degree in board of Zara Holding, and Aqaba Development Control and Quality Assurance and Laboratory health economics and a BA from the American Co in Jordan.
He previously served as a board Supervisor Research & Development.
member of Palestine Telecommunication Co. holds a masters degree in chemistry from the 5.
Henry Knowles, General Counsel and and Central Electricity Generation Company in New Jersey Institute of Technology and a BSc Company Secretary Henry joined the Company Jordan.
He qualied as a CPA and holds an in applied chemistry from Cairo University.
Before joining Hikma, he Executive MBA from Northwestern University 3.
Taghreed Al-Shunnar, Executive Vice President worked for the international law rm, Ashurst.
and a BA from Claremont McKenna College in Head of Pharma Taghreed joined the Company Since joining Hikma, Henry has advised on the United States.
From February 2009, in in 1988 after graduating from the University in all aspects of the Groups business, supervised addition to his role as CFO, Bassam assumed Jordan with a degree in pharmacy.
In 1995, she corporate governance and compliance and responsibility for Operations, Manufacturing was appointed as Marketing Planning Director contributed to the execution of the Groups and Supply Chain management in Europe & of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited and in 2002, acquisition strategy.
Henry is admitted as a MENA.
promoted to General Manager of Hikma solicitor in England and Wales and holds Pharmaceuticals Limited.
In 2005, Taghreed an MA in Social and Political Science from became Corporate Vice President of Branded Cambridge University.
Taghreed completed her Executive MBA from INSEAD in December 2007.
From February 2009, Taghreed assumed responsibility for Sales & Marketing, R&D & Business Development MENA & EU.
Susan Ringdal, Investor Relations Director 8.
Fadi Nassar, Corporate Vice President, 10.
Khalid Nabilsi, Corporate Vice President for Susan joined the Company in November 2005, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients API Finance Khalid joined Hikma in 2001 and was having previously worked for the Fadi joined Hikma in 1988 and has worked a member of the IPO team in 2005.
Prior to pharmaceutical distribution and retail pharmacy in many areas across the Group including assuming his current role Khalid held several group Alliance UniChem plc as Investor Operations, Purchasing and Business senior positions in the Finance department Relations Manager.
She also has experience Development.
He was promoted to Corporate including Group Financial Controller.
Following as an equity analyst at Morgan Stanley in Vice President, API in 2007.
Fadi holds a qualication as a CPA he held a variety of roles London.
Susan holds a BA in history from bachelors degree in chemical engineering from in financial accounting, reporting and financial Cornell University and an MBA from London Newcastle University and a masters degree in advisory services, most recently with Atlas Business School.
chemical engineering from Leeds University.
Group where he was involved in merger and Fadi is also a graduate of INSEADs acquisition advisory services and as a senior 7.
Dr Ibrahim Jalal, Corporate Vice President International Executive Program.
audit manager at Arthur Andersen in Amman, Technical Affairs Ibrahim joined Hikma in Jordan.
Khalid has an MBA from the University June 1979 as Technical Director.
Michael Raya, Corporate Vice President & of Hull in UK.
promoted to Corporate Technical Vice President CEO West-ward Michael joined the Company for Compliance in 1998 and to Senior Corporate in 1992 from Vitarine Pharmaceuticals where 11.
Ragheb Al-Shakhshir, Corporate Vice Vice President for R&D in 2008.
He has played he worked from 1984 until 1992 in various President Research & Development a leading role in obtaining FDA approval for capacities, including Vice President, Quality Ragheb joined Hikma in 2000 as a Research & Hikma manufacturing units.
Prior to Vitarine, Michael worked Development Manager.
Prior to joining Hikma a PhD in pharmacy from the University of at Schering-Plough and Hoffman LaRoche.
he held a variety of roles as Senior Scientist at Wisconsin Madison in the United States.
Michael is a member of Hikmas Corporate Novartis Pharmaceuticals, and at Alcon Labs.
Ethics Committee and is in charge of the From 2003-2008 Ragheb led the Hikma R&D Corporate CAPEX Committee.
Michael holds Injectable team and from February 2009 a masters degree in industrial pharmacy from assumed the responsibility of Vice President Long Island University and a bachelors degree for Research and Development.
Ragheb has in chemistry from St. Francis College.
Michael a PhD in Industrial and Physical Pharmacy is also a graduate of INSEADs International from Purdue University and a BA in Chemical Executive Program.
Engineering from the University of WisconsinMadison.
