qxp 31 3 09 02:08 Page 68 68 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Governance Annual report 2008 Board of Directors 3 1 4 2 1.
Mazen Darwazah Non-Executive Chairman, 78 Chief Executive officer, 51 Executive Vice-Chairman, CEO of MENA, 50 Samih Darwazah, remained as Chairman Said was appointed Chief Executive officer in Mazen Darwazah was appointed Executive Viceof the Company following his resignation July 2007.
He joined Hikma in 1981, and was Chairman in 2005.
Since joining Hikma in 1985 as Chief Executive officer in July 2007.
Chairman and CEO of the Group holding he has held various positions, including Mr Darwazah is a qualied pharmacist, and he company from 1994-2003.
Said played a key Chairman and CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals held various managerial positions with Eli Lilly role in the development of the Group strategy Limited Jordan, Chairman of Trust Pharma prior to establishing Hikma Pharmaceuticals in including the acquisition of West-ward Limited and Pharma Ixir Co. Ltd.
Between 1995 and 1996 he served as Pharmaceuticals in the USA and the development of Jordan International Insurance Company and Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources in of the Injectables business in Europe and the has served as the President of the Jordanian Jordan and was a member of the Advisory MENA region.
During this period the Companys Association of Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals Economic Council to His Majesty the King of facilities in the USA, Jordan, and Portugal and Medical Appliances.
He also founded the Jordan Trade received FDA approval.
Said was Minister of Non-Executive Director on various nonAssociation.
Samih holds a masters degree from Health for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan governmental and educational organisations.
the St. Louis College of Pharmacy, Missouri.
He is currently on the board of Mazen holds a BA in Business Administration He is also Chairman of Labatec Pharma SA.
the Central Bank of Jordan and Chairs the Dead from Beirut University, Lebanon.
Sea Touristic and Real Estate Investments and 4.
Ali Al-Husry Health Care Accreditation Council of Jordan.
Non-Executive Director, 51 He has a degree in industrial engineering from Ali Al-Husry has been a Director of Hikma Purdue University in the US and an MBA from Pharma Limited and other companies within INSEAD.
He was a founder of The Capital Bank of Jordan and its Chief Executive officer from its establishment in 1995 until 2007.
He brings great financial experience to the Board as well as an in-depth knowledge of the MENA region.
Ali has a degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Southern California and an MBA from INSEAD.
Sir David Rowe-Ham Board Committee membership key Independent Non-Executive Director, 63 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 73 Audit Committee Michael Ashton was appointed to the Board Sir David Rowe-Ham was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in October 2005 and is Chairman of the Board in October 2005 and holds the position Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee.
Michael has over of Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
30 years experience in the pharmaceutical Sir David brings to Hikma a wide experience in industry, having worked with Pzer, Inc. Merck, financial matters, corporate governance, public Inc. and held the positions of Chairman, affairs and the development of listed companies.
President and Chief Executive of Faulding, Inc He is also Chairman of Arden Partners plc, and and Chief Executive of Skyepharma PLC.
He Olayan Europe Ltd. serves on the boards of Transition Therapeutics, 8.
Dr. Ronald Goode Proximagen, and Phosphagenics Limited.
Breffni Byrne Ronald Goode was appointed to the Board in Independent Non-Executive Director, 63 December 2006.
Ron has spent over 30 years Breffni Byrne was appointed to the Board in in the international pharmaceutical industry, October 2005 and is Chairman of the Audit including having held senior positions with Pzer Committee.
As a chartered accountant with and Searle.
He is the chairman of The Goode over 30 years of experience in public practice, Group, advisers to the pharmaceutical industry including significant international responsibilities, and a director of Greystone Pharmaceuticals.
he has extensive experience in financial reporting, He sits on the Advisory Board of ART Recherches corporate governance and general financial and et Technologies Avancees Inc. a TSX-listed commercial matters.
Breffni is Chairman of company, and is a director of Mercy Ships NCB Stockbrokers, a director of Irish Life International and a trustee of Thunderbird and Permanent plc, Cpl Resources plc, Coillte School of Global Management.
He was formerly Teoranta the Irish state forestry company and President and Chief Executive officer of Unimed other companies.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and eXegenics Inc.
