Directors report The Directors submit their report and audited financial statements The Group has responded to these challenges by the launch for the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2008, which were approved on of its own websites and continued investment to grow these behalf of the Board on 30 June 2008. businesses, however further unforeseen technological developments could have a further adverse impact on the Principal activities and business review Groups future profitability and cash flows.
The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of prerecorded music, video and electronic games under the HMV Seasonality and Fopp brands and the retailing of books principally under the The business of the Group is highly seasonal with the Christmas Waterstones brand.
The Group has operations in seven countries, season being the most important trading period in terms of sales, with the principal markets being those of the UK and Canada.
Lower than expected performance During the period under review the Company disposed of in this period may have an adverse impact on results for a full its interest in its Japanese business for the sum of Yen17.0bn financial year.
In addition it purchased seven Fopp stores for the sum of 0.4m.
External factors Commentary on the strategy of the Company, the Retail markets are sensitive to economic conditions and if performance of the Group during the year, likely future consumers lose confidence in the UK economy, overall spending developments and details of the disposal of HMV Japan and on the high street will reduce which could affect revenue and acquisition of the Fopp stores can be found in the Chairmans profit.
Other external factors which could affect the Group include statement on pages 2 and 3, and the Business and financial acts of terrorism or war or an outbreak of a pandemic disease, review on pages 4 to 15, which are deemed to be incorporated which could reduce the number of customers visiting the Groups by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
stores, causing a decline in revenue and profit.
Risks and uncertainties Failure of supply The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review The Group has agreements with key suppliers and an interruption of key business risks and uncertainties.
It oversees the or loss of supply of core category products from these suppliers development of processes to ensure that these risks are would affect the Groups ability to trade.
managed appropriately and operational management are delegated with the tasks of implementing these processes Damage to reputation or brands and reporting to the Board on their outcomes.
The key risks The HMV and Waterstones brands are material assets of the identified by the Board are as follows: Group and maintaining their reputation is key to the success of the Group.
Failure to protect these brands, an event that materially Competition damaged the reputation of these brands and or a failure to The Group operates in highly competitive markets where, for sustain their appeal to customers could have an adverse impact certain of its product ranges at certain times in the product life on the financial performance of the Group.
cycle, the Group must adapt and invest in strategies to remain competitive with supermarket and pure Internet retailers.
Information Technology systems In addition, such is the competitive nature of its markets that The Group relies on a number of important IT systems, both at times in the past pressure has been brought to bear on the for its stores and its Internet sites.
Any significant system Groups weaker competitors, which has led to one-off closing or performance problems could affect the Groups ability to trade liquidation activity for a limited period of time.
In the past, such as well as its profitability.
competitor actions have adversely impacted the Groups pricing, margins and profitability which, in the future, may also have an Key personnel adverse impact on the Groups business and financial condition.
The performance of the Group depends on its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain key head office and store staff.
Growth of digital entertainment The retail sector is very competitive and the Groups people Physical entertainment media is a key driver of footfall to are frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
the Groups stores and of online customers to its various Internet sites.
Technological advances and changing consumer Retail store network preferences have given rise to new methods of digital delivery, Retaining a portfolio of good quality real estate, in prime retail both legal and illegal, of music, film, electronic games and books, areas and at commercially reasonable rates remains critical to thereby reducing the purchase of physical media formats.
the performance of the Group.
All of the Groups stores are held under operating leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to the extent that any stores become unviable as a result of rental inflation.
Where a store location becomes surplus to requirements, the Groups policy of occupying prime, highly marketable locations serves to limit such lease exposure.
36 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Strategic initiatives Each Director has been given an unlimited indemnity from the In March 2007, a new strategic plan was laid out for the Company in respect of certain losses which they may incur to transformation of the Group, which included a number of key third parties in the course of acting as Directors of the Company initiatives for improving the financial performance of the Group and any subsidiary undertaking in which they hold a directorship.
Good progress was made during the year on the transformation programme, which remains on track.
Principal shareholders However, the failure of one or more of these initiatives could As at 27 June 2008 the Company had been advised of the result in an adverse impact on the profitability and cash flows following holdings representing 3% or more in its issued of the Group.
Ordinary Shares: Number of Percentage Ordinary of issued Results and dividends Shares share capital The consolidated profit after deducting taxation amounted to 89.0m 2007: 16.1m.
The Board of Directors recommends a UBS Global Asset Management 64,665,986 16.03 final dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
This together with the JPMorgan Chase & Co 45,468,020 11.27 interim dividend of 1.8p, already declared and paid, makes a total Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 39,849,946 9.88 for the year of 7.4p per Ordinary Share 2007: 7.4p per Ordinary Share.
Subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual General FIL Ltd 37,834,653 9.38 Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 10 October 2008 to Tameside Metropolitan those shareholders whose names are on the register of members Borough Council 29,655,644 7.35 on 29 August 2008.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 28,140,216 6.98 Directors Schroders plc 21,350,061 5.29 Mark McCafferty retired as a Director on 6 September 2007.
Brandes Investment Partners LP 19,819,782 4.91 Gerry Johnson was appointed a Director on 26 July 2007 and Deutsche Bank AG 16,629,763 4.12 Philip Rowley was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2007.
All other Directors served throughout the year Legal & General Group plc 16,171,450 4.01 under review and details for all present Directors are listed, UBS Investment Bank 16,045,909 3.98 together with their biographical details, on pages 16 and 17.
Barclays PLC 15,961,454 3.96 Carl Symon will retire as a Director and Chairman at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Prudential plc 15,804,032 3.92 Articles of Association of the Company, Philip Rowley will offer Allianz SE 13,237,128 3.28 himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association require one-third Policy on payment of creditors of the Directors to retire by rotation at each Annual General The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its Meeting and, in any event, each Director must offer himself suppliers but agrees specific terms with each and ensures that or herself for re-election at least once every three years.
each supplier is made aware of such terms.
It is the Groups Accordingly, Roy Brown and Simon Fox will offer themselves policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that they for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company is a holding company and therefore With regards to the appointment and replacement of has no trade creditors.
Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
Financial instruments The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of The Groups Treasury Department is principally responsible for the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are detailed in the managing financial risks to which the Group is exposed, such as Corporate Governance Report on page 18. funding risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign The Directors interests in the shares of the Company, exchange risk.
Treasury manages these risks using policies together with their remuneration where applicable and further approved by the Board.
details of their service agreements are detailed in the Directors Details of the Groups financial risk management policies can Remuneration Report on pages 22 to 31. be found in Note 27 to the Accounts, a breakdown of the Groups No Director, at any time during the period under review, had net debt position is found in Note 26 and interest charges can be a material interest in any contracts with the Company or any of found in Note 10 to the Accounts.
its subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive Directors who had such an interest through their service agreements with the Company, details of which are summarised on page 30.
None of the Directors or their families at any time during the period under review, or subsequently, were interested in any shares of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
37 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Directors report continued Employee policies The Company has one class of Ordinary shares which carry no The Group aims to employ and develop the best people, putting right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote them in the right positions with a significant level of delegated at general meetings of the Company.
The percentage issued authority and supporting them with the infrastructure and nominal value of the Ordinary Shares is 100% of the total technology required to perform at the highest levels and at the issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specific lowest costs with the quickest response time.
restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, Responsibility for employment rests primarily with each which are both governed by the general provisions of the business operation under the general guidance of central policy Articles of Association of the Company and prevailing legislation.
Group companies are committed to The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders the maintenance of a work environment free of discrimination of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the on the grounds of age, gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any non-job related disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
special rights of control over the Companys share capital and The Group gives full consideration to applications from all issued shares are fully paid.
disabled persons where a disabled person can adequately fulfil Details of the employee share schemes are set out in the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees become Note 30 and in the Directors remuneration report on pages disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide 23 to 25 both of which are incorporated by reference in and continuing employment under normal terms and conditions shall be deemed to form part of this report.
and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Charitable donations In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, The Group made charitable donations of 12,000 in the period regular meetings are held between local management and under review 2007: 38,000.
It is Group policy not to make employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
donations to political parties and therefore no political donations The Company encourages staff involvement in the Groups were made during the period.
The Group is also involved in performance via a combination of employee bonus and share charitable fundraising, details of which can be found in the schemes.
The Group has established a Share Incentive Plan, Corporate Responsibility Statement on page 35. details of which are set out on page 24, in which the UK employees are entitled to participate provided they meet Significant agreements certain service conditions.
The Companys Senior Bank Facility agreement, details of which can be found in Note 27 on page 71 to the financial statements, Share capital contains provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise At the Annual General Meeting held in September 2007, termination or other rights in the event of a change of control shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to a of the Company.
maximum of 40.2m of its own Ordinary Shares, representing The rules of the Companys share plans set out 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
During the consequences of a change of control of the Company on the period under review the Company did not purchase any of its employees rights under the plans.
All outstanding awards on the own shares.
change of control will vest immediately to employees to the extent Details of the Companys share capital can be found in that any performance conditions are satisfied and, unless the Note 29 on page 74 which is incorporated by reference and Remuneration Committee otherwise decides, will be pro-rated to deemed to be part of this report.
Since the end of the period the extent that the vesting period for each outstanding award has under review the Company has not increased its issued been completed at that time.
Details of payments to the Executive Directors under their service contracts as a result of a change of control can be found in the Directors remuneration report on page 30 and are deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
38 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Auditors Annual General Meeting The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at approving the Directors report are listed on pages 16 and 17.
3.00pm on 5 September 2008 at Andaz Hotel, Liverpool Street, Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys London, EC2M 7QN.
The special business to be proposed at that auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: meeting will be the renewal of the Directors authority to allot new Ordinary Shares and to disapply pre-emption rights in certain to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is circumstances: the renewal of the Directors authority to buy no information relevant to the preparation of their report of back the Companys shares in the market: the amendment of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Articles of Association of the Company: and, to avoid an each Director has taken all steps a director might reasonably inadvertent breach of Companies Act 2006, the renewal of the be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Groups authority to make political donations.
The Notice of information and to establish that the Companys auditors Meeting and details of the special business to be proposed are aware of that information.
can be found in the accompanying letter to shareholders.
A statement of the Directors responsibility for the consolidated By order of the Board financial statements can be found on page 40, which is deemed to be incorporated by reference in and shall be deemed to form Elaine Marriner part of this report.
Company Secretary Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to 30 June 2008 continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors to fix their remuneration Shelley House, 24 York Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire SL6 1SR will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going concern The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
39 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
