Board of Directors Carl Symon Simon Fox Chairman Chief Executive officer and Managing Director Aged 62 HMV UK & Ireland Aged 47 Carl Symon, a US national, was appointed to the Board as Simon Fox was appointed to the Board with effect from Chairman on 1 February 2006.
He is a non-executive director 4 September 2006 and became Chief Executive officer of BT Group plc, BAe Systems plc and Senior Independent on 28 September 2006.
He became Managing Director of Director of Rexam PLC, and retired as a non-executive director HMV UK & Ireland on 1 Feburary 2007.
He was previously of Rolls-Royce Group plc on 7 May 2008.
He is also Chairman Chief Operating officer for Kesa Electricals plc with responsibility of Clearswift Systems Ltd, BT Groups Equality of Access Board for Comet in the UK, Kesas subsidiaries in Continental Europe and an advisory board member of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
Prior to his appointment He retired from IBM in May 2001 after a 32-year international as COO of Kesa, he was Managing Director of Comet, which career during which he held several senior executive positions.
he led through its demerger from Kingsher.
Prior to this he founded Ofce World, the UKs first out-of-town ofce supplies Chairman of the Nomination Committee retailer.
He began his career as a graduate trainee at Security Pacic Bank and thereafter worked at Boston Consulting Group and Sandhurst Marketing plc.
Roy Brown Christopher Rogers Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Aged 61 Aged 48 Roy Brown was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent Christopher Rogers was appointed to the Board on Director on 23 April 2002.
He is Chairman of GKN plc and 1 October 2006.
He is Group Finance Director of Whitbread plc, a non-executive director on the Franchise Board of Lloyds having been appointed in May 2005.
Previously he was Group of London.
He is non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Finance Director of Woolworths Group plc and Chairman of Independent Director of Alliance & Leicester plc and a member the Woolworths Group Entertainment and Wholesale Publishing of the CBI International Advisory Board.
He qualied as an accountant with Price Waterhouse non-executive director of Brambles plc and British United and joined Kingsher Group as Corporate Finance Manager Provident Association Limited BUPA and a former executive in 1988.
Subsequent appointments included Group Financial director of Unilever plc and Unilever NV.
Controller at Kingsher plc and Finance Director and Commercial Director of Comet Group plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees 16 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Neil Bright Gerry Johnson Group Finance Director Managing Director, Waterstones Aged 45 Aged 47 Neil Bright was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Gerry Johnson was appointed to the Board with effect from Director in March 1998.
He joined HMV in August 1996 26 July 2007.
He joined Waterstones as Managing Director as Group Finance Director from its then parent company, on 1 October 2005, and led Waterstones through its acquisition Thorn EMI plc where he was Group Planning Manager.
and successful integration of Ottakars.
He is a career retailer He is a Chartered Accountant, having trained and qualied having started his working life at Tesco in 1978, holding a variety with Coopers & Lybrand in London.
of roles over 11 years, latterly as Superstore Manager.
He spent five years at Asda Groups Allied Maples Division before moving to Wickes PLC in 1994.
In 2001 he was appointed Managing Director of Booker and was a main board director of its parent company, Big Food Group PLC.
Lesley Knox Philip Rowley Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 54 Aged 55 Lesley Knox was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2002.
Philip Rowley was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007.
She was a founder director of British Linen Advisors, a specialist He was Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe until February 2007. merchant bank focusing on growth companies.
Prior to that He is a qualied chartered accountant and was Group Finance she was Corporate Finance Director then Head of Institutional Director of Kingsher plc from 1998 to 2001.
Prior to that his Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Group.
She is Chairman roles included Executive Vice President and Chief Financial of Alliance Trust PLC and a non-executive director of Hays plc officer of EMI Music Worldwide, and Chief Operating officer and Signet Group plc.
She is also a member of the Board of and CFO of Golden Books Family Entertainment, the largest Governors of the Museum of London and a former director childrens book publisher in the US.
He was also the co-founder of the arts charity The Federation of British Artists Limited.
and Managing Director of Tribeca Technologies, a New Yorkbased technology company and a former non-executive director Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees of Tradus plc previously QXL Ricardo plc until its delisting in March 2008.
He is currently a non-executive director of ARM Holdings Plc and Chairman of Skinkers Ltd.
Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 17 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
