Business and financial review continued Strategic review I am pleased to report that we completed the first We continued to plan and adapt for structural year of our turnaround plan ahead of our expectations, change taking place in our markets by refocusing having stabilised the Groups operating and financial performance and made good progress on all of the our mix of products to higher growth lines, strategic initiatives contained within our three-year plan.
improving the communication with our customers and enhancing our store environments.
Protecting and revitalising our stores business Our stores business performed strongly throughout the year, demonstrating the strength and resilience of our market leading brands.
We continued to plan and adapt for structural change taking place in our markets by refocusing our mix of products to higher growth categories, improving the communication with our customers and enhancing our store environments.
HMV HMV UK & Ireland is adapting to the changing ways in which entertainment is being consumed.
The HMV brand has been reinvigorated by new integrated in-store and online promotions, which invite our customers to Get Closer to the content we sell.
This powerful approach to advertising, combined with improved campaigns, especially around the key seasonal gifting periods, improved customers perceptions of the HMV brand and helped us to signicantly outperform the markets in which we operate.
In music HMV UK & Ireland grew unit sales, even though during the period the market saw volume declines, and in DVD our sales volumes increased by over 18% in a market in which units grew 8%.
We also embarked on successful trials of a next generation store format, featuring a social hub providing access to entertainment websites, multi-player games zones and transactional kiosks.
All product lines in the trial outperformed the rest of the chain, providing a basis in the coming financial year to convert 1015 stores and open all new stores in the new format.
After the end of the period, HMV Canada also opened its first next generation store in Toronto.
HMV UK & Ireland successfully rolled out a range of technology products, predominantly MP3 MP4 players and related accessories, which have been very well received by our customers.
We continued to enhance our credibility with customers and suppliers in the fast-growing games console and software market, and are planning to launch a pre-played games offer in 2008 09.
Games and technology products now represent 21% of HMV UK & Irelands sales mix, up from 14% in the prior year.
By taking the key learnings from the UK, a similar focus has been applied in HMV Canada, where these products grew to 7% of sales from just 1% in the prior year.
6 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Above: Right: Trials of next generation Multi-player gaming zones stores have been a great attract customers to this success, with more openings high growth format.
Below: HMV UK & Ireland mix progression 21% 3% 30% 14% 2% 37% Games and Other Music Games and Other Music technology technology 2008 2007 46% 47% DVD DVD 7 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Business and financial review continued Strategic review continued We acquired seven entertainment stores and various related trademarks from the administrator of Fopp, and opened our first new Fopp store in Bristol in March 2008.
The differentiated customer offer and local appeal of these stores have been successfully preserved, offering the potential for a small number of future openings.
Waterstones Core to improving performance at Waterstones was our focus on enhancing our engagement with customers, the emphasis on service in branches and the growth of our online business.
The biggest single initiative to help build links with our Above: customers has been the Waterstones multi-channel Fopps differentiated loyalty card, which launched in September 2007, customer offer has been and now has 1.5 million cardholders.
The card enables retained following the acquisition of seven shops Waterstones customers to earn and redeem points and related trademarks.
in-store and online and to enjoy further benets, such as meeting authors and the chance to receive and review pre-publication copies of new books.
Engagement with Waterstones local communities was increased during the year through organising events and other activities in our stores.
Over 6,300 events were held, including 1,700 childrens events, and the launch of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows attracted over 250,000 visitors to midnight openings at our stores, which helped to double our market share over the previous Harry Potter book.
Below: Right: Waterstones loyalty card Waterstones.
com had 1.5 million members functionality includes the after just nine months.
ability to check stock availability in local stores.
8 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008 The appeal of our product offer and store environment Driving cost efficiency was enhanced during the year by the successful Good progress has been made on restructuring introduction of new childrens departments and a the Groups cost base and to deliver on our high quality range of gift stationery into 100 stores, planned savings by 2010. where these new ranges have performed well.
Combining the back ofce finance and IT functions of HMV UK & Ireland and Waterstones and Growing revenue from centralising both businesses procurement of goods not for resale, successfully delivered new channels the anticipated savings of 6m for the year.
com website was enhanced during Waterstones appointed Unipart as its supply the period by new branding and customer chain partner, leading to a new book hub serving all communication, which contributed to growth of stores and fullment for waterstones.
com becoming over 40% on the previous year and an increased operational after the period end.
The transition Below: share of the online market.
CD and DVD sales getcloser.
com, our social from direct-to-store deliveries to the book hub has from hmv.
com are now approaching 10% of discovery site, is now live.
been fide-risked by the phased take on of stores, HMV UK & Irelands total sales.
which will be completed by the end of the new The choice to purchase physical or digital music financial year.
Consequently, the delivery of cost albums from a single shopping basket is now savings from this initiative will be deferred until integrated into hmv.
The programme to simplify HMV UK when all of the major music suppliers make their & Irelands supply chain remains on track to catalogues available in the MP3 le format, the become operational during the new financial year.
site is well positioned to sell downloads which are At the end of the period, Waterstones total square compatible with any portable digital music player.
footage had been reduced by 6.7% out of a threeA subscription service, HMV Jukebox, was also year target of 10% by April 2010. launched to provide unlimited online access to over 3 million music tracks for a single monthly payment.
We commenced trials of a new social discovery Creating value website, getcloser.
com, through which music At the beginning of the year a review of strategic and lm enthusiasts can share their interests and options for HMV Japan concluded that greater experience user-generated and copyright content.
value for our shareholders could be created through The site, which will be supported by advertising, a disposal of this business.
The price achieved of sponsorship and e-commerce, will launch in beta Yen17bn on a debt and cash free basis 70.6m on 1 July 2008. was a multiple of 9.0 times historic EBITDA, and The competitiveness of waterstones.
com was with the proceeds we signicantly reduced the enhanced by changes made to delivery and Groups debt.
customer communication, and sales from the site grew by over 140% on the prior year and customer registrations are now more than Outlook 850,000.
The ability to check local store stock One year into our transformation programme, and collect orders from local branches is we are ahead of where we had planned to be, proving particularly popular with online customers, although there remains much more for us to do.
while the Waterstones loyalty card has added a Whilst we are mindful of the challenging economic further, powerful multi-channel link between our outlook, the current financial year has started in stores and the website.
Additional benets to the line with our expectations, and we remain confident operation and service of waterstones.
com will follow of achieving our medium-term targets for 4.5%5% as fullment for the site transfers to Waterstones return on sales and 2.0 times dividend cover at new book hub in the new financial year.
the end of the financial year 2009 10.
Simon Fox Chief Executive Officer 30 June 2008 9 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
