Senior management Isac Burstein 43 Raymond Jannas 55 Eduardo Villar 36 Business Development Corporate Vice President, Exploration & Geology Vice President, Human Resources Manager Raymond Jannas joined Hochschild in Eduardo Villar has been with the Group Isac Burstein joined the Group as a 2007 after working for eight years at Gold since 1996.
Prior to his current position, geologist in 1995.
Prior to his current Fields Limited where he served as he served as Human Resources position, Isac served as Manager for Worldwide Project Generation Manager Manager, Deputy HR Manager and Project Evaluation, Exploration Manager between 2006 and 2007 and as South Legal Counsel.
Eduardo holds a Law for Mexico, and Exploration Geologist.
Raymond Degree from the Universidad fide Lima He holds a BSc in Geological has over 30 years of experience as a and an MBA from the Universidad Engineering from the Universidad geologist throughout the Americas.
He Peruana fide Ciencias Aplicadas.
Nacional fide Ingenieria, an MSc in holds a BSc in Geology from the Geology from the University of Missouri Universidad fide Chile and an MSc and and an MBA from Krannert School of PhD in Geology from Harvard University.
Jos Augusto Palma 41 Ignacio Bustamante 37 Vice President & General Counsel Chief Operating Officer Jos Augusto Palma joined Hochschild in Ignacio Bustamante joined Hochschild in July 2006 after a 13 year legal career in 1992 and, prior to his appointment as the United States, where he was a Chief Operating Officer in January 2008, partner at the law firm of Swidler Berlin served as General Manager of the and later worked for the World Bank.
Between 1998 and also served two years in the Government 2003 he worked as Chief Financial Officer of Peru.
Jos has Law degrees from of Cementos Pacasmayo.
Subsequently, Georgetown University and the he worked for Zemex Corporation, a Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico subsidiary of Cementos Pacasmayo, and is admitted to practice as a lawyer in based in Atlanta, Georgia, serving first as Mexico, New York and the District of Chief Financial Officer and Vice President Columbia.
Prior to his appointment as of Business Development and later as its Vice President & General Counsel in President.
Ignacio holds a BSc in Business October 2008, Jos served as Senior and a BSc in Accounting from the Adviser to the Executive Committee.
Universidad del Pacfico in Peru and an MBA from Stanford University.
39 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
