Q&A with the CEO continued Maximise the potential of our operations by focusing on Our strategy is efficiency and effective mine planning straightforward Bring into production new and profitable precious metals projects in the Americas Organic growth p. 16 Pipeline growth p. 20 M&A growth p. 19 Strategy in action Strategy in action Strategy in action Completion of capacity expansions at: Progression of JV and exploration Strategic acquisition of: Arcata 46% projects: Remaining 30% of San Felipe San Jos 50% Azuca 100% owned early 40% of Lake Shore Gold Corporation Selene Pallancata 100% development project in southern Peru, 50% of the Liam Regional JV diamond drilling underway 15% of Gold Resource Corporation We are focused on maximising the Inmaculada joint venture gold silver 16% of Mariana Resources potential at our existing operations.
We project in Peru, diamond drilling 100% of Southwestern regularly review each site to make sure underway that we are running at optimum We have adopted a highly selective efficiency whilst planning for long-term We are continually assessing new approach to acquisitions and growth.
In 2008 this included investment opportunities at all stages of undertake a rigorous evaluation before in plant expansions as well as mine-site development.
Projects enter our pipeline pursuing opportunities to ensure that exploration.
With our commitment to either by joint venture or internal all transactions are value accretive cash preservation in 2009, we will be discovery greenfield exploration and in the long-term.
We are focused on: focusing on operational efficiency and are subject to a strict evaluation process.
Mid-sized, high grade, underground effective mine planning.
Our pipeline currently comprises precious metals assets numerous long-term prospects in our Cluster consolidation: leveraging existing target countries.
operations and management expertise Specific geological regions: Peru, Mexico, Argentina, Canada, Chile Bolt on acquisitions or joint ventures 10% of Gold Resource Corp was acquired on 26 February 2009.
Agreement signed on 23 March 2009 and is subject to the approval of Southwesterns shareholders.
11 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
