Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Directors report Further information The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the Directors interests year ended 31 December 2008.
Details of the beneficial interests of those Directors serving at 31 December 2008 in the share capital of the Company are Principal activities and business review shown below: Hochschild is a leading precious metals company with a At 31 December At 1 January primary focus on the exploration, mining, processing and sale 2008 2008 of silver and gold.
1 Eduardo Hochschild 181,350,426 181,350,426 2 Roberto Daino 1,725,000 1,725,000 The Group has five underground mines in production Sir Malcolm Field 14,285 14,285 supported by fully developed infrastructure, four of which are located in southern Peru and the fifth in Argentina.
The Group Jorge Born Jr. 0 0 also has one open pit mine in Mexico and numerous long-term Nigel Moore 14,285 14,285 prospects at various stages of development.
A number of these Dionisio Romero 100,000 0 projects and prospects are structured as joint ventures or option arrangements with local or overseas mining partners, whilst 1 Eduardo Hochschild holds an indirect interest in the Company through an intermediate holding company which he controls and which owns the entire others are owned and operated exclusively by the Group.
issued share capital of Pelham Investment Corporation which, in turn, owns shares in the Company.
In addition, the Group has strategic investments in a number of 2 Roberto Dainos shareholding is held through Navajo Overseas Corporation.
mining companies including Lake Shore Gold Corporation, a Canadian gold company.
There have been no changes in the above interests in the period from 31 December 2008 to 24 March 2009.
The overview and business review sections of this Annual Report on pages 2 to 37 contain the information required to be Relationship agreement disclosed in this report under section 417 of the Companies Act Prior to the Companys IPO, Pelham Investment Corporation, 2006 and which are incorporated into this report by reference.
Eduardo Hochschild, Alberto Beeck and the Company entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing Results and dividend relationship between them the Relationship Agreement.
1 The Groups adjusted EBITDA for the year amounted to $142.3 The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to million 2007: $147.6 million.
Turnover for the year was $433.8 ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business for million and attributable profit to equity shareholders after tax the benefit of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
before exceptional items was $24.6 million.
Further details on the Relationship Agreement are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 45 to 49.
An interim dividend of $0.02 per share was paid to shareholders of the Company on 23 September 2008.
The Directors Corporate social responsibility CSR recommend the payment of a final dividend of $0.02 per share The Directors are committed to ensuring the health and safety 2007: $0.072 per share.
Subject to shareholders approving of the Groups employees, operating the Groups business this recommendation at the forthcoming Annual General with respect for the environment and by actively engaging Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling with local communities.
The Group has sought to reinforce on 28 May 2009 to shareholders on the register at the close of this commitment by allocating resources and undertaking business on 1 May 2009.
Shareholders may elect to receive their numerous initiatives over many years.
The US dollar dividend will be converted into UK pounds sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the The CSR Committee has continued to discharge its time of payment.
responsibilities during the year by: monitoring the Groups performance against agreed Directors policy on all CSR-related issues, particularly on safety The names and biographical details of the Directors serving and occupational health, community relations, and at the date of this report are given on page 38.
Alberto Beeck the environment: stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2008. reviewing managements investigation of incidents or accidents that occur, in order to assess whether policy As Miguel Arambur and Ignacio Rosado were appointed improvements are required: and to the Board by the Directors, they will stand for election by reviewing compliance with national and international shareholders at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with standards to ensure that effective systems of standards, the Companys Articles of Association.
In addition, Jorge procedures and practices are in place at each of the Born Jr and Nigel Moore will be retiring by rotation at this Companys operations.
years AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Further details on the Groups activities in this area are given in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 30 to 35.
1 Calculated as profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, net finance income cost and income tax plus depreciation, amortisation and exploration expenses excluding Personnel and Other expenses.
40 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Rehabilitation of land Substantial shareholdings The Company has a policy of closing mine facilities as the lives As at 24 March 2009 the Company had been notified of the of the mines progress in order to reduce liabilities at the end following interests in the Companys Ordinary Share capital in of the mine life.
Total current estimates of end-of-life closure accordance with Chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys costs for the Groups operations are about $38.9 million, which Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: includes amounts estimated for ongoing maintenance of sites.
Percentage A provision for this amount was made as at 31 December 2008 Number of of issued 2007: $32.2 million which was calculated following a review, Ordinary Shares share capital in 2006, of the mines estimated closure costs by external Eduardo Hochschild 181,350,426 59.00% consultants and which has been updated on an annual basis Alberto Beeck 25,112,074 8.17% by management.
Blackrock Investment Management UK Ltd 22,633,411 7.36% Employees Employees of Minera Santa Cruz, S. A. are voluntarily affiliated Deutsche Bank AG 10,128,988 3.30% to the Asociacin Obrera Mineran Argentina the Argentine Vanguard Group Inc. 9,303,931 3.03% Mineworkers Union.
The Groups employees at the Peruvian operations became members of unions which were formed Additional share capital information during 2008.
The Group maintains good relations with its This section provides information as at 31 December 2008 which workforce and, for almost 20 years, has not experienced any is required to be disclosed in the Directors report following significant interruptions in production at any of its operating implementation of the Takeovers Directive into English law.
sites as a result of workplace disputes.
This notwithstanding, the Group is currently experiencing some difficulties as referred to in References below to the Articles are to the Companys Articles the Chairmans statement.
of Association as at the date of this report, copies of which are available from the Registrar of Companies or on request from Further details on the Groups engagement with employees the Company Secretary.
are provided in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 30 to 35.
References below to the Companies Act are to the Companies Act 1985 or the Companies Act 2006 as the context may require.
Supplier payment policy It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are a Structure of share capital made in accordance with those terms and conditions The Company has a single class of share capital which is agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided divided into Ordinary Shares of 25p each, which are in that all trading terms and conditions have been complied registered form.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the At 31 December 2008, the Company had an average of 23 Company are shown in note 26 to the Accounts.
days purchases owed to trade creditors 2007: 27 days.
b Rights and obligations attaching to shares Political and charitable donations The rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares are described in full The Company does not make political donations.
the year, the Group expended $4.6 million 2007: $4.3 million on social and community welfare activities surrounding its In summary, on a show of hands at a general meeting or class mining units.
meeting, every member present in person has one vote for every Ordinary Share held and on a poll, every member Events since the balance sheet date present in person or by proxy has one vote for every Ordinary Details of events occurring since 31 December 2008 are set out Share held.
in note 37 to the Groups financial statements on page 109.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any Share repurchase authority of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf The Company obtained shareholder approval at the AGM held at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member that is a in May 2008 for the repurchase of up to 30,735,022 Ordinary corporation is entitled to appoint more than one individual to Shares representing 10% of the Companys issued share act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a capital the 2008 Authority.
Whilst no purchases were made corporate representative.
by the Company pursuant to the 2008 Authority, it is intended that shareholder consent will be sought on similar terms at this years AGM when the 2008 Authority expires.
41 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Directors report continued Further information c Transfer of shares The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of The relevant provisions of the Articles state that: their body to be the holder of any executive office for such registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be period subject to the Companies Act and on such terms as refused in the circumstances set out in the CREST Regulations they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the appointment.
Each Director is required to retire at the AGM held number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to in the third calendar year following the year in which he was be transferred exceeds four: elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Each Director other the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, decline to than the Chairman and any Director holding executive office register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid shall retire at each AGM following the ninth anniversary of the share.
The Directors may also decline to recognise any date on which he was elected by the Company.
The Company instrument of transfer relating to a certificated share unless may, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Companies Act by ordinary resolution of which special notice the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped if required and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such has been given, remove any Director before the expiration of his term of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he other evidence of the right to transfer as the Directors may reasonably require: and ii is in respect of only one class of is prohibited by law from acting as a Director: ii he resigns or offers to resign and the Directors resolve to accept such offer: share.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer if it is in favour of more than four persons iii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iv a relevant order has been made by any court jointly: and the Directors may decline to register a transfer of any of the on the ground of mental disorder: v he is absent without permission of the Directors from meetings of the Board for six Companys shares by a person with a 0.25% interest if such a person has been served with a notice under the Companies months and the Directors resolve that his office be vacated: vi his resignation is requested in writing by not less than threeAct after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided quarters of the Directors for the time being: or vii in the case of a Director other than the Chairman and any Director holding under the Companies Act.
an executive office, if the Directors shall resolve to require him to resign and within 30 days of being given notice of such notice d Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or he so fails to do.
class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains In addition, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement: for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 30% unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he failed to provide the or more in the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to two Non-Executive Directors and to remove such Directors so Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
appointed: and for as long as the Major Shareholder has an interest of 15% or e Deadlines for voting rights more of the Company, it is entitled to appoint up to one NonExecutive Director and to remove such Director so appointed.
Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being h Amendment of Articles of Association heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
Under Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act the Articles, the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the by way of special resolution.
meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
i Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the f Shareholder Agreements The Relationship Agreement entered into prior to the IPO Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business and affairs of the Company shall be between the Major Shareholder as defined in the Relationship Agreement, Eduardo Hochschild, Alberto Beeck collectively managed by the Directors who may exercise all such powers of the Company.
the Controlling Shareholders and the Company: contains provisions restricting the Controlling Shareholders Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights to exercise their voting rights to procure an amendment to the Articles that would be inconsistent with the Relationship rights, shares may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or in the Agreement: and contains an undertaking by the Controlling Shareholders that absence of any such resolution, as the Directors may decide.
Subject to applicable statutes and any ordinary resolution of they will, and they procure that their Associates will, abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a transaction with a the Company, all unissued shares of the Company are at the disposal of the Directors.
At each AGM the Company puts related party as defined in the FSA Listing Rules involving the Controlling Shareholders or their Associates.
in place annual shareholder authority seeking shareholder consent to allot unissued shares, in certain circumstances g Appointment and replacement of Directors for cash, in accordance with the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committee.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible for election by the shareholders but is not taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
42 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 j Repurchase of shares Directors and officers liability insurance Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Since Directors are increasingly being added as defendants in Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with legal actions against companies, the Board believes that the the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought risk of Directors being placed at significant personal financial back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must risk is increasing.
The Board also believes that the provision of be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, appropriate indemnities and the funding of Directors defence thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share costs as permitted by legislation are reasonable protections for capital.
The Company currently has authority to buy back up the Directors and are important to ensure that the Company to 30,735,022 Ordinary Shares and which will expire at the 2009 continues to be able to attract and retain the highest calibre AGM.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is individuals as Directors.
specified in the relevant shareholder resolution.
Accordingly, the Articles contain a provision whereby each k Dividends and distributions of the Directors is indemnified by the Company in respect of liability in relation to: i any negligence, default, breach Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends of duty or breach of trust relating to the Company or any associated company: ii execution of their duties as Directors not exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may pay interim dividends whenever the financial of the Company: and iii the activities of the Company or any associated company as trustee of an occupational pension position of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies its payment.
If the Directors act in good faith, they are not liable scheme.
For these purposes, associated company has the meaning given to it by section 256 of the Companies Act 2006. to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of interim dividends on other shares.
However, a Director will not be indemnified for any liability l Significant agreements incurred by him to the Company or Group companies: any criminal or regulatory fines: the costs of defending any criminal A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company, proceedings in which he is convicted: or the costs of defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company in which or any of its trading subsidiaries, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, joint venture agreements, banking judgement is given against him.
arrangements to take effect, alter or terminate.
Of these, the following arrangements may have a significant impact on the The Company has purchased and maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted by section 233 of the Group following a change of control: the $200 million syndicated secured term loan facility Companies Act 2006. agreement dated 28 January 2008.
Under the terms of this facility, a change of control entitles JP Morgan Chase Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 allows Directors of public companies Bank N. A. as the administrative agent, if so directed by a majority of the lenders, to cancel the facility and declare all to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of directors where the Companys Articles of Association contain outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued under the facility documentation a provision to that effect.
Shareholders approved amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM held on immediately due and payable and furthermore, entitles the administrative agent to direct the enforcement of all liens and 9 May 2008 which included provisions giving the Directors authority to authorise matters which may result in the Directors security interests created under the facility documentation.
awards made under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan breaching their duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
shall, upon a change of control of the Company, vest early unless a replacement award is made.
Vesting will be proThe Board has established effective procedures to enable the directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential rated to take account of the proportion of the period from the award date to the normal vesting date falling prior to conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board, subject to any the change of control and the extent to which performance conditions and any other conditions applying to the award conditions that may be considered appropriate.
Directors conflict situations will be reviewed annually.
Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters Essential contractual and other arrangements The Directors consider that the following are the contractual under discussion at Board meetings are required to declare this interest and to abstain from voting on the relevant matters.
Any and other arrangements to which group companies are a party and which are considered to be essential to the business: related party transactions are approved by a committee of the Board consisting solely of Independent Directors.
In addition, the the mining concessions granted by the governmental authorities in the jurisdiction of the Groups operations: and Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving any authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
collective agreements with trade unions in respect of the workers at the Groups mines in Peru.
Going concern Policy on financial risk management The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management can be found in note 36 to the Group financial foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Information on the Companys exposures to foreign currency, commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity, interest rates Auditors and capital risks can be found in this note.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put to the members at the forthcoming AGM.
43 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Directors report continued Further information AGM Statement of Directors responsibilities The third AGM of the Company will be held at 10am on 26 May The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: 2009 at the offices of Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the 8HQ.
The shareholder circular incorporating the Notice of AGM applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair is available at www.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the The shareholder circular contains details on, amongst other consolidation taken as a whole: and things, the business to be considered at the meeting and the the Management report includes a fair review of the biographical details of the Directors standing for re-election at development and performance of the business and the the AGM.
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Statement on disclosure of information to auditors description of the principal risks and uncertainties that Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys they face.
auditors, each Director confirms that to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of Disclaimer which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Furthermore, each Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as any person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, information and to establish that the Companys auditors are any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any aware of that information.
untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Financial Services and This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in Markets Act 2000. accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The names and functions of the current Directors of the Company are set out on page 38 of this Annual Report.
On behalf of the Board Raj Bhasin Company Secretary 24 March 2009 44 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
