THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement I am delighted to report that it has We have in place a clear strategy to been an excellent year for the Group.
deliver long-term pro table growth.
In our second year as an independent company, Although the short term may be challenging, we Although the home enhancement market detewe have again achieved double-digit earnings are con dent that we have everything in place to riorated through the financial year, Homebase growth, with benchmark pro t before tax up 15% be a winner in the long run.
increased by approximately 250 basis points, driven Strong financial foundations by ongoing sourcing and supply chain benefits.
Continued progress Our sales grew to 5,985m, an increase of 2% on The repositioning of Homebase from DIY to We have made good progress in a number of the previous year.
Benchmark operating pro t rose broader home enhancement leader continues to key areas.
by 11% to 398m and benchmark pro t before tax progress well.
At Argos, we have brought greater value to our by 15% to 433m.
Basic benchmark earnings per However, improving the level of pro t and reGrowth in dividend per share 2008: 14.7p 2007: 13.0p.
customers through our ability to provide highly Oliver Stocken Terry Duddy share of 33.9p represented an increase of 16%.
turn from the Homebase business will be a key area Chairman Chief Executive competitive prices across our product ranges.
Argos Benchmark pre-tax return on invested capital of focus and effort over the next few years.
has also maintained its long track record of retail improved by 70 basis points to 12.7%.
A net cash Financial Services makes an important contriinnovation with a number of initiatives that have position of 174m re ects the strength of our pro t bution to our business, working on behalf of Argos helped to improve both the customer shopping performance and overall financial position.
and Homebase to offer our customers more and 114m experience and operational ef ciency.
better ways to afford our products.
The expertise and The Argos catalogue is a true icon in UK retailNew developments Combined strength experience of our team ensures that we manage our ing.
This year has seen the 69th and biggest-ever The Group continues to identify and develop new The Groups performance shows the advantage of credit offering to the bene t of the whole Group.
edition, containing over 18,000 product lines.
The businesses with the potential to enhance our longhaving two complementary retail brands.
Where catalogue is the heart of Argos and the business term growth.
This year saw the launch of trials of Argos and Homebase operate in the same product A strong team model is truly unique in its integration of customer Argos in India and HomeStore&More in the UK.
categories, we can reach a broader range of cusThe Groups financial performance reflects well Increase in closing net cash 2008: 174m 2007: 60m.
We also purchased a number of sites from Focus DIY tomers while leveraging a greater combined scale.
Its very powerful to have 53,000 The home enhancement positioning of Hometo expand the reach of the Homebase brand.
We can also transfer new retail innovations and colleagues who give the Group their full commitbase gives the brand competitive advantage and practices to strengthen our customer propositions.
ment and who are passionate about our success.
differentiation compared to more traditional DIY Prudent financial position We maintained or increased our market share in I would like to thank everyone for their effort and outlets at the heavier end of the market.
Given economic conditions, our financial position a number of key categories, including the respective hard work through the past year.
We are extending within Homebase the same and net cash balance mean that the Group is well growth areas for Argos of consumer electronics retail principles that sustain the success of Argos.
placed to continue the developments to drive longand for Homebase of tted kitchens.
Installation Focused on the future The introduction of a home furniture and furnishings term growth in all of our businesses.
services are proving an important sales driver for Our long-term outlook remains positive and we are catalogue and the expansion of the product range Homebase among a broader customer base.
excited about our many opportunities for growth.
available online are helping to attract more consumDividend growth Argos delivered record pro ts.
Sales were Any near-term consumer slowdown should see ers to the full choice of home enhancement products The recommended final dividend is 10.0p, which driven by a wide selection of merchandise, including Home Retail continue as a clear market leader and and services that Homebase offers.
is to be paid to shareholders on 23 July 2008.
This the new Argos Value Range and premium branded emerge in an even stronger competitive position.
53,000 Improved product ranges are displayed to creates a total dividend for the year of 14.7p, which ranges, as well as by continuing to offer highly I believe we have the right business model and great effect in the newer store formats.
Over half represents an increase of 13% and is covered 2.31 competitive prices.
Over 15 million customers used strategy to deliver superior long-term performance.
of Homebase stores have a mezzanine oor for times by basic benchmark earnings per share.
Check & Reserve to order goods for in-store collection, We are delivering well now and have the capability displaying kitchen, bathroom and furniture ranges, with internet Check & Reserve increasing by over to be even more successful in the future.
with the strong homewares offer displayed beneath Outlook 40%.
The gross margin increased by approximately the mezzanine.
While the outlook undoubtedly looks more chal- 50 basis points during the year.
Argos operating Terry Duddy Total number of colleagues lenging from here, the outstanding performance cost ef ciency was perhaps the key success in Chief Executive across the business.
A valued contribution delivered this year is testament to the underlying the year.
The Groups success is very much a team effort.
I believe that we are in excelI am always impressed by the professionalism of lent operational and financial shape going into the our colleagues when I visit our stores and other next financial year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their commitment and willThank you for your continued support.
ingness to generate and take on new ideas and deliver innovations in what will continue to be Oliver Stocken very challenging conditions.
Chairman Growth in benchmark pro t before tax 2008: 433m 2007: 377m.
12 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 13 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GROUP How we measure up.
Our aim is to deliver a strong performance relative to our retail markets.
We have done so in the past.
We expect to continue to do so in the future.
We are con dent in the long-term strength of our business.
Consumer and retail trends are being met or driven by our exible retail formats.
Argos and Homebase have distinctive brand appeal and clear customer propositions.
They both gain signi cant leverage from a shared infrastructure, delivering cost ef ciency and multiple routes to market.
Our Financial Services business also helps to generate sales by making products easier to afford.
And were well positioned for this to continue.
Where can I nd more information?
Supply chain initiatives chain strength.
Products we buy helped grow gross margin by from overseas account for over approximately 250 basis points.
Benchmark operating pro t The Groups store cards funded grew to a record 376m.
We have long-term plans to continue to grow.
We measure success in the context of wider developments in UK retailing.
We are improving our leadership position in the home and general merchandise markets.
14 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 15
