THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our formal research in this area is being supplewe strengthened this approach by enhancing our mented by the detailed insights from the innovative complaints reporting procedures and introducing 21st Century Living Project see below.
a new performance scheme that sets stringent quality and compliance benchmarks for advisers.
21st Century Living Project With our support, the Eden Project is conducting a Our people year-long study of a cross-section of homeowners A good working environment is essential to recruit in England to understand 21st century living.
We and retain a strong and motivated workforce.
We are challenging and supporting 100 homes to want our people to feel great about our company reduce their energy use, water consumption and and the work they do and to see that we make waste.
We will be tracking the households for a year a positive contribution to our society and the to understand which technologies and incentives environment.
This kind of engagement can make an worked best.
We hope to use the findings to offer important difference to business performance.
Charles Drewe, Group our customers practical solutions to improve their During the year the average number of Home Sustainability Manager environmental footprints.
As approxiCharles was instrumental in mately 74% work part-time, this equates to 29,846 getting FSC certi cation for We offer our customers a wide choice of energyfull-time equivalents.
Just over half 52% of Argos and Homebase, helping ef cient and environmentally responsible products.
customers get the sustainably During the last financial year, we have run customer We focus on engaging everyone so that they sourced products they want.
information campaigns promoting our water-saving, understand our business strategy and the part they energy-ef cient and sustainably-sourced products.
We also provide incentives We plan to increase these ranges in the future.
We and bene ts to motivate and reward performance.
are also exploring new low-carbon alternatives to gas We train and develop our people so that they can patio heaters, which we plan to phase out of sale.
continuously improve and in so doing, increase the Lili Papadimitriou, Graduate Product safety is a key priority for our business.
depth of talent in the business, helping to identify As a new graduate, Lili is We monitor safety through our own team of future leaders.
getting the inside track on what specialists, who produce factory audits and product Disabled persons have equal opportunities when it takes to build and maintain safety reports.
Factory audits are conducted by applying for vacancies, with due regard to their a market-leading retail business.
accredited organisations and we only accept aptitudes and abilities.
We have further procedures product safety certi cation from laboratories with to ensure that disabled colleagues are fairly treated recognised UK accreditation or equivalent.
and that their training and career development In our Financial Services business we are comneeds are carefully managed.
Rita Hyde, mitted to acting responsibly, particularly ensuring We have a range of policies to ensure that our Customer Service Assistant, customers can afford to repay their borrowing.
colleagues work in safe conditions and to contribute Homebase Stratford Clear operating procedures, including strict lending as far as possible to their health and well-being.
We Rita is one of our charity criteria, and robust controls ensure high standards provide basic safety training to all new colleagues champions.
Shes helped raise in this area.
We endeavour to treat customers and further role-speci c training where appropriate over 3,000 for Marie Curie fairly and provide clear and straightforward mesfor example, fork-lift truck drivers and managers Cancer Care.
sages about our financial products.
During the year supervisors in stores and distribution centres.
We o er our customers a wide range of energye cient and environmentally responsible products.
Paul Loft, Managing Director, Homebase 56 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our paper suppliers must have recognised Community Benchmarks Our community programme supports local and FTSE4Good national causes through a variety of channels.
Home Retail Group is included in the FTSE4Good environmental management processes and be The total value of the Groups giving for 2007 08 Index, meeting all the relevant social and environwas 947,000 2007: 465,000. mental criteria.
able to ensure complete traceability of paper During the year, we established the Home Retail Partnership Fund to oversee charitable donations.
Dow Jones Global Sustainability Index The GUS Charitable Trust, funded by GUS plc prior Home Retail Group is listed in the Dow Jones used in all catalogues and marketing materials.
to the demerger that took place in October 2006, Global Sustainability Index, which selects the top concluded its funding of certain projects.
This fund- 10% from a universe of 3,000 global companies ing has been included separately in our reporting.
based on comprehensive sustainability data.
Silver In July 2007, Argos formed a new one-year classi cation places Home Retail Group in the top arrangement with Leukaemia Research and Irish four general retailers.
charity Barretstown, which is on track to raise Employee engagement Supply chain over 500,000.
This followed the conclusion of a Business in the Community Index BiTC We aim for clear and effective communication Before we place contracts to buy from a new very successful two-year partnership with Help The BiTC Index assesses the extent to which corwith all our people.
We conduct listening surveys factory, we perform an audit to assess factors such the Hospices, which raised over 1.2m.
In 2006, porate strategy is integrated into business practice every year and hold regular team brie ngs.
Where as product quality, manufacturing processes and Homebase launched a two-year partnership with throughout an organisation and evaluates performappropriate, we involve colleagues on matters capability, treatment of workers, health and safety Marie Curie Cancer Care and the Irish Cancer Society ance in a range of environmental and social impact that concern them through local consultative and environmental practice.
Where necessary, we with the aim of raising 500,000 to pay for 25,000 areas.
Home Retail Group has progressed into the procedures.
Where we have recognition agreements agree any improvements required with factory hours of home nursing.
This partnership has raised gold band from silver last year.
with trade unions, the consultation process is managers before an order is placed or renewed.
established through national and local trade union Our ethical auditing now includes all direct The Tick to Give initiative enabled Argos For a full report on our performance during the representatives and joint consultation committees.
source suppliers, regardless of size.
As a result, our customers to give 20p to our charitable partner by year, see www.
Events for colleagues at of ces and distribution audit coverage during the year rose to 89% of ticking a box on their selection slips when choosing centres and conferences communicate important directly sourced orders and more than 310 separate items in Argos stores.
To date, this scheme has changes within the Group, such as the launch of factories.
We are extending the programme to raised over 210,000. new business initiatives and seasonal trading plans.
In 2007, Homebase offered customers the Bulb In addition, all colleagues receive bi-monthly newsOur wood and wooden products are carefully of Choice, which is a new variety of daffodil.
The letters containing information on business performsourced from legal, well managed forests, driven by bulb was sold exclusively to Homebase customers, ance, employee achievements, new store openings our timber policy and Homebases active membergenerating proceeds of 51,000 for Marie Curie and other relevant developments.
ship of the World Wildlife Funds Global Forest and Cancer Care.
Approximately 60% of our wooden Colleague bene ts garden furniture lines have been certi ed by the Our bene ts packages allow colleagues to share in Forest Stewardship Council.
Our Save As You Earn plan We work with our diamond suppliers to ensure Community programme support gives colleagues the opportunity to purchase shares we meet the protocols of the Kimberly Process Giving Value 000 at a 20% price discount tax-free: the uptake rate Certi cation Scheme, so that our suppliers do not in 2007 was 21%.
Discount arrangements include buy any con ict diamonds and an audit trail is in Cash donations 572 travel and insurance offers, gym memberships and place.
We are also aware of social and environVolunteering 106 days out.
We also offer a tax-efficient childcare mental concerns around certain types of gold Gifts in kind 140 vouchers scheme, free access to con dential counmining and have joined the Council for Responsible Management resources 129 selling and a legal helpline for staff.
Jewellery Practices to work with other retailers on Company donations 947 these problems.
Learning and development All Group paper suppliers are now required to Donations from the GUS Charitable Trust 450 We are very keen to develop future leaders from have ISO14001 or Eco-Management Audit Scheme within the Group, providing extensive and tailorEMAS registration and chain of custody certi caMonies raised by colleagues ed training for our people.
Each new starter has a tion, ensuring complete traceability of all paper Payroll giving 312 formal induction to the Group and every colleague used in catalogues.
Of the paper used to produce In-store fundraising 1,252 has access to appropriate development training our catalogues and other marketing material, Tick to Give 98 programmes.
We have three well-established in- 17% is from recycled sources.
All 4.3 million Argos Donations generated by others 1,662 ternal programmes to develop management talent.
Christmas promotional leaflets were printed on These run between six months to one year and pro- 100% recycled paper.
Total 3,059 vide a real depth of learning for participants.
58 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 59 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION GOVERNANCE Board of Directors and Operating Board 2 12 15 10 9 3 5 4 6 7 1 8 13 14 11 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1.
Terry Duddy Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Homebase Chief Executive Oliver Stocken Terry Duddy Richard Ashton Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director 2.
Gordon Bentley Chairman Managing Director, Finance Director Company Secretary Oliver was a director of NM Rothschild and Sons Terry began his career at Letraset, working in Richard started his career at Customer Services and held several roles within Barclays Group personnel management and then in product  LLP where he trained 3.
David Guise culminating in his appointment as group management.
In 1984, he joined Dixons Stores as a chartered accountant.
In 1994, he joined GE Commercial Director 7.
Sara Weller Managing Director, Human Resources Director finance director of Barclays PLC.
In 2000, he Group where he held a variety of commercial where he spent eight years and held a variety of Managing Director, Argos Financial Services was appointed to the GUS board where he positions, including sales director of Currys, positions.
These included chief financial of cer of 4.
Penny Hughes chaired the audit committee and subsequently product marketing director of Dixons Stores GE Capitals pan-European equipment nancing Non-Executive Director 8.
Peter Connor the remuneration committee.
In October 2006, Group and, latterly, managing director of PC business, headquartered in The Netherlands, Director of Strategic Development Information Systems Director he became chairman of Home Retail Group.
Terry joined GUS in August 1998 as chief assistant to GE Capitals chief financial of cer He is deputy chairman of 3i Group plc, a nonexecutive of the newly acquired Argos, becoming in the US and various finance roles in the UK.
executive director of Standard Chartered plc a GUS director later that year.
In 2000, he was Richard joined Argos Retail Group as finance and chairman of Stanhope plc and Oval Limited.
appointed chief executive of Argos Retail Group.
In October 2006, he COMMITTEES Oliver is also chairman of the Trustees of the In October 2006, he became chief executive became finance director of Home Retail Group.
Nomination Committee: Oliver Stocken Chairman, John Coombe, Terry Duddy, Andy Hornby, Penny Hughes Penny Hughes John Coombe Andy Hornby Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee: Penny spent ten years with Coca Cola, initially as John held a number of senior financial roles Andy began his career at Boston Consulting Andy Hornby Chairman, John Coombe, Penny Hughes, Oliver Stocken marketing director and ultimately as president within Charterhouse Group plc and Charter Group before joining Blue Circle as business of Coca-Cola GB & Ireland.
Over the last decade Consolidated plc before joining Glaxo Holdings development director, Blue Circle Home Products.
Audit Committee: she has held a number of non-executive roles on in 1986.
Appointed to the board in 1992, Following a move to ASDA he held a number John Coombe Chairman, Andy Hornby, Penny Hughes the boards of international businesses such as he was ultimately chief financial of cer of of senior general management roles including Vodafone, Trinity Mirror and Body Shop.
Currently GlaxoSmithKline for five years before retiring managing director of the George clothing she serves on the boards of Reuters, GAP and the in 2005.
He joined the GUS board in 2005.
In 1999, Andy joined the board of Swedish bank Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken.
She is a non-executive director of HSBC Holdings, Halifax as chief executive, Halifax Retail.
Since is President of the Advertising Association and chairman of Hogg Robinson Group and a former August 2006, he has been chief executive of Trustee, British Museum.
Penny joined the Board member of the supervisory board of Siemens AG, HBOS plc.
Andy joined the GUS board in 2004. of Home Retail Group in December 2006. the Code Committee of the Panel on Takeovers He became a non-executive director of Home and Mergers and the UK Accounting Standards Retail Group in October 2006.
He is the senior independent director remuneration committee of Home Retail Group.
and chairs the audit committee of Home Retail Group.
John became a non-executive director of Home Retail Group in October 2006.
60 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 61 GOVERNANCE THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Directors report Directors report continued The directors present their report and the audited financial statements Directors interests The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders Articles of Association for the 52 weeks ended 1 March 2008 the period.
The bene cial interests of the directors, together with non-bene cial which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the Company interests in Home Retail Group shares, are shown below: rights.
There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or Principal activities and business review control of the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Number of ordinary shares The Groups principal activities comprise home and general merchandise takeover bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Companys at 1 March 2008 retailing.
The chairmans statement, review of the business and financial or its trading subsidiaries is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
In accordance with the Articles statements report on performance of the business during the period, context of the Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board Terry Duddy 684,924 the position at the period end, likely future developments, the principal to be signi cant.
or shareholders in general meeting.
Amendments to the Articles of Richard Ashton 214,051 risks and uncertainties facing the Group and financial key performance Association must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person indicators, and are incorporated by reference into this directors report.
Purchase of own shares or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
Subject to company law Oliver Stocken 78,604 There were no material disposals during the period.
In October 2007 At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 3 July 2007, and the Articles of Association, the directors may exercise all the powers a contract was signed for the purchase of 27 leasehold properties from authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to of the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of John Coombe 34,844 Focus DIY, at a purchase price of 40m.
The Company did not use this the main Board committees can be found in the corporate governance Andy Hornby 13,686 The Groups statement on corporate governance is set out on pages authority to make any purchases of its own shares during the period.
64 to 68 and is incorporated by reference into this directors report.
the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 July 2008, shareholders will At the 2008 Annual General Meeting two special resolutions, as set Penny Hughes 2,500 Details of charitable donations, employee involvement and policy on be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are contained in the out in the Notice of Meeting, will be put to shareholders proposing the the employment of disabled persons are set out in the review of the accompanying circular to shareholders.
adoption at the Annual General Meeting of new Articles of Association There were no changes to the above interests as at 30 April 2008. business on pages 52 to 59 and are incorporated by reference into this Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note to re ect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the amendment directors report.
29 to the financial statements on page 117. of these adopted Articles of Association to re ect further provisions, Substantial shareholdings coming into effect on 1 October 2008 or such other date as the relevant As at 30 April 2008, the Company had been noti ed of the following Pro t and dividends Employee share plans provisions come into effect.
interests in its total voting rights and share capital in issue: The Groups consolidated income statement on page 80 shows a pro t Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on the for the period of 294.6m.
The directors recommend the payment of a transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described in Annual General Meeting Total number of Percentage of final dividend of 10.0p per ordinary share to be paid on 23 July 2008 to the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors receive part The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Jurys voting rights total voting Nature of ordinary shares rights % holding shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 May 2008. of their fees in shares which may not normally be transferred during a Inn Hotel, Midsummer Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2HP, commencing An interim dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share was paid on 23 January directors period of of ce.
The Notice of Meeting is AXA Investment 154,550,260 17.61 Direct and 2008, giving a total dividend for the year of 14.7p per ordinary share.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, included in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies Managers UK Ltd Indirect participants are the bene cial owners of the shares but not the registered this annual report.
It is also available on the Companys website at Directors owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner www.
Barclays plc 44,313,816 5.05 Indirect The names and biographical details of the directors are shown on pages at the direction of the participant.
There has been no change in the directors during the period.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a Relevant audit information Indirect Particulars of directors remuneration and service contracts are shown in change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally As at 30 April 2008, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant the directors remuneration report on pages 69 to 77. vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each director Legal & General Group plc 38,743,818 4.42 Direct The directors retiring at the 2008 Annual General Meeting are Terry satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order Citibank N. A.
34,819,282 3.97 Direct and Duddy and John Coombe, who, each being eligible, offer themselves to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Indirect for re-election.
Political donations ensure that the auditors are aware of that information.
During the period, the Group maintained liability insurance and The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of Save for the above, no person has reported any noti able interest of 3% third-party indemni cation provisions for its directors under which the political expenditure.
Auditors or more, or a 1% fall or rise above that 3%, or any non-material interest Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their equal to or more than 10% of the nominal value of the voting and share by law in respect of all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in Creditor payment willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be capital in issue of the Company.
connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities For all trade creditors, it is, and will continue to be for the next financial reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
as directors of the Company and any of its associated companies.
These year, Group policy to: Share capital and control indemnities are Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as fide ned in By order of the Board agree and con rm the terms of payment at the commencement of As at 30 April 2008, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single Section 309A-B of the Companies Act 1985 and copies are available for business with that supplier: class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share inspection at the registered of ce of the Company during business hours Gordon Bentley capital can be found in note 28 to the financial statements on page 116. on any weekday except public holidays.
pay suppliers in accordance with applicable terms: and Secretary The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on 30 April 2008 as a means of eliminating dif culties and maintaining a good working the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: relationship.
Registered Of ce: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and Avebury regulations such as insider trading laws : and Trade creditor days of the Group at 1 March 2008 were 52 2007: 49 489-499 Avebury Boulevard based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the p ursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Milton Keynes amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The Company has the Company requires certain employees to seek the Companys MK9 2NW no trade creditors.
permission to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
62 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 63 GOVERNANCE THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance There is a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved to the Board.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees The attendance of directors at scheduled meetings of the Board and the and is committed to maintaining high standards.
For the period under The Board has responsibility for: was conducted during the year.
The functioning of the Board, Board Board committees was as follows: review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with the main and processes and interaction with management were discussed and the overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups Board Audit Remuneration Nomination supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on opportunities for improvement were considered.
In addition the audit long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review of Board meetings committee committee committee Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in and remuneration committees conducted internal reviews of their 3,4 3 3 3 performance, ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: member 6 4 5 2 June 2006 the Code.
effectiveness taking into account the views of senior management and 1 The Company has fully complied with the remainder of the Code the approval of preliminary announcements of half-yearly and final external advisers working with these committees.
Individual appraisals of Terry Duddy 6 4 5 2 during the period under review by applying its principles as follows.
results, including dividends, and the annual report and accounts, directors have been undertaken by the chairman.
Under the leadership of 1 Richard Ashton 6 4 including the corporate governance statement, remuneration report the senior independent director, the non-executive directors met without The Board and statement on internal controls: the chairman present to appraise the chairmans performance taking 2 Oliver Stocken 6 4 5 2 The Board consists of the chairman Oliver Stocken, chief executive account of any views expressed by the executive directors.
the approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders Terry Duddy, finance director Richard Ashton, and three non-executive All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first John Coombe 6 4 5 2 at general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than directors: John Coombe the senior independent director, Andy Hornby opportunity after their appointment and, thereafter, in accordance with routine documents: Andy Hornby 6 4 5 2 and Penny Hughes.
The biographical details of the directors are shown the Companys Articles of Association.
All directors will be required to on page 61. the approval of all appointments to the Board and of the comsubmit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Terry Penny Hughes 6 4 5 2 The three non-executive directors are all determined by the Board to pany secretary, following recommendations by the nomination Duddy and John Coombe will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be Notes: be independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which committee, ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board held on 2 July 2008 and will be eligible for re-election.
Terry Duddy and Richard Ashton are not members of the audit committee or the could affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
and senior management, and approving the terms of reference of the The letters of appointment for non-executive directors, including the remuneration committee.
They are appointed for three-year renewable terms.
The Board is satis ed Board committees: and chairman, are available for inspection by any person at the Companys 2.
Oliver Stocken is not a member of the audit committee.
that the chairmans other Board appointments and commitments do not registered of ce during normal business hours and at the Annual General determining the responsibilities of the chairman and of the 3.
Includes the final meetings of the period under review which took place in early place constraints on his ability to ful l properly his role as chairman of Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The chairman maintains an of ce at Home Retail 4.
In addition to the scheduled meetings of the Board, a strategy meeting attended by Groups registered of ce in Milton Keynes and is available as needed to Board committees all Board members and three telephone conferences were held.
Board members either The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring participated in the telephone conferences or communicated their views on the topics carry out his responsibilities.
The Board has appointed the following principal committees: remuneraits effectiveness, for effective communication with shareholders and for under discussion in advance.
The Board has six scheduled meetings each year and meets more tion committee, nomination committee and audit committee.
The terms facilitating the effective contribution of the non-executive directors and frequently, as required.
During the year, in addition to the scheduled of reference of each of these committees are available on the Companys Remuneration committee their constructive relationship with the executive directors.
meetings, a meeting to review strategy and three telephone conferences website at www.
In order to facilitate better The remuneration committee is chaired by Andy Hornby and its other The chief executive is responsible for the day-to-day business were held.
The chairman has also met with the non-executive directors communication with Board members and the provision of information members are John Coombe, Penny Hughes and Oliver Stocken.
In of the Group, and is supported by the Operating Board, which without the executive directors present.
to the Board, all independent non-executive directors serve on each of accordance with the Code, the committee meets not less than three includes the finance director and the managing directors of the main The time commitment expected of non-executive directors is not the Board committees.
Details of its responsibilities and of compliance with Section businesses and shared services functions members of the Operating restricted to meetings of the Board and Board committees.
They are B of the Code regarding remuneration are set out on pages 69 to 77.
Board are shown on pages 60 and 61.
Members of the Operating available for consultation on speci c issues related to their particular Board meet informally with the chairman and non-executive directors elds of expertise and additional time is spent visiting the Groups Nomination committee and regularly attend and present at Board meetings when relevant businesses, distribution centres and stores and meeting informally with The nomination committee is chaired by Oliver Stocken and its other agenda items are under consideration.
the chairman, executive directors, and senior management.
The chairman members are John Coombe, Terry Duddy, Andy Hornby and Penny There is in place a procedure under which the directors, in furtherance also attends management conferences.
The nomination committee meets not less than twice a year of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if and has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary, who has the composition of the Board and its committees, on retirements, been appointed by the Board, is responsible for advising the Board on all appointments of additional and replacement directors and on succession corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures planning.
During the year, the nomination committee has considered the are followed and all directors have access to this professional advice.
The composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning.
company secretary ensures that the Board receives regular brie ngs on corporate governance matters and company legislation.
64 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 65 GOVERNANCE THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Corporate governance report continued Corporate governance report continued Audit committee One of the primary responsibilities of the audit committee is to The committee chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company The key procedures which were operational in the period under review The audit committee is chaired by John Coombe and its other members make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
were as follows: are Andy Hornby and Penny Hughes.
John Coombe was formerly chief re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
A number of factors The committee receives half-yearly reports providing details of financial of cer of GlaxoSmithkline plc.
The Board considers that he were taken into account by the committee in assessing whether to assignments and related fees carried out by the external auditors in Risk assessment has the recent and relevant financial experience required to chair the recommend the external auditors for re-appointment.
These include: addition to their normal work.
Fees in respect of such assignments carried risks were reviewed by management and updated as part of a bi-annual audit committee.
Andy Hornby and Penny Hughes offer a wide range of out in the period under review were: process.
The risks identi ed were then reviewed by a risk committee the quality of reports provided to the audit committee and the Board experience from positions at the highest level of business.
Further details chaired by the finance director and comprised of all divisional finance and the quality of advice given: m of all the members of the audit committee are set out on page 61. directors and the company secretary.
The head of internal audit also The audit committee normally meets no fewer than four times the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses attended its meetings: Further assurance services 0.1 a year and its principal responsibilities cover internal control and and the retail sector: and those risks classi ed as high level risks by the risk committee were then risk management, internal audit, external audit including auditor Taxation services 0.2 the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around reported to the Operating Board and audit committee.
The schedule of independence and financial reporting.
The chairman, chief executive the Group.
high level risks was used as the basis for a programme of internal audit and finance director are normally expected to attend meetings of Accountability and audit and assurance: the committee.
The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system The committee recognises that auditor independence is an essential part The committee has a structured programme linked to the Groups the audit committee has delegated responsibility from the Board of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is of the audit framework and the assurance it provides.
Audit fees paid to the financial calendar.
During the period under review, the committee for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Companys auditors,  LLP, in respect of the period undertook the following activities: regular basis and received its annual report on the controls over business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, under review, exceeded non-audit fees.
The committee has established these risks.
This included risks arising from environmental, social and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed reviewed the preliminary announcement, annual report and financial control procedures to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the governance matters.
the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to statements and the half-yearly announcement and considered reports external auditors and to ensure that the independence of the audit work provide internal control.
from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental undertaken by the external auditors is not compromised.
Control environment and control activities The Board con rms that the Company has in place an ongoing process issues requiring its attention: The committee has established a policy covering the type of non-audit the Group has established procedures for delegating authority, for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the work that can be assigned to the external auditors.
The auditors may reviewed the statement in the annual report on the system of which ensures that decisions that are signi cant, either because of Group including risks relating to environmental, social and governance only provide such services provided that these do not con ict with their internal control: the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an matters.
This process was in place throughout the period under review statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
These services are: appropriate level: and up to the date of approval of the annual report and meets the reviewed and approved audit plans for the external and further assurance services where the external auditors knowledge requirements of the guidance issued in October 2005 entitled Internal internal auditors: the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull signi cant risk that has been identi ed.
These strategies include considered quarterly reports from the head of internal audit on the out such work.
This may include, but is not restricted to, shareholder Report.
The audit committee has kept under review the effectiveness of internal controls, insurance and specialised treasury instruments: results of internal audit reviews, signi cant findings, management and other circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection with this system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
action plans and timeliness of resolution: acquisitions and divestments: the Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered to.
As part of the process that the Company has in place to review These include risk identi cation, management and reporting standards, the effectiveness of the internal control system there are procedures reviewed reports on the Groups risk management process and taxation services where the external auditors knowledge of ethical principles and practice and accounting policies.
designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and to ensure risk pro le: the Groups affairs may provide signi cant advantages to the Groups that necessary action is taken to remedy any failings that may be tax position and, where this is not the case, the work is put out to reviewed presentations on risk and its identi cation, management and Information and communication categorised by the Board as signi cant.
tender: and control with senior management: the Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, including general in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide monthly performance reviews by the Operating Board.
The Operating reviewed, at each scheduled meeting, a report on any material services, provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial Board also reviews a range of financial and nonfinancial performance litigation involving Group companies: limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to indicators.
These indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud: and award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and they remain relevant and reliable: cost effectiveness.
reviewed arrangements by which Group employees may, in conthe Group had whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial report any suspected improprieties.
However, certain areas of work are speci cally prohibited, including reporting, dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles and work related to accounting records and financial statements that will other matters.
ultimately be subject to external audit and management of, or signi cant involvement in, internal audit services.
66 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 67 GOVERNANCE THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Corporate governance report continued Directors remuneration report Monitoring Additionally the Board and, in particular, the non-executive directors This report has been prepared by the remuneration committee on behalf In addition, in relation to all employees, we launched our first Save as You a range of procedures was used to monitor the effective application has obtained an independent insight into the views of major shareholders of the Board.
In writing it, the committee has adopted the governance Earn SAYE plan in 2007 and approved the operation of a subsequent of internal control in the Group, including management assurance by commissioning research from a third-party adviser across a balanced principles relating to directors remuneration as set out in the Combined SAYE plan in 2008. through con rmation of compliance with standards, and independent sample of the Companys investors.
These investors controlled some Code.
This report complies with the Companies Act 1985, as amended We are con dent that Home Retail Group has in place the right assurance through internal audit reviews and review by specialist 20% to 30% of the Companys issued share capital.
The findings of the by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing remuneration structure and balance of measures to incentivise and third parties: research were presented to the Board and the Operating Board by the Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
reward both long-term and short-term performance.
In this report reference is made to share plans that are legacy rollover the internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
Chairmans statement arrangements from the time prior to the demerger from GUS plc in the audit committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, Shareholders also have a direct line of communication to the chairman, I am pleased to present the report on directors remuneration.
Whilst these plans do not form part of our ongoing with a particular focus on those areas identi ed as being the greatest particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performfirst full year as an independent plc, we have considered a wide range remuneration policy or strategy, until all of the plans have reached vesting, risk to the Group: ance, strategy or governance.
The senior independent director is also of issues to maintain the most appropriate and competitive remunerawe will continue, for completeness, to report on these arrangements in follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate available should shareholders have concerns which contact through the tion arrangements for our executive directors and the members of the the relevant tables.
response to changes and developments in risks and the control normal channels of the chairman, chief executive and the finance director Operating Board.
has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
A companys remuneration should enable it to recruit, retain and Our remuneration policy All directors, including the chairmen of the audit, nomination and motivate its employees.
We have therefore identi ed a number of Home Retail Groups corporate objective is to perform consistently in Relations with institutional shareholders remuneration committees, intend to be present at the Annual General underlying principles to ensure that our remuneration policy promotes the upper quartile of the general retail sector and our incentive structure The Company recognises the importance of communicating with Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at the the continued success of Home Retail Group: is designed to support this goal.
The policy is summarised in this report its shareholders and does so through a variety of channels, including Annual General Meeting will be by way of a poll by members present at and it will continue to apply during the current financial year.
We review The remuneration strategy should help to support corporate objectives the annual report, the Annual General Meeting and the processes the meeting and following each vote the level of proxies lodged on each our policy on an ongoing basis to ensure that it continues to be effective described below.
resolution, the balance for and against the resolution and the number Remuneration arrangements should support the alignment of interests and appropriate.
Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the chief execuof votes withheld will be displayed.
The results of voting at the Annual of shareholders and employees The current incentive structure for the executive directors and tive and the finance director supported by management specialising in General Meeting will also be available on the Companys website at members of the Operating Board comprises: Remuneration packages should be competitive and contain investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
performance-related elements which increase with seniority Median level base salary the chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
All employees should be encouraged to participate in Home Retail Annual bonus, subject to achievement of financial targets Meetings with investors have been held following the preliminary and Group as shareholders via our share plans.
Opportunity to participate in a co-investment plan through the half-yearly results announcements.
A monthly summary of all important deferral of annual bonus or relevant issues raised by shareholders during the course of meetings During the past year, we have taken the following steps to apply these and discussions is circulated to the Board and reviewed as appropriate principles in relation to each of the executive directors and members of Annual participation in the performance share plan.
the Operating Board: Notice periods for executive directors provide for six months notice from Ensured that we have a balance of stretching performance conditions the director and 12 months from the Company.
Service contracts do not in incentive plans that are appropriate, support corporate objectives provide for additional payments in the event of termination or change and are aligned with shareholder interests of control.
Agreed the performance conditions which are aligned to our three-year business plan for the co-investment plan that will operate for the first time in respect of bonuses earned in 2007 08 Reviewed base salaries in the context of our performance, the external market and the general economic environment Granted awards under the performance share plan Agreed the bonus range for 2008 09 Commissioned a comprehensive benchmarking review of reward for these roles Conducted a review of the remuneration committees performance and terms of reference.
68 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 69 GOVERNANCE THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration report continued Executive remuneration To assess the competitiveness of Home Retail Groups remuneration, Co-investment plan All-employee share plans The elements of remuneration for executive directors are detailed below.
the remuneration committee completed a comprehensive benchExecutive directors can choose to defer receipt of part or all of their We encourage employees to become shareholders through the operation More than 50% of total potential remuneration excluding pensions and marking exercise, comparing the reward pro les of executive director annual bonus and invest it instead in shares invested shares under the of all-employee share plans.
In 2007 we invited all employees to bene ts is performance-related.
There is no payment of bonus or longand Operating Board roles to those of UK peers.
terms of the co-investment plan, which is designed to reward sustained participate in an SAYE plan approved by HM Revenue & Customs term incentives if performance targets are not achieved.
As outlined in the directors report on page 62, the executive directors business performance.
Additional shares matching shares are granted HMRC.
This gave our employees the opportunity to apply for options have signi cant interests in Home Retail Group with both having a on a maximum 2:1 basis subject to the satisfaction of performance to acquire shares in the future.
The option price was 80% of the market Element Purpose Performance measure shareholding, including those held in trust from share plans, in excess of measures detailed below.
In addition, the matching shares are subject to value of a Home Retail Group share, calculated as the average price over one times their salary.
the retention of the invested shares and continued employment.
the three business days before the date of invitation, this being 379p.
The Base pay Re ect competitive market level, Performance against agreed Share awards granted by Home Retail Group may be satis ed with During the period under review, performance measures were set which number of shares over which the option was granted was determined by the economic environment and objectives for annual pay newly issued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
were aligned to our three-year business plan.
The two performance the amount committed by the employee under their savings contract.
individual performance award Currently, share awards are satis ed with shares held in an employee measures are earnings per share EPS as to 50% of the matching shares Employees could elect for their savings contract to run over a period Annual bonus Achievement of annual financial Benchmark pro t before tax benefits trust.
We will keep our policy for funding share awards and return on invested capital ROIC as to the other 50%, both of which of three or five years, with a maximum saving of 250 per month.
targets over a one-year period under review.
are calculated over a three-year period.
If total EPS growth of 10% or Options will be exercisable during the six months following the end of the Co-investment Encourage re-investment of 50% based on earnings per above is achieved, matching shares vest as to one half of the 50% that contract.
We intend to run a second invitation for employees in 2008. plan bonus in shares share and 50% based on Base salary and bene ts is subject to EPS, which increases to full vesting of that 50% when EPS return on invested capital We review salaries annually and make adjustments to re ect movegrowth reaches 25% or more for the period.
The ROIC measure is based Non-executive directors over a three-year period ments in the employment market, the general economic environment on an increase over the performance period which, if achieved, matching Our policy on non-executive director remuneration is as follows: and individual performance.
In line with competitive practice, executive shares vest as to one half of the 50% that is subject to ROIC, increasing Performance Reward outperformance Relative total shareholder Remuneration should be in line with recognised best practice and share plan relative to peer group return over a three-year directors receive additional bene ts that include a car or cash alternative, to full vesting of that 50% at the maximum.
suf cient to attract and retain high-calibre non-executives period and satisfactory private health cover, pension and life insurance.
Only their base salary financial performance is pensionable.
Performance share plan Remuneration should be set by reference to the responsibilities The performance share plan gives executive directors the right to receive undertaken by the non-executive, taking into account that each This set of measures achieves an appropriate balance between competitive Annual bonus shares in the Company subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions non-executive director is expected to be a member of the audit, xed elements, set in line with Home Retail Groups peers, and short-term Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus.
The remuneration and their continued employment.
This plan underpins our longer-term remuneration and nomination committees and long-term incentives that motivate and reward sustained levels of committee sets targets by reference to Board-approved budgets.
Bonuses incentive structure by providing a share-based reward which vests only Remuneration should be a combination of cash fees paid monthly and performance.
Where appropriate, independent consultants con rm and for 2008 09 will comprise a payment of 25% of bonus opportunity for when we outperform our peer group.
shares, bought twice each year calculate the extent to which performance conditions have been met.
achieving an agreed benchmark pro t before tax PBT gure for the We use the measure of total shareholder return TSR to assess our The chart below shows the percentage split of total remuneration relevant year, equating to 37.5% of base salary and a maximum of 100% performance against the following peer group of companies over a threeNon-executive directors are obliged to retain shares awarded until their excluding pensions and bene ts based on the achievement of 50% of of bonus opportunity, equating to 150% of base salary, for substantially year period.
The peer group is weighted to attach greater importance to retirement from the Board of Directors.
Any tax liability connected to all performance measures.
companies that are closer comparators to Home Retail Group.
these arrangements is the responsibility of the individual director In the period under review, 2007 08, the bonus achieved was 77% of Non-executive directors should not participate in share plans operated opportunity for executive directors.
Carphone Warehouse Kesa Electricals Signet Group by the Group Debenhams King sher Tesco DSG International Next Topps Tiles Non-executive directors should not receive any bene ts in kind.
PSP based on TSR Halfords Group Marks & Spencer Group WH Smith 16.7% Base salary, 33.3% J Sainsbury Morrisons Woolworths Group We review our fees for non-executive directors every two years.
The next Co-investment review will take place in 2009.
Fees are reviewed in the light of market match based on ROIC, No awards vest if TSR is below the median return for the peer group.
Once practice of FTSE 100 companies, the anticipated number of days worked 12.5% median performance is achieved, 25% of the award will vest, with 100% and individual responsibilities.
Non-executive remuneration from 1 April Co-investment Bonus based on of the award vesting for performance at the 80th percentile, subject to 2007 is as follows: match based benchmark PBT, on EPS, rounding to take account of the weighting.
25.0% 12.5% Fees Shares The maximum grant normally available to executive directors is 100% 000s Number of base salary, converted to shares at the price prevailing at the time the awards are made.
Grants were made at this level in 2007.
In exceptional Chairman 175 23,000 circumstances, the remuneration committee may choose to grant a Non-executive base fee 40 6,000 higher amount.
The awards vest to the extent that the performance test is achieved Senior independent director 10 over a three-year period.
TSR calculations are made by external advisers using the average share price over the three months before the start and Chair of audit remuneration committee 10 4,500 end of the performance period.
70 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 71
