THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS ARGOS Argos currently sees the opportunity to Argos financial review Sales in the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 increased by 3.8% in total: like-for-like sales grew by continue opening around 30 stores a year.
There was exceptional growth in video games systems throughout the year, while further Sara Weller, Managing Director, Argos strong growth in at panel TV sales had moderated by the end of the year.
Good growth was achieved in satnav, mobile phones, digital cameras and accessories.
Older technology areas of audio, VCR DVD and landline phones were weaker.
Furniture and homewares categories showed signs of more dif cult market conditions towards the end of the year.
There are additional store format trials in place.
Cost ef ciency The contribution to sales from net new space was 3.1%.
Next years store opening In densely urbanised areas, the lack of suitable A key feature of the successful pro t outcome for programme is expected to produce a contribution of between 3% and 4%.
locations for standard-sized Argos stores has the year has been exceptional cost management led to under-representation in these areas.
Initiatives have included Gross margin was ahead by approximately 50 basis points for the year.
In the first half some the last year, Argos has trialled a smaller format carrying increased numbers of product lines inforeign exchange bene ts were retained within the business: in the second half these bene ts, store and is now refining the model to reduce the store for immediate collection, booking delivery together with ongoing supply chain gains, were fully passed on to customers with a greater level customer area further and edit the stocked-in slots at the point of order, new processes for of investment in lower prices over the peak trading period.
range while still meeting customer requirements handling deliveries of multiple products, achieving Operating costs grew in total by approximately 2%, of which underlying inflation was for wide choice and immediate fulfilment.
Other production ef ciencies in yer publications and approximately 3%.
Non-in ationary costs therefore declined by approximately 1%, representing format trials include displaying furniture room sets improving the transport methods for deliveries in some larger stores in order to drive the quality to stores.
Each of these contributed towards cost an exceptional five percentage points of productivity when compared to the level of total perception and an improved awareness of the productivity, while dealing effectively with the late sales growth.
This was achieved by continued cost control programmes and leverage from the breadth of the furniture offer, and a series of store Christmas sales pattern also provided an additional ongoing new space programme.
While further cost control and ef ciency measures are planned, presentation and service trials to test opportunities productivity bene t. a signi cantly lower level of productivity gains is anticipated in the new financial year.
to increase the jewellery and watch participation There have also been distribution network Benchmark operating pro t for the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 grew 16% to a record in relevant store locations by achieving a customer efficiency improvements.
The opening of the new re-appraisal of the overall offer.
purpose-built direct importing facility at Kettering 376.2m as a combined result of sales growth, gross margin expansion led by short-term Analysis of the extent of chain supports multiple allowed the Argos Direct imported lines previously external factors, and exceptional cost management.
years of new store growth.
Argos has opened nearly managed at the Corby facility to be transferred for 250 stores, or an average of approximately 30 stores a greater scale bene t. In turn, this facilitated further year, since 2000.
In assessing future potential, analysis consolidation of product ranges into Corby, allowing takes into account the substantially expanded range, a rented facility at Wolverhampton to be closed.
52 weeks to 1 March 2008 3 March 2007 the fact that Argos trades successfully from both In the new financial year, continued optimisatraditional high street and out-of-town retail park tion will see the least ef cient regional distribution Sales m 4,320.9 4,164.0 formats and the potential opportunities in speci c centre RDC at Castleford relocate the majority Benchmark operating pro t m 376.2 325.0 areas such as London and the Republic of Ireland.
of its operations to the five remaining RDCs.
The Taking all this into account, Argos currently sees an centralised jewellery warehousing operation that Benchmark operating margin 8.7% 7.8% extent of chain that supports continuing to open also runs from Castleford will be transferred to a Like-for-like change in sales 0.7% 2.4% around 30 stores a year.
16% Net new space contribution to sales change 3.1% 5.5% Total sales change 3.8% 7.9% Gross margin movement Up c. 50bps c. 0bps Benchmark operating pro t change 16% 9% Growth in Argos benchmark operating pro t 2008: Number of stores at year-end 707 680 376m 2007: 325m.
Of which Argos Extra stocked-in 278 238 We print around 40 million Argos catalogues each year, reaching 70% of all UK households.
28 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 29 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS HOMEBASE Changing perceptions.
Homebase is the UKs second largest home improvement retailer, Our products cover every but with a customer o er thats room in the house and the garden: including DIY, decorating, kitchens, bathrooms, furniture, di erentiated from the competition.
Homebase sells a broad range of home enhancement products and services alongside traditional DIY products and materials.
It is targeting a wide range of consumers with an inspirational selection of home merchandise.
Inside an easy-to-shop store environment, mezzanine oor displays are giving customers fresh ideas about whats possible for their homes.
co. uk website and the Furniture and Home catalogue offer further ways to access the product range.
Home delivery is available across a growing number of products.
Where can I nd more information?
The Furniture and Home Sales progress was constrained Catalogue has been extended by weakening product markets.
The rollout of installation Gross margin progress services boosted sales of contributed to a better relative tted kitchens.
30 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 31 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS HOMEBASE Homebase business review Homebase performance Homebase is positioning itself as the HOMEBASE SALES M NUMBER OF STORES Non-mezzanine Sales in the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 At year-end, Homebase traded from 331 UKs leading home enhancement retailer.
declined by 1.6% in total: like-for-like With mezzanine stores including 12 of the acquired Focus 1,594 1,580 1,569 1,559 sales declined by 4.1%.
A more dif cult DIY stores.
The mezzanine conversion 1,483 overall environment through the second 331 programme is now largely complete with half saw like-for-likes worsen, with 310 the majority of stores that can support 297 Homebase operational review the impact broadly similar across the 287 a mezzanine already having one.
New 278 Trading strategy Customer offer development business.
One exception was kitchens, stores will continue to be built with a which has been a consistently strong mezzanine oor where possible.
The DIY sheds market has seen at sales over the Homebase has produced a resilient performance in category throughout the year: there 145 150 year, with a further decline in sales excluding net the big ticket category with excellent growth in a were also good performances within new space.
Homebases like-for-like performance broadly at kitchen market, as well as share being 211 176 153 areas of homewares and decorating.
this year has lagged the wider market, driven by its held in a weakening furniture market.
The national greater exposure to the seasonals market which roll-out of the installation service has been the key suffered because of adverse weather conditions driver of the performance in kitchens.
The service during the first half of the year.
Over the latter has driven both incremental product sales and 144 165 181 fide nitions: stages of the year, Homebases markets in general supported sales of higher value ranges.
Customer 111 Total number of stores at year-end.
Mezzanine stores contain a mezzanine selling oor which is typically fide nitions: 67 began to show evidence of the onset of the consatisfaction and recommendation levels continue used to display kitchens, bathrooms and furniture.
Income received for goods and services.
In these volatile and increasingly to be very high.
Some 600 kitchen displays in Source: Source: challenging trading conditions, Homebase has peraround 100 stores will be refreshed in the new 04 05 06 07 08 Audited financial statements.
formed well operationally: most importantly, its financial year.
trading strategy through the year has been to conOngoing range reviews also continue to drive HOMEBASE SALES TRENDS % CHANGE HOMEBASE SALES PER SQUARE FOOT tinue gross margin progress.
Key range developments New space Like-for-like sales declined 4.1%.
First Sales per square foot based on total Sourcing and supply chain gains have driven that supported a good performance in homewares half like-for-like sales declined 2.5%, year-end selling space declined to 102.
Like-for-like the gross margin progress.
By leveraging the scale included textiles, cookshop and home accessory while there was a 6.0% reduction The reduction over the past four years and expertise of the Group, Homebase has made areas, while wider ranges of tiling, flooring and in the second half.
The second half is driven by a deteriorating DIY market 121 6 120 performance is re ective of an overall 112 and is impacted by store mezzanine and further excellent progress with more product lighting have also recently been developed.
Around 109 5 dif cult trading environment which is garden centre space which is dilutive to 102 being directly bought from overseas.
Some 28% of 40% of the garden power range is new for 2008, expected to continue into the current sales densities.
2.2 3 sales are now on this basis and over half of this is and the Homebase Powerbase tools range has 2 year.
There was a 2.5% contribution 0.0 being sourced directly from the manufacturer.
A been relaunched with new-look products and 1.6 from net new stores, with the opening programme being back-end weighted.
continuation of this strategy is expected to deliver packaging.
The rolling programme of range reviews further gross margin bene ts with the aim of will continue through the new financial year.
3.1 3.6 3 3 2.5 increasing the gross margin by approximately 100 Supporting the broader home enhancement basis points in each of the next two years, although offer, a single Furniture and Home catalogue fide nitions: 1.4 this is clearly dependent on the trading and foreign has been made available in all stores, replacing Annual percentage change in sales.
the smaller Furniture Extra brochure that was in are calculated on stores that have been open for 4.1 more than a year, net new space contribution to sales around two-thirds of the portfolio.
Its increased change is calculated on stores that have opened and fide nitions: closed during the year.
Annual sales divided by year-end total selling space.
232 pages present over 1,500 furniture lines and Source: Source: a further 800 home-related accessories.
The 04 05 06 07 08 Audited financial statements measured internally.
04 05 06 07 08 Audited financial statements measured internally.
coordinated ranges and create the look features in the catalogue are also presented through in-store 6.9% 7.2% BENCHMARK OPERATING PROFIT M AND displays in two-thirds of the store portfolio.
MARGIN % CONTINUING OPERATIONS 3.3% 3.4% 2.9% 114 Benchmark operating pro t for the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 declined 16% 102 to 45.1m as a result of the decline in underlying sales, which was partially offset by further gross margin progress.
53 51 45 fide nitions: Operating pro t and margin before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, store impairment charges, exceptional items and costs related to demerger incentive schemes.
06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis 05 onwards IFRS 32 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 33
