THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS ARGOS Argos business review Argos performance ARGOS SALES M CONTINUING ARGOS STORES OPERATIONS As the UKs leading general Argos has opened a net 151 stores Argos Extra fully stocked-in Argos sales grew 3.8% to 4.3bn in over the past four years with an Standard the year.
Sales bene ted in particular increasing proportion opened as 4,321 merchandise retailer, Argos provides 4,164 from an excellent performance in Argos Extra fully stocked-in stores.
one of the markets fastest growing 707 3,859 A net 27 stores were opened during 680 3,652 a unique o er of choice, value and product categories, video games 655 the year, comprising 31 gross 3,384 systems, and it extended market share openings, four closures and three 592 556 in other fast-growing technology areas relocations.
convenience that continues to grow of LCD TVs and satnav.
Argos operational review 514 464 466 442 429 The UKs leading general merchandise retailer Value further extended Argos has further strengthened its position of market Argos has continued to demonstrate its ability to fide nition: leadership with sales growth of nearly 4% to 4.3bn lower prices for its customers.
In the Autumn Winter Total number of stores at year-end.
Argos Extra fide nition: fully-stocked in stores are those that carry the in the year.
Sales bene ted in particular from an catalogue, prices on reincluded lines were down by Income received for goods and services.
full range of Argos Extra product lines.
excellent performance in one of the markets fastest approximately 5%, one of the highest ever levels of Source: Source: growing product categories, video games systems, reduction and partly driven by the favourable dollar Audited financial statements.
04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 and Argos extended market share in other fastexchange rate environment.
In the current catalogue, growing technology areas of LCD TVs and satnav.
the average price reduction across some 8,000 ARGOS SALES TRENDS % CHANGE NUMBER OF LINES IN THE MAIN Share was also gained in other more subdued or reincluded lines is approximately 4%.
The ongoing CATALOGUE SPRING SUMMER New space Like-for-like sales growth of 0.7% was declining markets, notably pre-pay mobile phones, move to more direct buying of overseas product The current Spring Summer a successful result in a toughening UK Like-for-like 18,500 digital cameras, white goods and toys.
Markets were has been a key driver of lower prices: around 32% catalogue has been expanded to a consumer environment.
This is around dif cult in older technology areas such as audio of sales are on this basis, of which more than half is new stores added an additional 3.1% 16,700 1,800 more lines than the equivalent to sales, resulting in total growth of and VCR DVD, while the jewellery market also now directly sourced from the manufacturer.
The catalogue, 3.8% for the year.
Whilst like-for-like remained dif cult for Argos albeit on an improving As the market leader in many categories and now in its 69th edition, remains 13,500 sales are impacted by factors external 13,000 trend to recent years.
often with as wide a choice as a specialist, Argos central to the Argos proposition.
to the Group, our store opening presents ranges that offer entry price point products programme will continue to contribute 8 7.9 7 to a positive net new space growth in Choice further expanded through to premium products and brands.
The current Spring Summer catalogue has been strengthen further its position in markets such as 6.1 expanded to a record 18,500 lines.
This is around small domestic appliances, consumer electronics 5 5.5 1,800 more lines than the equivalent edition last and housewares, Argos has introduced its own 3.8 fide nition: Annual percentage change in sales.
year, following a similar 1,500 line step-change Argos Value Range of products, with prices starting 5 Like-for-like sales are calculated on stores that 7.5 have been open for more than a year: net new in the preceding Autumn Winter 2007 catalogue.
3.1 3 2.4 space contribution to sales change is calculated fide nition: Todays customer offer includes 10,400 catalogue 0.7 on stores that have opened and closed during Total number of lines in the main Spring the year.
lines available for immediate collection in virtually 1.4 Source: Source: all 707 stores, an additional 3,700 lines available 04 05 06 07 08 Audited financial statements measured internally.
in the Argos Extra stores and 4,400 lines of large products that are for home delivery only.
BENCHMARK OPERATING PROFIT M % SALES ACROSS MORE Growth in customer choice has been driven 8.8% 8.8% 8.7% AND MARGIN % CONTINUING THAN ONE CHANNEL 7.8% 7.7% Home delivery store by range extensions in over 50 categories and OPERATIONS Multi-channel sales increased to Home delivery phone around 20 new product areas.
Significant areas Benchmark operating pro t for the represent 37% of total Argos sales.
Check & Reserve phone of range expansion include childrens bedroom 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 grew 16% Within this Check & Reserve remains Home delivery internet furniture, eco-friendly products, tness and outdoor to a record level of 376.2m as a the fastest growing channel, and now Check & Reserve internet 376 combined result of sales growth, gross pursuits clothing and accessories, and many areas accounts for 15% of sales.
Check & 37 margin expansion and exceptional cost Reserve offers customers the ability 35 of technology.
The latest catalogue has also seen 325 management.
320 32 to reserve products for immediate 30 further expansion of the Argos Quick Guide pages, 27 297 collection in-store at no additional 297 9.8 particularly within technology and furniture.
In the last four years, total Argos from leading premium third-party brands is further multi-channel sales have grown from 2.9 27% to 37%, offering customers the supported by brand shops within the catalogue for 3.2 exibility to seamlessly mix and match manufacturers including Apple, Dyson and Sony.
channels to suit their needs.
8.9 fide nition: fide nition: Operating pro t and margin before amortisation Percentage of sales across more than one of acquisition intangibles, store impairment 11.9 channel.
There are three ordering channels: charges, exceptional items and costs related to the internet, phone or store and two ful lment demerger incentive schemes.
channels, store or home delivery.
Source: Source: 04 05 06 07 08 Audited financial statements.
06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis 05 onwards IFRS 24 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 25 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION ARGOS Convenience further enhanced Kiosk technology brings together store format and Superior customer convenience continues to be multi-channel developments.
Over the year, the driven by Argos fully-integrated multi-channel number of stores with kiosks doubled: there are leadership position.
A combined 37% of all Argos now 1,800 in place across all UK stores.
The physical sales are now ordered or ful lled across more than positioning of kiosks, in-store staff on-hand at one channel.
Within this, total internet orders peak times to assist customer awareness, together grew nearly one-third to around 900m and now with the growth in Check & Reserve, have led kiosk represent 21% of all sales.
Sales of over 500m participation of in-store sales to rise from an average were from internet orders for pick-up in-store, an of 12% to 17%.
Tina England, Help Desk Team, increase of 50% in the year.
The popularity of this Magna Park distribution centre market-leading Check & Reserve service either Store portfolio expansion and development Tinas dedication to getting online, by phone or by text is such that, on The total number of stores increased by a net 27 things done earned her two average, over 40,000 reservations are collected to reach 707 at the end of the year.
Of the 31 gross Simply Th ank You awards daily.
Check & Reserve accounted for 15% of Argos openings, 13 were stores in new catchments while during the year.
sales overall, and reached as high as 25% during the 18 were openings in an existing catchment.
stores closed in the year: in each case these were Argos also continues to enhance its website Call & Collect stores where there are now stockedfunctionality.
As part of a three-year e-commerce in stores open in the catchment: only six Call & programme to consolidate on its market-leading Collect stores remain.
Three store relocations were Joe Horvath and James Palliser, position, www.
co. uk was relaunched in Sepalso completed in the year.
Argos Home Delivery Crew, tember 2007 with a complete upgrade to both The proportion of Argos Extra stores also Marsh Leys distribution centre design and operation.
The major changes included continues to increase.
There are now 278 fully James and Joe are brilliant greatly enhanced site navigation, search functionstocked-in Extra stores representing 39% of the at getting customer deliveries ality and better product and service information.
portfolio: virtually all new stores were opened right first time.
The upgrade also saw increased transaction security as Extras and an additional 10 conversions were and the implementation of promotional voucher completed in the year.
There are also a further 71 capability ahead of Christmas.
stores that now carry an edited selection of the The success of Argos multi-channel model has Argos Extra range: these partial extra stores provide also led to developments in the marketing mix.
customers with a choice of even more products to Email campaigns have become more sophisticated, take home immediately and generate sales from Alice Boaten, and now include customer segmentation, dynamic better-utilised space.
The sales penetration of Extra Store Manager, Argos Balham product content to further meet speci c customer ranges is low single-digit in ordered-in stores, while Since arriving at Balham, Alice needs, as well as special offers targeting active but fully stocked-in stores achieve a low double-digit has driven performance in a low frequency customers.
Argos has built an email level on average, demonstrating the bene t of number of areas and improved colleague engagement.
database of over five million customers, one of the Argos immediate ful lment model.
Th e convenience of our unique Check & Reserve system has proved popular with a large number of our customers.
Sara Weller, Managing Director, Argos 26 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008
