THE GROUP THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Thinking ahead.
Were looking forward to it.
We continue to innovate to give our customers the best choice of products and a variety of ways to shop to suit their needs.
We are focused on developing our brands to meet changes in consumer behaviour and tastes.
Argos customers have multiple ways to nd and buy the products they want.
Homebase is increasingly meeting the needs of consumers looking for inspirational home enhancement.
Were developing new product ranges and additional services that meet new customer requirements.
Were also bringing innovation to the in-store and online customer experience to be ready for whats coming next.
Where can I nd more information?
Developing new Argos sets the standard for products.
New ranges in Argos multi-channel retail innovation.
Our store formats continue Kitchen installation services to evolve.
are popular with Homebase Our multi-channel o er gives consumers customers.
Argos and Homebase customers can shop in-store, from home or a combination of both.
08 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 09 THE GROUP THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Well equipped for the future.
Our strategy for growth is unchanged.
Put simply, its to own the home.
As the UKs leading multi-channel retailer, with a superior supply chain, we are well placed for long-term success.
Whatever happens in the short term, our focus is on continuing to increase our product portfolio and extending our leadership in our existing markets.
Our purchasing scale, supply chain and shared infrastructure will help to support margins and manage cost pressures through the cycle.
And well keep investing for growth to emerge from any economic slowdown in an even stronger position.
We have one of the largest UK Argos Direct is the UKs largest sourcing of ces in the Far East.
Our shared infrastructure The Group is led by an provides benefits to both brands.
Th e scale and e ciency of our product sourcing and distribution operations enable us to control our costs and ensure high levels of stock availability.
It also helps to deliver the best performance.
10 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 11
