THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GROUP Our key strengths Purchasing, sourcing and supply chain strength Group operations provide our retail brands with Th e following strengths show how Home signi cant competitive advantages.
Due to the size of our procurement operation, Retail Group is well positioned as one the scale ef ciencies we can generate and our longterm relationships with suppliers, we can deliver of the leaders in the UK retail market.
value for money to consumers across a broad range of products while improving pro tability in a very The market leader Great choice and value Integrated multi-channel capability competitive market place.
With sales of nearly 6bn in the past financial year, Customers of Argos and Homebase have access to a As the leader in multi-channel retailing, we are We have one of the largest UK sourcing of ces 900m Home Retail Group is the leading home and general massive range of goods at competitive prices.
well placed to respond to future consumer and retail in the Far East.
Products we buy from overseas merchandise retailer in the UK.
The breadth and diversity of our product range, trends.
Consumers are changing how they order account for over 1.8bn of Group sales, more than Although we are already the number one in many across multiple categories and with significant and buy goods.
We offer many ways to meet their half of which is now sourced directly from factories, of our product categories, there is still potential to overlap between Argos and Homebase, should help needs through our two retail brands, from in-store to generating signi cant savings by eliminating agents increase our market share.
Our combined position to support sales in the event of a consumer slowshopping at home using catalogues and the internet.
accounts for just 10% of a market valued at 60bn.
While some markets may contract, certain We are continually looking at new opportunities Our supplier and stock management structure As many of these markets are fragmented and our product categories should grow due to technological for innovation to enhance the retail experience.
in the UK and overseas allow us to source low-cost Sales Argos makes via the internet.
market share has built quickly, there are further advances and replacement cycles.
The fully-integrated nature of the Argos offerproducts in suf cient quantities while containing opportunities for growth.
The choice and value of our product range ing, supported by highly developed supply chain our stock exposure risk.
Argos customers, in parWe are using our retail knowledge and expericontinues to expand for both retail brands.
As a systems, provides further differentiation and is a ticular, value our ability to locate exclusive products ence to maximise our operational efficiency and multi-channel retailer, Argos is able to offer its model for future retail business.
Whether buying and advantageous quantities of in-demand items, strengthen our competitive position.
Initiatives in customers a level of choice within each product in-store, online or over the phone, for collection inespecially at peak shopping periods.
50% this area include trials of different store formats and category that is hard to beat.
Homebase also offers a store or home delivery, the experience is noticeably ongoing programmes of store improvements.
wide choice within the product ranges that it sells.
Shared infrastructure and logistics expertise As we offer multiple product categories via store The introduction of mezzanine floors at At Argos, over 14,000 product lines can be The Groups investment in a shared infrastructure and non-store channels, we are well placed to serve Homebase stores was part of a wider initiative to reserved from home for collection from the cusand logistics expertise for both retail brands makes the changing needs of consumers.
maximise store space and allow more lifestyle-led tomers store of choice through Check & Reserve.
our business ef cient and resilient in challenging products such as kitchens, bathrooms and furniture By combining the ef ciency of pre-ordering with market conditions.
Growth in internet Two strong retail brands with large customer bases to be displayed more effectively.
Argos is also trialling the guarantee of immediate availability, this facility Argos and Homebase derive signi cant comCheck & Reserve sales.
As the UKs leading general merchandise retailer the use of product displays for certain key ranges.
appeals to all time-pressed consumers.
The convenpetitive advantage from their ability to leverage and an icon among consumers, Argos is known for The Groups scale bene ts allow highly advanience of Quick Pay Kiosks is helping to speed up the a shared infrastructure that supports their brand offering choice, value and convenience across a tageous price positioning for both retail brands.
shopping process in-store, allowing customers to propositions, improves cost ef ciency and accelbroad range of product categories.
Homebase is the Argos competes on price, offering customers lowbypass the till.
Quick Pay Kiosks transactions now erates pro table routes to growth.
This strength UKs second largest home improvement retailer, cost products.
Homebase has a more promotionaccount for around 17% of Argos store sales.
allows both brands to enter new product categories increasingly known for providing an extensive, more ally-led stance supported by its Spend & Save This same multi-channel capability is being used quickly and cost effectively and build market share style-led range of merchandise across the broader programme and promotional events.
to provide competitive advantage to Homebase.
more rapidly than their peers.
Additional services help to maximise brand Homebases transactional website is modelled on Over a number of years we have made signi cant Both retail brands are well placed to meet appeal and drive sales for both businesses.
Argos the successful Argos service.
Customers can browse investment in home delivery and believe that this changes in customer preferences because of their has a market-leading home delivery offer, both in more than 10,000 Homebase products online, many gives us a unique advantage over competitors who emphasis on customer service and product choice.
terms of service and value for money.
Homebase is of which are available for home delivery using our do not have our scale or expertise.
Argos Direct 60bn They are also extending their reach into underincreasingly offering end-to-end support for home shared home delivery infrastructure.
is the UKs largest two-man delivery operation, penetrated customer areas and developing tailored enhancement projects, with kitchen design and The skills and experience behind the Argos making four million deliveries a year.
All Argos formats to serve speci c local catchments.
installation services available in all stores.
catalogue are being applied to create catalogues products are available for home delivery, as is a Our Financial Services business drives sales and for Homebase customers featuring furniture, growing proportion of the Homebase range.
The customer loyalty for both Argos and Homebase.
furnishings, ooring, tiling, lighting and decorating scale of our operation means that our costs are The size of the UK home A range of credit and insurance products are products.
The Homebase Spend & Save loyalty card low and we are therefore able to charge a highly and general merchandise available to customers in-store, by telephone provides a tool for direct marketing to four million competitive at fee for delivery, regardless of size, retailing market.
and online, making our retail products more affordable customers active in home enhancement.
and providing customers with additional peace of By being flexible and efficient, our delivery mind.
With more than 1.1 million active store card operation gives our customers exactly what they customers, we are one of the largest store card want.
We offer a choice of three daily delivery slots 10% providers in the UK.
for bulky products, make weekend and evening deliveries and will also dispose of old appliances and beds.
Our delivery success rate is 98% and we are targeting improvements to capture the balance.
Home Retail Groups market share.
16 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 17 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GROUP A winning team Our competitors Group growth strategy The heart of our business is our 53,000 colleagues, The Group faces competition from many sources.
all of whom are focused on meeting the needs of Our competitors include: Th e Group has a clear agenda to deliver our customers.
At every level of our business, they Established national specialists, such as B&Q, share a common commitment to getting things long-term growth.
We will leverage Wickes and Focus in home improvement, No.
1 right first time, being friendly and efficient and Currys and Comet in consumer electronics and providing good customer service in our stores, over our purchasing scale, retail brands and domestic appliances, MFI and IKEA in furniture, the telephone, online and in customers homes.
Woolworths and Toys R Us in toys, H. Samuel The Group is led by a strong management team multi-channel approach to grow market in jewellery and Woolworths and Wilkinsons Market position in furniture, that combines long-term experience of the organisaacross broader general merchandise housewares, small domestic tion with service in the wider retail sector.
The high share in key growth categories within appliances, toys, jewellery, and levels of retail expertise within our retail brands Supermarkets, such as Tesco, J Sainsbury and sports and leisure equipment.
and Group operations contribute to the Groups ASDA, which have been growing share in the general merchandise market.
consistently high levels of performance relative to the certain parts of the non-food, non-clothing rest of the UK retail sector.
We encourage professional market, building on their regular footfall and skills and the career progress of our colleagues through the increased space given to these ranges 31% Growth through leveraging purchasing scale Growth through increasing market share in targeted learning and development to ensure that the Online retailers such as Amazon.
co. uk, who targeted large product markets Group is always well equipped to deal with change.
Building upon market-leading positions by represent a small but growing share of the enhancing and developing the product range Capitalising upon the strength of our retail non-food, non-clothing market and offering in core areas brands to identify opportunities in product Specialist independents, such as regional and markets, particularly large, fragmented markets Using shared scale and expertise in sourcing local chains selling single product ranges such and logistics and joint product ranges to Utilising the inherent exibility of the Argos Overseas buying as a as toys and jewellery.
provide value for money and wider choice.
and Homebase retail formats We expect our markets to remain highly competiUsing shared infrastructure ef ciently to Purchasing scale continues to be leveraged with tive in the future.
Yet the barriers to entry for new make products available to customers quickly particular bene t from the Group-wide overseas market entrants are high, particularly in relation to and easily.
Buying directly from overseas has establishing sourcing and distribution operations on grown to 31% of Group sales, of which 18%, or over the scale required to be competitive in the long term.
The Group has become the number two in the growth 1bn, is directly sourced from manufacturers, with As we have demonstrated at Argos and Homebase, market of consumer electronics, with Argos clearly the balance being purchased via overseas agents.
economies of scale are key to generating attractive demonstrating the strength of its customer offer Over 7,500 product lines are sourced directly via our customer propositions, as well as operational cost with excellent sales in areas such as video games overseas buying of ces, and these are spread across bene ts for the Group.
systems, LCD TVs and satnav.
Big ticket categories the majority of the Groups product categories.
such as furniture and white goods are likely to exhibit While cost pressures may build, such as from raw more dif cult conditions due to the weakening in the material prices or from foreign exchange rates, this housing market and general consumer con dence: will impact the market generally and Home Retail Group Market however, the Group will capitalise on the combined Product markets Argos Homebase position size Group will utilise its substantial scale, skills and buying scale, a market-leading home delivery direct control over its supply chain to continue to infrastructure, new product presentations and its Home enhancement extend advantage over its competitors and provide in-house financial services operation to continue to further bene t to its customers.
Housewares 1 9.1bn drive market share growth.
Homebase also expects A continuing programme is driving wider cost to continue its market share progress in kitchens, and synergies across the combined Group.
Areas of Furniture 1 8.6bn Argos in the sports and leisure market.
focus include corporate procurement, media buying, At the same time as targeting share growth in Home improvement DIY tted kitchens bathrooms 2 11.5bn IT services and property management.
There has also big ticket categories, emphasis will still be placed been increased focus on the distribution infrastructure Horticulture, garden furniture and outdoor living 2 3.2bn on maintaining strong positions in smaller ticket across the Group.
Examples of bene ts include categories.
Such categories remain key to the overcombined fleet purchasing, shared backhaul vehicles all performance of the Group, given that in both returning from store deliveries with collections General merchandise businesses average basket values are approximately from nearby suppliers and relocating certain Argos 20 to 30.
Small domestic appliances 1 1.4bn Direct outbases to other Group facilities.
Consumer electronics 2 15.5bn Large domestic appliances 3 4.0bn Toys 1 1.9bn Jewellery 1 3.4bn Sports and leisure equipment 1 1.2bn Note: All market positions are for calendar year 2007 and by retail sales except for jewellery, which is measured by volume.
18 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 19
