THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION HOMEBASE Homebase and the Eden Project similar sized garden centre.
These smaller stores Kerry Brayshaw, Homebase has begun a partnership with Cornwalls are signi cantly differentiated, remain authoritative Category Manager, Garden Eden Project in a year-long study into sustainable across the broader home enhancement market, and Maintenance, Homebase living.
This will analyse in detail consumers energy, are designed to provide an unrivalled customer offer Kerry is one of our leaders recycling, waste and water usage, in order to direct in smaller catchments.
Extent of chain analysis of the future, having been practical lifestyle changes.
Homebases Spend & supports multiple years of new store growth, with promoted within both Argos Save database was used to canvass families and a programme in place of continuing to open around and Homebase.
ask for volunteers for the project.
Data from the 10 new stores a year.
study will be used to develop future ranges as part The acquired Focus DIY stores will add further of Homebases ongoing Ecohome environmental new space leverage.
By the year-end, Homebase campaign to help customers make informed purhad already relaunched 12 of the acquired stores: chasing decisions.
the remaining nine of the net 21 stores to be Paul Hill, Store Manager, integrated have either opened since the year-end or Homebase Weston-super-Mare Store portfolio expansion and development will do so in the coming weeks.
Paul was named Retail Weeks Excluding stores acquired from Focus DIY, 14 Further store portfolio investment opportunities Store Manager of the Year new stores were opened, five were closed and a exist.
In approximately 70 stores that have received for 2008 for his all-round further four were relocated.
Of the newly opened minimal or no investment for a number of years, management skills.
stores, the majority were in the successful smaller trials to test a low-cost refurbishment continue format consisting of less than 25,000 square feet to produce the required sales uplifts.
As previously internal ground oor area compared to a portfolio indicated, plans will be further developed once the average of 36,000, and typically feature an 8,000 Focus DIY conversion programme and the 2008 Dave West, to 10,000 square foot mezzanine floor and a peak trading season are completed.
Kitchen Installer, Homebase Dave is part of the expert installation team thats helping Homebase customers to enhance their homes.
Our newly opened stores are designed to provide an unrivalled customer o er in smaller catchments.
Paul Loft, Managing Director, Homebase 34 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 THE GROUP REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS HOMEBASE Multi-channel development Operational improvements Homebase financial review A relaunch of www.
co. uk was completed There is a continued emphasis on operational in March 2008.
Signi cant improvements include improvements throughout the Homebase business Sales in the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 declined by 1.6% in total: like-for-like sales declined by 4.1%.
enhanced navigation and search, better promotional and, as part of Home Retail Group, there has been Weakness in the first half of the year was driven by adverse weather conditions over the May to capabilities, improved how to and buyer guides, a series of step-changes in improving the retail August period, with non-seasonal categories generally stable.
A more dif cult overall environment and the launch of an online 3D kitchen planner to basics.
The ongoing 300 to 1 programme is through the second half saw like-for-likes worsen, with the impact broadly similar across the further support the success of kitchen sales and driving consistency of store operations, leading to business.
One exception was kitchens, which has been a consistently strong category throughout installations.
There are now over 10,000 Homebase reduced costs while bene ting customer service.
the year: there were also good performances within areas of homewares and decorating.
products to research from home, with around a This and other programmes have continued to third of these available for home delivery.
The site improve fundamental operational measures around The contribution to sales from net new space was 2.5%.
Next years store opening also continues to embed relevant products from customer experience, employee engagement and programme is expected to produce a contribution of between 3% and 4%, with an approximate the Argos product pool.
The new site supports the on-shelf availability.
5% contribution to come from the acquired Focus DIY stores.
Homebase store card and Spend & Save loyalty Homebase has also made distribution network Gross margin was ahead by approximately 250 basis points for the year.
Additional transactional ranges and improvements.
It completed the relocation of its chain initiatives together with foreign exchange bene ts were the principal drivers of this further developments are planned in the new national distribution centre for small items and financial year.
high-value products to a new 350,000 square foot improvement over the year, with an additional bene t in the first half from the improvements site at Wellingborough.
The four-month migration in stock management procedures.
programme required the relocation of around 10,000 Operating costs grew in total by approximately 5%, of which underlying inflation was product lines from approximately 300 suppliers.
Non-in ationary cost growth was therefore approximately 2%, principally re ecting the additional investment in new space that was back-end weighted in the year.
One-off increases in distribution costs as a result of the warehouse relocation, together with onerous lease costs on its underperforming stores, were broadly offset by one-off bene ts principally from store-related property transactions in the year.
There will be continued cost control and containment programmes throughout the business in the new financial year.
Benchmark operating pro t for the 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 declined 16% to 45.1m as a result of the decline in underlying sales, which was partially offset by further gross margin progress.
There are now over 10,000 Homebase products to 52 weeks to 1 March 2008 3 March 2007 Sales m 1,568.5 1,594.2 research online with around Benchmark operating pro t m 45.1 53.4 a third of these available for Benchmark operating margin 2.9% 3.4% Like-for-like change in sales 4.1% 1.4% home delivery.
Net new space contribution to sales change 2.5% 3.6% Total sales change 1.6% 2.2% Gross margin movement Up c. 250bps Up c. 300bps c. 250bps Benchmark operating pro t change 16% 4% Number of stores at year-end 331 310 Of which contain a mezzanine oor 181 165 Homebase has become the first national DIY retailer to Store selling space at year-end 000 sq ft 15,398 14,560 achieve the Government Gross margin improvement Of which - garden centre area 3,505 3,304 TrustMark Award for its 2008: up c. 250bps 2007: - mezzanine oor area 1,909 1,776 kitchen installation service.
36 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2008 37
