30 Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78658 Front.
Jonathan King 47 CA, CCMI, FRSA BSc Hons FCA Appointed as Senior Independent Appointed as Chief Executive Executive Chairman since April Director in April 2004.
Previously of Home Service USA in 2005 2004 following six years as Director General Chief Executive of following 4 years as Managing Chief Executive and three years The Automobile Association and Director of the UK Membership as Finance Director.
Previously an executive Director of Prudential business and a year as Business Finance Director of ACT Group plc.
He executive Director of a number previously worked in retail 2.
Richard Harpin 43 of companies including Royal & marketing with the Boots Company BA Hons, CdipAF Sun Alliance plc and Provident as Group Brand Manager for No.
Appointed to the Board in May 2001.
Rachael Hughes 37 was originally a joint venture with Appointed to the Board in April BA Hons South Staffordshire Group set up in 2004.
Currently senior nonAppointed as Chief Executive 1993.
Previously a brand manager executive Director of William of Homeserve Europe in 2005 with Procter & Gamble, followed Hill plc and National Express having been Managing Director of by management consultancy with plc.
Previously Group Retailing Domo, Homeserves joint venture Deloitte and his own company.
Director at BAA plc, Group Chief with Generale des Eaux Services Executive of Littlewoods plc in France, since its launch in June 3.
Jonathan Simpson-Dent 41 and non-executive Director of 2001.
Previously Managing Director FCA, MA Somerfield plc.
of CHEP Argentina SA following Joined Homeserve as Chief a total of seven years with CHEP Financial Officer in March 2007.
Ian Chippendale 59 # Equipment Pooling Systems in Previously CFO at General Appointed to the Board in January North and South America and GKN Healthcare Group.
Currently Senior Independent Group in the UK.
he spent four years at McKinsey Director of Thus plc.
Previously followed by seven years at Chairman of RBS Insurance, 13.
Jeremy Middleton 47 PepsiCo in a number of senior Group Chief Executive of the Direct BA Hons finance roles.
Qualified as a Line Group of companies, Chief Non-executive Director of the chartered accountant with Executive of Privilege Insurance original Homeserve business set .
and Chairman of the Insurance up in 1993.
Previously a Brand Division of Provident Financial Ltd.
Manager with Procter and Gamble 4.
Ian Carlisle 46 and a Management Consultant Appointed to the Board in 9.
Joined Appointed to the Board in June a Venture Capitalist specialising in Homeserve in June 2003 as 2007.
An experienced corporate early stage business.
Chief Executive of Homeserve financier, he is Managing Director Emergency Services.
Previously and co-founder of Lexicon Partners 14.
Martin Sawkins 52 Managing Director of Autoglass which specialises in the utility BSc Hons Ltd, prior to which he was and insurance sectors.
Previously Appointed as Group HR Director Divisional Commercial Director at Managing Director, Financial in January 2008.
Previously Group Marks & Spencer plc.
Institutions Group, Donaldson, HR Director of the AA.
Prior to the Lufkin & Jenrette and a partner at AA he was HR Director for Centrica 5.
Jon Florsheim 48 the Phoenix Partnership.
plcs Home and Road Services, Appointed to the Board and as HR and Quality Director for Briden Chief Executive of Homeserve 10.
Emma Thomas 41 plc and held a number of HR and Membership in March 2007.
MA operations roles with Rover Group Previously Chief Marketing Officer Appointed Group Company Ltd, British Aerospace plc and and Managing Director, Customer Secretary in March 2005.
Group of British Sky Broadcasting.
solicitor, she was previously Group Prior to joining BSkyB in 1994, Company Secretary of Nestor 15.
Trevor Didcock 44 he was Marketing Director Healthcare Group plc, Assistant MBA, BSc Hons of Dixons Stores Group now Secretary of Kingfisher plc and Appointed Group Chief Information DSG International plc and had Company Secretary of Hazlewood Officer in February 2008.
Previously marketing posts with Tesco.
Information Systems Director at the AA from 2003 to 2007 and Group IT Director of RAC Motoring Services from 1999 to 2003.
Prior to that he held various roles in Esso, J P Morgan and Mars, including 3 years as Head of IT for Mars Confectionery.
Key Non-executive # Audit Committee Chairman: John Maxwell Nomination Committee Chairman: Brian Whitty Remuneration Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson Executive Board only Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31 78658 Front.
