Directors report The directors have pleasure in presenting their Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2008.
Principal activities During the year the Group was engaged in the provision of insured repair solutions and emergency services to the home.
Details of the Group's activities and a review of the business are set out in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive's Review and Financial Reviews on pages 3 to 21.
Details of the Key Performance Indicators used by the directors to assist in the management of the business and to provide evidence of the achievement of its strategies are included on page 20 in the Financial Review.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included on pages 20 and 21 in the Financial Review.
Information relating to the environment and employees is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 24 to 29.
Financial results and dividends The Groups results are shown in the Group income statement on page 60.
The directors are recommending the payment on 1 August 2008 of a final dividend of 21.85 pence per ordinary share to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 May 2008 which, together with the interim net dividend of 9.4 pence per ordinary share paid on 3 January 2008, results in a total net dividend for the year of 31.25 pence per share 2007: 25.0p.
For further details of the dividend see note 12 to the accounts.
Capital structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 25.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 36.
No votes are cast in respect of the shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust and dividends are waived.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Subject to the Companies Acts and any relevant authority of the Company in general meeting, the Company has authority to issue any of the unissued share capital.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors and employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 33 78658 Middle.
indd 33 5 6 08 14:54:16 Directors report Directors The directors who held office during the year were: Brian Whitty Richard Harpin Ian Carlisle Jon Florsheim Jonathan Simpson-Dent Ian Chippendale JM Barry Gibson John Maxwell Andrew Sibbald appointed 1 June 2007 Having been appointed since the publication of the notice for the last Annual General Meeting, Andrew Sibbald will retire from the Board in accordance with Articles of Association and, being eligible, will offer himself for election.
Brian Whitty and Richard Harpin retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Messrs Whitty and Harpin serve under contracts of employment terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
Mr Sibbald serves under a three year renewable letter of appointment which provides for liquidated damages limited to the payment of a maximum of one years fees in the event of early termination by the Company.
In respect of the appointment and replacement of directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of directors are described in the Boards terms of reference which are available on the website and the Corporate Governance statement on pages 37 to 41.
The beneficial interests of the directors in the shares of the Company and the options held as at 31 March 2008 and 19 May 2008 are set out in the Remuneration Report.
None of the directors serving at the year end had a beneficial interest in the share capital of any subsidiary company.
Each of the directors confirms that as far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that he has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The following special business will be transacted at the Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held on 28 July 2008.
Homeserve 2008 Long Term Incentive Plan There will be proposed a resolution to adopt a new long term incentive plan.
Allotment of shares and pre-emption rights There will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting a renewal of the directors general authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount the Section 80 Amount and the directors authority to issue shares for cash without applying the statutory pre-emption rights up to a maximum nominal amount the Section 89 Amount.
The directors confirm that they presently have no intention to issue more than 7% of the issued ordinary share capital shown in the latest published annual accounts by way of non pre-emptive issues for cash in any rolling three year period.
They also confirm that, in the event of an issue of shares other than on a pre-emptive basis, the amount of the discount if any, at which equity is issued for cash other than to shareholders, will be limited to a maximum of 5% of the middle of the best bid and offer prices immediately prior to the announcement of an issue or proposed issue.
34 Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78658 Middle.
indd 34 5 6 08 14:54:16 Authority to purchase own shares Approval is being sought for the Company to renew the authority contained in the Articles of Association to purchase its own ordinary shares.
The Board has no firm intention that the Company should make purchases of its own shares if the proposed authority becomes effective, but would like to be able to act quickly if circumstances arise in which such a purchase would be desirable.
Purchases will only be made on the London Stock Exchange and only in circumstances where the Board believes that they are in the best interests of the shareholders generally and would result in an increase in earnings per share.
Any shares purchased would be cancelled.
Further detail on the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the Shareholder Circular.
Auditors A resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors and authorising the Board to fix their remuneration will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Fixed assets Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets amounted to 10.1m 2007: 12.6m during the year.
Donations Charitable donations of 37,000 2007: 34,000 were made during the year.
No political contributions were made in either year.
Payment of creditors The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in line with the terms of payment agreed with each of them when contracting for their products or services.
Trade creditors at 31 March 2008 represented 67 days of purchases during the year 2007: 65 days for the Group and 45 for the Company 2007: 45 days.
Substantial shareholdings As far as the directors are aware, no person had a beneficial interest in 3% or more of the voting share capital at 19 May 2008, except for the following: Ordinary shares % Richard Harpin 11,004,594 16.9 AMVESCAP PLC 10,016,433 15.4 Schroders plc 4,018,687 6.2 Standard Life Investments Ltd 3,133,438 4.8 Jeremy Middleton 3,058,113 4.7 Legal & General Group plc 3,019,445 4.6 includes an indirect interest of 5,700 shares Taxation status The Company is not a close company within the meaning of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 35 78658 Middle.
indd 35 5 6 08 14:54:16 Directors report Employment policies It is the Groups policy that all persons should be considered for employment, training, career development and promotion on the basis of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless of physical ability, age, gender, sexual orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
Homeserve applies employment policies that are fair and equitable for all employees and which ensure entry into and progression within the Group are determined solely by application of job criteria and personal ability and competency.
Full and fair consideration having regard to the persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given to applications for employment and the career development of disabled persons.
Homeserves training and development policies make it clear that it will take all steps practicable to ensure that employees who become disabled during the time they are employed by the Group are able to continue to perform their duties.
Employee involvement Homeserve attaches considerable importance to ensuring that all its employees are provided with information concerning them as employees, particularly the economic and financial factors affecting its performance and the market in which it operates.
Involvement of employees in the Groups performance is also encouraged by the availability of performance-related bonuses as well as share option schemes, which are described in more detail elsewhere in this report.
Internal circulars and newsletters are issued on a regular basis and consultation between management and staff is an ongoing process.
Employees are consulted on issues directly affecting them wherever practicable.
Further details of Homeserves policies and practices relating to employee involvement may be found on pages 24 and 25 of this report.
By Order of the Board Emma Thomas Company Secretary 19 May 2008 36 Homeserve Annual Report & Accounts 2008 78658 Middle.
