DIRECTORS' REPORT 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 16:07 Page 36 DIRECTORS' REPORT The directors present their report, together with Shareholders funds the audited financial statements for the year ended Shareholders funds increased from 406.5m at the end of 31 December 2008.
2007 to 452.4m at 31 December 2008. Business review Share capital Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the As at 31 December 2008, the Companys share capital Company to present a business review in this report.
comprised a single class of share capital which is divided The information that fulfils the business review into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
Details of the requirements can be found in this report and the following share capital of the Company are set out in note 23 to the sections of this report.
All of the information detailed in financial statements on page 104.
The ordinary shares are these sections is incorporated by reference into this report listed on the London Stock Exchange.
and is deemed to form part of this report: As at 31 December 2008, 1,514,585 shares are held in an Our goals and how we are achieving them on pages 4 and 5: employee trust for use in relation to certain executive Measuring our business performance on pages 6 and 7: incentive plans representing 0.5% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
The voting rights Group operating review including Statement from the attached to shares held in the employee trust were not Chairman and Chief Executive on pages 8 to 21 : exercised during the year.
Financial review on pages 22 to 27: and During the year, 581,987 new ordinary shares were issued Responsible business on pages 28 to 33. under employee share schemes: 413,164 under the all employee share ownership scheme and save as you earn Principal activities plans and 168,823 under executive share plans.
Shares IMI plc is the holding company of the IMI group of companies acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank the Group.
The Groups businesses comprise five equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
platforms organised into two principal activities: Fluid The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Controls, comprising Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles Climate and Retail Dispense, comprising Beverage Dispense of association, copies of which can be obtained from and Merchandising.
The main subsidiary companies Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company operating within these two principal activities are listed on Secretary.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be pages 114 and 115.
The revenue, profit and capital employed issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company attributable to each of these businesses are shown in note 3 may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such on pages 74 to 77. resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as The years results the Board may decide.
Holders of ordinary shares The Group consolidated income statement is shown on are entitled to receive the Companys annual report and page 62.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 266.3m financial statements, to attend and speak at general 2007: 207.8m and profit on continuing operations before meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise taxation amounted to 176.0m 2007: 171.0m.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a attributable to shareholders of IMI plc amounted to 112.9m dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the 2007: 117.0m.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Dividends Company or propose resolutions at annual general meetings.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 12.7p per share Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are on the ordinary share capital payable on 22 May 2009 to suspended and the treasury shares carry no rights to shareholders on the register at the close of business on receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
Together with the interim dividend of 8.0p per There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares share paid on 17 October 2008, this final dividend brings the in the Company other than: total distribution for the year to 20.7p per share 2007: 20.2p per share.
certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : Research and development and Expenditure on research and development in the year was pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the 38.2m compared with 30.7m in 2007: of this amount 5.1m directors and certain employees of the Company require 2007: 3.2m has been capitalised.
approval to deal in the Companys shares.
36 Directors' Report 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:20 Page 37 None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each of regard to control of the Company.
The only restrictions on its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group and voting rights are those that apply to the ordinary shares individual business developments and to make its employees held in treasury, as described above.
Electronic and aware of the financial and economic factors affecting paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must the performance of the business in which they work, be received by the Companys registrars not later than 48 using their own consultation and communication methods.
hours before a general meeting, or any adjournment thereof.
The Group has a European Works Council which has been in operation since May 2003 and which meets at least once a The Company is not aware of any arrangements between year to exchange views on pan-European issues facing shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer the Group.
At the date of this annual report, there are of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
18 members of the European Works Council comprising Own shares acquired by the Company 14 employee representatives nominated from among employees from each of our European businesses with the In 2008 the Company made market purchases of a total balance being Company appointees.
The Groups financial of 3,124,700 of its own ordinary shares representing results and important initiatives are communicated through 1.0% of the shares in issue at the beginning of the year a number of mechanisms including newsletters and intranets excluding treasury shares at an aggregate cost of for the individual businesses and the Company's website.
14.8m nominal value 781,175 including dealing costs The annual report is available to all employees.
of 0.1m pursuant to the authorities granted by the shareholders at the annual general meetings held on The Company operates an all employee share ownership plan 18 May 2007 and 9 May 2008.
The authority granted at the covering all UK employees of certain operations, under which annual general meeting held on 9 May 2008 to purchase an annual bonus worth up to 3,000 can be awarded to up to 48,000,000 of its ordinary shares will expire at the employees in shares and employees can invest their own conclusion of the next annual general meeting to be held money to acquire additional shares in a tax efficient manner.
The directors were of the opinion that the A savings-related share option scheme, which is available purchase of these shares was both in the best interests to the majority of UK employees, has operated since 1984. of the shareholders generally and constituted an effective Further details of employee share schemes are set out in use of the cash generated by the Group.
the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 60 and in note 21 to the financial statements on pages 101 to 103.
As at 31 December 2008, 19,124,700 ordinary shares nominal value 4,781,175 were held in treasury representing 6% of A number of people development initiatives are co-ordinated the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that across the Group, including the IMI Graduate programme time.
This was also equal to the maximum number of shares and a senior talent management programme called Aspire.
held in treasury during the year ended 31 December 2008 These programmes and the Companys approach to on 26 June 2008, and through to 31 December 2008 employee development are explained on pages 32 and 33. representing 6% of the issued share capital excluding It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in treasury shares at that time.
employment consistent with the requirements of the Substantial shareholdings countries in which the Group operates.
The policy applies to both employees and applicants for employment.
Companies As at 4 March 2009, the Company has been informed, in the Group are required to eliminate discrimination and pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, communicate and promote the policy to all employees.
of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share Managing Directors of operating units have responsibility capital: for compliance and each employee is required to abide by Standard Life Investments Limited 12.01% the policy.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86% for employment from disabled persons are fully and Legal and General Group plc 3.99% fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal Newton Investment Management Limited 3.96% opportunity in training and promotion.
As a matter of So far as the Company is aware, there are no persons longstanding policy, where appropriate, employees who with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company.
become disabled are given suitable training for employment Information provided to the Company pursuant to the within the Group or elsewhere.
FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service.
Statement on corporate governance The required disclosures are contained in the corporate governance report on pages 42 to 45.
Employment policies The Group continues to support employee involvement at all IMI plc Annual Report 2008 37 DIRECTORS' REPORT 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:20 Page 38 DIRECTORS' REPORT Health, safety and the environment The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with place during the financial year.
At the date of this annual regard to the environment.
Information on our key report there are such indemnity arrangements with each performance indicator in this area is given on pages 7 director in respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and 30 and further information is available on our website and regulatory proceedings brought against them, in their www.
capacity as a director, where not covered by insurance.
Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors Directors powers Operating units are responsible for making their suppliers The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation aware of the terms of payment and agreeing such and the memorandum and articles of association of the terms with their suppliers for each business transaction.
Company in force from time to time.
The directors have The Company is not a trading entity.
been authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to Donations make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions 254,000 was given during 2008 2007: 220,000 for of the Company passed at its annual general meeting.
community and similar purposes including 245,000 2007: Further details of resolutions the Company is seeking for 205,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group supports a the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares will range of selected national charities and smaller charitable be set out in the separate circular containing the notice of organisations operating in communities where the Group has the annual general meeting.
Our approach to charitable and other donations is explained on page 32.
No political donations were made Directors interests during the year and the Company intends to maintain its The interests of the persons including the interests of any policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, as a connected persons who were directors at the end of the precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the year, in the share capital of the Company, and their interests law, seek shareholder authority at its 2009 annual general under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on meeting to make limited political donations or incur limited pages 56 to 59. political expenditure, although it has no intention of using the authority.
Essential contracts and change of control Directors The Group does not have any single contract or other arrangement which is essential to its business taken as a The membership of the Board and biographical details of the whole.
directors are given on pages 34 and 35 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or Bob Stack was appointed to the Board as a non-executive terminate the arrangements on a change of control of director on 13 June 2008.
Lance Browne retired from the the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial Board on 31 December 2008.
David Nicholas will be stepping contracts and employee share plans.
Other than as referred down from the Board on 1 September 2009 before his to in the next paragraph, none of these are considered by retirement in December 2009. the Company to be significant in terms of their likely impact The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors on the Group as a whole.
are set out in the Companys articles of association.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Changes to the articles of association must be approved by Groups main funding agreements allow the lenders to the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all from time to time.
The Corporate Governance Report sets outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
In the out details of the requirements for re-election of directors current economic climate this could have a significant effect on page 42. on the liquidity of the business.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, The Company does not have agreements with any director David Nicholas and Anita Frew retire at the forthcoming or employee that would provide compensation for loss annual general meeting and are recommended for of office or employment specifically resulting from a re-election.
In addition, Bob Stack will be standing for takeover although provisions of the Companys share election at that meeting, being the first annual general schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to meeting since he was appointed.
Anita Frew and directors and employees under such schemes to vest on Bob Stack are non-executive directors with a letter of a takeover.
appointment and do not have a service contract.
David Nicholas is an executive director and has a service contract terminable on one years notice although, as noted above, he has confirmed that he plans to retire in December 2009.
38 Directors' Report 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 16:08 Page 39 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Annual Report and the financial statements integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Report and the Group and parent company financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors responsibility statement in respect of the annual financial report Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Under that law the directors are required to prepare the the Group and parent company financial statements in this Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as annual report, which have been prepared in accordance adopted by the EU and applicable law.
with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of The directors have elected to prepare the parent company accounting standards, give a true and fair view of financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted the Company and the Group taken as a whole: and Accounting Practice.
the management report which comprises the Directors The Group financial statements are required by law and report and the business review includes a fair review of IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial the development and performance of the business and position and performance of the Group.
The Companies Act the position of the Company and the Group taken as a 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that whole, together with a description of the principal risks references in the relevant part of that act to financial and uncertainties that they face.
statements giving a true and fair view are references to A statement in relation to the adoption of the going concern their achieving a fair presentation.
basis in preparing the financial statements appears on The parent company financial statements are required by page 27. law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Disclosure of information to auditor parent company.
The directors who held office at the date of approval In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are statements, the directors are required to: each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has consistently: taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and audit information and to establish that the Companys prudent: auditor is aware of that information.
state whether the Group financial statements have been Risks and uncertainties prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: In common with all businesses, there are a number of risks state for the parent company financial statements and uncertainties which could have a material impact on whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been the Groups long-term performance.
The Group has in place followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and an established risk management structure and robust explained in those statements: and internal controls which together are designed to identify, prepare the financial statements on the going concern manage and mitigate business risk.
A summary of the basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Groups risk management structure is given on pages 44 and the parent company will continue in business.
The Groups financial risk management practices are also discussed in note 19 to the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting In addition, the Groups approach to corporate social records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time responsibility and associated risks is described on the financial position of the parent company and enable pages 28 to 33. them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, a remuneration report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
IMI plc Annual Report 2008 39 DIRECTORS' REPORT 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:20 Page 40 DIRECTORS' REPORT The principal risks faced by the Group, as identified by the The nature of the Groups operations exposes it to the Board, are summarised below: potential for litigation from third parties which may arise in the ordinary course of business.
External risk Further costs and actions potentially arising from the Economic and market environment 2007 8 investigation into the Severe Service business are The status of the global economy and the levels of activity a potential risk in the near term.
However, it is anticipated in the markets in which the Group operates could adversely that any such actions and associated costs would not affect the Groups revenues.
The Groups cost base includes extend significantly beyond 2009. many costs that cannot be reduced in the short term in The Groups worldwide operations also expose it to the line with reductions in revenue, which may result in sharper effect of political risk which can include sudden changes reductions in profitability.
The Group may also be required in regulations, expropriation of assets, imposition of trade to reassess the carrying value of acquired goodwill and barriers and wage controls and limits on the export of other assets if certain end markets deteriorate further currency.
or for longer, which may result in impairment charges.
The diverse nature of the Groups products, services, Financial market risks customers and markets served together with the The Group is exposed to a number of financial market development of aftermarket revenues and appropriate risks including credit risk, liquidity risk and fluctuations in contingency planning helps to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity unfavourable economic conditions.
A description of these risks and the Group's Key customers centralised approach to managing them is described in note 19 to the financial statements.
Certain of the Groups businesses benefit from close commercial relationships with key customers.
The loss Internal risk of certain of these key relationships whether through Talent acquisition competition, consolidation or insolvency could have If the Group is unable to recruit and retain high calibre a material impact on the Groups results.
The Groups top managers and engineering talent, it may not be able to ten customers represent approximately 15% of total group effectively implement its business plans and strategy and revenues.
The Group devotes resources to ensure that could experience delays in the development of, or increased these good relationships are maintained and developed.
difficulty in developing and selling, its products and services.
Supply chain Compliance and internal controls The Group has a significant number of contracts with The Company operates various corporate governance, a broad base of suppliers.
In the current economic compliance and internal control frameworks which environment there is a risk that their access to credit are essential for the effective management of such or adverse trading conditions could lead to an inability geographically diverse businesses.
Failures in these to meet their contractual commitments to the Group.
controls might have a material impact on the Group.
This could have a material impact on the Group's results.
The Group monitors these risks and has contingency plans in Products and technology place to mitigate the impact of any supplier failure.
The Group is exposed to risks associated with the Competitive markets commercial failure of products, projects and technologies such as product liability and warranty claims.
The quality The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
and safety of our products is of the highest importance Significant product innovations, technical advances or the and there is an associated risk if they are below standard.
intensification of price competition could all adversely affect The Group maintains insurance cover for product liability the Groups results.
The Groups continued success depends claims where possible and seeks to ensure that it is also upon its ability to continue to develop and produce new and protected so far as possible by the contract terms in place.
enhanced products and services on a cost effective and For claims not covered by insurance, the costs that cannot timely basis in accordance with customer demands.
otherwise be recovered may be material to the Group.
The Group makes focused investment in research and Health, safety and environmental development to sustain its competitive advantage and takes appropriate action to ensure that its cost base remains The Group recognises that it has a duty of care to all of competitive.
its employees and to others that the Group interacts with through its products and operations.
The Group has Legal, regulatory and political risks established systems in place to ensure that health, safety The Groups worldwide operations expose it to different and environmental matters are appropriately addressed and legal and regulatory requirements and standards in each any such risks are minimised.
These procedures are being of the jurisdictions in which it operates including those for financial reporting, taxation, environmental, operational and competition matters.
In the event of any failure in statements relating to: future demand and markets for the these procedures there is a potential risk of injury or death Groups products and services, research and development to IMIs employees or others: or environmental damage, with relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity and the consequential impact on the operations and the risk of capital resources and implementation of restructuring plans regulatory action against the Group.
The Group maintains and efficiencies.
Any forward-looking statements are by insurance for the costs associated with any employers their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties liability, workers compensation or equivalent claims and that could cause actual results to differ materially from also maintains insurance covering environmental incidents.
those expressed or implied by such statements depending In common with all classes of insurance, the policies do on a variety of factors, including, for example, those not cover fines or penalties which could, in the event of a described above under the heading 'Risks and uncertainties'.
significant failure, be material to the Group.
IMI undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future M & A activity events or otherwise.
Nothing in this annual report should be IMIs growth strategy is in part dependent on acquisitions.
The execution and integration of acquisitions involves a Annual general meeting number of risks, including diversion of managements attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton business and risks associated with unanticipated events or Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, liabilities.
The Group may also be subject to liabilities as a Birmingham on Friday 8 May 2009, commencing at noon.
result of past or future disposals.
To mitigate against this, Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a the Group has a vigorous due diligence process and ensures separate circular.
clear financial targets are in place.
Any potential acquisition Auditor is also subject to a formal approval process.
The Group also Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as puts in place appropriate business integration processes auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to to ensure that the Groups policies, values, ethical code, determine the auditors remuneration are to be proposed compliance and control framework are adopted and at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Whilst the audit embedded as well as to ensure a smooth transition.
committee recommended and the Board approved the Pension funding proposal to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc at the forthcoming The Groups defined benefit pension arrangements are annual general meeting, the committee has decided to exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates and commence a formal, competitive process for the selection the market values of investments as well as inflation, of an audit firm.
It is intended that the chosen firm will be increased longevity of members and statutory requirements.
in place in time for the review of the Group's 2009 interim This may result in the cost of funding defined benefit management statement due to be issued in August 2009 and pension arrangements becoming an increasingly significant therefore also for the audit in respect of 2009.
KPMG Audit burden on the Groups financial resources.
The Group Plc, the Group's current auditor, will be asked continually reviews these risks and takes action to mitigate to participate in the process as a candidate for selection them where possible.
Cautionary statements The foregoing statements of directors responsibilities for the financial statements and the confirmations regarding By order of the Board audit information are addressed solely to shareholders and John OShea made pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation and regulations, without any other or special Company Secretary assumption of responsibility on the part of the Company or 4 March 2009 its directors and officers.
The business review and other content of this annual report is addressed to the shareholders of IMI plc as a body.
Neither the Company nor its directors or officers accept or assume responsibility to any person for this annual report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this annual report pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation.
Sections of this annual report may contain forward-looking statements about the Group, including, for example, IMI plc Annual Report 2008 41
