BUSINESS OVERVIEW 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:19 Page 4 OUR GOALS AND HOW WE ARE ACHIEVING THEM WE AIM TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE ORGANIC GROWTH IN EXCESS OF GDP GROWTH AND OVER TIME TO REACH OPERATING MARGINS OF 15%.
We have a clear strategy that is where we can clearly differentiate Climate business platforms serve relevant and appropriate for a ourselves from our competitors Fluid Controls markets, where our successful engineering solutions with end-user insight and the customers are plant operators and business in the 21st century and application of innovative technology.
we continue to pursue it vigorously.
Key account management and The Beverage Dispense and We are focused on growth with project management are important Merchandising businesses operate in industry or sector leading customers disciplines for the effective delivery Retail Dispense markets, where our in niche markets which are of bespoke solutions to our leading customers are brand owners and themselves growing.
to such customers and improving aftermarket support in the form Our strategic growth drivers their performance is the route to of service and spares to our are understood by all the senior sustainable profit growth for our customers installed product base.
management in IMI and embedded shareholders.
We operate in markets Our five business platforms share throughout our businesses.
where we already hold or can achieve this common philosophy.
The Severe a market leadership position and Service, Fluid Power and Indoor ACCELERATING OUR KEY ACCOUNT FOCUS Highly talented, customer-focused, ensuring that we work with the  teams of best customer partners, are critical people in IMI add long-term value components of our business model.
for both customers and ourselves.
Recognising where value can Developing these skills, understanding be added for both parties is a the drivers of our customers fundamental part of our approach.
businesses, and our own, and A centrally-based Key Account Academy helps to train our people and ensure that best practice is Previously Global Key Account shared across the Group.
Manager for McDonalds, Steve Cooper partnered with them to deliver real customer value and now provides strong commercial leadership as MD, Cornelius Asia-Pacific.
4 Business overview 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:19 Page 5 In her role as MD, NorgrenIQ, Kathleen Weatherspoon has led the development of a best in class, compressed air system which significantly reduces air leakage and operating costs with important benefits for users and for the environment.
INCREASING OUR CREATIVE ABILITIES We invest in techniques that improve engineering capabilities market and customer insight, to the issues faced by our frequently working with academics customers.
The result is relevant, and other partners who can aid new, value-adding technologies our understanding.
We then apply and products that strengthen our our acquired knowledge and our customer relationships.
SEIZING THE INITIATIVE IN EMERGING ECONOMIES We continue to invest in the generate sales, manufacturing and emerging markets of Eastern Europe, procurement opportunities in these the Middle East and Asia, particularly territories through the development China which have been growing of regional and local teams with rapidly.
In recent years we have relevant local industry knowledge and significantly increased our ability to experience.
Focused investment of this sort enables us to support our customers as they enter new markets, Dr Chon-Kwo Tsai has spearheaded the sales growth whilst also helping to drive value for our for Norgren in the Chinese customers in established markets.
market and has been recently A high-profile advisory board supports promoted to the role of our commitment to current and Managing Director, Asia-Pacific.
BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT Strategic acquisitions that support In addition to our acquisition Since joining CCI as Chief Financial Officer in 2007, our existing businesses help us programme, we continue to Pat McCullough has to develop new markets further.
invest organically in our existing provided strong financial Acquisitions must align with our businesses where we see potential leadership to deliver strategy and should bring technology, to promote organic growth.
great improvements in their cash management talent, market sector or key account All potential acquisitions and all and capital expenditure relationships with the ability to major investment proposals must programmes.
create significant differentiation, be able to demonstrate positive so strengthening further our economic value added on a cumulative leadership positions in our basis within three years.
The Group well-defined niche markets.
also aims to maintain cash conversion They must also be supportive of levels at no less than 80%.
our growth and margin targets.
