GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:19 Page 14... BY CONTRIBUTING TO ENHANCED ENERGY EFFICIENCY... Our close partnership with TA ensured that our demand for greater energy efficiency and flexibility across the 600 substations of RADET's heating system in Bucharest was successfully achieved.
George Nistor, Director, RADET, Romania 14 Group operating review 64165 p01-p60:Layout 1 24 3 09 12:46 Page 15 THE GLOBAL DRIVE TOWARDS GREENER POWER PRODUCTION AND MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT PRODUCTS IMPACTS ALL AREAS OF OUR BUSINESS.
The consequences of unrestrained encouraging manufacturers to Energize Cornelius new soft drinks cooling system has been measured growth in global energy demand is develop more energy efficient to use over 40% less energy than a concern for all countries.
the biggest challenges is how to How we contribute meet this energy demand, whilst still The global drive towards greener In Beverage Dispense we have reducing the growth of emissions of power production and more energy focused on developing more energy greenhouse gases.
efficient products impacts all areas efficient products.
For example, our Concerns about current global of our businesses and is a key driver new Energize cooler for carbonated energy consumption, which is of our research and development beverage dispense reduces energy predicted to grow by approximately activity.
In Severe Service our valve, consumption by up to 40% in 50% by 2030, and the environmental actuation and control solutions comparison with traditional models.
impact have put a renewed emphasis make a significant contribution to This is important in helping our key on innovation to make all things more meeting the worlds energy demands customers meet their public energy-efficient.
Our valves commitments to reduce carbon are utilised in greener power Market trends emissions.
For similar reasons, in generation in areas such as thermo As a result, governments have been Merchandising we have developed solar energy and we expect to have a encouraging investment in clean new LED lighting systems for our significant role in the next generation renewable energy sources.
For customers which reduce energy of nuclear power stations which are example, $80 billion of the current consumption significantly compared being planned and built.
Balancing economic stimulus package agreed to traditional fluorescent lighting.
systems and thermostatic radiator in the US is directed towards the valves supplied by our Indoor Climate construction of a new, national clean businesses help our customers to energy infrastructure.
There has meet local and international also been a resurgence in nuclear regulatory obligations, significantly power with over 200 new nuclear reduce energy consumption and plants currently expected to deliver personal comfort in both commence commercial operations commercial and domestic by 2020.
Nuclear power reduces the buildings.
reliance on the limited reserves of oil and gas and reduces emissions CCIs steam-conditioning of greenhouse gases.
turbine bypass valves ensure continuous As well as a shift towards greener and efficient energy generation, demand is also operation at a increasing for more energy efficient thermo solar buildings, manufacturing equipment, energy plant transport and other consumer in Spain.
Increased government regulation in this area, as well as consumer demands for more cost effective solutions, is already IMI plc Annual Report 2008 15 GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:19 Page 16...
SUPPORTING IMPROVEMENTS IN INFRASTRUCTURE... CCIs valves eliminated all of the problems experienced at the plant with existing valves sourced from other companies.
The CCI team offered professional solutions and supplied high performance valves which met design specifications.
Mr. Wu Weijun, Turbine Mechanical Engineer, Guangdong Yudean Group - Zhanjiang Power Plant 16 Group operating review 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 25 3 09 12:15 Page 17 INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDES A SIGNIFICANT LONG-TERM OPPORTUNITY FOR IMI.
A common initiative amongst to maintain growth.
In addition, Truflo products are specifically designed for use in severe service governments of major economies some developed countries have been applications where performance is facing the economic downturn has neglecting their infrastructure needs critical, such as LNG carriers.
been to commit to increase or for many years.
As a consequence, Photo courtesy of Exmar accelerate investment in major The CIBC World Bank has estimated infrastructure projects.
that between 25 and 30 trillion US Our Indoor Climate business is dollars will be injected into global Governments are aiming to provide tailoring its successful seminar infrastructure over the next 20 an immediate boost to their programme towards infrastructure years.
This represents a significant economies by creating employment customers to take advantage of new long-term opportunity for and demand for other locally opportunities as they arise.
We have engineering businesses such as produced products and services.
already been successful in securing IMI which focus on infrastructure This boost in investment has orders for the main 2012 Olympic as one of their core strategies.
improved an area of the market Stadium in London.
Strong balancing which was already seeing positive How we contribute system design, experience, trends, particularly from the To take advantage of this, IMI will commissioning and project developing economies such as China, increasingly focus a number of its management skills are essential India and Brazil.
activities in this market during 2009. to ensure that projects such The Severe Service business will as hospitals, airports and other Market trends continue to supply its bespoke valve, facilities enjoy indoor environments A number of countries have actuation and control solutions that optimise the comfort for already announced significant to power generation and other employees and customers, whilst increases in investment.
US administration will make the Our knowledge of plants includes a largest investment in the nations dedicated customer service network infrastructure since the 1950s to which supports our installed base save or create around 4m jobs.
of high-performance valves for the China plans to invest almost 600 life of each plant.
Norgrens rail billion US dollars to boost the business grew strongly in 2008 economy and will largely focus this on and good opportunities in infrastructure.
Mexico is planning this sector are expected the largest infrastructure budget in to continue.
its history, equivalent to 6.5% of GDP.
The UK Government is investing significantly in upgrading Londons rail transportation systems and in delivering the 2012 Olympics.
In the longer term, countries with Norgrens pneumatic strong growth rates such as China door actuators are will have to continue investing heavily used in trains worldwide.
