GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 14:25 Page 20... AND PROVIDING GREATER RETAIL OPPORTUNITY RETAILERS WILL ONLY GAIN MARKET SHARE IF THEY ARE CLEARLY DIFFERENTIATED FROM COMPETITORS, HAVE STRONG BRAND EQUITY, INNOVATE TO MAINTAIN DIFFERENTIATION AND OFFER AN EXPERIENCE THAT EXCITES CUSTOMERS.
Over the long-term the retail give key customers a sales uplift on sector has offered strong growth their higher margin products.
opportunities, but along with many Market trends industries, the current economic Market trends in the retail sector will Our confidence downturn is likely to present be driven by the difficult economic in Cannons people and significant challenges to consumertheir innovative thinking environment throughout 2009. around LED technology has facing markets.
In this testing Companies that do succeed will offer been vital to our successful environment a focus on the customer partnership.
either lower prices or focus on experience will be key to gaining Jill Carrano, Director, managing their brands and Fixture Development and a competitive advantage.
There is Materials Purchasing, Our Retail Dispense businesses Sephora already evidence that consumers are focus on delivering likely to be intensely value-orientated, products and even more so than in recent history.
solutions that Retailers will only gain market share if they are clearly differentiated from competitors, have strong brand equity, innovate to maintain differentiation and offer an experience that excites customers.
These factors will provide retailers with some pricing power and effective merchandising will be key to delivering this.
Despite the economic downturn some market areas are expected to perform well, notably discount retailers of both food and general merchandise.
20 Group operating review 64165 p01-p60 Q7:Layout 1 24 3 09 14:26 Page 21 Coca-Cola Hellenic's water business was looking for a machine that improved hygiene, secured very strict quality standards, and decreased the total cost of ownership.
The Blue Water Cooler achieves all of these.
Alexandros Papanastasiou, Strategic Procurement Manager, Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company S. A.
Resources need to be skewed towards these most resilient areas.
Elsewhere some specific higher-value sectors, for instance cosmetics, can also perform well in recessions.
Other sectors, such as the intelligence and automotive trade are likely to be creative new product much more challenging.
Similarly development to produce amongst restaurants, quick-service merchandising solutions that chains are expected to perform well give our key customers a sales uplift.
relative to higher end and middle market competitors.
Major global Our objective in Beverage Dispense quick-service chains have continued is to drive growth for our customers, to demonstrate solid sales growth the worlds leading beverage brand over recent months.
Our new product development programme In the longer term, beyond 2009, the is driven by customer needs and push towards retail globalisation is changing consumer tastes such as expected to continue with developing 'health and indulgence' beverages economies like China, India and Brazil and sustainability initiatives.
viewed as some of the most lucrative markets to invest in.
How we contribute Our Merchandising businesses are focused on niche areas where they can drive impulse purchases on IMI Merchandisings bulk food dispenser provides an products which generate high margins  for both brand owner and retailer.
dispensing solution for They create and deliver display health-conscious shoppers.
equipment specifically designed to achieve our customers sales and marketing objectives.
In the current market the key will be to focus on those retail sectors which are expected to be more resilient.
In cosmetics, which is a high margin and volume sector, we use retail IMI plc Annual Report 2008 21
