GROUP OPERATING REVIEW 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:19 Page 12 OUR FIVE PLATFORM BUSINESSES... Fluid Power Overall organic revenue growth in Fluid Power was 3% for the full year.
However, this represented a small decline in the second half after organic Severe Service growth of 7% in the first half with November and December being The Severe Service business continued particularly difficult.
to trade very well through the year Our sector business targets niche with revenues up 22% and organic markets with major customers in the revenue growth, excluding exchange commercial vehicle, in-plant automotive, rate movements, at 9%.
The second life science, rail, print, packaging and half performance was particularly PET beverage markets.
After a strong strong with organic revenue growth of IMI plc is the ultimate holding first half, the sector business suffered 15%.
As previously indicated, routes a significant reversal late in the year, company of the Group and has been to market are now fully reopened with the in-plant automotive, European following the disruption caused by the listed on the London Stock Exchange commercial vehicles, and print markets CCI investigation and order intake since 1966.
Performance in the rail, progressed well during the year.
it had a market value of 921m and packaging and life science sectors Project activity in the oil and gas and shareholders funds of 452.4m.
mitigated to a degree, containing the power markets remained healthy during The Companys headquarters is at year on year second half organic revenue the year.
In power all three major Lakeside, Birmingham Business Park, decline to 5%, and leaving the sector regions of Americas, Europe Middle England.
The trading activities of business as a whole recording a 2% East and Asia showed improvements in organic revenue growth for the full year.
the IMI Group are conducted through order intake.
Interest in new nuclear subsidiary companies.
The remainder of the Fluid Power applications is continuing to grow and business provides general pneumatic and we made good progress in securing fluid control solutions for a broad range the required industry certifications.
Overall revenue in Nuclear sales performance was broadly this area showed organic growth of 3%.
flat but with a strong improvement in This reflected a weaker second half, margins which helped to improve the particularly in Western Europe and overall operating margin for Severe North America, after a strong first half Service to 18.4% from 15.4% last year.
Germany and Asia Pacific The outlook for the Severe Service continued to grow in the second half.
business remains positive although Operating margins overall for the an extended period of lower oil prices year increased from 13.2% to 13.7%.
could impact future order intake.
As anticipated most Fluid Power Whilst we have not seen any significant markets have continued to be extremely project deferrals or cancellations, challenging at the start of 2009. we have seen some recent slowing of Since the onset of the economic order intake in the North American downturn in the autumn the Fluid Power power market and lower activity levels business has moved quickly to reduce in Japan.
costs to help mitigate the impact of lower volumes.
This has included a 13% headcount reduction from peak levels in 2008, as well as aggressive procurement initiatives and other cost saving measures.
12 Group operating review 64165 p01-p60:Layout 1 24 3 09 12:45 Page 13 Beverage Dispense Indoor Climate Merchandising The organic revenue decline for the The Indoor Climate organic revenue The organic growth for the year was year was 1% in Beverage Dispense.
This represents 11% with stronger growth in the This reflected particularly difficult a consistent strong performance second half of 12%.
Revenues in the market conditions in the second half throughout most of the year and is a second half benefited from strong after a satisfactory performance in reflection of both volume gains and shipments to a major US supermarket the first half.
the successful implementation of chain.
The strongest sector As previously reported the Beverage price increases across the business.
performance in 2008 was in consumer Dispense business experienced a sharp However certain markets did slow in electronics which made excellent reduction in demand from the major November and December.
The food soft drinks bottlers in North America.
and cosmetics sectors maintained Sales of balancing valves maintained Second half revenues were down 6% on good momentum for most of the momentum in Western European an organic basis on the corresponding year although there was some construction markets for most of the period last year.
The UK beer market weakness evident in the last quarter.
year, although the market became continued to be very challenging with The automotive sector was significantly more challenging in the last quarter as the capital budgets of major brewers below last years levels.
the new construction sector slowed being further tightened.
Heimeier, our thermostatic The operating margin was 10.3%, our UK business, which is focused on radiator valve business, performed well slightly down from 11.0% last year.
this market, declined by over 20% in in Germany benefiting from increased As previously reported in the Interim the year.
Sales in Asia Pacific benefited refurbishment activity helped by Results, margins were impacted in the from a significant rollout for a fast recent legislation in respect of energy first half by the rapid increase in steel food chain in Australia.
Second half operating margins Our new product agenda continues to recovered to 11.9% as a result of Pneumatex continued to perform make good progress with several new management actions to improve well in the second half of 2008. launches addressing the changes in the supply chain and to consolidate Integration of the business is consumer tastes as well as the demand manufacturing with the closure of a progressing and the Indoor Climate for more energy efficient equipment.
Group is successfully using its existing We remain confident of the medium sales infrastructure to broaden the The general economic environment term opportunities in the health and geographic presence of the Pneumatex means that the market in 2009 is indulgence drinks categories such as range of water conditioning equipment.
challenging, particularly in sectors such water, juices, dairy, smoothies and as automotive.
However, there are frozen drinks.
Operating profit for Indoor Climate other sectors such as cosmetics, value increased by 39% to 45.2m.
Operating profit for the year was retailers and grocery where there The operating margin increased from 27.6m, an increase of 11% from continue to be good opportunities to 15.7% to 16.1% with stronger margins 2007, representing a small increase win new business.
being delivered in the second half, in in operating margin to 9.0%.
part as a result of the anticipated Markets continue to be challenging in seasonality of the Pneumatex business.
most areas and, accordingly, we are actively reducing the cost base 2009 is expected to be challenging through headcount reductions as the commercial construction and further procurement market continues to weaken in most and operating savings.
However, the business should benefit from a shift in focus... AND HOW towards Government infrastructure projects, further growth of Pneumatex THEY ARE products in new markets and the fact that the thermostatic radiator valve business is more dependent on RESPONDING TO replacement and maintenance activity which continues to hold up reasonably MARKET DRIVERS... well.
The business has also taken actions to lower costs by reducing headcount and by seeking to benefit from lower materials costs.
