RIDING THE TREND TOWARDS GREATER AUTOMATION... Norgren cylinders are integral parts of the automated system and help us keep the superheater in clean condition resulting in higher efficiency of the total operation.
"We have been using the system successfully for years. """
Frank Prietzsch, Site Manager, AE&E Inova GmbH 18 Group operating review 64165 p01-p60 23 3 09 18:19 Page 19 WE ENGINEER ADVANTAGE BY ENABLING OUR CUSTOMERS TO OPERATE FASTER, MORE EFFICIENTLY, WITH GREATER FLEXIBILITY AND MORE COST EFFECTIVELY.
Automation plays an increasingly delivering necessary cost savings, Norgren pneumatic systems provide hygienic hydraulic solutions important role in the global economy.
particularly where the pay back is for the food packaging industry.
Significant growth in the power and relatively short.
use of computers over the last How we contribute life sciences, in-plant automotive, 50 years has enabled a massive A large proportion of the valves and printing and PET bottling applications.
increase in automation across actuator products supplied by our most industries.
Our Retail Dispense businesses are Fluid Power business help to deliver delivering automation to our Engineers are striving to combine increased automation for our customers, enabling them to operate automated devices with control customers.
We engineer advantage with fewer employees.
For example, mechanisms to create complex for them by enabling them to operate in Merchandising, our Visi-Slide and systems for a rapidly expanding range faster, more efficiently, with greater other sliding shelving systems ensure of applications and human activities.
flexibility and more cost effectively.
that products are always prominently This is particularly true in our Market trends displayed to the consumer without targeted market sectors which Automation continues to have a the need to constantly restack include commercial vehicles, rail, significant impact in a wide range of shelves.
In the drive thru section of highly visible manufacturing and a major restaurant chain, Cornelius non-manufacturing industries.
has successfully introduced its For many manufacturing companies Automated Beverage System for the aim of automation has shifted carbonated soft drinks which is beyond simply increasing productivity reducing staffing requirements.
and reducing costs to broader issues, such as increasing quality and flexibility in the manufacturing process.
A major shift has been the move towards flexibility and convertibility where manufacturers increasingly need the flexibility to The TA-SCOPE makes hydronic switch between the manufacture of balancing of heating, ventilating and different products, without having to air-conditioning HVAC systems completely rebuild the production line.
even simpler, faster and more cost efficient.
In the current economic environment most capital budgets are constrained.
However, investment in greater automation will still be a significant factor across many industries in IMI plc Annual Report 2008 19
