DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors The Directors submit their report together with the audited at the close of business on 23 January 2009.
The associated consolidated financial statements of the Group and the accounts ex-dividend date is 21 January 2009.
The interim dividend was of the Company for the year to 30 September 2008. paid on 8 August 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 June 2008. Business Review Following the acquisition of Altadis, the enlarged Group now Share Capital has two main business activities: Tobacco and Logistics.
The Details of the Companys share capital are shown in note 20 to tobacco segment comprises the manufacture, marketing and the financial statements.
All shares are freely transferrable and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
The logistics rank pari passu for voting and dividend rights.
At the Companys segment comprises the distribution of tobacco products for Annual General Meeting AGM on 29 January 2008 shareholder major tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as authority for the buyback of up to 72,900,000 ordinary shares of well as a wide range of non-tobacco products and services.
The Company holds 51,717,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Imperial Tobacco Group A review of the Groups activities and future developments PLC, representing 4.84 per cent of issued share capital with an is included in the Business Review section on pages 5 to 36. aggregate nominal value of 5,171,700.
These shares have not This review fulfils the requirements of the Business Review been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve within contained in section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, including the profit and loss account reserve and represent a deduction the financial performance during the year on pages 8 to 11, from equity shareholders funds.
These treasury shares do not key performance indicators on page 17 and a description of carry any voting rights or rights to dividends.
The share buyback the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group on pages programme was suspended on 8 February 2007.
The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the shareholders of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM on 13 August 2007, The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers do the Companys authorised share capital was increased from not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom 1,000,000,000 to 56,040,000,000 by the creation of an this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and additional 55,040,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The As a result of the Rights Issue in June 2008 the Company Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with issued an additional 338,741,960 shares at a price of respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of 1475 pence per share.
the Company and the Imperial Tobacco group as a whole.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainties since future At 26 November 2008 the Company had been notified that the events and circumstances can cause actual results to differ following persons had interests in 3 per cent or more of the materially from those anticipated and no reliance should be Companys issued share capital.
The forward-looking statements reflect Number Percentage knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of ordinary of issued of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation shares millions share capital to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Invesco Limited 61 6.03 Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Legal & General Investment The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown Management Limited 50 4.94 on pages 131 and 132.
Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss Inc 45 4.43 Financial Results and Dividends The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for the Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.04 financial year was 428 million as shown in the consolidated Morgan Stanley Investment income statement set out on page 74.
Note 1 to the financial Management Limited 41 3.99 statements gives an analysis of revenue, duty and similar items, Barclays PLC 37 3.66 profit from operations and net assets.
The Company has not received notification that any other person The Directors have declared dividends as follows: holds 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
In s million 2008 2007 The share interests of the Directors, their families and any Ordinary Shares connected persons are shown on page 61.
1 Interim paid, 20.9p per share 1 Statement on Corporate Governance 2007: 18.2p 161 141 The required disclosures are contained within the Corporate Proposed final, 42.2p per share 1 Governance Report on pages 44 to 54.
2007: 42.2p 427 326 Following recommendation by the Nominations Committee, Total ordinary dividends, 1 Directors are appointed by the Board.
They must, however, 63.1p per share 2007: 60.4p 588 467 submit themselves for election by shareholders at the AGM 1 Comparatives reflect the bonus element of the Rights Issue in June 2008.
The interim dividend following their appointment.
The powers of the Directors are per share for 2008 has been similarly adjusted.
contained in the Companys Articles of Association, changes to The full year dividend distribution of 588 million represents which require approval of the shareholders at a general meeting.
an increase of 26 per cent on 2007 and a payment ratio of Contracts with Employees or Directors 50.7 per cent of the Companys adjusted attributable profit Other than disclosed on page 69 there are no agreements of 1,159 million for the year.
between the Company and its Directors or employees The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 20 February 2009 providing for compensation for loss of office or employment to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members due to a takeover.
com 41 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter Board of Directors or Terminate on Change of Control Mr B F Bich joined the Board on 25 April 2008 as a Non-Executive The following agreements are those agreements which the Director.
Mr B Setrakian joined the Board on 25 June 2008 Company considers to be significant to the Group as a whole as a Non-Executive Director and Mr J-D Comolli joined the and which contain provisions giving the other party a specific Board on 15 July 2008 as a Non-Executive Director and Deputy right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change Chairman.
Mr Comolli also provides certain consultancy services of control following a takeover bid.
Certain members of the Group entered into a credit facilities The Directors of the Company for the year to 30 September agreement on 18 July 2007 under which certain banks and 2008 are shown on pages 38 and 39.
Messrs G L Blashill and financial institutions made available to Imperial Tobacco Finance P H Jungels retire at the Annual General Meeting and being PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited committed eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
As part of the Board and uncommitted credit facilities.
The credit facilities agreement Evaluation Process the contributions to the Board of Messrs provides that, unless the lenders thereunder otherwise agree, G L Blashill and P H Jungels were assessed and the Board in the event of any person or group of associated persons confirms that they continue to be effective Directors.
Messrs acquiring the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the J-D Comolli, B F Bich and B Setrakian, having been appointed votes exercisable at a general meeting of the Company, Imperial during the year, retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance themselves for election.
Limited must repay each advance utilised by it under the credit Messrs D Cresswell and A G L Alexander retired from the Board facilities agreement and the total commitments under the credit on 31 December 2007 and 29 January 2008 respectively.
facilities agreement will be immediately cancelled.
The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity Certain members of the Group entered into a letter of credit arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and facility agreement dated 12 December 2007 under which scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies certain banks and financial institutions made available to Act 2006 and the transitional arrangements in respect of the Imperial Tobacco Limited a letter of credit facility.
The letter Companies Act 1985. of credit facility agreement provides that, unless the lenders thereunder otherwise agree, in the event of any person or group Employees of associated persons acquiring the right to exercise more than The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, 50 per cent of the votes exercisable at a general meeting of the train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this Company, Imperial Tobacco Limited must repay each credit can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities and utilised by it under the letter of credit facility agreement and the fair consideration to applications for employment, career total commitments under the letter of credit facility agreement development and promotion regardless of gender, race, religion, will be immediately cancelled.
These policies also cover the continuation of employment and appropriate training for employees who become Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC issued on 15 September 2008 disabled during their period of employment.
600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed notes due 2024 under the 10,000,000,000 Debt Issuance Programme.
The Company To ensure employees can share in our success, the Group offers acted as guarantor.
The applicable final terms of this series of competitive pay and benefit packages and, wherever possible, notes contains change of control provisions pursuant to which links rewards to individual and team performance.
Employees are the holder of each note will, subject to any earlier exercise by encouraged to build a stake in the Company through ownership the issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the issuer to of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares.
A further opportunity to redeem or, at the issuers option, purchase or procure the join the Sharesave Plan was offered during the year and 32 per purchase of that note at its nominal value if: a any person or, cent of eligible employees around the world now participate.
subject to customary exceptions, any persons acting in concert The Group is committed to providing an environment that or any person or persons acting on behalf of any such person s encourages the continuous development of all its employees becomes interested in: i more than 50 per cent of the issued through skills enhancement and training programmes.
or allotted ordinary share capital of the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of the Company carrying more Using their own consultative and communication methods than 50 per cent of the voting rights normally exercisable at a each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to keep general meeting of the Company: and b as a result in whole or its employees informed on Group and individual business in part of the change of control, there is either: i a reduction in developments and to make its employees aware of the financial or withdrawal of the investment grade credit rating of the notes and economic factors affecting the performance of their during the change of control period specified in the final terms: employing company.
To progress this aim further, employee or ii to the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the representatives are briefed on pan-European issues through change of control, the issuer fails to obtain an investment grade a European Employee Forum and through CEEGA, the Altadis credit rating of the notes within the change of control period as European Works Council.
The Groups financial results and a result in whole or in part of the change of control.
important initiatives are communicated through a number of mechanisms including company magazines, electronic updates, Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC issued on 15 September 2008 presentations, face to face briefings and the Groups Intranet.
750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed notes due 2014 under the 10,000,000,000 Debt Issuance Programme.
The Company Information concerning employees and their remuneration acted as guarantor.
The change of control provisions in the is given in note 4 to the accounts and in the Directors applicable final terms of this series of notes are the same as Remuneration Report.
those mentioned in the above paragraph in respect of the 600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed notes due 2024.
42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 Charitable and Political Donations A resolution to reappoint  LLP During the year the Group made charitable donations of as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the 3.0 million of which 0.2 million was in respect of the UK Annual General Meeting.
2007: 2.0 million, of which 0.2 million was in respect of the Annual General Meeting UK, much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on Foundation in accordance with the Groups charities policy.
3 February 2009, together with explanations of the resolutions As in the previous financial year, no political donations were to be proposed at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting made by the Imperial Tobacco Group to EU political parties, accompanying this report.
By order of the Board Since its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco in April 2007 and in line with its long-standing practice, Commonwealth Brands has made corporate donations totalling in aggregate US$ 97,000 to candidates and political parties in the USA States of Florida, Texas and Mississippi.
Commonwealth Brands has not made Matthew R Phillips any corporate donations at a federal level.
Company Secretary Since 1 October 2008, Commonwealth Brands has adopted 26 November 2008 Imperial Tobacco Groups long-standing policy of not making contributions to any political party, organisation or candidates.
Since its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco in January 2008, neither Altadis USA nor its subsidiaries have made, and will not make, any corporate donations to political candidates or parties at either a state or federal level.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers Code copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
For other suppliers, the Companys policy is to: agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction: ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies, by applying local best practices.
The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September 2008 was equivalent to 46 days 2007: 30 days of trade purchases.
Research and Development The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development, which brings innovative improvements to the Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production and marketing techniques.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and they have each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
