DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW Americas: Tobacco Americas Adjusted profit from operations % Americas 8 Rest of Tobacco Market Dynamics Performance Highlights The Americas is a major growth area Net Revenue Adjusted profit from Operations for us as we continue to focus on building our geographic footprint in these profitable markets.
542m 166m Currently, the main focus of our operations is the USA where we estimate that the overall cigarette market declined by 4 per cent to 351 billion cigarettes during Cigarette Volumes Fine Cut Tobacco Volumes the year.
The discount segment remained broadly stable and accounts for around 27 per cent of the total cigarette market.
3 in the USA in the USA In ne cut tobacco, we estimate market volumes grew by 5 per cent to 9,100 tonnes as a result of further downtrading from cigarettes.
Sales of cigars have been generally affected by the economic slowdown Market Size and public smoking restrictions, 2008 2007 particularly in the premium segment, 1 although this is being offset by positive Cigarette USA 351bn 367bn trends in the smaller sizes.
1 2 Fine cut tobacco USA 9,100t 8,700t In the USA, further tobacco tax increases are expected in 2009 and we continue Market Share to monitor the ongoing debate around 2008 2007 the potential for the Food & Drug 1 3 Cigarette USA 4.3% 4.0% Administration to assume responsibility 1 for tobacco regulation.
Fine cut tobacco USA 5.8% 1.0% 1 Imperial Tobacco estimates.
Our growing Americas prole also includes 2 USA ne cut tobacco volumes have been restated to exclude pipe tobacco.
a small presence in Mexico and Canada, 3 Our USA cigarette market share estimate in 2007 has been restated to reect a changed basis of calculation.
where we launched Davidoff in 2007, and Argentina, where we gained our position acquisition of Lignum 2 added the Our multi-product portfolio means we through the Altadis acquisition.
Rave brand to our growing portfolio are well placed to respond swiftly and and doubled our market share, which efficiently to changing market dynamics.
Our Performance was around 8 per cent in September.
Net revenue in the year was 542 million, We also remain focused on improving with adjusted profit from operations of In acquiring Altadis, we gained market our national distribution capabilities in the 166 million.
leadership, in value terms, in the large USA and are currently in the process of cigar segment with a strong presence expanding our cigarette sales force.
Our USA cigarette volumes were in all the cigar categories in the USA.
14.2 billion, with our cigarette share up Our ambition is to continue to enhance to 4.3 per cent of the total market and In challenging market conditions, our our cigarette presence and build on the 14.2 per cent of the discount segment.
natural wrapper brands of Backwoods excellent progress we have made in ne and Dutch Masters performed well cut tobacco, whilst consolidating our Both our key discount brands, USA following the introduction of new avoured position in cigar.
Gold at 2.6 per cent and Sonoma at variants and two price increases.
In October 2008, we took up the option Having established a secure footing in to acquire the remaining 49 per cent of the value end of the cigarette market, JR Cigars not previously owned by Altadis we have taken steps to expand our as another step towards consolidating portfolio, launching Davidoff, initially our market position.
The company is in ten cities, and Fortuna in Florida and a nationwide distributor of cigars and Texas, with encouraging early results.
Our ne cut tobacco volumes continue Outlook to grow and were up to 600 tonnes We have made considerable progress in in the year.
the short time we have been present in the During the year we launched our own USA tobacco market and see attractive ne cut tobacco brand, Premier.
The opportunities for expanding our prole.
