DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW Manufacturing The acquisition of Altadis has substantially increased our international manufacturing footprint.
Gary Aldridge, Manufacturing Director Our manufacturing capabilities now extend ingredients we use have decreased by We are constantly looking at the processes across North America, Europe, Africa, a further 9 and 6 per cent respectively.
for controlling and improving our environmental performance and ISO14001 the Middle East and Australasia, where Like Imperial Tobacco, Altadis has we produce a broad range of high quality is an international standard applied to continually reviewed its manufacturing our manufacturing bases.
This year, we cigarettes, tobaccos, cigars, rolling papers operations in recent years and has and tubes.
increased the number of Imperial Tobacco delivered a steady progression of efficiency factories with ISO14001 accreditation The Altadis acquisition increased our enhancements which we will seek to build to 74 per cent 2007: 68 per cent.
This manufacturing sites from 31 factories to on.
A key area of focus this year has been standard is also in place in 12 Altadis 58.
In combining two such large footprints, integrating the Altadis supply chain factories and in all the main distribution there will inevitably be a degree of overprocesses with our own in order to centres of our Logistics business.
capacity, and as part of our integration benefit from ongoing synergies.
Outlook strategy we proposed closing six sites In October 2008 we obtained the and restructuring a number of others Our long-term strategy of simplication, manufacturing licence for our new factory standardisation and supply chain in order to address this and improve in Taiwan and are currently in the final operational efficiencies.
We have so far optimisation, whilst maintaining quality, phase of test production.
The factory remains central to the success of our completed the closure of our cigar and is a state-of-the-art facility with the most manufacturing operations.
Our focus fine cut tobacco factory in Slovakia and modern technologies available and on cost optimisation and efficiency remain committed to supporting we expect it to be fully operational in improvements is being extended across employees affected by integration.
The factory will enable our enlarged manufacturing portfolio.
Our Performance us to respond more swiftly to changing The tobacco industry is evolving and We have maintained our focus on market dynamics and provides a strong simplication and standar exibility is therefore key to our success.
disation while platform for further expansion in the We will ensure that we respond quickly to managing integration, and have delivered Asia-Pacic region.
changing market dynamics and consumer further operational improvements within It is inevitable that rising costs will present preferences, and will continue to deliver the Imperial Tobacco portfolio.
Productivity a challenge to our business and in order to the quality of product necessary to build improved by 5 per cent and we reduced upon our strong presence in the overall cigarette unit costs by 3 per cent.
mitigate their impact we continue to focus on deriving efficiencies from our cost base.
In addition, the number of blends and Our ongoing programme of simplification and standardisation is being applied to the Groups enlarged manufacturing portfolio.
