DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Case Study: United States of America Our expansion into the USA demonstrates our ability to continue to create value in mature markets.
Graham Blashill, Group Sales & Marketing Director Implementing our strategy in the USA Our recent rapid expansion into the USA Commonwealth Brands was one of the is a good example of our ability to create first tobacco companies to voluntarily sign value through targeted investment.
the Master Settlement Agreement MSA and, like Imperial Tobacco, has never lost We have sold rolling papers and tubes in or settled any product liability claim.
the USA since our acquisition of the Rizla business in 1997 but made a strategic The MSA is an agreement between tobacco manufacturers and the National decision not to enter the tobacco market due to the uncertain litigation environment.
Over the years, however, this has eased In return for annual payments based considerably reecting the fact that the on market share and compliance with vast majority of individual and class action restrictions on advertising and marketing, each MSA member is protected from claims in the USA have been decided in favour of the tobacco industry.
These improvements prompted us to re-evaluate our strategy.
We originally intended to enter the USA tobacco market organically but in 2007 had the opportunity to acquire Commonwealth Brands, the fourth largest tobacco company in the USA.
The company, based in Bowling Green, Kentucky, had a 3.7 per cent cigarette market share from a portfolio of discount brands, a sizeable sales force, and a modern factory in Reidsville, North Carolina.
The company was also the exclusive distributor of the Bali Shag and McClintock ne cut tobacco brands.
18 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 USA: Cigarette market share % Although our cigar sales have been Sales excellence is key to our success generally affected by smoking restrictions and we are currently in the process Other Imperial Tobacco and the economic downturn, particularly of expanding our sales force.
This Group in the premium category, this is being will improve our national distribution 10 offset by the good performance of our 4 capabilities and ensure that we continue Lorillard brands in the natural wrapper segment to maximise the opportunities that our 10 and growth in cigarillos.
50 Altria Altadis had a 51 per cent stake in 26 JR Cigars, a nationwide retailer of cigars Reynolds and related products, and in October 2008 American we purchased the remaining shares to further strengthen our position in the market.
Outlook Membership of the MSA is important in In a relatively short period of time we have managing litigation risk in the USA and developed a strong and growing presence was always a pre-requisite for our entry in the USA tobacco market and remain into the tobacco market.
very well positioned to continue to improve our market shares and profitability.
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands provided a strong platform for Through our strong portfolio we have a growth which we have optimised through presence in cigarette, ne cut tobacco, a number of initiatives.
cigar and rolling papers and tubes.
This broad representation provides significant Imperial Tobacco secured MSA potential for future growth.
membership in November 2007 in order to be able to sell our own tobacco brands in the USA.
We have subsequently launched Davidoff in key cities across the USA and Fortuna in both Florida and Texas.
We also focused on driving the growth of Commonwealth Brands portfolio of discount brands, which include USA Gold and Sonoma, and our cigarette share has now increased to 4.3 per cent.
Fine cut tobacco is a growth area in the USA and as world leader in this sector we were quick to capitalise on this opportunity, acquiring the Bali Shag and McClintock brands in the USA, and launching our own brand, Premier.
We further enhanced our ne cut tobacco In a relatively short portfolio with the Rave brand following period of time we have the acquisition of the company, Lignum developed a diverse 2, in May 2008.
These initiatives have portfolio of brands significantly developed our fine cut across cigarette, ne tobacco share which had grown to around cut tobacco and cigars.
8 per cent in September 2008 compared to 1 per cent in the previous year.
Completing our multi-product portfolio is our market-leading position in cigars, in terms of net sales, which we inherited through the Altadis acquisition.
We offer the broadest range of cigar products in the USA, from premium to mass market.
