DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Our Strategy We are delivering on our global strategy by actively pursuing three primary strategic objectives.
To create sustainable shareholder value by growing our operations organically and through acquisitions.
Sales development Cost focus Cash management The enlarged Group has sales in over Managing costs and improving The Groups business is highly cash 160 countries.
In the developed markets the efficiency of our operations are generative and our focus is on managing we have strong positions in the European core objectives.
capital expenditure and working capital, Union and a growing presence in the USA.
tax and interest costs to ensure cash ows Our challenge each year is to find new In these markets volumes are in gradual are optimised.
As a result of the increased ways of optimising our manufacturing decline but we have benefited from a debt arising from the acquisition of Altadis, capacity and performance.
These combination of the pricing environment a reduction in our overall debt level is a improvements have to be achieved without and our ability to respond to trends, key objective for cash management going undermining our approach to best practice such as downtrading, by positioning forward.
Our objective is to ensure that the or our focus on quality and innovation.
our portfolio to meet consumer demand.
cash we generate is used efficiently, and Standardisation across the manufacturing as well as paying down debt we will This is balanced with extensive exposure portfolio has become a central theme invest in the future growth of the business, to the emerging markets of the rest of of our success.
including acquisitions, and return cash the world, including Eastern Europe, We are already addressing many issues to shareholders through dividends and, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
These relating to cost management and efficiency when appropriate, share buybacks.
are markets where volumes have been resulting from the ongoing integration growing, and account for 60 per cent Since our listing on the London Stock of the enlarged Group.
of our overall cigarette business.
In Exchange in 1996, we have invested these regions, there are considerable We believe there are many opportunities over 17 billion in acquisitions.
We are opportunities to develop our international, to deliver cost improvements through committed to continuing to expand our regional and local brands in new and better resource allocation, simplication business through both acquisitions and existing markets.
of processes and infrastructure, and the organic investment opportunities.
economies of scale available from our We have a versatile brand and product Over 3.7 billion has been returned combined purchasing power.
portfolio that has been enhanced to shareholders through a combination signicantly with the acquisition of Altadis.
of dividends and our share buyback programme.
Our dividend policy is to We have strong local, regional and increase dividends broadly in line with international brands across all tobacco underlying earnings growth, with a payout categories and comprehensive coverage ratio of around 50 per cent, and this has of the key price segments within individual led to increases in the dividend each year markets.
Our strategy is to drive sales growth by developing our brands and products through investment and innovation, supported by excellent trade marketing skills and strong sales forces.
See our case studies on the USA and Africa and p18-21 the Middle East demonstrating our strategy in action 16 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
