World Tobacco Market The world tobacco market is stable with over five trillion cigarettes consumed each year.
Industry Overview Other tobacco products, particularly ne The past year has seen significant change cut tobacco, have experienced growth Summary among the largest tobacco companies, as a result of this trend, and this is with Imperial Tobaccos acquisition of expected to continue.
Conversely, The developed markets are Altadis, formerly the fifth largest company in emerging markets, premium brands experiencing a move towards in the industry, and Altria retaining its have been growing as consumers are lower priced tobacco products.
operations in the USA and spinning increasingly trading up.
off its international tobacco operations In the emerging markets volumes The global market for cigars has been to form Philip Morris International.
are growing and consumers are stable in recent years with growth being uptrading to international brands.
Excluding China, which accounts for a experienced in smaller, mass market third of total global cigarette consumption, Diversication across tobacco oriented products.
The market is the five largest tobacco companies are products is an increasingly concentrated in the developed markets Philip Morris International, British American common strategy.
of Western Europe and the USA, although Tobacco, Japan Tobacco, Imperial growth is being seen in the emerging Tobacco and Altria.
The respective markets of Asia, the Middle East and cigarette market shares are 24 per cent, Eastern Europe.
19 per cent, 17 per cent, 9 per cent and Global market shares % Industry Outlook 5 per cent.
Together, they account for While the tobacco markets of the EU, 74 per cent of the total cigarette market.
Altria North America and Australasia are Stability in the world tobacco market mature we believe there are still many British 5 Other is a function of offsetting trends in the opportunities to grow profits.
American developed and emerging markets.
26 19 Tobacco We expect that our organic growth will In the developed markets, such as those continue to be derived from volume trends in Western Europe, smoking incidence Japan across the emerging markets and product 17 is expected to continue to decline, with Tobacco categories, enhanced by market share 24 the percentages of smokers within total Philip Morris Imperial gains from other manufacturers resulting 9 International populations reducing.
However, the Tobacco from entry into new markets, new brand Group number of adults in the world is expected launches and the introduction of innovative to grow, especially in emerging market brand variations.
regions, such as Africa and Asia, and Cost management will also contribute as a result we expect that overall annual to organic profit growth.
global consumption will remain broadly unchanged in the medium term.
Diversication into the full array of tobacco products by broadening their portfolios Tobacco regulation and legislation have beyond cigarette, is a common thread increased in recent years, including of the strategic objectives being pursued restrictions on smoking in public places, by the major tobacco companies, advertising and promotional restrictions as is the development of international and pictorial health warnings.
Excise duties have also increased, Further consolidation within the tobacco especially in the developed markets, industry may be limited, but still remains leading consumers to downtrade to value a strategic opportunity, with more focus brands and products.
The level of excise also tends to facilitate a positive pricing on market or product specic acquisitions and strategic alliances.
