DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Case Study: Africa and the Middle East The acquisition of Altadis has signicantly enhanced our presence and future growth potential in Africa and the Middle East.
Developing opportunities in emerging markets Our presence in Africa and the Middle East an expanding business in Vietnam.
The has grown steadily over the past decade.
acquisition transformed our presence in Africa and provided a springboard We estimate that the region accounts for for growth in South East Asia.
We have very strong positions in established In 2008, with the acquisition of Altadis we markets and see numerous opportunities have again strengthened our position, more for expansion through the introduction of than doubling our volumes in the region with our brands across existing markets, and the addition of an Altadis footprint that was by entry into new markets.
complementary to our own, and bringing us into new markets.
We have 13 manufacturing plants in the region with a capacity of around 50 billion We are the market leader in the majority cigarettes, including facilities in Morocco, of our markets in Africa and have West Africa and Turkey.
consistently achieved market share gains in many areas including the Ivory Coast, Increases in tobacco regulation and Burkina Faso and Senegal.
taxation are a feature of the African and Middle Eastern markets.
As in all our Our footprint in Africa is by no means markets we remain focused on effectively complete, and there is substantial scope managing the implications of regulation for us to expand further into new markets.
Through Altadis we gained entry into The evolving political dynamics can at Morocco and are now the number one times lead to instability in some countries player with our leading cigarette brand but our committed and experienced Marquise.
We have also launched employees have continually demonstrated our premium brand Davidoff with their ability to overcome these challenges.
Africa Our other key brands in Africa include In 2001, we signicantly enhanced our Fine, Gauloises Blondes, Excellence, position in Sub-Saharan Africa with the Mustang and Good Look.
Mustang, acquisition of a majority stake in Tobaccor, a mid-priced brand in Burkina Faso, has a major cigarette manufacturer and grown market share to almost 46 per cent, distributor with strong market shares while Fine, a mid-priced brand sold in key in a number of African countries and markets such as the Ivory Coast, Chad 20 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 West and Davidoff, and are strengthening and Congo, has seen consistent volume our position with increased marketing growth.
Excellence, a value brand also investment.
sold in the Ivory Coast, Senegal and Burkina Faso, has performed similarly well, Outlook as have Gauloises Blondes in Algeria and Africa and the Middle East have been key Good Look in Madagascar.
growth regions for both Imperial Tobacco and Altadis, and we see further significant Whilst focusing on developing our opportunities given our combined portfolio business we remain committed to and geographic reach.
supporting the tobacco growing industry in Africa.
We believe that we have Our international cigarette brands are a responsibility to help address key performing well in the Middle East and issues affecting tobacco farmers.
through our portfolio of local brands in Africa we are focused on enhancing our We strive to prevent the exploitation strong market shares.
We also have of children through our membership ambitions to further grow our international of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco brand presence in the African region.
Foundation and help tobacco growers develop sustainable agricultural practices as part of the Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production programme.
Our ongoing community investment initiatives have also provided wide ranging support to local communities, including improved education and healthcare facilities.
Middle East Whereas in Africa a major acquisition provided us with strong established market shares, which we have continued to develop, our progress in the Middle East has been based on an import strategy that seeks to build share through the development of our international brands.
The acquisition of Altadis has enhanced our geographic prole in the region and has also considerably strengthened our cigarette portfolio.
Gauloises Blondes is now our leading cigarette brand in the Middle East, complemented by Gitanes and Davidoff.
These prestigious brands are supported With the acquisition by a number of regional and local brands, of Altadis we doubled including Superkings and Golden Gate.
our volumes in a region estimated to account Davidoff has been a real success story for almost 500 billion in the region, recording compound annual cigarettes annually.
growth of 44 per cent over the last five years.
Davidoffs best selling market is Saudi Arabia, where its share now stands at over 9 per cent.
Our expanding operations in Turkey are also included in this region.
We entered the Turkish market in 2003 with the construction of a new cigarette factory which became fully operational a year later.
We have since captured a 3.2 per cent market share with our brands Klasik, www.
