DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 123 4 56 7 Name 1.
Graham Blashill, BSC Title & age Chairman, 59 Group Sales and Marketing Director, 61 Appointment Appointed Chairman in January 2007.
Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Committee membership Chairman of Nominations Committee and Member Chief Executives Committee.
Skills and experience Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass PLC, Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and then of Bass activities.
With over 40 years experience with the Brewers and Bass International Brewers.
He was Group he has held a number of senior sales and then Vice President UK and Ireland for Interbrew SA marketing positions, including Managing Director until August 2001.
He was Chief Executive of Taylor UK and Regional Director for Western Europe.
Woodrow International Housing and Development from 2001 to 2005, and was previously Director of Tomkins PLC until December 2007.
External appointments Non-Executive Chairman of McBride PLC and a NonNo external Director appointments.
Executive Director of Collins Stewart PLC, and was appointed to the Boards of Molson Coors Brewing Company and John Menzies plc during the year.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA Title & age Chief Executive, 58 Corporate Development Director, 42 Appointment Appointed Chief Executive on demerger in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Committee membership Chief Executives Committee.
Skills and experience Gareth led the successful demerger from Hanson Alison has responsibility for strategic planning and subsequent listings on the London and New York and business development, Corporate Affairs and, Stock Exchanges.
With 36 years experience across currently, the process of integration of the Altadis all aspects of the Company, he has played a key role business into the enlarged Imperial Tobacco Group.
in the development and execution of the Groups Alison joined the Group in 1999 and has held a number strategy and its development into one of the worlds of senior roles including Director of Finance and leading multinational tobacco businesses.
Planning and Regional Director, Western Europe.
Non-Executive Director, Wolseley plc since 2003.
External appointments Senior Independent Director, Wolseley plc since 2004.
Jean-Dominique Comolli Title & age Finance Director, 56 Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, 60 Appointment Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996.
Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in July 2008.
Skills and experience Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Jean-Dominique has held a number of senior positions Limited from November 1989 and one of the in the French Civil Service including Assistant Principal three-man Hanson team involved in the strategic Private Secretary to the Minister of the Economy reorganisation of the Group.
Since then he has and Principal Private Secretary to the Budget Minister, played an integral part in shaping the strategic before his appointment as Director General of Customs direction of the Group.
at the Budget Ministry in 1989.
In 1993 he was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive of SEITA and in 1999 appointed as Co-Chairman of the Altadis Group, a position he held until 2005, when he was appointed Chairman of Altadis.
External appointments No external Director appointments.
Non-Executive Director of Pernod-Ricard, NonExecutive Director of Calyon and Non-Executive Director of Public Establishment of Opra Comique.
Pierre Jungels, CBE HON, C ENG, PHD 10.
Michael Herlihy, MA, Oxon, Solicitor 13.
Berge Setrakian Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 64 Non-Executive Director, 55 Non-Executive Director, 59 Appointed Non-Executive Director in August 2002.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2008.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
Member of the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Pierre has held numerous senior international Michael was formerly General Counsel and Head Berge is a senior partner in the law rm Dewey positions within the oil industry with Shell International, of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall & LeBoeuf LLP and has extensive expertise in Petrona SA and British Gas PLC.
He became CEO responsibility for corporate acquisitions and international transactions.
He was a Non-Executive of Enterprise Oil in 1996, leading the business to divestments and has extensive experience of both Director of Altadis, S. A. having been appointed in May substantial geographic and financial growth until private and public market transactions.
2004 and was a Non-Executive Director of Investcom, retirement in November 2001. a telecommunications company which was acquired in 2006 by MTN, a Johannesburg-based company.
Berge is currently the Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, the largest philanthropic Armenian organisation in the world.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Director on various not-for-profit organisations.
Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director Serves on the Board of Compass Partners Non-Executive Director of Interaudi Bank of New York, of Baker Hughes Inc. Chairman of Rockhopper International LLP.
Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, Non-Executive Exploration PLC and a Non-Executive Director Director of The Morganti Group, Inc. of Woodside Petroleum Ltd. 8.
Mark Williamson, CA SA Non-Executive Director, 62 Non-Executive Director, 53 Non-Executive Director, 50 Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2008.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Chairman of Audit Committee: Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Bruno is Non-Executive Chairman of the BIC Group, Charles was a Director of ICI plc from 2004 to 2007, Mark has considerable international financial and having been appointed as Chairman and Chief Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, general management experience.
He joined Executive Officer in June 1993.
Prior to his ICIs avours and fragrances business.
Previously International Power in 2000 as Group Financial appointment as BIC Group Chairman, Bruno fullled a variety of international assignments as Controller and was appointed to the Board as Chief held a number of key corporate positions including a long-term executive at National Starch, a Unilever Financial officer in 2003.
Previously, he was Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of BIC company until 1997.
Currently, Chief Executive officer Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at Corporation, Vice President of Sales and Marketing of Flint Group.
Simon Group, the engineering and bulk chemicals and National Sales Manager.
Executive Director of Altadis, S. A. having been appointed in November 1999.
Non-Executive Chairman of Socit Bic.
Serves on the Board of International Power plc.
Matthew Phillips, LLB Non-Executive Director, 56 Non-Executive Director, 51 Company Secretary, 38 Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in December 2004.
Appointed Company Secretary in October 2004.
Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Secretary Remuneration Committee.
to and Member of the Chief Executives Committee: Secretary to the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Ken was President, Asia Pacic of Allied Domecq from Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods Limited Matthew joined Imperial Tobaccos legal department 1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005. from October 1998 until January 2004, latterly as in 2000 and was closely involved in the acquisitions Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Prior of Reemtsma and Altadis.
Previously he worked for management positions in the Asia Pacic region to this she was worldwide President and Chief law rms Linklaters and Burges Salmon.
with Seagram, Interbrew and International Distillers Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, a part & Vintners Ltd now part of Diageo plc.
Susan is also a former Non-Executive Director of SSL International plc and of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, Wm No external Director appointments.
Morrison Supermarkets plc and Compass Group PLC.
Also fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and council member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
