DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Focus on the Future Our Corporate Development team is focused on the strategic direction and sustainable growth of the business.
Alison Cooper, Corporate Development Director Corporate Development was established These have included the disposal of our they may have on consumers and the to focus on the long-term strategy and stake in the duty-free retailer, Aldeasa, demand for our products.
Understanding sustainable growth of Imperial Tobacco.
the divestment of certain fine cut and these issues and developing appropriate responses are fundamental to the strategic pipe tobacco brands as required by the It brings together various activities direction of Imperial Tobacco.
European Commission and the buy-out within the Group, including Business of the minority shareholding in the logistics Integration Development, Corporate Affairs, and business, Logista.
Integration is managed by a dedicated Strategy and Foresight, with the task of examining how the business and the Integration Team in conjunction with Elsewhere, Business Development has led functional senior managers, and reports industry are developing and identifying negotiations in the successful buy-out of into the Chief Executives Committee via future growth opportunities.
Corporate the outstanding shares in the Scandinavian the Corporate Development Director.
Development is also responsible for snus company, Skruf, and the USA cigar Corporate Communications and business, JR Cigars.
The team is particularly focused on managing the integration of Imperial managing the specic European Corporate Affairs Tobacco and Altadis.
integration projects which will improve We support sound and proportionate operational efficiencies and deliver Business Development regulation and continually seek substantial cost savings.
This involves We have a long and successful track opportunities for active engagement managing a wide range of activities record of acquisitions and although on a range of issues affecting our industry, throughout the consultation and further significant consolidation within including public smoking restrictions, the industry may be more limited, there implementation phases, ensuring packaging regulation, ingredients that all employees affected by the remain numerous opportunities for further disclosure, excise duties, illicit trade projects are treated responsibly market or product specic acquisitions.
and the display of tobacco products and provided with a comprehensive The Business Development team at the point of sale.
continually evaluates these opportunities This requires expertise across all against Imperial Tobaccos financial and Outlook Corporate Affairs disciplines and we strategic acquisition criteria.
Critical to the success of our business constantly review our structure to ensure has been our ability to anticipate and The team is also responsible for assessing that we have sufficient skills and resources respond to changing market dynamics potential strategic alliances and joint in place to inform on strategy and and consumer preferences.
We achieve ventures that will further develop our effectively manage these issues.
this by encouraging all functions to work business and create value for our Strategy and Foresight shareholders.
together to optimise our growth potential.
In Strategy and Foresight we focus on This year there has been considerable This cross-functional approach is vital longer-term planning issues, anticipating and we are currently implementing a focus on activities related to the changes to our operating environment number of structural changes that will acquisition of Altadis.
and how these might impact our business.
strengthen cross-functional collaboration Strategy and Foresights core objective and ensure that it is fully embedded is to ensure that the enlarged Group is across the enlarged Group.
Scope of role well placed to maximise the potential Regional Forums and a Group Planning of its combined portfolio and enhanced Forum, with representatives from all Planning for the long-term operating platform.
This requires a diligent functions and strong links to the Chief development of the Group.
approach to monitoring and responding Executives Committee, are established to external events.
Assessing acquisitions and and have the remit to identify and developing strategic alliances The team continually reviews evolving maximise the many opportunities and joint ventures.
market dynamics and the potential effect that lie ahead.
Engaging externally on issues affecting our company and the industry.
For more information visit www.
com 14 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008
