Logistics We are one of the largest distributors of tobacco and other products in Europe.
Performance Highlights Distribution Fees 607m Adjusted profit from Operations 121m Adjusted Distribution Margin 19.9% Overview The logistics operations acquired with Altadis comprised a wholly owned company in France and a majority stake in Logista, a publicly traded company focused on the Spanish, Portuguese and Italian markets.
Both companies owe their roots to the traditional distribution activities of previously state-owned tobacco manufacturers that became a part of Altadis.
Following the acquisition of Altadis, Spanish takeover law required that we Our tobacco logistics business is the publishing, transportation and either reduced our majority shareholding largest of its kind in Europe and has in telecommunications industries.
in Logista to below 30 per cent or made excess of 90 per cent market share in an offer for those shares not already held These range from telephone cards, the distribution of tobacco within Spain, stamps, magazines and books, to by the Group.
We reviewed the overall France and Italy.
Tobacco logistics logistics business and decided to launch promotional items and industrial courier delivers products for international services.
Today, our Logistics division an offer for the remaining shares, which manufacturers, including Imperial was completed at a cost of 925 million distributes to around 200,000 outlets Tobacco, to tobacconists and other across Europe.
These span convenience in June 2008. sales outlets across Southern Europe.
stores, tobacconists, bakeries, kiosks, The business has a strategy of The business is run on an operationally pharmacies, grocery stores, service expansion through both organic growth neutral basis, providing bespoke solutions stations and stationers.
In the last decade based on our technology, and ensuring logistics has diversied from tobacco Market Dynamics that all customers are treated equally.
distribution within France and Spain into In tobacco logistics, the continued new markets and a range of new and Through our other products activities, gradual decline in the volumes of related product groups.
As a result, we manage the full logistics value chain cigarettes consumed across Western our operations are split into two distinct of a diverse range of products for clients Europe requires distributors to focus areas: tobacco and other products.
including those from the pharmaceutical, on offering additional services while www.
com 33 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: OPERATING REVIEW Logistics continued improving operating efficiencies.
The other products logistics business a difficult environment.
However, our Expansion into additional territories has proven successful in identifying overall business was affected by continued is a strategy our Logistics business areas where the growth dynamics are weakness in publications and the impact has pursued successfully in Portugal, favourable, such as pharmaceuticals, of the economic downturn on the Italy and, more recently, Poland.
Through the scale and efficiency of our In transportation, we are one of the largest Outlook business-to-business courier and industrial distribution activities we are providing The current economic conditions present customers with a range of services they parcel delivery operators in Spain, offering challenges for our other products logistics long distance services across Europe.
This would nd difficult to replicate elsewhere.
business but we anticipate a stable has seen attractive growth over the last tobacco performance going forward, with five years, with opportunities for further the benefit of cigarette price increases by growth through diversication into related tobacco manufacturers compensating for areas within and beyond Spain.
Our Performance The Logistics business has grown rapidly Distribution fees in the eight months and we see further opportunities both to September were 607 million, with within the regulated markets of Western adjusted profits from operations of Europe and the unregulated markets 121 million.
Our overall performance of Central and Eastern Europe, where was in line with our expectations.
The good performance of tobacco Logistics is a profitable and highly cash logistics reected a cigarette price increase generative part of the Group, and our in Italy and stable tobacco volumes in long-term strategy is one of continuing Spain, which offset a decline in French to enhance service levels to existing volumes following the extension of the customers whilst looking for opportunities public smoking bans in January 2008. to extend our logistics footprint into additional countries and In other products logistics, our traditional wholesale business performed well in related other products.
Our logistics business is run on an operationally neutral basis, ensuring that all customers are treated equally.
