Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 43 Governance Executive Committee Martin Taylor William Tsui Position: Chief Executive officer, Europe Distribution, Position: Chairman, Inchcape Asia-Pacic Limited Africa and South America Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2006 Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2006 Age: 65 Age: 54 Skills & Experience:William has held various positions within Skills and experience: Martin joined the Group in 1984 in the Capitol Oldsmobile, Sunrise Chrysler, Plymouth and Mitsubishi Finance Division, having been a Senior Manager in Coopers in Sacramento, California.
He was also General Manager of & Lybrand.
He became Managing Director of Toyota Hellas Jefferson Motors Inc. in Concord, California and Vice President Greece in 1987.
In 1991, he moved to the position of Chairman of Marketing for Ford Motors in San Francisco, California.
William of Toyota Belgium and from 2000 he took on wider regional joined Crown Motors Limited in Hong Kong in 1991 as General responsibilities including Europe Distribution in 2006.
Martin is Manager of Sales and Marketing and became Managing a qualied chartered accountant.
Between 2000 and 2007, he was Chief Executive officer of Borneo Motors Limited in Singapore: Chairman and Claire Chapman Chief Executive officer of Crown Motors Limited and subsequently Position: General Counsel and Group Company Secretary became Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Inchcape Appointment to Executive Committee: March 2007 Asia-Pacic Limited.
In 2007, he was appointed as Chairman Age: 41 and Chief Executive officer for Inchcape China and Chairman Skills and experience: Claire joined the Group on 12 March 2007. of Inchcape Asia-Pacic Limited.
Formerly General Counsel, Europe, Middle East and Africa, Reuters PLC, Claire is a qualied solicitor, England and Wales and attorney, As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, William Tsui sadly NewYork and has her Masters in International Law.
Dale Butcher Trevor Amery Position: Group Business Development Director Position: Chairman, Subaru Australia Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2006 Director, Inchcape Australia Age: 53 Appointment to the Executive Committee: February 2006 Skills and experience: Dale joined British Timken, a subsidiary Age: 55 of the Timken Company, as a Financial Analyst in 1980 and Skills and experience:Trevor has 26 yearsautomotive experience moved to Kuwait to work for the Alghanim Company as Business with senior roles in accounting, marketing and operations.
He was Development Manager from 1982.
Dale joined Inchcape in 1985, the Managing Director of Subaru Australia for thirteen years which initially in Group Finance and then as a Divisional Director for was awarded Australian Market of theYear in 1995.
Trevor is also Inchcape Testing and Business Machines.
In 1996, Dale was a Director of a software development company and the Federal appointed Group Business Development Director.
He is also Chambers of Automotive Industries.
Trevor retired from the Group a Member of London Regional CBI Council.
Tony George Spencer Lock Position: Group Human Resources Director Position: Chief Executive, Inchcape Retail UK Appointment to the Executive Committee: February 2007 Appointment to Executive Committee: February 2006 Age: 44 Age: 42 Skills and experience:Tony joined the Group on 1 February 2007.
He Skills and experience: Spencer joined Inchcape Retail as Finance has over 20 years of experience in Human Resources and General and Insurance Director in 1998.
In 1999 he was appointed Franchise Management in International FMCG and retail companies.
In his Director for the Toyota and Lexus Division and subsequently for other prior roles he was HR Director, Corporate Functions for Vodafone plc franchises, including the Premier Automotive Group and Mercedesand, before that, SeniorVice President International Partner Resources Benz.
He took up the newly created position of Operations Director for Starbucks Coffee Company based in the USA.
He has also in February 2004 before being appointed Managing Director in worked with ICI in India and Diageo in the UK.
In April 2007, he was appointed as Chief Executive.
John McConnell Position:Chief Executive officer, Inchcape Australia and New Zealand Appointment to the Executive Committee: February 2006 Age: 47 Skills and experience: John worked for Reckitt & Colman, now Reckitt Benckiser, for thirteen years in various senior financial roles in Australia, Germany and the UK.
He joined Inchcape Australia in May 1999 as Finance Director and in 2003 moved into the role of Managing Director for Sydney Retail, AutoNexus and Inchcape Motors before becoming Chief Executive officer for Australia and New Zealand in May 2005.
com 44 Governance Executive Committee continued George Ashford Patrick S Lee Position: Managing Director, European Retail Position: Managing Director, Inchcape North Asia Appointment to Executive Committee: October 2006 Appointment to Executive Committee: November 2006 Age: 41 Age: 47 Skills and experience: George joined Kingsher Plc in 1994 in Skills and experience: Before joining Inchcape, Patrick was the the Business Development Department and then moved to Yum Group General Manager, Sales and Marketing of Kerry Beverages Restaurants International, previously Pepsi Restaurants International, Ltd from 1998 to mid 2006.
His experience in auto retailing came in 1996.
He spent ten years withYum holding several senior from a Toronto Honda dealership where he worked for three years management positions which culminated in Board positions inYums and was awarded the highest honourSales Masterby Honda two UK based operating businesses.
He was Product Excellence Canada in 1991 and 1992.
He started his career in brand marketing Director for KFC GB from 2000 to 2003 and Operations Director for with Procter & Gamble, and he has worked in various locations Pizza Hut UK from 2003 to 2006.
He joined Inchcape in March 2006 including Geneva, Thailand and Hong Kong.
Patrick is a SAP Global as Director of Implementation, Inchcape Advantage.
Programme Board Member and received academic achievement in his MBA.
Immo Rupf Position: Managing Director, Inchcape Russia Bertrand Mallet Appointment to Executive Committee: March 2006 Position: Group Strategy Director Age: 44 Appointment to Executive Committee: July 2008 Skills and experience: Immo was a Partner and Vice President of the Age: 36 Boston Consulting Group BCG in Munich, Shanghai and Paris from Skills and experience: Before joining Inchcape, Bertrand spent 1989 to 2003 and Group Chief Financial officer for Alcoa Asia and over six years with Euro Disney in both strategy and sales roles, most Latin America from 2004 to 2006.
His main focus at BCG and Alcoa recently as Managing Director for the French market.
Prior to joining was on business strategy, corporate development and performance Euro Disney he spent five years as a senior consultant with Bain management for automotive and consumer businesses.
& Company both in France and in the USA.
He began his career with Automobiles Peugeot in Stockholm, Sweden.
Ken Lee Position: Group Communications Director Appointment to Executive Committee: November 2006 Age: 52 Skills and experience: Ken held the position of Group Marketing Director for the RAC from 1999 to 2003, being part of the team that acquired and then led the business post-demutualisation.
During his tenure, the company successfully moved from a car breakdown organisation to a customer-focused motoring services group.
Prior to the RAC, Ken worked for Lex Service plc for five years, where, as Marketing Director, he successfully established the Hyundai brand in the UK.
Ken joined Inchcape UK as Marketing Director in September 2003 where he led the development of a pioneering customer experience programme.
Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
