10 Focused on the fundamentals Responding quickly Acting decisively Our management team across the Group have responded decisively to the challenging market climate and have adapted quickly to focus their attention on the important areas that are fundamental to the future of our business Andr Lacroix Group Chief Executive 11 1 Growing market share Focusing on brand management, customer funnel conversion, outstanding service and new product launches Market illustration In the prevailing challenging We will reinforce these In Australia, we are both distributor market conditions, we will messages in 2009 with some seek to grow our market share and retailer of Subaru vehicles exciting developments that and in 2008 we achieved a organically without sacrificing we expect will attract new remarkable milestone of 11 margins.
The focus will be on customers to the brand while using marketing and promotional consecutive years of record sales strengthening the advocacy in a market that dropped 4%.
activities to increase the number of our existing customers.
of customers who visit our retail Subarus core strength is We will continue to build upon centres and on increasing underlined by the success of our 2008 segment-leading share the conversion rate of those the new generation Forester, for the Forester.
The launch of customers into sales.
To build which has regained the position the Impreza sedan and the new customer loyalty, we will as the countrys best-selling WRX has broadened our product continue to emphasise high compact SUV.
range and will drive further levels of customer service and segment share growth.
In October satisfaction which we measure Our marketing messages are 2009 we launch the new Liberty through our Net Promoter demonstrating the value of and Outback range with the first Score NPS system, using Subaru ownership to many diesel Subaru being launched at feedback from customers on thousands of customers in these the end of the year.
Our product their experience at our retail tough economic times, who are activity will be supported with a centres.
We will also seek to recognising the benefit of great facilitate access to credit for retained value, engineering, combination of strong brand our customers and, of course, safety and durability.
take full advantage of new opportunities arising from the introduction of new models from our brand partners.
12 2 Growing aftersales Further strengthening customer service, increasing customer retention and enhancing productivity Aftersales revenues have and adapting our service historically shown a greater offerings to cars of different ages resilience to market downturns we have increased service loyalty than new car sales, as the levels signicantly.
aftersales market is driven Flexible, pre-paid maintenance more by the size and age of service packages include the car parc and technological additional benets like priority advances than it is by new booking and a free odourising car sales.
We also offer a preimplementing a number of inspection safety test package actions to help maximise the with special discounts on benets of the aftersales revenue replacement parts.
stream and maintain long-term consumer relationships.
Key Packages for newer vehicles measures being undertaken have been developed too, include focusing marketing like our 12-step exterior surface and sales efforts on the retention treatment, interior cleansing and of customers who are nearing engine compartment cleaning.
the end of the warranty period on their new vehicle.
There will also be a focus on the use of management tools such as capture rate, vehicle health check and the NPS system to monitor customer satisfaction and increase customer retention.
Market illustration At Mazda Hong Kong we have applied a strong focus on retaining customers of vehicles over three years old.
As a result of effective local marketing 13 3 Reducing costs Prompt action by reducing employee headcount, closing non-profitable sites and reducing all non-essential programmes As a result of prompt actions increases in 2009 or management taken to reduce the Groups cost bonuses for 2008.
Further, we base to reect the deterioration in have tight new restrictions on market conditions, our workforce travel.
The cost of the restructuring has been reduced by more than will be approximately 28.3m, 2,000 people across the Group.
with an expected annual saving of approximately 58m In addition, 24 less profitable at 2009 exchange rates from sites, comprising 16 retail centres, 2009 onwards.
one used car centre and one PDI centre in the UK, two retail We will continue to monitor centres in Greece and four in closely and review our cost base the Baltics will be closed by the in light of the prevailing trading first half of 2009.
The Group has and market conditions to ensure implemented a general hiring that it reects appropriately our freeze and a policy of no salary ongoing requirements.
Annualised benefit 58m 14 4 Managing working capital Focusing on working capital control to bring inventory levels in line with market demand Market illustration As a result of the abrupt sales declines in many of our markets In the UK, we have taken decisive management action to address and the long lead time on orders our used car stock.
In addition to a for new vehicles placed with our disciplined approach to reviewing brand partners, inventory levels have been higher than desirable.
daily stock lists and applying Vehicle orders were reduced tight pricing management, we have introduced an even rmer during the second half of 2008 approval process for all buying to reect the prevailing market conditions and we are seeking of used cars.
to reduce signicantly the level of Further, through our strong inventory held across the Groups relationships with our brand Distribution and Retail businesses.
partners, we have reduced the We are also targeting a number of demonstrator vehicles reduction in the length of time that we hold in stock.
Along with vehicles will remain in inventory an incentive programme to drive at current levels of trading.
down inventory, this has led to a Specic sales incentives have substantial improvement in our been put in place with the aim UK working capital and vehicle of accelerating this reduction, in stock position.
particular in respect of vehicles which have been in inventory for over six months.
15 5 Reducing capital expenditure Reducing discretionary capital expenditure in agreement with brand partners We are confident that our recent to our brand partners, with whom investments have placed us in a we have excellent relationships.
strong position to benefit when This has meant that we have the markets rebound.
There been able to defer some projects will be considerable pent-up and should we see further consumer demand in emerging market deterioration, we have markets, based on low levels of scope for additional deferment.
car ownership, and we believe Further, capital outlay on our our scale position in these new SAP system has been territories will reap their reward.
slowed whilst at the same time While we are putting on hold any we are accelerating its roll-out uncommitted new investments, into our Retail businesses, such we are completing projects that that we can take advantage of are already under way and honouring our commitments earlier gains from this investment.
