2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Rick Medlock John Rennocks Alison Horrocks Chief Financial officer Senior Independent, Non-Executive Director Vice President - Corporate Governance Mr Medlock joined the Board in September and Deputy Chairman and Company Secretary 2004.
Prior to joining Inmarsat, he had served Mr Rennocks joined the Board in January 2005.
Ms Horrocks has been Secretary to the as chief financial officer and company secretary He is an independent, non-executive chairman Board since its inception and also serves the of NDS Group plc Nasdaq and Euronext of Diploma plc, Nestor plc, Intelligent Energy boards of Inmarsats other main operating since 1996.
Mr. Medlock previously served as plc and Composite Energy Ltd, and a noncompanies.
She was previously group chief financial officer of several private equity executive director of two other companies.
company secretary of International Public backed technology companies in the UK and He has broad experience in emerging energy Relations plc, a worldwide public relations the US.
Mr Medlock is also a non-executive sources, support services and manufacturing.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of director of Cheapights Limited and chairman Mr. Rennocks previously served as a director Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
He is a Fellow of the of Inmarsat Ventures plc, and as Executive Institute of Chartered Accountants of England Director-Finance for British Steel plc Corus and Wales.
Mr. Medlock holds an MA in Group plc, Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew Economics from Cambridge University.
Mr. Rennocks is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee John Rennocks Chairman Stephen Davidson Chairman Andrew Sukawaty Chairman Sir Bryan Carsberg Sir Bryan Carsberg Stephen Davidson with effect Stephen Davidson Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd from 3 March 2008 Kathleen Flaherty Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd John Rennocks The Chief Executive officer and his direct Executive Management Board reports comprise the Executive Staff.
Diane Cornell Chris DAguiar Richard Denny Padraig Dowd Vice President Vice President - Senior Vice President Global Vice President Commercial, Government Affairs Sales and Marketing Networks & Engineering Product & Service Management Alison Horrocks Eugene Jilg Debbie Jones Christopher McLaughlin Vice President Corporate Chief Technical officer Senior Vice President Vice President External Affairs Governance & Company Secretary Corporate Development Rick Medlock Perry Melton Leo Mondale Rupert Pearce Chief Financial officer Chief Operating officer Vice President Business Senior Vice President Development & Strategy Inmarsat Enterprises & Group General Counsel Ruy Pinto Nick Rowe Nils Solvang Andrew Sukawaty Vice President Satellite General Counsel Vice President Information & Chairman & Chief Executive officer & Network Operations Communications Technology Michael Butler remains a member of the Executive Management Board until his departure on 30 April 2009.
27 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
