Board of Directors As at 12 March 2009 Andrew Sukawaty Michael Butler Sir Bryan Carsberg Chairman and Chief Executive officer President Independent, Non-Executive Director Mr Sukawaty joined the Company as Chairman On 15 December 2008, the Company Sir Bryan joined the Board in June 2005. in December 2003 and was appointed Chief announced that Mr Butler would step down He is currently Chairman of the Council Executive officer in March 2004.
He is as Chief Operating officer COO with effect of Loughborough University.
He is an non-executive chairman of Xyratex Ltd from 1 January 2009 and be replaced by Perry independent, non-executive director of RM plc Nasdaq and a non-executive director of Melton, formerly Vice President of Sales and and Novae Group plc.
He was the first Director Ziggo B. V formerly Zesko Holdings B. V..
Mr Butler will remain as President General of Telecommunications head of Oftel, served as chief executive officer and president and an Executive Director of the Company the telecommunications regulator that of Sprint PCS from 1996 to 2000 and as chief until 30 April 2009 when he will leave the preceded Ofcom from 1984 to 1992, Director executive officer of NTL Limited from 1993 to business as announced in March 2008.
Mr General of Fair Trading from 1992 to 1995 1996.
Previously, he held various management Butler joined the Board in December 2003. and Secretary General of the International positions with US West and AT&T.
He has He had served as Managing Director of Accounting Standards Committee predecessor served on various listed company boards as Inmarsat since May 2000 and became COO of the International Accounting Standards a non-executive director.
Mr Sukawaty holds in June 2004 and President in November Board from 1995 to 2001.
He was previously a BBA from the University of Wisconsin and 2006.
Previously, he was the managing an independent, non-executive director of an MBA from the University of Minnesota.
director of MCI WorldCom International in Cable and Wireless Communications plc and the UK and had held various general non-executive Chairman of MLL Telecom Ltd. management positions, initially at MFS Sir Bryan is a Fellow of the Institute of Communications Limited and subsequently Chartered Accountants of England and Wales MCI WorldCom International.
He was also and an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of employed by British Telecommunications plc Actuaries: he was knighted in January 1989. in a variety of managerial roles.
He holds an He holds an MSc Econ from the University HNC in Business and Finance and a Diploma of London London School of Economics.
from the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Stephen Davidson Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Kathleen Flaherty Independent, Non-Executive Director Independent, Non-Executive Director Independent, Non-Executive Director Mr Davidson joined the Board in June 2005.
Admiral Ellis joined the Board in June 2005.
Ms Flaherty joined the Board in May 2006.
She Mr Davidson is Chairman of Datatec Ltd He is President and Chief Executive officer currently serves as a non-executive director of and Digital Marketing Group plc, the senior of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations GenTek, Inc. Nasdaq.
Previously Ms. Flaherty independent director of Mecom Group plc INPO, with headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.
served on the board of Marconi Corporation and also a non-executive director of several Admiral Ellis retired from the US Navy in 2004 plc until it was sold to L. M. Ericsson in 2005, other companies.
He has held various positions as Commander, US Strategic Command.
He and on the board of telent plc until October in investment banking, most recently at West was responsible for the global command and 2006.
She also served on the boards of CMS LB Panmure where he was Global Head of control of US strategic forces to meet decisive Energy Corporation NYSE and Consumers Media and Telecoms Investment Banking, national security objectives.
Admiral Ellis is a Energy Company NYSE from 1995 to 2004. then Vice Chairman of Investment Banking.
graduate of the US Naval Academy, was Previous positions include Chief Marketing Previously he was Finance Director, then Chief designated a Naval Aviator in 1971 and held officer at AT&T: President and Chief Operating Executive officer of Telewest Communications a variety of sea and shore assignments in the officer of Winstar International: Senior Vice plc.
He has also been Chairman of the Cable US and abroad.
He holds Master of Science President, Global Product Architecture for MCI Communications Association.
He holds an MA degrees in Aerospace Engineering and in Communications, Inc and Marketing Director first class in Mathematics and Statistics from Aeronautical Systems.
He is a native of South for National Business Communications at BT.
Carolina and also serves as a Director of the Ms. Flaherty graduated from Northwestern Lockheed Martin Corporation and Level 3 University, Evanston Illinois with a Ph.
Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences.
She is a member of the McCormick Advisory Board, Northwestern University, and sits on its executive committee.
26 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 01-27 DR01 REV.
