2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Statement on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the highest standards of The Board also believes that it continues to be appropriate, with corporate governance.
The Board has reviewed and is reporting the Chairman and Chief Executive officer roles being combined, on the Companys compliance with the requirements of the to maintain John Rennocks in his role as Deputy Chairman, in Combined Code the Code published by the Financial addition to his role as Senior Independent Director.
In this role, Reporting Council in July 2003 and reissued in June 2006 for the concerns can be conveyed to Mr Rennocks, independently of year ended 31 December 2008. the Executive Directors, by other Directors.
Mr Rennocks is also available to meet shareholders.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2008, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 The Board still believes that it is appropriate to consider Admiral of the Code save as provided below: James Ellis Jr Rtd as an independent, Non-Executive Director, notwithstanding that he is an independent, non-executive Andrew Sukawaty acts in the dual role of Chairman and Chief director of the Lockheed Martin Corporation which is a supplier Executive officer.
Mr Sukawaty was appointed Chairman in to the Company.
December 2003 and was asked by the Board to take on the additional responsibilities of Chief Executive officer in March Collectively, the Board believes that it possesses all of the 2004.
The Board believes that Mr Sukawatys wide experience necessary range of qualities and experience to lead the of the telecommunications industry in an executive capacity Company effectively.
The Board meets regularly throughout the means that he is extremely well qualied to lead the Company year.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the in the joint role of Chairman and Chief Executive officer.
In Non-Executive Directors commit sufficient time to the fullment September 2007, the Board announced that it had asked and of their duties as Directors of the Company.
The Board delegates Mr Sukawaty had agreed to remain in the joint role for a management of the business to the Executive Staff and the further period which is expected to be not less than two years Executive Management Board listed on page 27, who meet to lead the Company through a period of dramatic change.
is anticipated that he would then transition to the sole role of Chairman: and During 2008, the Board established procedures for ensuring in his capacity as Executive Chairman of the Company, that its powers of authorisation of conicts are operated Andrew Sukawaty acts as Chairman of the Nominations effectively.
Each Director was asked to identify any situations Committee.
The Senior Independent Director, who is a where their own interests might conict with the interests of the member of the Nominations Committee, acts as Chairman of Company and any such instances were reviewed by the Board in the meetings for discussion relating to succession planning for November 2008.
The Directors have an ongoing duty to notify the Chief Executive officer role.
the Board of any potential conicts and a formal review by the Board will be undertaken annually.
There were no conicts of The Board interest noted in respect of any of the Directors.
The composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly reviewed and evaluated so as to reect the Boards and The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive the Committees balance of skills, expected time commitment, Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other knowledge and experience.
The Board currently has eight companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the Directors, comprising three Executive Directors and five benefit of the Company.
All such appointments require the prior independent, Non-Executive Directors, which is considered approval of the Board.
Executive Directors may not take on more an effective size and balance for the Company.
A list of the than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company individual Directors, their biographies and details of their or any chairmanship of such a company.
Mr Sukawaty and Committee membership are provided on pages 26 and 27.
Mr Medlock have external directorships and they are permitted to retain any directors fees from these appointments.
Details of Following the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange these directorships can be found in their biographies on pages in June 2005, Andrew Sukawaty remained Chairman and Chief 26 and 27 and details of the fees retained can be found on Executive officer, both executive roles.
To avoid potential conicts of interest, Non-Executive that whilst this did not meet the requirements of the Code, there Directors are expected to inform the Chairman before taking would, in time, be a separation of the roles as noted above.
up any additional external appointments.
The Board continues to believe that Mr Sukawatys involvement in both roles provides a balanced and stable platform for the The Chairman and Chief Executive officer is responsible for Company as it matures as a public company and is in the best the running of the Board and for implementing strategy for 1 interests of the Company and its shareholders.
To reect this operations and subsequent to the exercise the Inmarsat Core and in response to a request from the Board, in September of the call option to acquire CIP, also of the Group.
The Board 2007, Mr Sukawaty agreed that he would remain in the joint has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision role for a further period of not less than two years.
The Board but can also delegate specic responsibilities to its Board recognised that with the potential acquisition of the Companys Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
largest distributor in April 2009, this transaction would increase The Board ensures that as an integral part of its performance, revenues, costs, staff and global ofce locations dramatically.
it considers the new statutory directors duties.
The Board has Therefore the Board felt the time for management change would an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed be after this transaction.
and adapted regularly to ensure that all of the matters reserved to the Board, as well as other key issues, are discussed at the appropriate time.
Regular items for Board meetings include up-dates on business development opportunities, monthly 1 31 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
pdf 4 27 3 09 17:09:03 27 3 09 17:09:03 Statement on Corporate Governance continued financial and operational reviews and as appropriate, reports Board Committees from each of the principal Board Committees.
Among the key The main Board Committees are the Audit Committee, the matters on which the Board alone may make decisions are Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
1 the business strategy of Inmarsat Core, its annual budget, The terms of reference explaining the roles of these Committees dividends, financial reporting and major corporate activities.
which are reviewed at meetings during the year and the The Board holds a formal two day strategy meeting each year authority delegated to them by the Board are published on the at which it considers the future direction of the business.
The Secretary to these addition, however, the strategic direction of the Company is Board Committees is the Company Secretary.
discussed on a regular basis by the Board.
Audit Committee Non-Executive Directors were appointed initially for three years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless agreed by the Board, remain in ofce for a period longer than six years, or two terms in ofce, whichever is the shorter.
The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors ensures that they can debate with, and constructively challenge, management John Rennocks Chairman both in relation to the development of strategy and regarding Sir Bryan Carsberg operational and financial performance.
The key elements of the Stephen Davidson role and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors are: Responsibilities include: the strategy of the Company: monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation the Companys performance: of internal controls and risk management standards of conduct, compliance and control on the Board reviewing the scope of the audit and management response and in the Company generally: and thereto remuneration of, and succession planning for, Executive overseeing the relationship with the external auditors Directors.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent, The Non-Executive Directors meet annually, without the Non-Executive Directors and have significant, recent and Chairman and Chief Executive officer in attendance, to assess relevant financial experience.
The Board is confident that the Board balance and independence and to monitor the powers of collective experience of the Audit Committee members enables individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director them, as a group, to act as an effective Audit Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the Chairman and Chief Executive officer, Chief On joining the Board, new Directors are given a comprehensive, Financial officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Deloitte formal and tailored induction programme including the LLP audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings provision of background material on the Company and briengs to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The Company is committed to the The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets regularly with the provision of continuing professional development training for internal and external Auditors.
its Directors and in 2008, the Board received presentations from the Companys external advisers and guest speakers on The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring subjects appropriate to the Companys business and changes to the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal legislation.
The Company Secretary supplies all Directors with controls and risk management and the integrity of the financial information on relevant legal and best practice developments.
This includes a review of significant issues and judgements, policies and disclosures.
Its duties include keeping All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost Association to be elected by shareholders at the first general effectiveness, consideration of managements response to meeting after their appointment.
Appointments to the Board are any major external or internal audit recommendation and the made on merit and against objective criteria.
At least one-third independence and objectivity of the internal and external of the Directors must retire and, as appropriate, seek re-election Auditors.
by the shareholders at each annual general meeting.
During the year to 31 December 2008, the Audit Committee Directors receive Board and Committee papers in advance of reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, the relevant meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible half-year and full-year financial statements, interim management to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, statements and results announcements and the quarterly advising the Board, through the Chairman and Chief Executive financial reports for two US reporting subsidiaries.
It considered officer, on all corporate governance matters and minuting any internal audit reports and risk management updates, agreed unresolved concerns expressed by any Director.
Were a Director external and internal audit plans, received updates on to resign over an unresolved issue, the Chairman and Chief management responses to audit recommendations and Executive officer would bring the issue to the attention of the approved the review of accounting policies.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all Directors are able to take independent advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
1 32 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
pdf 5 27 3 09 17:09:03 27 3 09 17:09:03 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Pursuant to the requirements of s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Remuneration Committee Act 2002 for its US reporting subsidiaries, an annual assessment must be undertaken by management of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting.
The Audit Committee has overseen the progress of a project to document and test internal controls over financial reporting through regular status reports submitted by management.
The first annual assessment Stephen Davidson Chairman and related report from management was included in the Forms Sir Bryan Carsberg 20-F, which were led with the US Securities and Exchange Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Commission SEC in April 2008.
The external Auditors are Kathleen Flaherty required to conduct their attestation under s404 for the financial year ending 31 December 2009.
Responsibilities include: determining policy on remuneration including annual bonuses The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure setting and monitoring achievement of the objectives for the Committee the role of which is detailed on page 36, reported Executive Directors on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of the grant of share options and share awards under the short financial and other material information to the Board, to the and long-term incentive plans public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Audit Committee to review and clarify the completeness of financial The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent, reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, meets as and when necessary to review The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has and approve, as appropriate, the remuneration of the Executive an objective and professional relationship with the Auditors.
In Directors and senior management and major remuneration plans 1 addition to their statutory duties, the Companys Auditors may for the Inmarsat Core operations.
The Remuneration Committee also be employed where, as a result of their position as Auditors, appraises the Chairman and Chief Executive officer against his they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in written objectives.
Similarly, the Chairman and Chief Executive question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision officer appraises the other Executive Directors and makes of non-audit services by the Auditors to ensure that there is recommendations to the Remuneration Committee relating adequate protection of their independence and objectivity.
The to their bonus achievement.
The Remuneration Committee policy identies three categories of accounting services: auditapproves the setting of objectives for all of the Executive related services, which the Companys Auditors provide such Directors and authorises their annual bonus payments for as interim and full year reporting : prohibited services, which achievement of objectives.
the Companys Auditors may never provide such as corporate finance consulting or advisory services : and potential services, The Remuneration Committee provides remuneration which the Companys Auditors may in certain circumstances packages necessary and sufficient to attract, retain and provide, subject to procurement procedures and fee constraints motivate Executive Directors to run the Company successfully.
such as tax advisory services and due diligence.
The Auditors The packages take into account available remuneration data regularly confirm their independence to the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is empowered to recommend the grant of share options under the During the year, specic approval had been given by the existing share option plans and to make awards under the short Audit Committee for the Companys Auditors to perform and long-term incentive plans.
The Remuneration Committee non-audit services.
Auditor objectivity and independence is considers there to be an appropriate balance between xed and safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
Fees charged by variable remuneration and between short and long-term variable the Companys Auditors in respect of non-audit services require components of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the also spent time considering the components of the long-term fee does not exceed more than 5% of the total revenues paid incentive plans in the face of the current uncertain economic to the Auditors in that financial year.
The Audit Committee has times as they consider awards to be made in 2009.
The agreed that the Company could commit to fees in relation to Companys remuneration policy is intended to reward successful tax advisory and tax compliance work from the Auditors, in delivery against increasing returns for shareholders and to 1 aggregate, of up to 20% of the total audit fee each year, with support the achievement of the strategy of Inmarsat Core.
up to 50,000 for any one project, without the need to seek approval for individual projects.
A breakdown of the fees paid During 2008, the Remuneration Committee made to the Companys Auditors during the year is set out in note 7 to recommendations to the Board that an invitation under the consolidated financial statements.
the Sharesave Scheme arrangements be issued to eligible employees, agreed the terms of departure for Michael Butler, an Executive Director, and also revised the maximum annual bonus opportunities for the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer.
In addition, following the corporate restructure on 1 January 2009, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salary of the Chief Financial officer to reect the additional operational responsibilities he had assumed.
All of the decisions of the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters in 2008 were reported to and endorsed by the Board.
1 33 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
pdf 6 27 3 09 17:09:03 27 3 09 17:09:03 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Nominations Committee 2008 Board and Committee meetings During the year to 31 December 2008, the Board met eleven times, including two meetings to approve progressing specic projects.
This excludes ad hoc meetings held solely to deal with procedural matters.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its main Committees: Andrew Sukawaty Chairman Audit Remuneration Nominations Stephen Davidson with effect from 3 March 2008 Board Committee Committee Committee Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd maximum: 11 maximum: 4 maximum: 4 maximum: 3 John Rennocks Michael Butler 11 Sir Bryan Carsberg 11 4 4 1 Responsibilities include: Stephen Davidson 11 4 4 3 nominating candidates for appointment as Directors Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd 11 4 3 recommendations in relation to the re-appointment of Kathleen Flaherty 11 4 1 Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of their term Rick Medlock 11 4 review of succession planning John Rennocks 11 4 3 Andrew Sukawaty 11 3 4 3 The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of Attendance by invitation only.
The Nominations Note: The Company Secretary attended all Board and Committee meetings.
Committee meets as and when necessary.
The Nominations Committee has responsibility for nominating to the Board The full Board participated in every Board meeting and candidates for appointment as Directors, bearing in mind the Committee members did likewise in respect of all Committee need for a broad representation of skills across the Board.
In an instance where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, any comments which he or she The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to may have arising out of the papers to be considered at the the Board concerning the re-appointment of any independent, meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Non-Executive Director by the Board at the conclusion of Company Secretary.
his or her specified term: the election and re-election of any Director by shareholders under the retirement provisions of Directors attend several other meetings during the year and the Companys Articles of Association: and changes to senior contribute in various ways outside the formal meeting schedule.
The Nominations Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in Performance evaluation the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and The effectiveness of the Board is an essential element of the opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise Companys effective and efficient performance.
During 2008, the are needed on the Board and from senior management in Board and each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations the future.
The main elements in the evaluation process were: During 2008, the Nominations Committee agreed which Directors would retire by rotation at the 2008 AGM and also individual Directors and Committee members completed met regarding the departure of Michael Butler and how his separate evaluation questionnaires regarding the processes of responsibilities would be transitioned as part of a corporate the Board and its Committees, their effectiveness and where restructure.
The Nominations Committee also maintains the improvements could be considered.
They also undertook a discussion of splitting the Chairman and Chief Executive officer peer review in which they assessed their fellow Directors roles as part of its ongoing agenda.
With Mr Butlers departure, performance: the number of Executive Directors will reduce to two.
It is not the Non-Executive Directors had a discussion with the the intention of the Nominations Committee to recommend Company Secretary: an increase in this number at the current time.
The Chairman the results were compiled and analysed by the Company and Chief Executive officer did not and will not chair the Secretary and circulated to the full Board: and Nominations Committee when it is dealing with agenda items the Board considered the results of the evaluation process as relating to the discussion of succession for the Chief Executive a specic item of business.
For the discussions relating to Chief Executive officer succession and the separation of the role of Chairman The evaluation process concluded that the Board and its main and Chief Executive officer, John Rennocks, the Senior Committees had functioned efficiently and effectively during the Independent Director, acts as Chairman.
year and that the individual Directors had also met the standards expected of them, with each making a significant contribution The Nominations Committee confirmed to the Board that the at meetings.
The issues identied during the evaluation, such as contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for the incorporation of technical presentations as part of the Board re-appointment at the 2009 AGM continued to benefit the Board documentation, have been discussed and changes to Board and the Company should support their re-appointment.
34 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
pdf 7 27 3 09 17:09:03 27 3 09 17:09:03 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements A performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be shareholders questions.
Voting may be by form of proxy, by poll, conducted annually and the process for such evaluation will be by a show of hands or a combination of all three.
The voting reviewed by the Board.
The Board considers at this time that results will be notied to the UK Listing Authority through a there remains value in continuing to conduct the performance Regulatory Information Service immediately after the meeting evaluation process internally, rening the approach and and will be published on the Companys website.
The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, Directors remuneration JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Credit Suisse, on the views of Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration Credit Suisse were appointed during 2008 and replaced Lehman Report on pages 37 to 46.
Brothers as the second joint corporate broker for the Company.
Any concerns of major shareholders would be communicated to Relations with shareholders the Board by the Chief Financial officer.
As a matter of routine, The Company recognises the importance of communicating with the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is price, trading activity and details of movements in institutional understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The Board is also provided with current Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory analyst opinions and forecasts.
dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chairman and Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer ensure that Internal controls the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a The Board confirms that the procedures necessary to implement whole.
The Board ensures that the Companys strategic plans the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council long-term shareholder value.
An audited 2008 Annual Report will in October 2005 have been established and are reviewed on be made available to shareholders and all results are posted on an ongoing basis.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility the Companys website, as are presentations made in respect of for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal the full year results.
controls excluding CIP where it has no control and it receives regular reports from management identifying, evaluating and The Company has given regular investor road shows in the managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal UK and overseas and presentations were also made after controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the publication of the Preliminary Results in March 2008.
Investor risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide and analyst conference calls also took place after the half year only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material results were published in August 2008.
There is an ongoing misstatement or loss.
programme of dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review analysts.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the 1 including strategy, performance, management and governance operations during the year ended 31 December Inmarsat Core are discussed within the constraints of information which has 2008 and for the period up to the date of approval of the already been made public.
The Board is aware that institutional consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report.
shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company Any necessary action resulting from discussions by the Board than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that and Audit Committee has been or is being taken to remedy any any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, significant failings or weaknesses identied from the review.
institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls excluding CIP, which have been in place throughout the year The Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available under review and up to the date of this report, include: to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the normal channels or such concerns have not been Risk management: management operates a risk management resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with him through process to identify, evaluate and report significant risks within the the Company Secretary.
business and to report to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number of different In the past, the Board has consulted with shareholders in reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by the Risk connection with specic issues where it considers it appropriate Committee, which identies the risk area, the probability of the and it would do so in the future as needed.
risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
The risk register is Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they provided monthly to the Executive Management Board and will have an opportunity to meet the Board.
The notice of the quarterly to the Board and to the Audit Committee.
AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, together with as many Directors as possible, will attend the 2009 AGM and be available to answer 1 35 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
pdf 8 27 3 09 17:09:03 27 3 09 17:09:03 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Management structure: there is a clearly dened organisational The Board recognises its obligations, as a result of two of the structure throughout the Group with established lines of Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries being foreign registrants reporting and delegation of authority based on job of the SEC, to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. responsibilities and experience.
A process of self-certication is The Company has established a Disclosure Committee used where Directors and senior managers are required to detail with responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and and certify controls in operation to mitigate risk in key process procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related areas.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that risk information and other procedures necessary to enable the management processes are in place and are operating effectively.
Chairman and Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer to provide their certications in relation to Forms 20-F Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide led with the SEC.
The Company has also established processes relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and non-financial to assess the adequacy of internal controls over financial information to management and the Board.
Annual plans, reporting procedures as required under s404 of the Sarbanesforecasts and performance targets allow management to monitor Oxley Act 2002 for the financial year ended 31 December 2008. the key business and financial activities and the progress towards achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is approved Going Concern by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going standardised reporting process.
In addition, in line with the concern.
Despite the current volatility in financial markets and Transparency Directive, the Company publishes interim uncertain economic outlook, the Directors believe that the management statements.
Quarterly reports for US reporting Group has a robust and resilient business model, strong free purposes are issued for two of the Companys subsidiaries.
cash ow generation and is compliant with all of its banking covenants.
In making their assessment of going concern, the Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular Directors considered recent budgets, the fifteen month rolling reports from the internal and external Auditors and assures itself forecast, the cash ow forecast and the most recent Long Range that the internal control environment of the Group excluding Financial Plan.
In addition, the Directors considered the maturity CIP is operating effectively.
There are formal policies and prole of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, the forecasts accounting records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
and covenant calculations were stress tested by applying a set of significant capital projects and acquisitions and disposals require downside scenarios.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a Board approval.
The Company has in place a formal procedure reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
improprieties in financial and other matters, including pensions Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going concern administration often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action and the results would be reported to the Audit Committee.
Risk management process Inmarsat plc Board Audit Committee Executive Management Board defines the risk governance reviews the risk management reviews the risk management framework, risk culture and principles framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management sets overall risk strategy and policy systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives approves risk levels reviews the internal audit is responsible for an effective programme and reports system of internal controls Risk Committee reviews the risk profile against risk appetite and determines actions in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls reviews the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities assesses major risk-related projects Business Operations implements mitigation strategies 36 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
