Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2008 The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and The Company made a payment of US$100,000 to the World the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 Maritime University during 2008 and has pledged to make a December 2008. further payment of US$103,500 in 2009 as part of its support for the education of maritime specialists payment made in 2006 in As explained in the Chief Financial Ofcers Review on page 13, respect of the 2007 financial year was US$100,000.
1 in addition to the Inmarsat Core operations, the financial results of CIP UK Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries CIP UK have The Company also provides satellite telecommunication services also been incorporated into the Inmarsat consolidated financial and equipment in conjunction with support offered by its statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
References distribution partners and manufacturers to service providers in 1 to Group on pages 14 to 22 include Inmarsat Core operations support of disaster relief management in affected areas of the and CIP unless otherwise noted.
Principal activities and business review No political donations were made during the year.
It remains The Group provides via satellite a broad portfolio of global the policy of the Company not to make political donations or mobile and transportable broadband communication services incur political expenditure.
However, the Directors recognise and solutions across its main areas of maritime, aeronautical that occasions arise where it may be in the best interests of and land mobile.
The principal services include safety and shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to control communications, instant communications voice, fax participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters and low-speed data, and instant information services and which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement high-speed data solutions from remote LAN access to video of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders will be requested conferencing.
annually to give authority at the Inmarsat AGM for the Company to be permitted to make political donations and to incur political The Group has several branch and regional ofces throughout expenditure.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are Financial instruments listed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the The Directors are also required by the Companies Act to present entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow risk are an extended business review, reporting on the development given in notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
and performance of the Group and the Company during the year and their positions at the end of the year.
That requirement Post balance sheet events is met by the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers Business Details of material post balance sheet events are included in Review on pages 4 to 12, the Chief Financial Ofcers Review note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
on pages 13 to 22 and the Report on Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 23 to 25.
The cautionary statement set Directors and their interests out on the inside back cover forms part of this Annual Report The Directors, who served throughout the year, were as follows: and is incorporated by reference into the extended business review as dened above.
Michael Butler, President Sir Bryan Carsberg Results and dividends Stephen Davidson The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Statement on page 49.
Kathleen Flaherty Rick Medlock, Chief Financial officer The Directors propose the payment of a final dividend per John Rennocks, Deputy Chairman and ordinary share of 18.20 cents US$ making a total for the year Senior Independent Director of 30.33 cents US$ per ordinary share dividend payments are Andrew Sukawaty, Chairman and Chief Executive officer made in Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London market four business days prior to payment.
All Directors were in ofce on 1 January 2008.
As announced on Subject to approval at the 2009 Annual General Meeting 13 March 2008, Michael Butler will be leaving the Company on AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29 May 2009 to 30 April 2009. shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 15 May 2009.
Biographical information on each of the Directors is contained on pages 26 and 27 of the Annual Report.
Their biographies Research and development illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an The Group continues to invest in new services and technology effective Board to lead and control the Group.
through its research and development programmes.
These include pure research into new products as well as developing The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the those services which have been demonstrated to have a Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
None of the Directors at any time during the year ended 31 December 2008 or subsequently have had any interests Charitable and political donations in any shares of the Companys subsidiaries.
During the year, the Company paid US$150,000 2007: US$130,000 to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF.
The Company has pledged to pay TSF US$150,000 plus US$50,000 of airtime in 2009.
1 28 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
pdf 1 27 3 09 17:09:02 27 3 09 17:09:02 2008 Operations Governance Financial Statements Re-appointment of Directors As the Directors have no control over the business of CIP, The Companys Articles of Association require that one-third of they cannot comment on the policies in place regarding CIPs the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting employees, share plans and cannot comment on CIPs equal of the Company.
Therefore, the following Directors will retire and opportunities policy or health and safety procedures.
This will put themselves forward for re-appointment at the 2009 AGM.
change following the expected exercise of the call option to The interval since their last re-appointment is no more than acquire CIP in April 2009. three years and they have each confirmed that they will stand for re-appointment: Policy and practice on the payment of creditors The Groups policy and practice on the payment of creditors is: Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Kathleen Flaherty to pay all suppliers within the time limit agreed with each at Rick Medlock the start of business with that supplier: to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: Employees and The Group has ensured that employees are fully informed to pay in accordance with the contractual and other legal and involved in the business, through the use of various obligations whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has communications methods including regular brieng sessions provided goods and services in accordance with the agreed and discussions with groups of employees, circulation of news terms and conditions.
up-dates, Company announcements, information releases and dissemination of information through normal management At 31 December 2008, the Groups trade creditors represented channels.
The Company has a Staff Forum to extend two-way 30 days equivalent of aggregate amounts invoiced by suppliers communications between employees and management and during the year 2007: 30 days.
to allow the views of employees to be taken into account in making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
The Interests in voting rights Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with At 12 March 2009, the Company had been notied, in prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure on contractual matters, as and when required.
The Company and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a also undertakes employee satisfaction surveys.
Employees are shareholder of the Company: actively encouraged to attend internal training courses to learn Number of voting rights over the ordinary about the Companys business, its products and services.
shares of c0.0005 each The Company encourages, through its share and share option Direct Indirect schemes, employee involvement in the Companys performance.
Harbinger Capital Details of the outstanding options granted to employees are Partners Master Fund I, shown in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Ltd and Harbinger first grant of options under the Inmarsat 2005 Sharesave Scheme Capital Partners Special and the Inmarsat 2005 International Sharesave Scheme matured Situations Fund, L. P. 132,041,000 28.76% in 2008.
A second grant of options under both Schemes was Lansdowne Partners made to eligible employees in December 2008, details of which Limited Partnership 50,958,170 11.14% are provided on page 44.
BlackRock, Inc. 42,576,471 9.31% The Group has a positive attitude towards the development of Legal & General all its employees and does not discriminate between employees Group Plc 31,677,326 6.90% or potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic or national KDDI Corporation 21,739,149 4.76% origin, sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
The Inmarsat F&C Asset workforce is diverse in that it has more than 40 different Management plc 19,164,056 4.19% nationalities amongst the staff.
Allianz SE 13,833,486 3.02% Equal opportunities Note: Percentages are based on the issued ordinary share capital in issue as at the The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled date of the respective notications.
persons and to the continuing employment of staff that become disabled, including making reasonable adjustments where Share capital and control appropriate or considering them for alternative positions.
The following information is given pursuant to the new requirements of the Companies Act 2006, specifically s992.
Health and safety The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health The Companys ordinary shares of c0.0005 each are listed on and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, contractors and the London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
Details of the anyone affected by its business activities.
Michael Butler has authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together been identied as the member of senior management having with movements in the issued share capital during the year, are responsibility for health and safety issues within the Inmarsat given in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Following the departure of Mr Butler from the business, Mr Melton, the Chief Operating officer, will assume this responsibility.
1 29 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
pdf 2 27 3 09 17:09:02 27 3 09 17:09:02 Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2008 continued The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the The Directors are aware that the existing LESO Agreement Companys report and accounts: to attend and speak at general and other distribution agreements, to which CIP is a party meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise through Stratos Global Corporation Stratos, are, and the voting rights.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations new distribution agreements will be, significant contracts for CIP.
on the holding of any shares and no requirements for prior However, as the Directors have no control over the business of approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special CIP, they are not able to comment on any additional significant rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no contracts of CIP.
known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known None of the current Directors had a material interest in agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
any contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party during the financial year.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 27.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans The Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Inmarsat rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special Finance III Limited, has the option, not earlier than 15 April rights.
All of the ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee 2009, to acquire CIP UK Holdings Limited whose wholly-owned Share Ownership Trust, being 1,250,367 shares, carry voting subsidiary, CIP Canada Investment Inc, owns the shares of rights.
The beneciaries of 188,961 of these shares do not Stratos.
The intention is to exercise the option as soon as instruct the Trust on how to vote in respect of these shares.
1 The Inmarsat Core operations have in place several significant Directors and Ofcers liability insurance agreements, which include, inter alia, its banking and debt Inmarsat plc maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors arrangements, distribution agreements with suppliers and and Ofcers liability for itself and its subsidiaries excluding CIP, contracts for the in-orbit insurance of the Inmarsat-4 satellites.
until the call option is exercised.
At the date upon which this Subject to the identity of a third party bidder, in the event of report was approved and for the year to 31 December 2008, 1 a change of control following a takeover bid, Inmarsat Core the Company provided an indemnity in respect of all of the does not believe that these agreements would suffer a material Companys Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity adverse effect or be subject to termination upon a change of provides cover where the Director is proved to have acted 1 control.
However, Inmarsat Core has customary clauses in all its fraudulently or dishonestly.
long term debt funding specifying that in the event of a change of control following a takeover bid, the lenders have the option Auditors to have the debt repaid under the specic terms of each type Each of the Directors has confirmed that: of debt.
i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: The Company does not have agreements with any Director or and 1 employee of the Inmarsat Core operations that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to takeover except that provisions of the Companys share option have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any schemes and share plans may cause options and awards granted relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
As the Directors have Auditors are aware of that information.
no control over the business of CIP, they cannot comment on the impact on agreements to which CIP are a party in the event of a This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in change of control.
accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Memorandum and Articles of Association in force A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditors of the from time to time.
The rules about the appointment and Company and to authorise the Board to determine their replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles remuneration will be proposed at the 2009 AGM.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in accordance with legislation in force 2009 Annual General Meeting from time to time.
Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be proposed The Directors have been authorised by shareholders to issue and at the forthcoming AGM.
allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
At the 2009 AGM, By order of the Board shareholders are being requested to renew these authorities.
Alison Horrocks FCIS significant contracts Company Secretary 1 The majority of the space segment revenue of Inmarsat Core is 12 March 2009 derived from sales to Land Earth Station Operators LESOs and distribution partners DPs.
LESOs operate in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Land Earth Station Operator Agreement.
The existing five-year agreement terminates on 14 April 2009 and new agreements governing the distribution of Inmarsats service for LESOs and DPs will come into effect on 15 April 2009.
1 30 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
