8IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Business review continued Strategy IHGs ambition IHGs strategy IHG seeks to deliver enduring top quartile shareholder returns, Our strategy has seen significant development through 2008 as we when measured against a broad global hotel peer group, by moved to make our core purpose a reality.
We have taken a hard focusing on its core purpose of creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
look at our operations and capabilities to focus on what really matters most to deliver Great Hotels Guests Love.
We have backed We measure success in three ways: this up with a major effort to align our people and measure the most Total Shareholder Returns.
For the three-year period of 2006 important drivers, resulting in a clear, target-based programme to 2008, IHG was third among its peers : within our hotels to motivate teams and guide behaviours.
Rooms Growth rooms added to our brands at a rate faster Our strategy now encompasses two key aspects: than competitors.
In 2008 we grew by 5.9% against an average of 4.3% for our main competitors : and where we choose to compete: and a basket of specific key performance indicators KPIs aimed how we will win when we compete.
at delivering our core purpose, cascaded to the hotel level.
The Groups underlying Where strategy is that IHG will grow a portfolio Successful performance against various combinations of these, of differentiated hospitality brands in select strategic countries and and other, metrics drives payment of a significant percentage global key cities to maximise our scale advantage.
The How aspect of senior management discretionary remuneration.
of our strategy flows from our core purpose and our research at the hotel level as to what really makes a difference for guests.
In support of our overall strategy there are now five key priorities one Where we compete and four How we win: Where we compete Key performance indicators Current status and Strategic priorities KPIs 2008 developments 2009 priorities To accelerate profitable Progress against the following 2008 2008 growth targets accomplished, Continue international roll-out of growth of our core growth targets, set in June 2005: with exception of China where we Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo: business in the largest reached 112 hotels.
Target expected 50,000-60,000 net rooms growth: Execute growth strategies in agreed markets where the to be exceeded during early 2009 : 125 hotels in China: and scale markets: Group currently has International launch of Hotel Indigo 15-25 net InterContinental scale and also in key Continue to focus on rapid and first one open in London, UK and hotel additions.
Seek successful opening of pipeline one signed in Shanghai, Peoples opportunities to leverage hotels: and Republic of China: our scale in new Seek ways to leverage scale and business areas.
Holiday Inn Club Vacations build improved strategic position franchise timeshare conceived during the economic downturn.
and launched: and 81% of pipeline focused on core strategic countries.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 9 How we win Key performance indicators Current status and Strategic priorities KPIs 2008 developments 2009 priorities Financial returns 19.1 CAGR Increased revenue delivery through Increase global salesforce 17.8 7.9% To generate higher IHG global reservations channels effectiveness: 15.2 returns for owners and by 10.6% to $7.6bn of global system Identify and achieve major IHG through revenue room revenue in 2008: procurement savings: delivery and improved Increased use of offshore operating efficiency.
Begin migration to next generation transaction processing: and revenue management IT systems: 2006 2007 2008 Total gross revenue TGR Technology infrastructure and Actual US$bn developed to support owner Continue focus on our owned 7.6 CAGR management and loyalty and managed estate margins 6.8 10.1% marketing.
5.7 and return on capital employed ROCE, especially in our key InterContinental assets.
2006 2007 2008 System contribution revenue Actual US$bn Our people Great Hotels Guests Love metrics Ensure alignment at hotel level to To create a more efficient defined and cascaded: IHGs core purpose of Great Hotels organisation with strong Guests Love: and Requirement to add around 68% 65% core capabilities.
140,000 people in scale markets Increase investment in key quantified and sourcing strategy countries to compete for talent, in place: particularly for general managers.
Senior recruitment and succession planning accomplished, especially 2007 2008 at Executive Committee level: and Employee engagement scores Engagement survey commenced General manager attraction April 2007. and retention programme and systems launched.
Guest experience 9.8% First 274 relaunched Holiday Inn Roll out the Holiday Inn To operate a portfolio and Holiday Inn Express hotels repositioning: 6.9% of brands attractive open around the world: Simplify brand standards process to both owners and InterContinental positioning to improve owner returns without guests that have clear success as guest satisfaction impairing guest experience: and market positions and 0.9% scores relating to InterContinental differentiation in the Enhance experience for PCR 2006 2007 2008 concierges rise in all regions: and eyes of the guest.
Global RevPAR growth members in hotels and across Comparable hotels, constant US$ Industry-leading Priority Club global reservations channels: Rewards PCR loyalty programme increase IHG business from All brands CHINA 10.7% with 42 million members, PCR members.
IC EMEA 6.5% contributing $5.9bn of global IC US 2.2% system room revenue, an increase HIE US 1.8% of 13% over 2007.
All brands UK 1.6% CP US 1.0% HI US 0.5% RevPAR growth ahead of market %pts IC: InterContinental HIE: Holday Inn Express CP: Crowne Plaza HI: Holiday Inn Responsible business As we roll out new systems, the Green Engage energy management Roll out the Green Engage energy To take an active stance consumption of energy and water system developed patent pending : management system, including on environment and as well as waste will be tracked improved hotel construction Extensive consumer research community issues in in all our owned and managed techniques: and undertaken to quantify green order to drive increased hotels: we expect to report further opportunity with consumers: and Focus on innovation within new value for IHG, owners on this next year see Corporate and existing brands to deliver and guests.
Responsibility CR review on CR approach defined and agreed valued green related hotels pages 23 and 24 for further see CR review on pages 23 and 24 and services to guests.
CAGR compound annual growth rate.
Source: IHG analysis, STR and Deloitte.
