THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES The Board of Directors and Other members of the Executive Committee 31 Other members of the Executive Committee Jim Abrahamson President, The Americas Tom Seddon Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Has over 30 years experience in hotel operations, branding, development and franchise relations.
Joined the Group in January Has over 16 years experience in sales and marketing in the 2009 from Global Hyatt Corporation, where he served as Head of hospitality industry, including with IHGs predecessor parent Development, The Americas, with responsibility for development of companies from 1994 to 2004.
Rejoined the Group in November all the Hyatt brands in the region, and playing a key part in Global 2007, from restaurant business SUBWAY where he was Hyatts entry into new markets and segments.
Previously Senior responsible for worldwide sales and marketing activities.
Has Vice President, Hilton Hotels Corporation for 12 years.
Responsible responsibility for worldwide brand management, reservations, for the business development and performance of all the hotel e-commerce, global sales, relationship and distribution marketing, brands and properties in the Americas region.
Age 53. loyalty programmes and corporate responsibility.
Tom Conophy Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer George Turner Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary Has over 28 years experience in the IT industry, including management and development of new technology solutions within Solicitor, qualified to private practice in 1995 and has 12 years the travel and hospitality business.
Joined the Group in February corporate and commercial law experience with Imperial Chemical 2006 from Starwood Hotels & Resorts International where he held Industries PLC, where he was most recently Deputy Company the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Technology Officer.
Joined the Group in September 2008, and became Responsible for global technology, including IT systems and Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary information management throughout the Group.
Responsible for corporate governance, risk management, insurance, data privacy, company secretariat Peter Gowers President, Asia Pacific and the global and regional legal teams.
Following appointments as Executive Vice President, Global Brand Services in 2003, and as Chief Marketing Officer in 2005, appointed President, Asia The Board of Directors and other members of the Pacific in November 2007.
Now has responsibility for the business Executive Committee together comprise the development and performance of all the hotel brands and IHG Senior Leadership Team.
properties in the Asia Pacific region.
Has previous international While the Directors have certain specific legal and experience in management consultancy, based in London and regulatory duties and responsibilities, they work with and Singapore.
Age 36. rely on the detailed knowledge and experience of all the Executive Committee members to secure the effective Kirk Kinsell President, EMEA running of the business in support of IHGs core purpose Has over 26 years experience in the hospitality industry, including to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
senior franchise positions with Holiday Inn Corporation and ITT Sheraton, prior to joining the Group in 2002 as Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer for the Americas region.
Became President, EMEA in September 2007.
Responsible for A Non-Executive Director and a member the business development and performance of all the hotel of the Nomination Committee brands and properties in the EMEA region.
A member of the Executive Committee Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, # An independent Non-Executive Director and Global Human Resources a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Has over 23 years experience in line and HR roles in service Nomination Committees industries.
Joined the Group in December 2005 from Compass An independent Non-Executive Director and Group PLC, a world leading food service company, where she was a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees Group Human Resources Leadership & Development Director.
Previously Group HR Director for Forte Hotels Group.
Responsible An independent Non-Executive Director for global talent management and leadership development, and a member of the Remuneration and reward strategy and implementation.
Nomination Committees Not a main Board Director
