6IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Business review This Business Review for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 provides a review of the business and strategy of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the Group or IHG, commentaries on the development and performance of the business, employee and environmental matters and a description of the risks and uncertainties impacting the business.
Business overview Market and competitive environment Drivers of growth Global economic events and industry cycle US market data historically indicates a steady increase in hotel The unprecedented financial events of late 2008 and the resulting industry revenues, broadly in line with Gross Domestic Product, global recession are having, and will continue to have, a significant with growth of approximately 1.5% per annum in real terms impact on IHG and the wider hotel industry.
IHGs share price fell since 1967. by 36% in 2008 and, although we outperformed our peers, Globally, we believe demand is driven by a number of underlying whose aggregate share price fell by 49%, this is a major change trends: in sentiment.
We continue to monitor key trends and indicators change in demographics as the population ages and becomes to ensure our strategy remains well suited to the developing wealthier, increased leisure time and income encourages more environment and our capabilities.
In essence, we believe our travel and hotel visits: younger generations are increasingly business is resilient and, accordingly, our strategy remains seeking work life balance, with positive implications for unchanged.
However, we see short-term risks in the pace of increased leisure travel: future openings, availability of debt and consumer demand.
increase in travel volumes as low-cost airlines grow rapidly: None of these factors is expected to require major change to our strategy and we remain focused on the medium to globalisation of trade and tourism: long term, while we protect short-term profitability.
increase in affluence and freedom to travel within emerging markets, such as China: and It is beyond doubt that this downturn is severe, with a sharp decline in revenue per available room RevPAR and bookings.
However, we increase in the preference for branded hotels amongst believe we are well placed to manage through this economic consumers.
While the current downturn is unusual Branded v unbranded in its rapidity, unpredictability and degree of credit restriction, our industry has always been cyclical.
Traditionally we have seen 2007 branded hotel rooms by region as a percentage of the total market periods of five to eight years of RevPAR growth followed by up to two years of declines in RevPAR.
Demand has rarely fallen for US 69% sustained periods and it is the interplay between hotel supply and demand in the industry that drives longer-term fluctuations in Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA 33% RevPAR.
The Groups fee-based profit is partly protected from changes in hotel supply due to its model of third-party ownership of Asia Pacific 29% hotels under IHG management and franchise contracts.
IHG profit Source: IHG analysis, Northstar Travel Management, Smith Travel Research STR.
varies more with hotel revenue demand than it does with hotel profit performance.
We believe we are well placed over the coming Within the global market, a relatively low proportion of hotel rooms year compared with competitors who own hotels, rather than is branded: however, there has been an increasing trend towards simply operate them, as IHG does.
Over the last three years, the branded market as represented by the nine major global branded hotel companies Market size has grown at a 3.6% compound annual growth rate CAGR, over The global hotel market has an estimated room capacity of 17.5 twice as quickly as the overall market, implying an increased million rooms.
This has grown at approximately 2% per annum over preference towards branded hotels.
Branded companies are the last five years.
Competitors in the market include other large therefore gaining market share at the expense of unbranded hotel companies and independently owned hotels.
IHG is well positioned to benefit from this trend.
Hotel The market remains fragmented, with an estimated 7.7 million owners are increasingly recognising the benefits of working with branded hotel rooms approximately 45% of the total market.
IHG IHG which can offer a portfolio of brands to suit the different real has an estimated 8% share of the branded market approximately estate opportunities an owner may have, together with effective 3% of the total market.
The top six major companies, including revenue delivery through global reservation channels.
Furthermore, IHG, together control approximately 42% of the branded rooms, hotel ownership is increasingly being separated from hotel only 19% of total hotel rooms.
operations, encouraging hotel owners to use third parties such as IHG to manage or franchise their hotels.
Geographically, the market is more concentrated with the top 20 countries accounting for 80% of global hotel rooms.
Within this, Other factors the United States US is dominant more than 25% of global hotel Potential negative trends impacting hotel industry growth include rooms with China, Japan and Italy being the next largest markets.
the possibility of increased terrorism, environmental considerations The Groups brands have more leadership positions top three by and economic factors such as those now prevailing, namely room numbers in the six largest geographic markets than any recession and global credit restrictions.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 7 Operating model IHGs future growth will be achieved predominantly through managing and franchising rather than owning hotels.
Approximately 614,000 rooms operating under Group brands are managed or franchised and 5,600 are owned and leased.
The managed and franchised fee-based model is attractive because it enables the Group to achieve its goals with limited capital investment at an accelerated pace.
A further advantage is the reduced volatility of the fee-based income stream, compared with ownership of assets.
A key characteristic of the managed and franchised business is that it generates more cash than is required for investment in the business, with a high return on capital employed.
Currently 85% of continuing earnings before regional and central overheads, exceptional items, interest and tax is derived from managed and franchised operations.
MARKETING AND BRAND STAFF OWNERSHIP IHG CAPITAL IHG REVENUE DISTRIBUTION OWNED high all revenue IHG IHG IHG IHG AND LEASED IHG usually supplies fee % of total MANAGED general manager third party low none revenue plus IHG IHG as a minimum % of profit fee % of FRANCHISED third party third party none IHG IHG rooms revenue IHG global room count by ownership type IHG continuing operating profit by ownership type at 31 December 2008 for the year ended 31 December 2008 Owned and leased Owned and leased Managed Managed Franchised Franchised Before regional and central overheads, exceptional items, interest and tax.
Business relationships To promote effective owner relationships, the Groups management IHG has major relationships with hotel owners and indirect meets with owners on a regular basis.
In addition, IHG has an relationships with suppliers.
important relationship with the IAHI The Owners Association.
The IAHI is an independent worldwide association for owners of IHG maintains effective relationships across all aspects of its the Crowne Plaza, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, Hotel Indigo, operations.
The Groups operations are not dependent upon any Staybridge Suites and Candlewood Suites brands.
IHG and the IAHI single customer, supplier or hotel owner due to the extent of work together to support and facilitate the continued development its brands, market segments and geographical coverage.
For of IHGs brands and systems, with specific emphasis during 2008 example, IHGs largest third-party hotel owner controls less on the relaunch of the Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express brands than 4% of the Groups total room count.
and our response to the economic downturn.
Additionally, IHG and IHGs relationships with its suppliers will be changing as we place the IAHI are working together to develop and facilitate key significant emphasis on revised procurement processes during Corporate Responsibility CR initiatives within the IHG brands.
2009, partly in response to the macroeconomic environment.
Many jurisdictions and countries regulate the offering of franchise We see significant opportunities for improving effectiveness and agreements and recent trends indicate an increase in the number of efficiency of our buying and sourcing arrangements and will be countries adopting franchise legislation.
As a significant percentage working with suppliers to realise these benefits.
of the Groups revenue is derived from franchise fees, the Groups continued compliance with franchise legislation is important to the successful deployment of the Groups strategy.
This could be either positive in terms of opening up new markets such as China, or negative in terms of increased liability for IHG in franchised properties.
