30 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 The Board of Directors # David Webster Non-Executive Chairman David Kappler Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Director in of InterContinental Hotels Group on the separation of June 2004.
Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc and a Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Appointed Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
A qualified accountant and Chairman on 1 January 2004.
Also Non-Executive Chairman formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc until of Makinson Cowell Limited, a capital markets advisory firm, April 2004.
Also served as a Non-Executive Director of Camelot a member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers Group plc and of HMV Group plc.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and Mergers and a Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
Formerly Chairman of Safeway plc and a Non-Executive Director # of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director Age 64.
Was President, Unilever Home and Personal Care, and served on the boards of Unilever PLC and Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Unilever N. V. until May 2008.
Held a variety of senior positions Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005, joining the Group from globally for Unilever and has experience of regional management Cadbury Schweppes plc where he was most recently President, in Asia, Latin America and Europe, with over 25 years experience Europe, Middle East & Africa.
During his career at Cadbury of general management and brand marketing.
Chairman of the Schweppes he held a variety of senior regional management and Remuneration Committee.
Age 52. marketing roles in the UK and Asia Pacific.
Also has over 11 years experience in brand marketing with Unilever.
A member of the Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director Executive Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council Appointed a Director in August 2005.
Was Associate Dean, and a member of the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
External Relations at London Business School, until 2007.
A Fellow of the Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners Richard Solomons Finance Director in Advertising, has over 30 years experience in advertising Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1985, followed by seven including 16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi, to whom she sold her years in investment banking, based in London and New York.
Also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Hudson Joined the Group in 1992 and held a variety of senior finance Highland Group Inc. a US human resources company.
Appointed Finance Director of the Hotels business in October 2002 in anticipation of the separation of Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Assumed the role of interim Appointed a Director in December 2005.
Was formerly Vice President of the Americas region from July 2008, following the Chairman of the American Express Company, having held a range illness and subsequent untimely death of Stevan Porter, until the of senior positions throughout his career of over 35 years with appointment of Jim Abrahamson in January 2009.
Brands, Inc. corporate and regional finance, Group financial control, strategy, and of Modern Bank, N. A. a US private banking company.
Also investor relations, tax, treasury and internal audit.
Age 47. serves on a number of US Councils and advisory boards.
Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director It is with great sadness that IHG records the death, on 7 August 2008, of Stevan Porter, President of the Americas Appointed a Director in December 2007.
Is Chairman and region from 2003 to 2008, after a short illness.
Under President, North Asia Region, President, Business Development, Stevans inspired leadership the Americas region has been Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company.
A 32-year veteran of the Also a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo.
Prior to joining Kodak in hospitality and related industries and an outstanding 1997 was, for 15 years, a diplomat with the US Foreign Service in individual, Stevan will be deeply missed by everyone who Hong Kong and Beijing.
Age 60. knew him, both professionally and personally.
