Case study 77 Case study Purchased for US$864 million, and located in the Acquisition of 1,857MW of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland PJM and peaking plants in North America the Midwest Independent System Operator MISO power pools, all four sites provide potential growth opportunities to meet future demand.
The option In July 2008, International Power acquired exists for converting the low load factor, open cycle, a portfolio of 1,857MW peaking generation peaking plants to base load, combined cycle facilities from a subsidiary of Tenaska operation in the future, increasing both the output Power Fund, L. P. and an affiliate of Warburg and efficiency of the plants.
Peaking plants generally run only when there is high demand, known as peak demand, for electricity.
This acquisition of modern peaking plants, in attractive power markets, covering multiple states, complements our existing portfolio of power stations and further improves our ability to benefit from tightening reserve margins in the region.
The assets have been designed to perform to the highest environmental standards.
The primary means of air pollution control at each of the facilities is a combustion turbine, using low sulphur fuel oil and gas using Dry-Low-NOx burners.
The Calumet site utilises two Siemens V84 gas turbines firing natural gas exclusively.
Armstrong, Pleasants and Troy utilise GE 7FA combustion turbines, with dual fuel capability for either gas or oil.
The environmental impacts from these assets are minimal as they run at relatively low capacity factors and burn primarily natural gas.
The projects began commercial operation in 2002, and Troy, the MISO asset, has a capacity contract through to 2012, whilst the remaining three PJM plants receive capacity payments under PJMs Reliability Pricing Model, which have already been determined through to mid 2012.
Calumet is one of the four peaking plants within the acquired portfolio The portfolio comprises the following assets: Plant Capacity Fuel type Location Armstrong 625MW Gas oil Pennsylvania, PJM Pleasants 313MW Gas oil West Virginia, PJM Calumet 303MW Gas Illinois, PJM Troy 616MW Gas oil Ohio, MISO
