Case study 83 Case study With capacity for generating 2,000MW of power Fujairah F2 2,000MW, and 130MIGD of water, Fujairah F2 will become 130MIGD greenfield project the second largest plant after Umm Al Nar within the International Power portfolio.
When completed in 2010 it will represent about 18% of the UAEs In late 2007, International Power further installed power capacity and about 16% of the expanded its asset base in the Middle East UAEs water capacity, providing power and water with the financing of the Fujairah F2 through a 20-year Power and Water Purchase Independent Water and Power Project Agreement PWPA with the Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Company.
The project is owned by the Fujairah Asia Power Company, in which International Power has a 20% equity interest, with 60% held by Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority and 20% by Marubeni.
It is being constructed by an Engineering, Procurement and Construction EPC consortium of Alstom and SIDEM, and is expected to be fully operational by the end of 2010.
For electricity generation it will utilise five Alstom GT26B gas turbines and for water production, both thermal and reverse osmosis technologies 100MIGD and 30MIGD respectively will be used.
This combination provides the best and most efficient solution for the operating conditions that we expect to see at the Fujairah F2 plant.
The total project cost is estimated to be US$2,800 million, and is being funded by a mix of debt and equity in an 80:20 ratio.
The construction activities across the whole site have progressed well and the foundations for two gas turbines, and the support structures for two heat recovery steam generators are nearly complete.
Offsite, the suppliers are focused on the production of the major equipment such as turbines, generators, transformers and steam generators.
The operations and maintenance company for Fujairah F2 will directly employ just over 100 people.
The key management personnel are already in place and the first 50 employees are undertaking training.
A computer-generated image of Fujairah F2 which, when completed, will become the second largest plant within our portfolio Source: Alstom
