Directors report 100 International Power Annual Report 2008 Directors report The Directors submit their report and the International Power plc Research and development Group and parent company audited financial statements for Research and development is not a core element of the business the year ended 31 December 2008.
The principal activity of of the Company.
For the period under review, the Company International Power plc the Company is to act as the holding did not undertake significant expenditure on research and company for a group of companies and a number of associated development.
companies and joint ventures the Group.
The principal activities The Company will look to take advantage of technical advances of the Group are the generation and sale of electricity, and closely as they arise and will continue to seek to develop power stations related activities such as district heating and desalination.
in the regions in which the Group operates, making effective use of current and new technology as and when available.
Business review The Company is required to present a fair review of the business Share capital and the Group during the year ended 31 December 2008 and The Companys share capital consists of Ordinary Shares of of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and 50 pence each, which rank pari passu with each other in respect a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the of all rights, including dividend, voting and return of capital.
Group known as a Business review.
The information that fulfils The Company has an unclassified share of 1.00 and the requirements of the Business review can be found in the 21 deferred shares of one pence each, which carry no rights.
following sections of the Annual Report: During the period 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2008, Business and financial review: pages 10 to 61 the Company did not purchase any of its Ordinary Shares.
Current Directors biographical details: pages 62 and 63 Resolutions will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Corporate governance: pages 78 to 82 Meeting AGM to increase the authorised share capital of the Company and renew for a further year the Directors general Employees: pages 65 and 66 authority to allot Ordinary Shares: to renew for a year the partial Directors remuneration: pages 84 to 99 disapplication of shareholders statutory pre-emption rights over Ordinary Shares: and to renew the authority to purchase Which are incorporated in this review by reference.
a proportion of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
Dividend An explanation of these and other resolutions being proposed Following the payment of the 2008 interim dividend of at the 2009 AGM will be provided in the Notice of AGM, which 3.56 pence per Ordinary Share, paid on 31 October 2008, will be sent to shareholders during April 2009. the Directors propose to pay a final dividend of 8.59 pence per Ordinary Share in respect of the year ended 31 December Shares held in trust 2008, making a total dividend for 2008 of 12.15 pence As at 31 December 2008 there were no Ordinary Shares of the 2007: 10.16 pence.
During 2008 remaining shares held in trust were utilised during the year for the benefit of participants Charitable and political donations in the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
The Group does not make political donations.
Details of charitable donations are set out in the corporate responsibility Employee share schemes section on pages 68 to 76.
No employee share schemes have any rights regarding control of the Company.
Financial statements Governance 101 Disclosure of information to the auditor Substantial shareholdings The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this As at the date of this report, the Company had been notified of Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, the following direct and indirect interests in voting rights equal there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys to or exceeding 3% of the Ordinary Share capital of the Company auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps held on behalf of the organisations as shown in the table below: that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Substantial shareholdings Number of shares the Companys auditor is aware of this information.
Black Rock Inc. 82,840,595 Invesco Ltd. 123,286,077 Auditor Legal & General Group Plc 62,003,966 A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Standard Life Investments 55,451,801 Company and to authorise the Directors to agree the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Going concern Amendments to the Companys Articles The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely of Association to affect its future development, performance and position are Any amendment to the Companys Articles of Association set out on pages 10 to 35 of the Business and financial review.
requires a special resolution 75% majority to be passed The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity at a duly held meeting of the shareholders.
position and borrowing facilities are described in pages 52 to 57 of the Business and financial review.
In addition, notes 22 to 25 Appointment and replacement of Directors and 31 of the consolidated financial statements include the The Board has the power to appoint and replace any Director.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for financial risk Any Director appointed by the Board has to offer him her self management, details of its cash and cash equivalents, for re-election at the Companys next AGM.
The Companys indebtedness, and borrowing facilities, and its financial shareholders may by ordinary resolution simple majority instruments, hedging activities and its exposure to credit appoint or remove any person as Director.
All Directors offer risk, liquidity risk and commodity pricing risk.
themselves for re-election every three years.
There is no As described on pages 56 to 57, the Group meets its funding agreement in place between the Company and any of the requirements through a combination of non-recourse project Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or finance debt at its assets together with convertible debt, and employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
a corporate revolver facility at the parent Company.
The Group has no material debt requiring refinancing at its assets in 2009 Restrictions and transfers of securities but an amount of A$445 million is due for refinancing by There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the February 2010 on its Hazelwood facility and an amount Company or on voting rights except in the circumstances set of US$769 million is due for refinancing by July 2010 on out in the Articles of Association of the Company for example, its US CCGT fleet.
The US$850 million corporate revolver failure to disclose interest in shares and non-payment of calls.
facility is due for refinancing in October 2010.
The Group is taking early steps to open refinancing negotiations with Significant agreements lenders and expects to be able to achieve sufficient refinancing There are no significant agreements to which the Company to meet its future requirements.
is a party which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show Prompt payment policy that the Group has sufficient financial resources, together with The Company aims to observe the highest standard of business assets that are expected to generate free cash flow to the Group practice as both a buyer and seller of products and services.
due to the relatively inelastic demand for the Groups primary The Companys average number of days outstanding in respect product, electricity.
As a consequence the Directors have a of trade creditors for the year ended 31 December 2008 was reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group are 35 days.
well placed to manage their business risks and to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, despite By order of the Board the current uncertain global economic outlook.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Stephen Ramsay Company Secretary 10 March 2009
