Our core values 8 International Power Annual Report 2008 Our core values Financial discipline Integrity of communication espect for the individual R afe behaviour S eam first culture T Our FIRST values are translated into practical Integrity of communication guidance throughout International Powers business International Power is managed on the basis of policies.
These cover the environment, health and integrity, honesty, openness and fairness in business safety, communications, equal opportunities, dealings, both internally and externally.
Good procurement, ethical business practices, conduct business decisions are based on good quality in the community and charitable contributions.
information presented clearly and concisely, on A Board-approved staff handbook, the International time, and with neither a positive nor negative bias.
Power Code of Business Conduct, which This applies equally to information flowing to and incorporates all relevant International Power from management.
We seek to build sustainable HUBCO, Pakistan policies, has been cascaded throughout the Group.
business relationships based on honest communication.
Financial discipline We will ensure that any corporate reports and Our aim of long-term financial success depends other external communications are complete, upon financial discipline.
While, as a growing understandable and truthful and reflect the proper company, we are entrepreneurial in our approach operations of the business.
At the same time, to investments, we are aware of our duty to protect we will respect our confidentiality obligations.
Financial discipline means: making realistic risk assessments when we value potential investments not overpaying for assets we acquire or develop ensuring risk can be managed on an ongoing basis cutting out extravagance and waste in business-related expenditures, including administrative and overhead costs Business overview 9 Respect for the individual Safe behaviour International Power is staffed by highly skilled It is relatively easy to introduce corporate policies professionals with a range of expertise.
Mutual and procedures which demand compliance, but all respect is a key priority, demonstrated by: unsafe acts or omissions can be avoided if the right attitude and safe behaviour is automatically applied respecting the opinions of colleagues to everything we do.
zero tolerance for physical or verbal abuse This safe behaviour will help to deliver our goal of hiring new employees with not only the zero accidents whilst at work, and can equally apply right competencies, but also a good attitude when not at work.
We therefore need to ensure and work ethic to integrate within our staff understand the right things to do, and International Power make sure that they are performed properly, with no short cuts or excuses in short, to behave safely applying equal opportunities to all, regardless all day, every day.
of nationality, gender, age, ethnicity or religion operating our business to the highest Team first culture professional standards Our business has evolved from a technology-driven industry into one in which technical skill, project We believe every International Power professional development expertise, construction and should have ample opportunity to use his or her procurement know how, trading capability, existing skills and develop new ones.
operations, financial, information technology, legal, human resources, communications, accounting and tax acumen all play a substantial part.
With such a range of disciplines, success depends on teamwork, with each employee being able to bring his or her individual skills and expertise to the fore.
Teamwork requires complete sharing of necessary information, inclusion rather than exclusion, and a lend-a-hand philosophy at all levels of the organisation.
Meeting our customers expectations calls for us to be customer-focused and responsive.
We want our customers to know our teams and respect their capabilities and performance.
First Hydro, UK Coleto Creek, US
