com Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information Share capital capital in issue after the purchase and, accordingly, The authorised and issued share capital of the that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
Company, together with the rights and obligations The Directors will also give careful consideration to attaching to the shares and details of the movements gearing levels of the Company and its general in the Companys issued share capital during the financial position.
Any shares purchased in this way year, are shown in note 20 to the financial statements.
may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, There are no special restrictions on the transfer, or will provide the Company with flexibility in the voting rights of the Companys shares, which are management of its share capital.
Where treasury admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, and may be traded through the CREST system.
they will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% limit on the number of shares Allotment of own shares that may be issued over a ten-year period under our At the AGM held in 2008, the shareholders relevant share plan rules.
generally and unconditionally, authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities up to Policy and practice on payment of suppliers approximately one-third of the nominal amount The Group does not follow a single standard on of issued share capital, for a period of five years, payment practice but has a variety of payment terms under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985. with its suppliers.
Payment terms are agreed at the This authority was not exercised during the year commencement of business with each supplier and and the Directors currently have no intention to it is the policy of the Group that payment is made do so although it is their intention to renew this accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions authority and, in the light of guidance issued by the being met.
The Company has no trade payables.
Association of British Insurers in December 2008 to Significant relationships seek an increase in the authority as set out in the The Group does not have any contractual or other Notice of AGM accompanying this Annual Report.
relationships with any single party which are Also at the AGM in 2008, the Directors were essential to the business of the Group and therefore, empowered by the shareholders to allot equity no such relationships have been disclosed.
securities, up to 5% of the Companys issued share Social and community issues capital, for cash under section 95 of the Companies The Group does not have any group-wide policies Act 1985.
It is intended that this authority be in relation to social and community issues.
We renewed, up to 5%, at the forthcoming AGM.
encourage our local managers to foster community Purchase of own shares links that are appropriate to the businesses they At the AGM held in 2008, shareholders generally manage.
Further details are given in our Corporate and unconditionally authorised the Company to Social Responsibility Report on page 63. buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by Directors interests market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM Richard Nelson may occasionally undertake special to be held this year.
No such purchases have been project work for the Group.
Details of these service made to date pursuant to this authority.
The arrangements are disclosed in the Remuneration Directors will seek to renew this authority for up to Report on page 48 and in note 30 to the financial 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This power will only be exercised statements.
With these exceptions, other than if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will employment contracts, none of the Directors of increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share the Company had a personal interest in any business 28653 pp056-058.
indd 56 5 3 09 23:52:57 57 Annual Report 2008 57 transactions of the Company or its subsidiaries.
defined in Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies The terms of the Directors service contracts and Act 2006.
Further details of this are contained in the Directors interests in the shares and options of the Notice of the AGM.
the Company in respect of which transactions are Auditors notifiable to the Company under the Disclosure The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 are disclosed in the willingness to continue in office and a resolution Remuneration Report on page 49 and 52 to 55. that they be reappointed will be proposed at the Substantial shareholdings forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 489 The information disclosed to the Company, as at of the Companies Act 2006.
1 March 2009, under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Annual General Meeting and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services The Notice convening the AGM, to be held on Friday Authority is in respect of holdings exceeding the 15 May 2009, is available for download from the 3% notification threshold, and is detailed below: Companys corporate website at www.
Save for the above, at the date of this report no The Notice will detail the business to be conducted other person has reported an interest notifiable at the meeting and include information concerning under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in Number Percentage of relation to voting rights.
Major shareholder of shares voting rights Disclosure of information to auditors Lone Pine Capital LLC The Directors who held office at the date of & Stephen F Mandel Jr 19,138,766 12.1% approval of this Directors Report confirm that, Legal & General Group plc 6,217,137 3.9% Eminence Capital, LLC 5,861,000 3.7% so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps Charitable and political donations that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to During 2008, the Group made charitable donations make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit of 108,000 2007: 68,000, mostly to support information and to establish that the Companys earthquake victims in China.
auditors are aware of that information.
At the AGM in 2008 shareholders passed a This Directors Report comprising pages 06 to 65 resolution, on a precautionary basis, to authorise has been approved by the Board and signed on its the Company to make donations to EU political behalf by: organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms are defined in the Companies Act 2006 not exceeding 90,000.
During the year the Fiona Evans Group did not make any political donations 2007: Group Company Secretary nil.
It is the Companys policy not, directly or through any subsidiary, to make what are commonly 9 March 2009 regarded as donations to any political party.
Registered Office However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company 25 Savile Row shareholders approval will again be sought to London authorise the Group to make political donations W1S 2ES and or incur political expenditure as such terms are Registered Number: 4267576 28653 pp056-058.
