com Directors Report Governance Board of Directors Vanni Treves 68 Wolfhart Hauser 59 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Appointed to the Board as Chairman in May 2002.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Officer in He is a corporate solicitor and was a Partner of a major March 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive Director London law firm, Macfarlanes, for 30 years for 12 of since November 2002.
He was previously Chief Executive which he was Senior Partner.
He has been Chairman Officer of TV Product Services for 10 years and Chief of three listed companies, Channel Four Television Executive Officer and President of TV Sddeutschland and London Business School and is currently Chairman AG from 1998 to 2002.
Starting his career as a scientist in of Equitable Life Assurance Society, Korn Ferry pharmacology and ergonomics, he established and led a International UK Limited and the National College for broad range of successful international service industry School Leadership.
He is also a Senior Advisor to Oliver businesses over 25 years.
He is also currently a Wyman, a leading management consultancy, and a Non-Executive Director of LogicaCMG plc.
Trustee of the J Paul Getty Charitable Trust.
Richard Nelson 66 David Allvey 63 Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman in April Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2005 after retiring as Chief Executive Officer of the May 2002.
With a career that started in civil engineering, Group, a position he had held since the acquisition from as a Chartered Accountant he has held positions in major lnchcape plc in 1996.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive international businesses including Group Finance Officer of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd from 1987 and Director for BAT Industries and Barclays Bank plc and before then of Transcontinental Services Ltd, which was Chief Operating Officer for Zurich Financial Services.
bought by lnchcape plc in 1985.
A Chartered Accountant He is currently Chairman of Costain Group plc and Arena and a graduate of the London Business School.
Coventry Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of William Hill plc and Thomas Cook plc, and is a former board member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
indd 32 6 3 09 00:01:26 33 Annual Report 2008 33 Bill Spencer 49 Mark Loughead 49 Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Appointed to the Board as a Director in April 2002, Appointed to the Board and appointed Chief Operating he has been Chief Financial Officer of the Group since its Officer COO of Intertek Group plc on 1 January 2008. acquisition from Inchcape plc in 1996.
Previously, he was As COO, he leads the global integration of sales, key account the Finance Director of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd, management, global information systems and countryhaving joined the Group in 1992 as a Regional Financial focused activities across the Group.
Previously, he was Chief Officer in the Oil, Chemical & Agri division.
He has held Executive of Interteks Oil, Chemical & Agri division.
Before financial positions in Olivetti UK Ltd, Rexam PLC and this, he was Vice President of the division in the Americas Centrica plc.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute and prior to that, divisional Vice President in Europe, Middle of Management Accountants and a member of the East and Africa.
He joined the Group in 1988 as Operations Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Manager in Liverpool and in 1993 he was promoted to Regional Manager for Scotland, based in Aberdeen.
Prior to joining Intertek, he spent 13 years at Inspectorate including six years in the Middle East.
Debra Rade 55 Christopher Knight 62 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in in January 2006.
He was an investment banker for nearly 30 an officer of Underwriters Laboratories Inc. a global years, for much of that time with Morgan Grenfell and provider of product safety testing and certification Deutsche Bank, of which he was a managing director and held various positions there, including Senior Vice until 2001.
He has extensive corporate finance President, Chief Legal Officer, and Chief Administrative experience gained during his banking career in London, Officer.
This year, after more than four years as a partner New York and Hong Kong.
A Chartered Accountant, he in a large international law firm, she established Rade is Chairman of Brooks Macdonald Group plc and NB Real Law LLC and Rade Consulting LLC in Chicago focused on Estate Group Limited.
product testing and safety, certification, standards and regulatory issues.
