OUR BUSINESSES INdUSTRIAL AUTOMATION Process Systems data into vital plant information in order to enable customers to Invensys Process Systems IPS is a technology, software and visualise, analyse and optimise the performance, speed and agility consulting firm helping clients take advantage of the real-time of their production operations.
Wonderware led the Invensys convergence of manufacturing and business operations.
IPS offers development of the unique ArchestrA software architecture.
an integrated portfolio of proven services in process automation This platform integrates software and hardware from virtually any and safety systems, manufacturing operations and optimisation vendor, significantly reducing customers total cost of ownership software, and plant-to-business intelligence solutions.
The firms through easy installation, operation, modification, maintenance industry-specific expertise and its market-leading products such and replication of industrial software applications.
Wonderware as Foxboro, Triconex, SimSciEsscor and Avantis allow IPS software capabilities are utilised by end customers, OEMs, systems clients to operate more efficiently and make better informed integrators, and within other Invensys business unit offerings.
Eurotherm Tying all of these capabilities together is the IPS InFusion Eurotherms commitment is to provide marketleading control and enterprise control system ECS.
The InFusion system provides a automation solutions, and to help customers meet the demands common engineering, automation and applications environment of the statutory regulations and validation requirements for their that connects, collects and leverages all the knowledge and data industry.
available from disparate systems and technologies.
The InFusion system is an example of the IPS commitment to be a new breed The Eurotherm offering includes consultancy in the initial project of open integrator for its clients.
planning phase, solution and system design, project management, installation, on-site services and operator training.
These IPS is a highly valued strategic partner fundamentally attached services are supported by market-leading products ranging from to, and enabling, the worlds premier players in vital vertical sensors and measurement indicators through process and power industries.
As these companies look to maximise their performance controllers to graphical paperless data recorders and integrated improvement strategies, they turn to IPS to uncover and advance process automation equipment.
new integrated approaches to plant, manufacturing, supply chain and business operations.
Eurotherm has global expertise in many industrial markets, with dedicated specialists in some key areas including life sciences, Wonderware is the worlds leading software solutions supplier for glass manufacturing, metals and plastics and the heat treatment production manufacturing IT and supervisory automation, with of metals for industries such as aerospace and automotive.
an installed base of over 500,000 active licenses in over 100,000 global customer locations.
Wonderware software transforms 4 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 TRANSPORTATION Rail Group Dimetronic Signals Invensys Rail Group is a multinational leader in delivering state-ofDimetronic Signals, based in Madrid, is the leading supplier of the-art railway control and communication solutions.
Rail Group signalling and control systems for both mainline and mass transit enables the worlds railways to help meet the ever-increasing railways in the Iberian peninsula and is helping Rail Groups export demand for rail services by providing a range of solutions that push across Latin America, North Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
safely increase the capacity of their networks by increasing frequency and maximising operational effectiveness.
Westinghouse Rail Systems Australia The leading mainline railway signalling and control specialist in Rail Groups broad offering ranges from highly complex integrated Australasia, the company is also leading Rail Groups export plans control centre solutions that supervise and control complete across the South East Asia region with facilities in Hong Kong, railways to sophisticated train-based systems that automate train Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.
operation and protection, interlocking systems that ensure safe running across a network and a complete range of trackside Safetran Systems products.
Safetran Systems is a leading supplier to the US railroad and transit markets where it is the leading supplier of grade crossing warning As the global business in rail control and communication is systems.
Safetran products are sold in all the markets served by highly regionalised, Rail Group operates through its regional Rail Group businesses.
businesses at the point of delivery, with close cooperation and coordination to ensure customers throughout the world benefit from the resources and expertise of the whole Rail Group.
Westinghouse Rail Systems Westinghouse Rail Systems is the leading supplier of signalling systems for mainline and mass transit railways in the UK and is helping export this expertise to customers in Northern Europe and the Far East.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 5 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUEd CONTROLS Controls IMServ The Controls business group is a global provider of control devices This UK-based business specialises in energy data management.
for products in residential homes and commercial buildings, with IMServ provides, installs and maintains energy meters and strong positions in the markets it serves.
Its objective is to become provides automatic and manual capture of the data they the number one value provider to its customers.
Its customers include retailers, banks, manufacturing businesses, utility companies, building and construction firms Controls operates in the following major markets: and governments.
Appliance Aftermarket Controls designs, engineers and manufactures components Controls distributes a vast array of replacement products and control systems for cooking, refrigeration, laundry and for OEM equipment, encompassing thermostats, valves, zone dishwashing products sold in both the commercial and residential controls, timers and electronic components marketed under sectors.
Our solutions help our customers improve consumer our leading brands.
In addition, a variety of ambient controls are satisfaction with enhanced features while providing performance manufactured for both commercial and residential applications.
that exceeds the energy consumption standards of regulatory As with Appliance, the supply is on a global scale.
The business supplies to the North and South American, European and Asian appliance markets.
Water heating, HVAC, automotive and commercial refrigeration Controls develops products used in the water heating, HVAC, automotive and commercial refrigeration markets.
It is a leading designer and manufacturer of products that control and sense temperature and humidity in residential, light commercial and automotive applications, and improve air quality in homes.
As with Appliance, the supply is on a global scale.
6 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 Innovation We apply inspiration, imagination and creativity for high performance Finding an innovative use for technology from one business to create market-leading solutions in another, Rail Group adapted control technology TM from Process Systems to create WESTLOCK a new generation interlocking for railway signalling.
Following a series of phased trials for Network Rail in the UK, in december 2007 WESTLOCK was approved for use and replaced solid state interlocking control at Leamington Spa.
Its incorporation into an operational system proves how easily WESTLOCK can be integrated into existing signalling, whilst also demonstrating its greater processing speed and power, as well as enhanced system maintainability.
Emma Hollis Westinghouse Rail Systems
