DIRECTORS REPORT The directors submit their report and the audited accounts for Directors indemnity and insurance the year ended 31 March 2008 as set out on pages 63 to 136 and In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company has page 139. provided to all the directors an indemnity to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985 in respect of liabilities incurred as a Principal activities result of their office, and the Company has taken out an insurance The principal activities for the year are contained in the Business policy in respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be review on pages 16 to 44.
The principal subsidiaries which affect indemnified.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover our profit or net assets in the year are listed on page 139. in the event that the director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Business review The Company is required by the Companies Act 1985 to set out in Acquisitions and disposals this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the On 1 July 2007 the Group acquired Cimnet, Inc. an MES software financial year ended 31 March 2008 and the position of the Group company based in Pennsylvania, US for 12 million on a debt cash at the end of the year.
The following disposals have taken place during the year: Effective This review is contained in the Business review section of the Proceeds Proportion date of m disposed disposal Annual report and accounts pages 16 to 44, with further commentary on the Groups strategy, performance and APV 250 100% 31 December 2007 development in the Chairmans statement pages 12 and 13 and Safety 22 100% 31 December 2007 the Chief Executives statement pages 14 and 15.
The Business Burco 15 100% 31 March 2008 review includes a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Reversing Valves 7 100% 23 November 2007 facing the Group pages 42 to 44, a discussion of key financial 294 performance measures pages 17 to 22, information on our use of financial instruments and a description of our financial risk Capital structure management objectives and policies pages 22 and 23.
Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of movements in the issued share capital of the Company Dividends during the year are shown in Note 27 on page 109.
The Company The directors do not propose a dividend 2007: nil.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed currently has a significant deficit on distributable reserves and is income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general therefore unable to pay a dividend.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both Board of directors governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association The current directors of the Company and their biographical details and prevailing legislation.
A statement of their remuneration and interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out in The Company operates two employee benefit trusts to hold shares the Remuneration report on page 57. pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys employee share plans.
Each trust has an independent Martin Jay has informed the other members of the Board that he is trustee which waives its rights to vote on the shareholding.
Details intending to retire as Chairman and a director of the Company at of employee share schemes and shares held by the Invensys No.
By then, he will have been Employee Benefit Trust are set out in Note 27 on page 110.
Chairman for six years and believes that it will be an appropriate time to hand over to a successor.
He has made his intentions clear Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank now so that the Board can put in place a thorough and orderly pari passu with other shares in issue and have no special rights, process to appoint a new Chairman and ensure that a smooth save that certain share awards involve retention periods after transfer of responsibilities can take place.
Further, non-executive directors use a proportion of their fees to purchase shares in the Company which may not normally be The rules governing the appointment and retirement of directors transferred during a directors period of office.
are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
All directors served throughout the year other than Pat Zito who was appointed At the 2007 Annual General Meeting the directors were authorised on 23 May 2007.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, Bay Green to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of will retire by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association 26.3 million approximately 33% of the issued ordinary share of the Company and, being eligible, will offer himself for capital as at June 2007.
Renewal was also sought for the directors reappointment.
The Chairmans letter and Notice of Annual General to allot relevant securities and to allot equity securities for cash Meeting explains why the Board believes that Mr Green should up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 4.0 million be reappointed.
other than on a pre-emptive basis, shareholders having previously approved similar resolutions.
The directors did not utilise this The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and authority during the year under review save than to issue shares to the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, satisfy awards under the Companys share option and incentive together with any specific authorities that may be given to the schemes.
The directors will seek to renew similar authorities in 2008. directors by shareholders from time to time, such as the power to allot shares and the power to make market purchases of the On 7 February 2008, the Company announced its intention to Companys shares.
Further information regarding matters reserved exercise its option to redeem all outstanding High Yield Bonds and for the Board are set out in the Corporate governance report consequently all remaining Bonds were redeemed on 17 March on page 46.
Further details are set out in the Financial review on page 16.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 59 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Articles of Association Change of control Any alteration to the Companys Articles of Association must be Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors approved by shareholders in accordance with applicable UK disclose that in the event of a change of control in the Company, legislation.
As detailed in the Notice of Annual General Meeting i the banking facilities described in Note 21, totalling 680 million the Company is proposing, subject to shareholder approval, the at 31 March 2008 reduced to 525 million on 7 May 2008 and adoption of new Articles to enable changes in the new Companies again to 425 million on 8 May 2008, could cease to be available Act 2006 to be incorporated.
to the Group: and ii a Master Service Agreement dated 15 May 2007 made with Genpact International, Inc for the provision of Substantial shareholders outsourced business services in relation to certain finance and At the date of this report we have been notified, in accordance related functions would become terminable at the option of the with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following Company.
interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: For legal and practical reasons, the rules of the various employee Interest in issue share plans operated by the Company set out the consequences of Name share capital % a change of control of the Company.
Standard Life Investments 9.711 direct interest 8.236 indirect interest The Remuneration Committee has approved changes to Schroders 9.73 indirect interest Ulf Henrikssons and Steve Hares service contracts entitling them, in Legal & General 5.12 direct interest the event of a material adverse change to their title, responsibilities Prudential 8.30 direct interest or status following a change of control of the Company to terminate their employment and receive a payment equal to the Supplier payment policy termination payment set out in the Remuneration report on page 55.
It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary companies should develop long-term relationships with suppliers and establish terms Auditors of trade consistent with established practice in their country of In accordance with section 234ZA 2 of the Companies Act 1985, operation, and to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms payment and that such terms are followed.
The Company is a that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit holding company and has no trade creditors.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Employee policy and development director in order to make himself aware of, and to establish that The Group seeks to ensure that fair consideration is given to the auditors are aware of, any relevant information.
applications for employment received from disabled persons and to ensure continued employment, training and advancement Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in where possible of employees who are or become temporarily or office as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment permanently disabled.
and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Group recognises the need to consult and provide information on matters of concern to employees.
To satisfy that need, the Annual General Meeting Company provides employees with published financial and The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on economic information through its consultative procedures.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting also encourages the involvement of all employees in the Groups available to all shareholders gives full details of the meeting and performance through the Invensys Performance Management the resolutions to be proposed.
System IPMS, which reinforces the links between the Groups business goals, the employees contribution and his her Post balance sheet events remuneration.
On 7 May 2008, the Group repaid and cancelled Term Loans due in January 2011 of US$190 million and Euro 75 million.
Further information concerning employees is set out in the The repayment of the principal amounts, together with accrued Corporate social responsibility report which begins on page 35. interest, was made out of cash balances.
On 8 May 2008, the Group cancelled bonding facilities of 100 million due for expiry in Charitable and political contributions December 2010.
There were no early redemption penalties to be During the year Group donations to charities and community made on either of these transactions.
causes worldwide were 0.2 million 2007: 0.3 million with UK charities receiving nil 2007: 0.1 million.
The Board is of the view By order of the Board that it is not appropriate for the Company to make charitable donations given the Company is not paying dividends.
However, many of the Groups subsidiaries are influential companies and important employers in their own countries or localities and it is therefore believed to be in the best interests of the Group for Victoria Hull those companies community involvement to be maintained at General Counsel and Company Secretary reasonable levels.
No donations were made to political parties 14 May 2008 2007: nil.
Research and development The Group carries out research and development in support of its activities.
During the year expenditure on the research and development of new products and processes amounted to 100 million 2007: 89 million.
60 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008
