ruNNiNg heAder Paulett eberhart sudipta Bhattacharya CEO and President President Invensys Process Systems Wonderware Process systeMs Process Systems designs, manufactures, installs, tests and % change % total For the year ended 31 March 2008 2007 at CER change commissions software and computer-based hardware for the Orders m 870 845 5 3 automation and regulation of plant operations, the management of certain administrative functions of manufacturing business Revenue m 830 779 9 7 and simulations of manufacturing process operations.
It delivers Operating profit m 117 104 16 13 solutions and consulting services that improve the productivity Operating margin % 14.1 13.4 and safety of customers plants.
Operating cash flow m 100 94 11 6 Markets Employees at year end numbers 7,795 7,245 8 Our major end markets within the oil and gas, petrochemical, refining and power sectors remain strong on a global basis with little evidence that the turmoil in the financial markets is affecting expenditure in these sectors.
The upstream and downstream oil and gas and petrochemical markets are being supported by high crude oil and natural gas A F F prices, with expenditure on new greenfield sites, particularly in A B the Middle East and Asia, and investments to improve productivity E E at brownfield sites in North America and Europe.
The increasing demand for energy is also having the similar effect of boosting demand in the utilities and power generation markets across the D B D globe.
Although key markets remain robust, in common with the C C industry as a whole, there have been some delays in the formal award of certain contracts due to civil engineering capacity constraints and political debates in some jurisdictions between governments and oil companies over the share of costs and REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY revenue.
DESTINATION developments A Oil and gas upstream 27% A United Kingdom 3% We have continued to invest in strengthening Process Systems B Oil and gas downstream 17% B Rest of Europe 24% ability to sell high value solutions to our customers.
We have C General industries 16% C North America 35% recruited additional expertise in our sales and marketing team D Utilities and power 12% D South America 6% to drive the solutions offering and to ensure that Invensys E Petrochemicals 12% E Asia Pacific 22% is considered an integral partner of our customers.
As part F Other 16% F Africa and Middle East 10% of this, we have been investing in strengthening our sales and marketing, engineering and research and development teams, which contributed to an 8% headcount increase during the past 12 months, and we are seeing evidence of the benefits of this in the increased order pipeline.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 25 The outlook for Process Systems global markets remains strong, particularly in oil and gas, petrochemicals and power.
InFusion, the worlds first enterprise control system, has gained The 12 million acquisition of Cimnet, Inc. a manufacturing further momentum during the year, particularly with some of execution system MES software company, was completed on our larger customers: order intake is currently running at an 1 July 2007 and it is now fully integrated into our Wonderware annualised rate of around 100 million.
Cimnets MES technology is being combined with our a comprehensive InFusion system installation at ExxonMobils Port open industry standard based ArchestrA technology to ensure Allen Lubricants plant in Louisiana and have received an InFusion rapid deployment and ease of use by the large installed base.
system order for BPs Bulwer Island refinery in Queensland, Australia.
In Thailand we have been awarded a major contract to Performance provide an InFusion system for a new 300,000 tonnes per annum Order intake in the year increased by 5% at CER to 870 million low-density polyethylene plant for the PTT Polyethylene Company 2007: 845 million with particularly strong improvements in Limited.
North America and Asia Pacific.
Revenue in the year was up 9% at CER at 830 million 2007: 779 million with growth in all regions, In the oil and gas sector, we have been awarded a contract by especially in North America and Asia Pacific.
PEMEX to automate eight offshore platforms in the Ku-MaloobZaap oilfield using I A Series process controls systems and Operating profit was up 16% at CER at 117 million 2007: Foundation Fieldbus technology.
In the UK, we will be using the 104 million despite the significantly increased investment in same technology to upgrade the Petroplus Coryton refinery.
sales and marketing and research and development.
Operating margin rose to 14.1% 2007: 13.4%, helped by productivity In the power sector, we won a contract from the Saudi Electricity improvements.
Company to provide plant performance, monitoring and safety solutions to one of the countrys most critical power stations.
The Operating cash flow was 100 million 2007: 94 million, resulting PP8 plant, which is based in Central Province, is one of two power in cash conversion for the year of 85% 2007: 90%.
stations that supply the capital city Riyadh with its electricity needs: the plant is currently rated at 1850 MW, which will rise to outlook 2330 MW after this expansion.
Our drive to expand our related The outlook for Process Systems global markets remains consulting services also saw success including a contract to deliver strong, particularly in oil and gas, petrochemicals and power.
cyber security protection services to Husky Energys Upgrader As the process industries become more competitive and cost plant in Saskatchewan, Canada.
conscious, automation is an area of investment to provide greater productivity and profitability.
We are confident that we can During the year, Wonderware achieved the significant milestone increase the level of growth given the significant increase in the of having more than 500,000 software licenses being actively pipeline of order prospects.
deployed by its customers around the globe.
Software licenses have been sold to more than 100,000 plants and facilities worldwide, which accounts for around one third of the worlds 300,000 plants with 20 or more employees.
26 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008
