James drummond CEO and President Rail Group rAil grouP Rail Group is a multinational leader in delivering state-of-the- % change % total For the year ended 31 March 2008 2007 at CER change art railway control and communication solutions.
We enable the Orders m 429 479 11 10 worlds railways to help meet ever-increasing demand for rail services by providing a range of solutions that safely and costRevenue m 539 449 20 20 effectively increase the capacity of their networks by increasing Operating profit m 93 77 19 21 frequency and maximising operational effectiveness.
Operating margin % 17.3 17.1 Our broad offering ranges from highly complex integrated control Operating cash flow m 93 133 31 30 centre solutions that supervise and control complete railways to Employees at year end numbers 3,512 3,046 15 sophisticated train-based systems that automate train operation and protection, interlocking systems that ensure safe running across a network and a complete range of trackside products.
Markets The global rail infrastructure market continues to grow through a combination of upgrading and expansion of mainline rail networks D C being driven by the increased demand for the cost-effective and low carbon emission characteristics of rail transportation.
C Additional demand arises from the need to create mass transit A A systems to deal with increased urbanisation, particularly in the developing world.
The difficulties in the financial markets do not B appear to have had any significant impact upon the financing of B projects since most are funded directly or indirectly by national and local governments rather than by commercial organisations.
The Rail Groups core markets of the UK, Iberia and Australia REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY remained robust throughout the year, with high levels of DESTINATION demand in both mainline and mass transit infrastructure projects.
Despite the increased level of federal funding contained in the A Mainline engineering A United Kingdom 47% Transportation Bill, our other core market of North America and contracting 51% B Rest of Europe 28% was flat as spending by the railroad companies focussed upon B Mass transit engineering C North America 14% capacity expansion rather than on our main offering, rail crossings: and contracting 32% D Asia Pacific 11% however, there are early signs that activity levels are increasing C Products 17% in the new financial year.
Outside our core markets, there are a significant number of major projects which are likely to be commenced during the next five years, and we are focussing in particular upon Latin America, North Africa, India and the rest of Asia.
The opportunities are large but the exact timing of the award of orders is difficult to predict.
30 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 In the longer term, the strength of Rail Groups technology, its leading positions in its core markets and the significant prospects in export markets provide a sound base for continued delivery of its excellent financial performance.
developments and has been treated as a discontinued operation in the In the UK, we continue to be awarded significant orders from Groups results.
Network Rail under the Category A framework agreements and since the year end one of our framework agreements has been expanded Performance to include the signalling for the significant improvements planned Order intake during the year was down 11% at CER, to 429 million for the Thameslink network through London.
2007: 479 million as the prior year included some large contracts in Spain.
Revenue was 20% higher at CER at 539 million On 31 March 2008, we reached a series of agreements as part of 2007: 449 million, with strong growth in all core markets except the arrangements being put in place following Metronet entering the US.
The book-to-bill ratio is being adversely affected since into administration last year.
London Underground Limited LUL significant revenue arose from the PPP contracts for the London had decided to rescope the new signalling work for the Sub Surface Underground in respect of orders booked in 2003 04.
Lines SSL and this resulted in a cash payment from Bombardier to Invensys of 95 million on 2 April 2008 and a reduction in the Operating profit rose to 93 million 2007: 77 million, an increase Westinghouse Rail Systems Limited order book of 545 million of 19% at CER reflecting the substantial increase in volume partially in respect of work that would have been carried out mainly in offset by increased spending on business development, particularly the period 2010 to 2014.
This development has provided us with sales and marketing and research and development.
Operating a significant opportunity to win the rescoped contract when it is margin was 17.3% 2007: 17.1%, higher than previous guidance retendered in accordance with public procurement rules.
We have reflecting the one percentage point increase following the transfer the certified engineering capacity and the capabilities to meet LULs of Burco to discontinued operations.
Operating cash flow was vision for the London Underground.
Our other signalling work on 93 million 2007: 133 million, continuing to give good cash the SSL and the Victoria Line, representing around 180 million of conversion of 100%.
future revenue, is unaffected by this change.
outlook Our significant investment in technology produced several The markets in the UK, Iberia and Australia are expected to developments during the year.
Our new WESTLOCK computerised remain robust and there are early signs of a pick up in rail crossing interlocking, which is based upon Process Systems Triconex safety orders in the US.
We are confident that, over the next two years, system, was approved by Network Rail for use on the UK mainline.
our strong order book and the level of demand for rail projects One of our new mass transit train control systems, Distance to across the world will enable Rail Group to achieve double digit Go Radio, was successfully trialled during engineering hours in revenue growth, and an improved sales mix will result in improved February 2008 on the Victoria Line of the London Underground operating margins during this period.
and is due to be trialled during passenger hours shortly.
In the longer term, the strength of Rail Groups technology, its We also continue to actively address a very significant pipeline of leading positions in its core markets and the significant prospects major prospects in export markets totalling in excess of 1 billion in export markets provide a sound base for continued delivery of for orders expected to be placed during the next five years.
On 31 March 2008, we sold our North American rail logistics business Burco to a US company, Railroad Controls Limited, for 15 million.
Burco was not core to our signalling and related systems operations.
In the year ended 31 March 2008, Burco reported revenue of 64 million and operating profit of 2 million Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 31
