Mark Balcunas Bernard Biolchini President President Controls Americas & APAC Controls EMEA coNtrols Controls provides engineered components, systems and % change % total For the year ended 31 March 2008 2007 at CER change services used in appliances, heating, air conditioning cooling, Orders m 618 666 7 7 refrigeration and thermostatic products across a wide range of industries in residential and commercial markets, Revenue m 624 662 5 6 together with utility monitoring services in the UK.
Operating profit m 69 59 17 17 Operating margin % 11.1 8.9 Markets Conditions within Controls markets worldwide have remained Operating cash flow m 68 45 49 51 uncertain during the year.
Around 60% of Controls revenue comes Employees at year end numbers 10,334 11,236 12 from supplying highly engineered components and assemblies to the mid to higher end of the global appliance market.
Although the North American appliance market gradually weakened during the year with shipments, measured by the US Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, down 5.7% in the year to 31 March 2008, much of this reduction was due to the decline in demand in the US new residential construction market, which is typically supplied F F E E A D with lower end products.
Controls other major appliance market D C in Europe was softened slightly during the year.
A B developments B During 2006 07, we had organised Controls operations along end C markets and supply chain, which has enabled us to measure the performance of each operation and allowed increased focus upon performance improvement.
We have continued to concentrate upon maintaining the absolute level of operating profit and improving the cash performance of the business.
We are achieving REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY this through pricing for value, supply chain savings, restructuring, DESTINATION productivity gains and the disposal of underperforming operations.
A Appliance 61% A United Kingdom 12% B Residential property 20% B Rest of Europe 29% On restructuring, we have continued with projects only where C Discrete manufacturing 9% C North America 41% we see a compelling financial return.
During the year, we ceased D Commercial property 5% D South America 10% manufacturing at two European facilities and have also closed the E Utilities and power 3% E Asia Pacific 7% Long Beach plant in California, consolidating all North American F General industries 2% F Africa and Middle East 1% gas valve production into our Mexicali plant in Mexico.
We also announced a reduction in workforce at a plant in Belluno, Italy, due to declining demand for electromechanical timers.
This increase in restructuring above previous expectations has 32 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 We have built a stronger foundation for Controls and will continue to invest in capital expenditure and restructuring at least to maintain its operating profit and cash flow performance.
been offset by a reduced requirement for capital expenditure, so outlook that the combined spend on restructuring and capital expenditure We continue to see softer market conditions in some of Controls was less than the previous year.
markets, particularly in North America.
We have built a stronger foundation for Controls and will continue to invest in capital In order to eliminate non-core activities and reduce Controls expenditure and restructuring at least to maintain its operating exposure to the US new residential construction market, we profit and cash flow performance.
sold our Reversing Valve business to Sanhua Holdings and sold the Safety business to the UTC Fire & Security Division of United Technologies Corporation UTC for a total cash consideration of 29 million.
The disposal of the Safety business has reduced Controls revenue exposure to the US new residential construction market from around 10% to 5%, and to 2% for the Groups continuing operations.
Performance Orders during the year were 618 million 2007: 666 million, down 7% at CER, and revenue for the year was 624 million 2007: 662 million, a 5% decrease at CER.
The reductions in orders and revenue were mainly due to some softening of demand in the US and Europe and the termination earlier in the year of a major customer contract in the water heating business following price increases previously implemented in order to ensure an economic return in that business.
We were able to achieve our objective of protecting the profit and cash performance of the business.
We have done this through pricing actions, plant productivity improvements and restructuring benefits.
Operating profit was up 17% at 68 million 2007: 59 million and operating margin improved to 11.1% 2007: 8.9%.
Operating cash performance gradually improved during the year, resulting in an inflow for the year of 68 million 2007: 45 million with cash conversion of 99%: excluding payments in respect of restructuring, cash conversion was 123%.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 33 integrity We do what we say we will do We promise to deliver solutions that ensure quality and increase value.
Wonderware made the promise to deliver a solution that ensured quality and increased value to the City of Thunder Bay in Ontario, Canada by linking up a local pumping station with 20 remote pumping stations using various control systems.
Wonderware distributed control software not only kept water quality high, but is repaying the investment in record time.
Real-time reporting enables maintenance to be targeted, and the ability to check performance trends has increased visibility and helped to identify efficiencies.
We did what we said what we would do.
