32 Directors 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 33 01 Iain Paterson 61 04 Michael Hartley 59 Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Remuneration & Nomination Committees Audit, Remuneration & Nomination Committees Iain Paterson was appointed a Director and non-executive Michael Hartley was appointed a non-executive Director Chairman of the Company in May 2002.
He has over 38 of the Company on 21 October 2003.
He brings extensive years of international management experience at a senior international management experience to the Board, having level, most particularly in the oil industry.
He was a Board spent ten years with Coats Viyella plc, for the last three Member and International Director of Enterprise Oil plc.
years as Chief Executive of the Viyella division.
He is Previously he spent 14 years at British Petroleum plc.
He currently Chairman of the AIM quoted international currently holds non-executive Directorships at Mol NyRt.
businesses Dawson International plc and Servocell plc the Hungarian energy company and Hunting PLC.
He is and of a privately owned recruitment business hartley also Chairman of two private companies, AnTech Limited resourcing limited.
He has worked extensively in Asia, and Plebble Loyalty Limited.
He has held several chief executive and marketing roles in the retail sector, including at Tootal 02 Russell Taylor 50 Group plc, Lewis Meeson Ltd, Trinity International Holdings Chief Executive O cer plc and Marks & Spencer plc.
He holds an MBA from Russell Taylor was appointed Chief Executive in May 2008 Manchester Business School.
having joined ITE in 2003 as Finance Director.
He has extensive experience of all sectors of the exhibition industry, 05 Neil Jones 42 having spent seven years at Earls Court Olympia Group, as Finance Director Group Finance Director and subsequently Managing Director Neil Jones was appointed as Finance Director on of Earls Court & Olympia Halls.
He was subsequently Finance 4 November 2008.
He has held senior financial positions Director of Air Miles International Group, where he managed within the exhibitions industry for over 10 years.
He was all financial and commercial aspects of the international formerly Finance Director at Tarsus Group plc, which loyalty schemes business.
A quali ed Chartered Accountant, specialises in the organisation of trade exhibitions in he trained at Touche Ross & Co where he became a Manager Europe, America, UAE and Asia.
Prior to that, he was in the Corporate Finance Department.
He holds a BA in European Finance Director for Advanstar Communications, Economics from Lancaster University.
one of the largest US media groups.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales, 03 Neil England 54 qualifying with Price Waterhouse in 1990.
Non-executive Director Audit, Remuneration & Nomination Committees 06 Edward Strachan 44 Neil England was appointed a non-executive Director of the Executive Director Company on 18 March 2008.
He has a breadth of sales and Edward Strachan joined ITE in 1993 when he launched ITEs marketing experience and an extensive knowledge of ITEs local business in Kazakhstan.
Since then he has opened key geographic markets.
He was formerly Vice President and managed ITEs operations in St Petersburg, Central Asia for Mars Incorporated with responsibilities for the CIS and the Caucasus regions and currently lives abroad in the region.
In this position, he lived in Moscow and helped CIS.
He also has responsibility for EUF, ITEs 100% owned Mars build a pro table, market-leading business there.
He became a main Board Director in More recently, he served as Group Commercial Director of July 2003 and brings to the Board his extensive experience Gallaher Group Plc.
He is currently a non-executive Director of the exhibition industry in Russia and the CIS regions.
of Wincanton Plc and The Eastern European Trust plc, an emerging market trust investing in Eastern Europe, and is 07 Malcolm Wall 52 non-executive Chairman of Silverstone Holdings Limited.
Non-executive Director Audit, Remuneration & Nomination Committees Malcolm Wall was appointed as a non-executive Director of the ITE Group in May 2006.
He has enjoyed a highly successful career in the media sector and brings senior level Board experience and extensive knowledge of the B2B market and the exhibitions business.
He is currently Chief Executive of Content for Virgin Media.
Previous posts include a 10 year spell with United Business Media during which, as Chief Operating O cer he had direct responsibility for the professional media business unit that included B2B publications and the exhibition business.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
