34 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report on the a airs of the Group, together with the accounts and auditors report, for the year ended 30 September 2008.
Principal activities and review of business The principal activities of the Group comprise the organisation of trade exhibitions and conferences.
The main subsidiary and associate undertakings which a ect the pro ts or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 5 to the financial statements of the Company.
Details of the Groups performance during the year and expected future developments are contained in the Chief Executives statement on pages 16 to 19 and in the Business review Divisional review on pages 22 to 25.
Details of the Groups financial risk management policies are contained on pages 28 to 29.
Results and dividends The audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2008 are set out on pages 52 to 96.
The Group pro t for the year, after taxation and minority interests, was 23.5 million 2007: 23.0 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.7p 2007: 3.2p.
The total dividend for the year, including the proposed final dividend, is 5.3p 2007: 4.5p.
Capital structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movement in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 21.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no speci c restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 25.
Shares held by the ITE Group Employee Share Trust abstain from voting.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by resolution of the shareholders.
There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and terms of reference for Board Committees, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 39 to 42.
Under its Articles of Association, the Company has authority to issue 375,000,000 ordinary shares of 1p each.
There are a number of agreements that take e ect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are considered to be signi cant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide compensation for loss of o ce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 35 Directors The Directors, who served throughout the year, except as noted, are as follows: Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Edward Strachan Iain Paterson Chairman Russell Taylor Sir Jeremy Hanley Resigned 6 March 2008 Bill Dye Resigned 30 January 2008 Michael Hartley Malcolm Wall Neil England Appointed 18 March 2008 Neil Jones was appointed an executive Director on 4 November 2008.
In accordance with Company Law and the Articles of Association, Michael Hartley and Edward Strachan will retire by rotation at the next Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, o ers themselves for re-election.
Neil England having been appointed on 18 March 2008 and Neil Jones having been appointed on 4 November 2008 retire at the next Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, o er themselves for re-election.
Substantial shareholdings At 27 November 2008, the Company had been noti ed, in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Name of holder Number of shares Percentage held Schroder Investment Management Limited 36,488,222 14.72% BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 34,651,709 13.98% Barclays Plc 15,641,801 6.31% Ceyda Erem 14,421,514 5.82% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 13,278,809 5.36% J P Morgan Asset Management 10,034,283 4.05% Standard Life Investments 9,269,521 3.74% Threadneedle Investments 8,478,617 3.42% Directors share interests The Directors who held o ce at 30 September 2008 had the following interests in the shares of Group undertakings: Name of Director 30 September 2008 30 September 2007 Executive Edward Strachan 6,034,633 6,847,206 Russell Taylor 235,439 55,000 Non-executive Michael Hartley 10,000 10,000 Iain Paterson 148,566 281,509 Malcolm Wall 11,456 11,456 Neil England Edward Strachan is a majority shareholder of Kyzyl Tan Consultants, which holds 3,850,000 shares in the Company.
These are included in the 6,034,633 above.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 36 Directors report continued The Directors, as employees and potential bene ciaries, have an interest in the 6,967,783 shares held by the ITE Group Employees Share Trust at 30 September 2008.
There has been no movement in this shareholding between 30 September and 1 December 2008.
Russell Taylor and Edward Strachan each acquired 100,000 shares on 1 October 2008.
Neil England acquired 10,000 shares on 1 October 2008.
Neil Jones who was appointed an executive Director on 4 November 2008 held 9,927 shares in the Company at the date of his appointment.
Other than these, there were no other changes in the interests of Directors between 30 September 2008 and 1 December 2008.
Right to purchase the Companys shares At the Annual General Meeting on 6 March 2008, the shareholders authorised the Company to make one or more market purchases of up to 25,131,599 of the Companys ordinary shares at a price between 1p exclusive of expenses and 105% of the average middle market price of a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the share is purchased.
Since that date, the Company purchased 5,445,585 of its own shares which were cancelled before 30 September 2008.
The shares acquired in the year had a nominal value of 54,456, presenting 2.15% of the issued share capital and were purchased for consideration of 8.1 million.
The reason for the purchase was to enhance earnings per share.
The Company has a remaining authority to purchase a further 19,686,014 of its own shares which will expire at the next Annual General Meeting on 27 February 2009.
In total, the Company cancelled 5,445,585 of its ordinary shares in the year.
Donations The Group made no charitable donations 2007: Nil during the year.
No political donations were made 2007: Nil.
Employees The Groups human resources strategy is to attract and retain talented, high-calibre employees focused on achieving excellent results.
Remuneration policy is designed to achieve this aim.
The Group places great importance in the development of its sta to support the business in meeting its objectives.
This is re ected in the training initiatives in place for sta, both internally and externally.
The Group keeps employees informed on matters a ecting them and on matters a ecting the Groups performance through regular newsletters and through meetings, both formal and informal.
Employees are able and are encouraged to move around the Group in order to experience the business environment in other o ces.
The Group actively encourages the participation of employees in activities of o ces other than their own.
The Group distributes long-term incentives widely to sta in all o ces.
At 30 September 2008 approximately 41% of sta held long-term incentives in some form.
As a result, the Groups employees identify strongly with ITEs overall objectives.
It is the Groups policy to consider fully applications for employment by disabled persons, bearing in mind a number of factors including their suitability and t for the role, irrespective of any disability.
In the event of a member of sta becoming disabled, every e ort would be made to ensure their continued employment and progression in the Group.
It is Group policy that training, career development and promotion of disabled employees match that of other employees as far as possible.
ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 37 Supplier payment policy The Companys policy, which is also applied to the Group, is to agree payment terms with suppliers when entering into each transaction to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of payment.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Trade creditors of the Group at 30 September 2008 were equivalent to 9 days 2007: 12 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders will see from the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be sent separately, that they are to consider and, if thought t, to pass three resolutions that have become routine business at the Annual General Meeting of most public companies.
The resolutions relate to: renewal of the authority for the Directors to allot relevant securities: renewal of the powers of the Directors to allot equity securities as if pre-emption rights did not apply: and renewal of the authority for the Company to purchase certain of its own shares and to hold them as treasury shares.
In addition, shareholders will also be asked to vote on resolutions covering: renewal of share option schemes: updating the Articles of Association providing for new Directors con ict of interests provisions: and any necessary incidental changes to the Articles of Association.
Auditors The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors for the ensuing year and to approve their remuneration.
Each of the persons who is a Director of the Company at the date when this report was approved con rms: so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as fide ned in the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s234ZA Companies Act 1985.
The report of the Directors has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Russell Taylor Chief Executive O cer 1 December 2008 ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008 38 Directors report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities for the Group financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Report on remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the e ects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c requirements in IFRSs are insu cient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of a airs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may di er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We con rm to the best of our knowledge: 1 the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2 the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
The report of the Directors has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Russell Taylor Iain Paterson Chief Executive O cer Chairman 1 December 2008 ITE Group plc Annual Report 2008
