ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Directors 42 report The directors present their report together with the audited consolidated and parent company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2008.
The comparative period is for the year ended 31 December 2007. Business review and results for the year Under section 417 1 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to produce a fair review of the business, including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
This is set out in the Business review on pages 4 to 39 together with a description of the principal activities.
The Business review is incorporated in this report by reference.
The results for the year are set out on page 47.
Loss for the year after tax was 2,554 million 2007: 138 million profit.
Corporate Governance Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is required to include a Corporate Governance statement in its Directors report.
All relevant information on the corporate governance practices of the Company are set out in the Corporate Governance section.
The Corporate Governance statement is incorporated in this report by reference.
Principal transactions and post balance sheet events Disposals On 5 March 2008 the Company announced that it had completed the sale of its 50% share in Liverpool FC.
tv Limited to The Liverpool Football and Athletic Grounds Limited for a consideration of 16 million, plus repayment of approximately 3 million of debt previously written off.
On 7 April 2008 the Company announced that it had completed the sale of its 50% share in Arsenal Broadband Limited to KSE UK, Inc. for a total net cash consideration of 22 million of which 8 million was received in 2007.
On 10 July 2008 the Company announced that it had completed the sale of certain assets of Carlton Screen Advertising Limited to Digital Cinema Media Limited for a total cash consideration of 0.5 million.
All disposals carried out in the year are part of the Groups disposal programme of non-core assets that has been ongoing since the merger in 2004.
Acquisitions On 13 May 2008 the Company acquired the Swedish-based independent production company and programme formats business, Silverback AB, for a cash consideration of 5 million, and further consideration of up to 9 million payable based on profit performance and retention of key employees over the three year period to 2011.
On 1 August 2008 the Company acquired a 10% equity stake in Electric Farm Entertainment LLC, a leading US digital studio company, for an initial payment of $2 million, with an option to acquire a controlling shareholding at the end of 2008.
The option period has been extended to 15 March 2009.
On 29 September 2008 the Company acquired a 51% stake in Imago TV Film und Fernsehproduktion GmbH, a Berlin based television production business, for an upfront payment of 2 million, and a further cash payment of 4 million payable based on profit performance and retention of key employees up to 2010.
The Company retains an option to acquire the remaining 49% of the share capital dependent on profit performance up to 2011.
In addition to the above the Company acquired 25% of the equity in independent production company Crackit Productions Limited on 15 May 2008.
Other On 2 July 2008 the Company announced the issue of a 110 million bond with a maturity date of 20 March 2013, pursuant to its 1.5 billion Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
Post balance sheet events are described in note 34 of the financial statements.
Dividends The Board has proposed that no final dividend should be paid for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Further information can be found in the Executive Chairmans statement on page 1.
The total dividends paid and proposed for the year ended 31 December 2008 are therefore as follows: 2008 2007 Interim dividend 0.675p 1.35p Final dividend 1.80p Total 0.675p 3.15p Substantial shareholdings As at 4 March 2009 the Company had received notifications from the following companies and institutions of the voting interests of themselves and their clients in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital carrying rights to vote in all circumstances of the Company numbers of shares and percentage interests are as at the notification dates.
Shares % 696,046,825 17.90 Sky Holdings Ltd a subsidiary of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 321,967,023 8.24 Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 170,580,317 4.39 AXA S. A 155,146,097 3.98 Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 116,767,766 3.00 Governance for Owners LLP 116,683,131 3.00 Silchester International Investments Limited A profile of shareholdings is set out on page 107.
Share capital At the date of this report there were 3,889,129,751 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Directors report 43 Further details of the movements in the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the year are set out in note 29.
The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from the Companys website www.
com or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required to seek approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Certain of the Groups bonds borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the event of a change of control.
The Company is not aware of any other significant agreements to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
The directors have the authority to purchase up to 388.9 million of its ordinary shares.
The authority remains valid until the 2009 Annual General Meeting, or 14 August 2009 if earlier.
A resolution will be put to shareholders to renew the authority at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The Company has a discretionary trust funded by loans to acquire shares for the potential benefit of employees of the Group.
Details of shares held by the trust at 31 December 2008 are set out in note 29.
During the year shares have been released from the trust in respect of share award schemes for employees.
The trust waives the right to dividends payable on those shares held by the trust that are not subject to any share plan operated by the Company where participants are the beneficial but not registered owners of shares.
Directors The following were directors of the Company during the year: Appointed Resigned Michael Grade Sir George Russell Dawn Airey 28 February 2008 29 April 2008 Mike Clasper John Cresswell Sir James Crosby Ian Griffiths 9 September 2008 Andy Haste 11 August 2008 Rupert Howell 28 February 2008 John McGrath 17 January 2008 Heather Killen John Ormerod 18 January 2008 Sir Brian Pitman 15 May 2008 Baroness Usha Prashar Agns Touraine Brief particulars of the directors in office at the date of this report are listed on page 40 and further details of the composition of the Board are disclosed in the Corporate Governance section.
Andy Haste was appointed to the Board on 11 August 2008, and Ian Griffiths was appointed to the Board on 9 September 2008.
They will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2009 and, being eligible, will offer themselves for election.
Mike Clasper and John Cresswell will retire from the Board and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Andy Haste and Mike Clasper do not have service contracts with the Company.
Information about service contracts for executive directors is set out in the Remuneration report, along with details relating to remuneration and fees.
No director had any interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings except as disclosed in these financial statements.
Directors interests Shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of ITV plc beneficially owned by directors and their family interests at 31 December 2008 are set out below.
Details of directors interests over ordinary shares under the Company share schemes are set out in the Remuneration report.
31 December 2007 31 December 2008 or appointment date if later Michael Grade 436,407 193 Sir George Russell 62,090 4,332 Mike Clasper 18,000 18,000 John Cresswell 784,660 536,066 Ian Griffiths 100,000 n a Andy Haste 10,000 n a Rupert Howell 48,755 n a Sir James Crosby 98,058 98,058 Heather Killen 22,000 John Ormerod 50,000 n a Baroness Usha Prashar 3,000 3,000 Agns Touraine 100,000 ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Directors report 44 Between the end of the financial year and 4 March 2009 there were no changes in directors interests except for the beneficial acquisition by Sir George Russell of 64 ordinary shares under the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Pension Scheme Indemnities Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 31 December 2008 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, an associate company of ITV plc.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or officer of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
Employees The Groups statement on its employees is set out in the Business review on pages 4 to 39.
Ensuring that employees are actively engaged with the Company continues to be an important part of our strategy and our communications process underpins this.
Employees are informed about significant business issues and the Groups performance using email, podcasts, the Companys intranet and briefing meetings at each main location.
In addition the Company has a framework for consultation and information under which Communication Groups on each site have joint responsibility for maintaining a regular dialogue on all issues concerning employees.
The Company has a diversity policy which aims to ensure equality of opportunity irrespective of gender, marital status, race, origin, nationality, religious belief, disability, age, sexual orientation, or gender reassignment in recruitment, learning, development and promotion.
This also covers arrangements for the continued employment of and appropriate training for employees who become disabled whilst working for the Company.
The diversity policy includes a range of measures such as training where appropriate, extensive diversity monitoring and the provision of practical support in the form of 78 traineeship opportunities across the Company.
The health and safety of employees, contractors and visitors is considered a priority.
There are well established health and safety policies and procedures in place throughout the business and these are supported by an effective training programme.
Further information is given in our Corporate responsibility report 2008.
Donations The Company made contributions to charities and equivalent organisations amounting to 2 million in cash and 5 million in kind 7 million 2007: 1 million in cash and 6 million in kind 7 million.
As a result of the PRS issues encountered in 2007, charitable donations totalling a further 8 million were made in 2008.
It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to any political party.
However, within the normal activities of the Groups national and regional news gathering operations there are occasions when the Group may provide some hospitality at functions where politicians are present.
The Group, as part of its normal industry activities, is also keen to maintain contact with all political parties to ensure that they are aware of the key issues affecting its business.
The Companies Act 2006 definition of political expenditure and donations to political organisations is extremely wide and may be construed as covering such areas of the Groups normal activities.
Shareholder authority for such expenditure was given at the Annual General Meeting in 2008 and a similar resolution will be proposed at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
During the year the Group made the following payments totalling 7,968 2007: 9,110 : Labour Party 3,920: Conservative Party 685: Liberal Democrat Party 2,086 and Plaid Cymru Party 1,277.
Treasury operations and financial instruments Note 23 to the accounts gives details of the Groups financial risk management policies and related exposures.
Creditor payment policy The Companys policy, in relation to all its suppliers, is to settle the terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, ensure awareness of the terms and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Company does not follow any code or standard on payment practice.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Company as at 31 December 2008 was nil days 2007: nil days.
Going concern Details of the Groups liquidity risk and going concern position are set out on page 36 of the Financial Review.
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated and parent Company financial statements Properties Notes 12 and 27 to the accounts give details of the Groups properties as at the balance sheet date.
Audit The directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 14 May 2009 at 11.00 am in the Whittle Room at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting contains an explanation of special business to be considered at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice is available on the Companys website at www.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Directors report 45 Responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The consolidated financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company financial statements, the directors are required: to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the consolidated financial statements, to state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, to state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Remuneration report, and Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the directors' report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board James Tibbitts Company Secretary 200 Grays Inn Road London WC1X 8HF 4 March 2009 ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 46 Independent auditors report to the members of ITV plc We have audited the consolidated and parent company financial statements the financial statements of ITV plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information on page 36 of the Financial review that is described as audited and the information in the Remuneration report that is described as audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 45.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business review on pages 4 to 39.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 4 March 2009
