Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 05 Update on progress Our strategy is driven by content Strong broadcast channels In 2008, ITVs family of channels held its audience share R Continue to develop ITV1s strategy for peak-time, which once again and maintained its share of the television attracts the majority of our viewing and advertising.
advertising market for the first time in over two decades.
ITV R Increase the efficiency of our network programme spend channels accounted for over 40% of viewings of UK television to allow reductions in cost without impacting advertisements.
With the television advertising market declining by 5% in 2008 R Modernise ITVs public service remit to ensure that the costs and continuing to be weak into 2009, ITV is seeking to increase and benefits are aligned for the long term.
the efficiency of its programming investment.
Across network and regional programming, ITV will reduce its programming R Work to reform the Contract Rights Renewal remedy which investment by 65 million year-on-year in 2009.
However ITV applies to the sale of ITV1 advertising airtime.
is not adjusting its audience share targets.
We continue to aim R Future-proof Freeview and Freesat to ensure the free-to-air for ITV channels to deliver at least 38.5% of viewing of UK platforms on which ITV performs best are as strong as possible.
R Consider options for the successful and profitable SDN business.
Content-led growth External Global Content revenues grew by 25% in 2008, with R Focus on winning profitable ITV commissions in internationally production for other UK and international broadcasters up high value genres.
However, with television advertising under pressure R Ensure greater secondary exploitation opportunities across in the UK and internationally, the outlook for 2009 is weaker.
a higher proportion of ITV commissions.
In such a context, ITVs previously stated revenue growth R Continue to expand distribution of ITV and third-party target for 2012 is no longer appropriate.
However ITV will seek programming and formats across our territories and beyond.
to continue the organic revenue growth delivered in 2008.
ITV will also continue to consider targeted production acquisitions, R Focus on growing revenues organically and via targeted as recently with Silverback and Imago: investment in acquisitions and partnerships.
independent producers, as seen with Carbon Media and R Invest in development of innovative new programmes Crackit: and innovative production partnerships, as recently and formats.
agreed with Fox, Shine and 19 Entertainment.
R Retain and invest in great creative talent.
R Maintain cost discipline throughout the business.
Focus on online video Online, itv.
com has enjoyed very strong rates of growth in R Continue to invest in establishing and developing new terms of unique users and video views.
com advertising means of delivering ITV content to growing online audiences.
revenues increased by over 60% in 2008, with video advertising R Develop itv.
com as a premium VoD entertainment site.
revenues in particular growing rapidly throughout 2008.
R Exploit our catalogue to deliver ITV programmes via open Reflecting ITVs increased focus on delivery of ITV and closed VoD services.
programming online, our Online business was editorially integrated with ITVs broadcast channels in late 2008.
With the online whitespace advertising market under pressure and ITV focusing on online video, ITV has taken the decision to close ITV Local as a stand-alone business and to dispose of the successful Friends Reunited business.
