ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 06 Market context With the transition to digital and the economic downturn, the competitive pressures are intense.
However, the opportunity for content-led growth remains.
John Cresswell Chief Operating Officer As the UKs leading commercial producer Broadcasting broadcaster, ITV competes across a range of Television viewing has remained relatively stable markets.
In a fiercely competitive commercial over the past 15 years with the average adult broadcasting market ITV delivers around 40% of all watching almost four hours of television a day.
UK commercial impacts individual viewings of 30 In 2008, average adult viewing levels actually second commercials.
ITV is the largest commercial increased by around 3% or seven minutes per day.
production company in the UK, producing over half The average home now owns 2.4 television sets of ITV1s original programming, but earning around and there are around 500 television channels half its production revenues outside ITV.
Online, available to consumers in the UK.
com provides viewers with another channel to main public service broadcasters the BBC, ITV and view ITV content and advertisers another means Channel 4 but the vast majority of channels are of reaching consumers.
Over the last decade, the transition to digital has By the end of the year, around 90% of UK homes meant all established media, including television, had access to digital television on at least one set.
have been under constant pressure.
In the second The remaining 10% of UK homes will switch to half of 2008, the digital transition was eclipsed as digital over the next four years.
The full digital the dominant trend by the sharp global economic switchover process started in the ITV Border region slowdown.
Investment in advertising is particularly in November 2008 and moves on to Westcountry sensitive to declines in corporate profitability and and Granada in 2009. sentiment.
No media sector including content Digital terrestrial television DTT continues to production and online is insulated from the be the UKs most popular multichannel platform impact of the downturn.
with around 40% of primary television sets now DTT Amidst these significant economic and enabled.
12 million Freeview DTT devices were sold technological changes, there have been some during the year.
Over 70% of all UK sets now have positive themes.
Individual levels of television digital access, including the majority of all second viewing have remained robust.
On the back of this success, Freeview capacity event TV programmes have grown their audience remains a sought-after commodity for year-on-year.
Consumers appetite for the shared broadcasters.
experience of compelling broadcast content Skys digital satellite service is the UKs second most remains undiminished.
Beyond the digital transition popular platform with around 35% of primary sets.
and the current economic downturn, our view Cable accounts for around 13% of primary sets and remains that the path to recovery will be subscription-free digital satellite including Freesat content-led.
Freesat was launched in May 2008 and taken up by 200,000 UK homes by the end of the year.
Freesat increases the availability of free-to-air digital television, via digital satellite, with 140 television and radio channels, including high definition HD services from the BBC and ITV.
Business review Governance Financial statements ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Market context 07 Penetration of UK television platforms Free-to-air platforms Freeview including Top-Up TV Freesat Analogue Terrestrial Pay platforms Cable Pay Satellite Note: Excludes ADSL homes.
Freesat includes Freesat from Sky.
Source: Ofcom, September 2008 The transition to digital has continued to erode Global Content the audience shares of the five main terrestrial The UK production market remains intensely channels BBC1, BBC2, ITV1, Channel 4 and competitive with a large number of independent five all of which experienced audience share producers, such as Endemol and Shine, competing reductions in 2008.
However this has been with a handful of integrated producer broadcasters, mitigated by continuing growth in audiences notably ITV and the BBC, and other production on their affiliated digital channels and the main companies not classified as independents, such free-to-air broadcasters maintain a significant as Fremantle.
With consolidation in the sector share of UK viewing.
In 2008, the main free-to-air continuing, there is an increasing divide between broadcasters channel families accounted for the larger production companies including the 74.4% of total UK viewing 2007: 74.8%.
BBC, ITV, Endemol, Fremantle and All3Media often diversified across a number of genres, and a large Despite overall levels of viewing remaining stable, number of smaller production companies, which a rising proportion of UK viewing is of commercial may specialise in a single genre.
channels as the BBC loses share.
Within commercial television, more viewing is taking place on digital On the commissioning side, the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 channels, which are permitted to carry an average and five between them account for around 90% of of nine minutes of advertising per hour compared original commissions by UK channels.
The BBC and to seven minutes for ITV1, Channel 4 and five.
ITV both produce a large proportion of their original As a result, the volume of commercial impacts programming in-house.
Channel 4 is prevented by continues to increase.
In 2008, the total volume statute from producing programming.
2008 was a challenging year for the UK market.
Overall UK advertising declined by around 2% in The three largest commissioners of original 2008 to 12.4 billion.
However, excluding online, programming are under varying degrees of where strong growth continued, advertising on pressure.
The BBC has the very significant benefit traditional media declined by 7%.
of a guaranteed income, albeit that the current settlement provides for only sub-inflation licence Despite a flat first half, total UK television fee growth over the period to 2012.
In response advertising was down 5% across the full year to to commercial pressures, Channel 4 cut its 3.3 billion.
Nonetheless, television remains the programming budget by 25 million, or around largest source of display advertising revenues, 4% in 2008, and has warned over similar scale cuts accounting for around 40% of the total UK display to come in 2009.
Across its channels ITV increased advertising market excluding classified.
its programming budget in 2008, but is reducing With spending on total television advertising down, its spend in 2009.
With films, acquired series, sport but commercial impacts up, the price of television and news committed under long-term contracts, advertising declined significantly during the year.
original programme commissions come under As well as macro-economic weakness, this particular pressure when reductions are made deflationary trend has been linked to the impact of to programme budgets.
the digital transition and Contract Rights Renewal.
ITV plc Report and accounts 2008 Market context 08 Major channels spend on UK commissions m 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 ITV1 BBC1 BBC2 Channel 4 five Source: Ofcom, based on 2007 spend Notwithstanding pressures in the UK, international The proportion of homes accessing the internet demand for programming from UK and European via a broadband connection continues to grow.
A large number Over 90% of internet users in the UK now use of the best performing programmes on US network broadband and 60% of UK households now have a television are produced by non-US producers, such broadband connection.
With more homes enjoying as ITV, Fremantle and Endemol.
International faster broadband connections with 50Mb services producers are increasingly seeking to roll out available in some areas demand for online video successful formats across multiple territories to has grown.
A year after its full launch, the BBC maximise revenues and defray costs.
However, was recording around 1 million video views via its the economic downturn will impact demand for iPlayer service every day.
BARB data showed a original production from international broadcasters.
77% year-on-year increase in the number of With their own advertising revenues falling, people watching television content online.
commissioners can be expected to put downward There is evidence that online advertising revenues pressure on producers prices and margins.
In some are gravitating to such high-quality services, rather cases, acquired programming may become a more than user-generated content.
In the US, the Hulu attractive alternative to original commissions.
This online video service has been forecast to be on in turn may create opportunities for international course to match YouTubes advertising revenues in distribution companies.
2009, despite the latters considerably larger reach.
Online Virgin, BT and Sky have all now established VoD UK online advertising revenues increased by 18% services available to their subscribers.
Such services to 2.8 billion in 2008, according to Advertising include content provided by established Association data.
The majority of online revenues broadcasters, such as the BBC, ITV and Channel 4. come from search advertising such as Google An emerging trend is the convergence of online and other search engines where revenues increased video services with VoD, with the BBC iPlayer and by 20% to a total of 1.6 billion.
Online display the ITV Player services now available to Virgin advertising increased by 12% to 579 million and subscribers via the television.
online classified advertising by 20% to 595 million.
The social networking market continued to expand Online now accounts for 23% of all advertising during the year.
Facebook reached over 200 million spend in the UK, up from 19% in 2007. monthly unique users and 80 billion monthly page Whilst online advertising revenues continued views globally, the majority outside the US.
to increase over 2008, supply of online display Other major social networking sites include Bebo, advertising inventory in particular white space MySpace, LinkedIn and Friends Reunited.
banner advertising has grown very rapidly, putting downward pressure on prices.
