qxd 26 3 09 5:38 pm Page 2 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Group Divisions At James Fisher we are passionate about our business, bringing practical experience, innovation and commercial best practice to our clients projects.
Offshore Oil Services Specialist Technical Services Engaged in the manufacture, rental and sale Focused on the hire and sale of large scale of specialist equipment, and the provision of pneumatic fenders, the design and supply of related specialist labour, to the offshore sector.
systems for monitoring strains and stress in structures and equipment, ship to ship transfer services, non-destructive testing, Fisher Offshore and the provision of services to the nuclear The company provides the offshore construction and decommissioning industry.
subsea industry with a cohesive range of equipment and services, comprising lifting, compressor and other specialist equipment and including seabed excavation services via its FenderCare HydroDigger Mass Flow Excavation system.
FenderCare specialises in the sale or hire of large pneumatic fenders and a full range of foam-filled and fixed Buchan Technical Services fendering together with a full range of mooring equipment Buchan Technical Services offers flexibility to offshore for ships and ports.
FenderCare Naval Solutions Plymouth oil and gas operations through the provision of rental is based in South Yard in Devonport Dockyard and equipment and temporary personnel.
undertakes a range of marine engineering, fabrication RMS Pumptools and repair works on ships, submarines, pontoons and RMS Pumptools designs and manufactures a range of other floating assets.
FenderCare Marine undertakes ship to electrical equipment, including electrical submersible ship transfer operations.
James Fisher Inspection and Measurement Services JFIMS provides inspection and measurement capabilities Scan Tech AS for the nuclear, defence, homeland security, aerospace, Scan Tech AS specialises in the manufacture and rental offshore and other industries.
of equipment such as containerised steam generators, compressors, high pressure hot water cleaners, air dryers, James Fisher Nuclear winches and reelers, and subsea equipment.
JFN provides remote handling, engineering, design, Scan Tech Air Supply training, development and plant characterisation Scan Tech Air Supply supplies large containerised air services, to nuclear and industrial clients operating compressors, steam generators and associated equipment in challenging environments.
to well test and underbalanced drilling markets worldwide.
Strainstall Group The Strainstall Group of companies are primarily involved in the design and supply of safety and productivity based monitoring, control, load measurement and structural monitoring systems.
qxd 26 3 09 5:38 pm Page 3 James Fisher and Sons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Defence Marine Oil Services Provides a range of specialist services for Engaged in the sea transportation of clean the defence sector, focusing on the design, petroleum products.
construction and operation of submarine rescue vehicles and the operation of surface ships.
James Fisher Everard James Fisher Everards coastal tanker fleet carries in excess of six million tonnes of refined product annually.
James Fisher Defence With vessels ranging in size from 4,000 to 14,000 tonnes James Fisher Defence provides subsea services and it provides the most flexible distribution service available equipment to navies worldwide.
Applications include in response to its customers immediate needs.
submarine escape and rescue, special forces, remotely operated vehicles and hyperbaric systems.
Key to the James Fisher operating philosophy is the James Fisher Marine Services creation of long-term partnerships with customers.
The James Fisher Marine Services undertakes management and London chartering team is supported by technical and oversight services for a range of specialist vessels including marine expertise from Barrow-in-Furness.
warships and auxiliaries, and provides a storage and Undertaking approximately 2,000 voyages per year the logistics service to the MOD and commercial clients.
fleet provides a flexible and reliable service on behalf of customers.
Foreland Shipping Foreland Shipping provides the military strategic sealift James Fisher Shipping Services capability to the UK MoD.
James Fisher is a 25% Offers ship management, design and engineering shareholder.
services to a number of long term clients operating James Fisher MIMIC on a worldwide basis.
James Fisher MIMIC supplies maintenance and related asset management services to the Royal Navy.
The key product is a condition based maintenance system MIMIC which is installed in the majority of Royal Navy warships.
James Fisher Rumic James Fisher Rumic is a leading provider of offshore personnel services worldwide.
