Directors report for the 52 weeks ended 27 July 2008 The directors present their report and audited accounts for the Companys shareholders 52 weeks ended 27 July 2008.
Details of the companys shareholders, including those beneficial interests notified to the company as accounting for Principal activities, business review and over 3% of the issued share capital, are given on page 58. future developments The principal activities of the company are the development Small related party disclosure and management of public houses.
Details of progress and On 29 April 2008, the company issued a circular for the future developments are given on pages 2 to 8. purpose of convening an extraordinary general meeting of the company, to be held on 3 June 2008, to consider breaches of the Results and dividends Companies Act 1985 which had occurred in relation to i the The profit on ordinary activities for the year, after taxation, payment of the final dividend paid by the company to holders was 35,535,000. of its ordinary shares in November 2007 the November Dividend : and ii the purchase by the company of one million On 21 November 2008, the company proposes to pay a final of its own shares in March 2008 the March Repurchase.
dividend for the period ended 27 July 2008 of 7.6p per share to shareholders on the share register at the close of business on At the extraordinary general meeting, a resolution was passed 24 October 2008.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.4p which ensured that the companys shareholders and directors were per share paid on 30 May 2008, this brings the total expected not prejudiced by the technical breaches of the Companies Act dividend for the year to 12.0p per share.
1985, and the shareholders approved the company entering into i a deed of release, for no consideration in favour of its past and Return of capital present directors releasing them from claims arising out of the At the annual general meeting of the company, held on payment of the November Dividend and the March Repurchase: 7 November 2007, the company was given authority to make and ii a deed of release for no consideration in favour of its market purchases of up to 21,367,000 of its own shares.
shareholders, releasing them from claims arising out of the During the year to 27 July 2008, a total of 3,835,000 shares payment of the November Dividend.
Following the extraordinary was purchased at an average cost of 314p per share.
As at general meeting these deeds of release were entered into.
27 July 2008, the authority given to the company at the last annual general meeting remained outstanding in relation to The release of the past and present directors from any potential 17,532,000 shares.
As a result of the share buyback programme, liability in connection with both the November Dividend and the company expects earnings per share to be enhanced, in March Repurchase is considered to be smaller related party both the current and future years.
transactions as defined by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The fnancial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs The shares which were invalidly purchased pursuant to the A review of the business using financial and non-financial KPIs March Repurchase were subsequently repurchased on 16 April has been included within the finance review on pages 5 to 8.
2008 from the companys brokers, at the same prices at which they would have been purchased had the March Repurchase Directors not been invalid.
The directors listed on page 9 served throughout the financial year, apart from Keith Down appointed 7 January 2008, Takeover directive disclosures Paul Harbottle and Su Cacioppo appointed 10 March 2008 The company has an authorised share capital comprising and Jim Clarke resigned 30 October 2007.
Tim Martin, 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 27 July 2008, Debra van Gene and John Herring retire by rotation, and total issued share capital comprised 138,771,000 fully paid-up Keith Down, Su Cacioppo and Paul Harbottle were appointed shares of 2p each.
The rights to these shares are set out in the by the directors in the year and offer themselves for re-election.
There are no restrictions on Details of the terms under which the directors, who were in the transfer of these shares or their attached voting rights.
office during the year, serve and their remuneration, together with their interests in the shares of the company, are given in Details of significant shareholdings are set out on page 58. the directors remuneration report on pages 17 to 23.
No person holds shares with specific rights regarding control No director has any material interest in any contractual of the company.
agreement, subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or may be significant to the company.
The company operates an employee share incentive plan.
However, no specific rights with respect to the control of the Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of the company are attached to these shares.
In addition, the company company was in place throughout the year, in respect of their operates a deferred bonus scheme, whereby, should a takeover duties as directors and officers of the company.
occur, all shares held in trust would be transferred to the employee immediately.
10 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Directors report The company is not aware of any agreements among holders position of the company, at any time, to enable them to ensure of securities known to the company which may result in that the financial statements and the directors remuneration restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding All appointments to the board are recommended by the the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking nominations committee and are made in accordance with the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and provisions of the articles of association.
The company has the power to issue and buy back shares as a The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity result of resolutions passed at the annual general meeting in of the corporate and financial information included on the 2007.
It is the companys intention to repeat these powers and companys Web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom the resolutions approving them are found in the notice of the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial annual general meeting for 2008. statements may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
In the event of a change of control, the company is obliged to The work carried out by the auditors does not involve notify its main bank lenders of such.
The lenders shall not be consideration of these matters: accordingly, the auditors accept obliged to fund any new borrowing requests: facilities will lapse no responsibility for any changes which may have occurred to 10 days after the change of control, if terms on which they can the financial statements since they were initially presented on continue have not been agreed.
Any borrowings, including the companys Web site.
It is stated clearly on the Web site that accrued interest, will become immediately repayable on such lapse.
information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries and that legislation in the United Kingdom, There are no other significant agreements to which the company governing the preparation and dissemination of financial is party which may be subject to a change of control provisions.
information, may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
There are no agreements among the companys directors or Going concern employees which provide for compensation for loss of office or The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the employment which occurs because of a takeover bid.
companys financial resources, through a review of the companys budget and medium-term financial plan, including Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the capital expenditure plans and cash flow forecasts: they have annual report, the directors remuneration report and satisfied themselves that the company will continue in the fnancial statements operational existence for the foreseeable future.
This is based on reviewing the detailed profit and cash flow plans for the relevant The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, period.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the goingthe directors remuneration report and the financial statements, concern basis in preparing the companys financial statements.
in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Auditors The companys auditors,  LLP, The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of annual general meeting.
the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial Statement of disclosure of information to auditors statements, the directors are required to: In accordance with Section 234A of the Companies Act 1985, the directors report that, so far as they are aware, all relevant select suitable accounting policies and then apply them audit information has been disclosed to the companys consistently.
The directors have taken all of the steps which they make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and ought to have taken as directors, in order to establish that the prudent.
companys auditors are aware of that information.
state whether the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Employment policies prepare the financial statements on the going-concern basis, Only through the skill and commitment of the companys unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are encouraged to continue in business.
make a real commitment to the companys success and to progress to more senior roles as they, themselves, develop.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for all levels of staff: this highlights the importance placed by the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting company on providing a high level of service to its customers.
records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy, the financial ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 11 Directors report In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company has to Resolution 2 Approval of the directors take account of the physically demanding nature of much of its remuneration report work.
The company is committed to equality of opportunity Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, which and to the elimination of discrimination in employment.
The will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders company aims to create and maintain a working environment, to approve the directors remuneration report, set out on terms and conditions of employment and personnel and pages 17 to 23. management practices which ensure that no individual receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of his or her race, Resolution 3 Declaration of a fnal dividend religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, disability, gender, sexual The company paid an interim dividend of 4.4p per share on orientation or marital status.
Employees who become disabled 30 May 2008.
The directors recommend a final dividend of will be retained, where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
7.6p per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 12.0p per share.
Subject to final approval by shareholders, the The company has established a range of policies, covering final dividend will be paid to shareholders on the register at issues such as diversity, employees well-being and equal close of business on 24 October 2008. opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and consistently.
Resolutions 49 Re-election of Mr Martin, Ms van Gene, Mr Herring, Mr Down, Mr Harbottle Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well and Mrs Cacioppo as directors informed about the companys progress, through the use of The companys articles of association require one-third of the regular newsletters and briefings at staff meetings, at which directors to retire from office at each annual general meeting.
employees views are discussed and taken into account.
In addition, any director who has, at the annual general meeting, been in office for more than three years since his or All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to her last appointment or re-appointment should also retire and profitability and or service standards.
may offer him or herself for re-election.
The companys articles of association also require those directors who were appointed Policy on payment of suppliers during the year to retire and stand for re-election.
The company agrees on terms and conditions with all suppliers before business takes place and has a policy of paying agreed Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing for invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
Trade creditors re-election may be found on page 9.
The re-election at the year end represented 44 2007: 47 days purchases.
resolutions are set out as resolutions 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 in the notice of annual general meeting.
Political and charitable contributions Contributions made by the company during the year, to Mr Martin, Ms van Gene, Mr Herring, Mr Down, various charities, including CLIC Sargent Caring for Children Mrs Cacioppo and Mr Harbottle all have extensive experience with Cancer, were 61,445 2007: 45,736.
No political of the company or in business generally, allowing them, subject contributions were made.
Further information about charitable to their re-election to the board, to contribute to the contributions are disclosed in the corporate social companys development.
The board is of the opinion therefore responsibility report on page 25. that Mr Martin, Ms van Gene, Mr Herring, Mr Down, Mrs Cacioppo and Mr Harbottle should be re-elected at the Business at the annual general meeting annual general meeting.
On pages 59 and 60 is a notice convening the annual general meeting of the company for 4 November 2008, at which Resolution 10 Re-appointment of shareholders will be asked, as items of special business, to  LLP as auditors approve new articles of association, to give power to the Resolution 10, set out in the notice of annual general meeting, directors to allot shares, to give power to the directors to proposes that  LLP should be disapply the pre-emption requirements of section 89 of the reappointed as the companys auditors and authorises the Companies Act 1985 and to give power to the directors to directors to determine their remuneration.
make market purchases of ordinary shares in the capital of the company, subject to certain conditions.
The notice also sets out Resolution 11 Authority to allot details of the ordinary business to be conducted at the annual The general authority previously given to the directors to allot general meeting and to approve the adoption of the new relevant securities will expire at the end of the annual general J D Wetherspoon plc 2008 Sharesave Plan.
Set out below is an meeting, convened for 4 November 2008. explanation of the effect and purposes of the proposed resolutions.
Accordingly, resolution 11, set out in the notice of annual general meeting, will be proposed as an ordinary resolution Resolution 1 Receive and adopt the audited accounts to authorise the directors pursuant to section 80 of the The directors recommend that the company adopt the reports Companies Act 1985 to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the directors and the auditors and the audited accounts of of the company, up to a maximum nominal amount of the company for the year ended 27 July 2008.
915,892, being approximately 33% of the nominal value 12 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Dir Director ectors s r repor eport t of the ordinary shares currently in issue.
The authority unless ordinarily resident in the UK who have completed a specified previously varied, revoked or renewed will expire on the minimum period of employment not exceeding five years earlier of 15 months from the date of passing the resolution or will be eligible to participate.
The Committee has the the conclusion of the annual general meeting held to approve discretion to allow other employees to participate.
the report and accounts for the year ending 26 July 2009.
Grant of options The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only The Committee may issue invitations to apply for options when satisfied that it is in the interests of the company to do during a period of 42 days following the date on which the so.
They have no present intention, however, of exercising the Sharesave Plan is formally approved by HMRC, and thereafter authority, except in connection with the issue of shares under 42 days following the day after the announcement of the the companys share option schemes.
companys results in any year, the lifting of any restriction which prohibits the making of invitations or at any time when Resolution 12 Adoption of new articles of association the Committee resolves that exceptional circumstances exist This resolution, which will be proposed as a special resolution, which justify the making of invitations.
asks the shareholders to approve the adoption of new articles of association of the company which have been amended Options will be granted within 30 days of the date by primarily to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. reference to which invitations are issued and by which the An explanation of the main changes between the proposed and exercise will be determined.
The exercise price will be set at the current articles of association is set out on pages 15 and 16. not less than the higher of i in the case of an option to The amendments will, if approved, take effect from the end of subscribe, the nominal value of an ordinary share and ii the the annual general meeting.
The proposed new articles of closing middle-market quotation as derived from the Stock association are available for inspection as noted on page 60 of Exchange Daily Official List on the dealing day immediately this document.
before the invitation date if scaling down is necessary, the period is 42 days.
In the event that the company is no longer Resolution 13 Sharesave Plan listed on the said list, the market value will be determined and This resolution concerns the companys proposal to introduce agreed with HMRC Shares and Assets Valuation.
a new UK HMRC-approved Save As You Earn plan, the J D Wetherspoon plc 2008 Sharesave Plan the Sharesave In the event that applications for options exceed the number Plan.
Resolution 13 sets out the full resolution to approve of shares available, the Committee shall scale down the the Sharesave Plan.
Resolution 13 will be proposed as an applications.
Employees may, at the discretion of the Committee, be invited A summary of the main provisions of the Sharesave Plan are to apply for 3- or 5-year options.
All options will be granted set out below.
on condition that employees enter into a linked contractual savings scheme with the savings provider nominated by the 1.
Introduction Committee and approved by HMRC.
The Sharesave Plan replaces the J D Wetherspoon plc 1998 Sharesave Scheme which will cease to operate from Employees must save between 5 and 250 per month under 3 November 2008. such a contract or such other limit as is introduced under such contracts from time to time, such sums to be deducted The Sharesave Plan will provide for the grant of options by the from the relevant employees pay.
The number of ordinary company or the trustee as appropriate, to subscribe for, or to shares subject to an option will be determined by the level of purchase, ordinary shares in the company.
The Sharesave Plan contributions to the savings contract and the bonus earned if will be submitted for approval by HMRC under Schedule 3 of any on maturity of the savings contract.
the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 ITEPA.
The board of directors of the company retains the right to Both the number of ordinary shares and the exercise price may make such changes to the Sharesave Plan as may be necessary be adjusted by the Committee with the agreement of HMRC or expedient to obtain such approval.
to take account of any rights issue, capitalisation, subdivision, consolidation of shares, reduction of share capital or other The Sharesave Plan will be administered by the board of variation of the companys share capital.
directors of the company or a duly authorised committee the Committee.
Exercise of options Usually, options may be exercised no earlier than the date on 2.
Eligibility which a bonus is payable under the relevant savings contract All UK-resident and ordinarily resident employees and fullthe Bonus Date and no later than six months after the time executive directors of the company and its subsidiaries Bonus Date.
Any option not so exercised will usually lapse.
whose earnings from office or employment are general Options may also be exercised earlier than the Bonus Date, for earnings or would be, if there were any to which sections 15 a limited period, on the occurrence of certain other events set to 21 of ITEPA apply for a tax year in which the employee is out in the rules of the Sharesave Plan.
These include events ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 13 Directors report such as a participant ceasing to be an employee owing to The Committee may, at any time without further formality, death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy or retirement.
establish further plans to apply in non-UK territories, Options will also become exercisable on a change of control, governed by rules similar to the Sharesave Plan, but modified reconstruction or voluntary winding-up of the company, on to take account of local rules, regulations and practice, the date on which a participants employing company ceases to provided that any ordinary shares issued or issuable under such be under the control of the company or on a sale or transfer of plans shall be treated as counting against any limits on overall a business or part of business to which it relates.
Exercises will participation in the Sharesave Plan.
not be permitted where it would be in breach of the requirements of Schedule 3 to ITEPA.
Voting, dividend, transfer and other rights or reconstruction of the company, an option may, with the Until options are exercised, participants have no voting or consent of the company acquiring control, be released in other rights in respect of the ordinary shares under their consideration of the grant of equivalent rights over shares of option s. Shares issued or transferred under the Sharesave Plan the acquiring company or company associated with it.
shall rank pari passu in all respects with ordinary shares already in issue, except that they will not rank for any dividend or Options which are not exercised within the prescribed time other distribution paid or made by reference to a record date periods following such events will usually lapse.
Options will before the date of allotment or transfer.
Application will be also lapse if a participant ceases to be employed by the made to the UK Listing Authority for the admission of such company other than in the circumstances outlined above.
shares to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Options will also lapse on the bankruptcy of a participant or Exchange plcs market for listed securities.
Options are not permanent discontinuance of making savings contributions.
Any benefits provided under the Sharesave Plan will not be pensionable.
Limitations on grant In any 10-year period, the aggregate number of ordinary shares 8.
Termination which may be issued or is issuable or treasury shares which The Sharesave Plan may be terminated at any time by a remain re-issuable under the Sharesave Plan and any other resolution of the Committee and shall, in any event, terminate employee share plan established by the company or any group on the tenth anniversary of the date on which the Sharesave company may not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share Plan is approved by the company in general meeting.
Termination shall not affect participants outstanding rights.
Administration and amendment Note The Committee will administer the Sharesave Plan and may This explanatory note summarises the main features of the delegate such administration to other persons as it sees fit.
The Sharesave Plan, but does not form part of its rules and should savings contract provider will administer the operation of the not be taken as affecting the interpretation of the detailed savings contract.
The Committee may amend the rules of the terms and conditions constituting the rules.
A copy of the draft Sharesave Plan in any respect, provided that: rules will be available for inspection at the registered office address of the company and at the offices of Macfarlanes LLP, a no alteration or addition to the advantage of any current 20 Cursitor Street, London, EC4A 1LT during normal business participant or person eligible to participate in the Sharesave hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays Plan may be made to certain provisions of the Sharesave excepted from the date of this circular up to and including Plan without prior approval of the shareholders of the the date of the annual general meeting and at the place of the company in general meeting, unless such alteration is a annual general meeting from at least 15 minutes beforehand minor amendment to benefit the administration of the and until the conclusion of the annual general meeting.
The Sharesave Plan, to take account of any changes in legislation Committee reserves the right, up to the time of the annual or to obtain or maintain favourable or avoid unfavourable general meeting, to make such amendments and additions as it tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment of the considers necessary or desirable, provided that such company, subsidiary or any participant.
amendments and or additions do not conflict in any material respect with the summary above.
b after formal approval and while the Sharesave Plan is approved and is intended to remain approved, no Resolution 14 Disapplication of pre-emption rights amendment to key features shall have effect until approved The provisions of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 by HMRC.
A key feature is a feature which is necessary to which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in respect comply with Schedule 3 to ITEPA and the relevant of the allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, legislation.
paid up in cash, other than by way of allotment to employees under an employees share scheme apply to the authorised, but c where any change will have a material adverse effect on unissued, ordinary shares of the company to the extent that participants, such change may not be effective, unless a they are not disapplied, pursuant to section 95 of the majority of the participants so affected agrees in writing to Companies Act 1985. the change.
14 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Directors report The current disapplication of these statutory pre-emption Explanatory notes of principal changes to the rights will expire at the end of the annual general meeting companys articles of association convened by the notice of annual general meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 14, as set out in the notice of annual 1.
General general meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to The proposed amendments to the current articles of permit directors to allot shares without the application of these association of the company the Current Articles reflect statutory pre-emption rights, first, in relation to rights issues recent changes in the law, following the bringing into force of and, secondly, in relation to the issue of ordinary shares in the certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, capital of the company for cash up to a maximum aggregate generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer nominal amount of 138,771 representing approximately 5% language into the new articles of association proposed to be of the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company adopted by the company the New Articles.
The main currently in issue.
changes introduced in the New Articles are detailed below.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed 2.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions passing the resolution and the conclusion of the next annual contained in the Companies Act 2006 are amended in the general meeting of the company.
main, to bring them in line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the Resolution 15 Purchase of ordinary shares form of resolutions and provisions regarding the period of In common with many other listed companies, the company notice required to convene general meetings.
In addition, proposes, once again, to seek an authority from shareholders to certain provisions in the Current Articles which duplicate permit the company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are to be resolution 15 will be proposed as a special resolution to removed from the New Articles.
Examples include provisions authorise the company to make market purchases of up to about the requirement to keep accounting records and to lay 20,815,733, just under 15% of the companys current issued accounts before the company in general meeting and provisions ordinary share capital, at prices not less than the nominal value regarding the appointment of auditors and the right of the of an ordinary share and not exceeding 105% of the average of auditors to attend general meetings of the company.
The main the middle-market quotations for ordinary shares for the five changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
business days before each purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the earlier of 15 months from the date 3.
Form of resolution of passing the resolution and the conclusion of the next annual The Current Articles contain a provision that, where, for any general meeting of the company.
The directors envisage that purpose, an ordinary resolution is required, a special or purchases would be made only after considering the effects on extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended, as the concept of As at 5 September 2008, there were outstanding options over extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the 522,250 ordinary shares, representing 0.38% of the companys Companies Act 2006.
In addition, other references in the issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority under resolution Current Articles to extraordinary resolutions are being removed.
15 were to be exercised in full, this percentage would increase to 0.44%.
Convening annual and other general meetings The provisions in the Current Articles, dealing with the Recommendation convening of general meetings and the length of notice The directors believe that the resolutions which are to be required to convene general meetings, are being amended proposed at the annual general meeting are in the best interests to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006. of the company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend In particular, a general meeting other than an annual general all shareholders to vote in favour of them, as each of the meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened directors intends to do in respect of his or her own on 14 days notice, whereas 21 days notice had previously beneficial holding.
Votes of members Under the Companies Act 2006, proxies are entitled to vote on By order of the board a show of hands, whereas, under the Current Articles, proxies are entitled to vote on a poll only.
Multiple proxies may be Keith Down appointed, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise Company Secretary the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
5 September 2008 The New Articles reflect all of these new provisions.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 15 Directors report 6.
Electronic and Web communications The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force which largely codify the current law, but with some changes.
in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with Under the Companies Act 2006, a director must avoid a members by electronic and or Web site communications.
situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest At last years annual general meeting, the company passed a which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys resolution to authorise the company to send or supply interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for documents or information to members by making them example, if a director becomes a director of another company available on a Web site or by other electronic means.
The New or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 Articles continue to allow communications to members in allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and electronic form and via the companys Web site.
Before the potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of company can communicate with a member by means of Web association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies site communication, the relevant member must be asked Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other individually by the company to agree that the company may provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to send or supply documents or information to him or her by avoid a breach of duty.
The new article 68 would give the means of a Web site, and the company must have either directors authority to approve such situations and to include received a positive response or received no response within the other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the in a similar way to the current position.
The company will notify the member either in writing or by other permitted means when a relevant There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide document or information is placed on the Web site and a whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only member can always request a hard copy version of the directors with no interest in the matter being considered will document or information.
be able to take the relevant decision: secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way which they consider, 9.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys The Companies Act 2006 has, in some areas, widened the success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and conditions when giving authorisation, if they consider this to to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain be appropriate.
In particular, a company which is a trustee of an occupational pension scheme can now indemnify It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain a director against liability incurred in connection with the provisions about confidential information, attendance at board companys activities as trustee of the scheme.
In addition, the meetings and availability of board papers, to protect a director current exemption, allowing a company to provide money for from being in breach of duty, if a conflict of interest or the purpose of funding a directors defence in court potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will apply proceedings, now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and only where the position giving rise to the potential conflict applies to associated companies.
has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the boards intention to report annually on the companys procedures for ensuring that the boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively.
Accounting provisions The provisions in the Current Articles requiring the board to keep accounting records, to lay accounts before the company in general meetings and certain provisions about the appointment of auditors and the right of the auditors to attend general meetings of the company have been removed, as these are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
