Directors, offcers and advisers Tim Martin Chairman, aged 53 Registered offce Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law at Wetherspoon House Nottingham University and qualified as a barrister.
He became chairman Central Park in 1983.
Reeds Crescent Watford John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 43 WD24 4QL John joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 1996.
Company number He is a graduate of Exeter University and previously worked with Allied Domecq.
1709784 Keith Down Finance Director and Company Secretary, aged 43 Registrars Keith joined the company and was appointed to the board in 2008, having previously worked for Tesco plc.
He is a graduate of Leicester University and Computershare Investor Services plc qualified as a chartered accountant in 1991.
PO Box 82 The Pavilions Paul Harbottle Chief Operating Officer, aged 40 Bridgwater Road Bristol Paul joined the company in 2003 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
He is BS99 7NH a graduate of Reading University and previously worked for the National Freight Consortium and Rank Hovis McDougall.
Registered auditors Su Cacioppo Personnel and Legal Director, aged 41  LLP Su joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the board in 2008.
She Solicitors is a graduate of South Bank University and London Guildhall University and previously worked for Courage Ltd and Allied Leisure.
Macfarlanes Su worked in several operational roles in J D Wetherspoon, before being Bankers appointed as personnel director in 1999 and personnel and legal director in 2006.
Bank of Ireland John Herring Senior Non-Executive Director, aged 50 Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Bayerische Landesbank John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of the audit, BNP Paribas remuneration and nomination committees.
He is a non-executive director of Crdit Industriel et Commercial EAT plc and several other private companies.
Dresdner Bank AG Landesbank Baden-Wrttemberg Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director, aged 46 Lloyds TSB Bank plc Liz was appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the audit, Mizuho Corporate Bank The Royal Bank of Scotland plc remuneration and the nomination committees.
Liz is a graduate of Cambridge University.
She is a non-executive director of Direct Wines Ltd and a Civil Financial advisers Service commissioner.
Liz previously worked for Tesco plc for 12 years in a wide variety of commercial and operational roles, both in the UK and overseas.
Dresdner Kleinwort Debra van Gene Non-Executive Director, aged 53 Stockbrokers Debra was appointed to the board in March 2006 and is a member of the Dresdner Kleinwort audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
Debra is a graduate of Oxford University.
She spent 17 years in the advertising industry, ending as deputy managing director of Butterfield Day Devito Hockney.
Since then, she has worked in the executive search industry.
She was a partner at Heidrick and Struggles and now runs her own company, Debra van Gene Associates Ltd, of which she is managing director.
Management board The management board comprises John Hutson, Keith Down, Su Cacioppo, Paul Harbottle and the following: Name Age Job title Length of service David Capstick 47 IT & Property Director 10 years Julie Centracchio 42 Operations Director 5 years Martin Geoghegan 39 Operations Director 14 years Rebecca Payton 37 Marketing and Catering Director 10 years ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 9
