Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 12-23 23 Operational review Ukraine Georgia JKX holds a 4% net profit interest in the Georgian Black Sea Production Sharing Contract PSC.
The contract covers an area of 8,900sq.
km offshore Georgia and is operated by Anadarko Petroleum Corporation.
Anadarko has been unsuccessful in its search for additional partners to continue exploration in the PSC and has indicated its desire to withdraw from the licence.
Under the terms of the farm-out agreement, JKX has the right to regain the licence if Anadarko withdraws JKXs past costs with respect to the licence were written off in 2007.
The other partner in the consortium, TPAO, has expressed an interest to remain in the licence.
Negotiations are currently in progress between JKX and the Georgian authorities to agree an appropriate work programme which would be attractive to JKX, TPAO and potential partners in the current economic climate.
Turkey Decision taken to Karakilise Licences: JKX was a participant during 2008 in the three Karakilise withdraw from onshore exploration licences JKX: 30%, covering a total of 1,230sq.
km in Turkish licences after south-eastern Turkey close to the town of Diyarbakir.
In May 2008 an disappointing results.
exploration well, Hakan Yilmaz -1, was drilled to test a Cretaceous age Mardin Limestone target in the north of the licence.
The well encountered oil shows but was plugged and abandoned as a dry hole after failing to flow hydrocarbons on a drill-stem test.
South East Bismil Licences: In January 2008, the Company farmed-in to two onshore exploration licences in the South East Bismil area of south east Turkey JKX: 20%.
The two licences cover a total of 590sq.
km south of the giant Bati Raman oilfield.
An exploration well, Koyunlu -2, was drilled up-dip from the Koyunlu-1 discovery well in February 2008 and encountered oil shows in the target horizon but flowed only water on a drill-stem test.
JKX considers the exploration results in both licences to be disappointing to date.
Consequently, JKX has withdrawn from all its Turkish licences in 2009.
USA JKX held a 34.4% working interest in the 11,290 acres of the West Huxley Deep Federal Unit in Shelby County, east Texas.
This unit is presently being reformed as a new unit, Phoenix, with largely the same participatory interests.
The operator is Newfield Energy, a major US independent who farmed-in during late 2007.
JKX recognizes the potential of the Haynesville shale as a resource gas play in this part of east Texas but continues to seek to dispose of its interest.
