40 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Directors report The Directors submit their report and the audited spirit of the principles of Corporate Governance accounts for the year ended 31st December 2008. contained in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Results and dividends Financial Services Authority, the Board believes it The profit for the year before tax is $127.6m appropriate to seek annual re-election of all 2007: $113.3m.
The profit for the year after tax is Non-Executive Directors who serve on the Board $78.2m 2007: $74.4m.
Following payment of the for greater than nine years.
interim dividend, details of which are set out in Mr Delcommune and Mr Shah were appointed to note 24 to the financial statements, the Directors the Board after the Annual General Meeting in 2008 recommend a final dividend of 2.6p per share for and therefore under the Articles of Association the year ended 31st December 2008 to be paid on retire and are seeking re-election.
5th June 2009 to shareholders on the register on 17th April 2009.
This payment will bring the total Included in Special Business there are three dividend in respect of 2008 to 4.8p per share.
special resolutions: A review of major financial developments and a Purchase of own shares: The Directors performance during the year is contained in the recommend that the Company seek Financial Review on pages 24 to 31 which are authorisation at the Annual General Meeting to incorporated into this report by cross-reference.
renew the authority for the Company to make on-market purchases of ordinary shares in the Going concern capital of the Company, such authority to expire The financial statements have been prepared on a on the earlier of 15 months from the date of the going concern basis following a review by the passing of the resolution and the conclusion of Directors of forecast cash flows for the next the next annual general meeting if sooner.
12 months, including consideration of the ability of The minimum price payable per share under the the Group to change the timing and scale of capital proposed authority in this resolution is the expenditure, if required.
nominal amount of each share currently 10p and the maximum price exclusive of expenses Activities is 5% above the average market price per The principal activities of the Group are oil and gas share for the five business days immediately exploration and production conducted through preceding any purchase.
If granted, the subsidiary undertakings.
authority will allow the Company to take advantage, if appropriate, of stock market Business Review conditions to purchase its own shares.
In Details of the Companys 2008 operations are assessing whether to purchase the Companys included in the Chairmans statement and the own shares, the Directors will take into account Chief Executives statement.
A review of financial all relevant factors including the effect on perfomance is included in the Financial Review on earnings per share and assets per share ratios pages 25 to 31 and a review of key performance and other benefits to Shareholders.
Any shares indicators for the business is included on pages purchased would be held as treasury shares.
8 and 9. b The Directors be empowered pursuant to Annual General Meeting section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities for The Annual General Meeting of the Company cash as if section 89 i of the Act did not apply will be held at 11.00 am on 3rd June 2009 at the to the allotment, and to sell relevant shares for premises of Cardew Group, 12 Suffolk Street, cash, if immediately prior to sale the shares are London SW1Y 4HQ.
held as treasury shares, as if section 89 i of the Act did not apply to any such sale, up to an The business for the meeting includes ten aggregate amount of 1,565,716 such power to resolutions as Ordinary Business and three expire on the date falling five years from the resolutions proposed as Special Business.
date of passing of the resolution unless Included as Ordinary Business are resolutions to previously revoked, varied or extended by the re-elect five Directors.
Lord Fraser of Carmyllie Q. C. and Viscount Asquith c That notwithstanding the subsequent coming are proposed for re-election given they have both into force of the Companies Shareholders served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Rights Regulations 2009 a general meeting Board have conducted a rigorous review and other than an annual general meeting may be conclude that Lord Fraser of Carmyllie Q. C. and called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As was reported in the 2007 Report and Accounts, in the
