46 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Corporate governance continued investment and the Companys assets, and comply specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive has been given responsibility and is accountable for specific aspects of the Groups The Audit Committee annually reviews, and affairs.
has reviewed for 2008, the need for a dedicated internal audit function and, as noted above, Financial reporting has recommended to the Board that, due to The Company maintains an effective and reliable the scale and geographic distribution of the accounting and management information system.
Companys licences and operating interests, The Board receives a monthly report that monitors the Board continues to be best served by using actual performance against budget and forecast external specialist assistance on dedicated for oil and gas production: sales and costs: and business and financial risk areas to supplement provides the Board with information amongst other the Companys own risk analysis.
The process things on debtors, the cash position, cashflow and systems of internal control are designed to forecasting and to the financial implications of key manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to sensitivities including changes in commodity prices achieve business objectives and can only provide and exchange rates.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Budgetary process The key procedures, which the Directors have Each year the Board approves the annual budget established with a view to providing effective with key risk areas identified.
Performance is internal control, are described below.
In addition, monitored and relevant action taken throughout the the Companys independent auditors present year through the monthly reporting to the Board of reports to the Audit Committee, which include any variances from the budget, updated forecasts for significant internal control matters that they have the year together with information on the key risk identified as part of their normal audit work.
Business risk Corporate accounting and procedures manual A process is in place to enable the Board to Responsibility levels are communicated throughout identify the major business, operational, financial the Group as part of the corporate accounting and and compliance risks faced by the Company and procedures manual which sets out, inter alia, the to determine the appropriate course of action to general ethos of the Group, delegation of authority manage and monitor these risks.
This process is and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and control procedures together with accounting policies reported to the Board as appropriate.
The manual, which includes policies common to all Group companies along The Company identifies and distinguishes High with company specific procedures and controls is Profile Events, i. e. those risks that could have reviewed regularly and updated as required.
material effect on the Companys financial position or reputation, from other business risks that it The application of internal financial control and assesses and considers to be acceptable for the operational procedures are reviewed during visits Company to bear taking into account the industry to the overseas offices by Head Office staff.
and the markets in which it operates.
Quality and integrity of personnel The Audit Committee reviews annually the The integrity and competence of personnel is Companys subsidiaries and investments from a ensured through high recruitment standards business, operational and financial risk perspective and subsequent training courses.
High quality to ensure that the system of internal control and personnel are seen as an essential part of the accountability is embedded in the operations of control environment and the ethical standards the Group.
Members of the Audit Committee visit expected of staff are communicated through the subsidiaries and operations on a regular basis.
corporate accounting and procedures manual.
The Audit Committee considers that management are conscious of the need to identify and assess Investment appraisal risks in their operations and the effect of changes Capital investment is regulated by the budgetary in the business environment, to respond quickly process and authorisation levels.
For expenditure and appropriately and to report immediately any beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals significant control failings and weaknesses that are have to be submitted to the Board.
Capital identified together with details of corrective action.
expenditures are reviewed with major overruns in terms of cost and time being investigated.
Management structure The internal financial control situation is reported The Board has overall responsibility for the to the Audit Committee, which has reviewed the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters
