20 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Ukrainian reserves: Independent reservoir consultants, Senergy Ltd, have been re-evaluating the reserves on the Companys Poltava licences.
Revised reserve estimates are now available for three of the five field areas, Ignatovskoye, Novo-Nikolaevskoye and Molchanovskoye North.
These revised estimates give an increase of 11 million boe to earlier Proved plus Probable 2P reserve estimates.
Work is ongoing in the Molchanovskoye Main field area where the results of workovers and re-completions in the first half of 2009 will be critical in determining the level of reserves.
Revised reserve estimates for this area are expected to be available in 2009.
The current remaining 2P booked reserves in the Rudenkovskoye field are 21.6 MMboe.
Revised reserve estimates for this area are not likely to be available before 2010.
Russia The well programme Koshekhablskoye field redevelopment: JKX completed the purchase of for 2009 comprises Yuzhgazenergie LLC YGE in November 2007.
YGE holds the licence for the workover and testing redevelopment of the Koshekhablskoye gas field which is located in the of two wells in the southern Russian autonomous Republic of Adygea.
The licence covers an area upper Oxfordian of 34.7sq.
reservoir and one The field was discovered in 1972 and produced a total 89 Bcf of gas before well in the deeper operations were suspended in January 2006.
In June 2006, YGE was granted a Callovian reservoir.
new 20 year licence to rehabilitate and further appraise and develop the field.
Following the acquisition, the detailed technical and environmental re-evaluation by JKX concluded that the existing production facility would have to be completely replaced because it could meet neither the new gas specification required for entry to the Gasprom transit system nor the environmental standard for emissions to the immediate environment.
YGE submitted a revised production schedule to the Russian authorities in the third quarter of the period with start-up deferred by 2 years until October 2010.
Formal authorisation for the revised schedule was received immediately prior to the close of the period.
During the period, YGE has: Completed the entire 105sq.
km 3D seismic survey of the licence and surrounding areas Completed the data interpretation, and determined the reservoir distribution in both the primary Oxfordian carbonate reservoir and the secondary, deeper, Callovian sandstone reservoir Prepared an outline design for field redevelopment and commissioned a Russian design institute to perform the detailed engineering work in accordance with Russian regulatory standards, and to co-ordinate the procurement and construction of the new facilities Mobilised the Krenco-900 rig from Ukraine to Koshekhablskoye to initiate the eleven well workover programme.
Workover operations began on the first well in February 2009.
The well programme for 2009 comprises workover and testing of two wells in the upper Oxfordian reservoir and one well in the deeper Callovian reservoir.
Workover of the remaining nine wells to the Oxfordian reservoir are now scheduled for 2010 to meet the revised production start-up of the fourth quarter 2010.
