Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 55-99 38-54 39 Directors reports The Directors and the former Soviet Union.
Dr Paul Davies Chief Executive Officer 59 Physics and Geology from Sunderland University Dr Paul Davies joined the Board on 30th January and spent 15 years working in varied geophysical 1998.
He has been active in the oil and gas industry and senior management roles within the SSL and since 1976 and was the co-founder of the JP Kenny Schlumberger groups of companies.
Since joining Group of Companies which traded internationally JKX in 1995, Peter has occupied a number of senior in oil and gas engineering, oil and gas exploration positions within the group including Asset Manager and production, subsea survey and inspection, and Ukraine, Group Commercial Executive and General shipping.
He has extensive experience of business Director of Poltava Petroleum Company.
in the former Soviet Union and was a founder of JP Kenny Exploration & Production Ltd, the forerunner 7.
Nigel Moore Non-Executive Director 65 of JKX Oil & Gas plc.
He holds an Honours Nigel Moore is a former partner at Ernst & Young, degree in Civil Engineering and PhD in structural and holds non-executive positions on the boards mechanics from University College London.
of FTSE-listed Hochschild Mining plc and Vitec Group plc and the AIM listed Ascent Resources plc 2.
Bruce J Burrows Finance Director 50 and TEG Group plc.
Nigel is Chairman of the Audit Bruce Burrows was appointed Finance Director on Committee and a member of the Remuneration 31st December 1997.
He joined JKX from Ernst & and Nominations Committees.
Young where he held positions in the Wellington New Zealand and London offices.
Dipesh Shah OBE FRSA Honours degree from Canterbury University New Non-Executive Director 55 Zealand, a Diploma in Accounting from Victoria Dipesh Shah joined the Board with over 30 years University New Zealand and is a member of the experience of the oil and gas sector.
He spent more Institute of Chartered Accountants of New Zealand.
than 20 years with BP and was a member of the BP Bruce is also Company Secretary.
Group Leadership for over 10 years before leaving BP in 2002.
Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC Chief Executive of the UK Atomic Energy Authority.
Non-Executive Chairman 63 He was also Chairman of the FTSE 200 utility Lord Fraser was formerly Lord Advocate and company, Viridian Group plc, and of HG Capital Minister of State at the Department of Trade Renewable Power Partners LLP.
Mr Shah is and Industry with responsibility for export trade currently a Non-Executive Director of Thames promotion and overseas investment, with particular Water and Kemble Water Group of Companies, emphasis on the oil and gas industry.
He was then Lloyds of London franchise board and Babcock Minister of Energy until May 1997.
He is a Director International Group PLC.
He is a graduate of the of the London Metal Exchange and ICE Futures Universities of London and Warwick and of the and ICE Clear.
Lord Fraser is the Chairman of the Harvard Business School management programme.
Mr Shah was awarded an OBE in the 2007 New Year Honours List.
Viscount Asquith Non-Executive Director 56 Remuneration Committee and a member of the Viscount Asquith, considered by the Board to be the Audit Committee.
senior independent Non-Executive Director, joined the Foreign Office in 1980 and was the Counsellor 9.
Michel Marc-Delcommune at the British Embassy in Kiev from 1992 until his Non-Executive Director 61 resignation in 1997 to pursue private business Michel-Marc Delcommune, spent over 25 years interests.
He is a member of the Remuneration and with PetroFina Group where he held a number Nominations Committees.
In 1999 Mr Delcommune joined MOL Group.
Martin Miller Technical Director 61 Financial Officer and went on to serve as Group Martin Miller joined JKX in 1994 as Chief Geologist Chief Strategy Officer and an Executive Committee and has held a number of senior positions in the member between 2004 and 2006.
He retired from Company, including directing JKXs Georgian executive duties in 2006 but remains as Senior operations.
Most recently, he has assumed Adviser to MOLs Executive Chairman and is a responsibility for JKXs ventures in Russia and Non-Executive Director of TVK, a MOL Group Ukraine.
He is a Chartered Engineer and has over petrochemical company listed on the Budapest 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry, Stock Exchange.
He is also Non Executive Director including senior positions with Mobil and BP.
of Slovnaft, a refining company listed on the Bratislava Stock Exchange.
Peter Dixon Commercial Director 54 a graduate of chemical engineering from the Peter Dixon joined the Board on 1st July 2007 with University of Liege and holds an MBA from Cornell.
27 years of broad experience in the upstream oil He is a member of the Audit Committee.
and gas industry in the UK, Middle East, Africa
