22 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Further Hernd exploration activity: The Tiszatarjn -1 exploration well was spudded in December 2008.
The prospect is situated 13km to the south west of the Hajdnns field and has a Miocene volcanoclastic reservoir target in a four way dip closed structure, sealed by Pannonian age marls and shales.
Offset well data indicated a reservoir section with good porosity but limited primary permeability.
The well reached a TD of 2,794m and encountered significant gas shows in Lower Pannonian siltstones and in the Miocene volcanoclastics.
An open hole DST was run with only limited amounts of oil and gas recovered but with no formation water produced.
The well has now been completed and reservoir pressure build-up is being monitored.
The remainder of the Hernd licences cover 4,600sq.
km and are generally lightly explored.
The regional exploration opportunity afforded by this position is considerable.
JKX is developing plans to explore other look alike basins in the area, acquire further 3D seismic data and drill further low risk exploration wells.
Nyrsg Licence: In November 2008, JKX farmed-in for a 33.3% interest in 120sq.
km of the adjacent Nyrsg licence operated by PetroHungaria.
This area is immediately south of the Hajdnns trend and is expected to show similar prospectivity at both the Pannonian and Miocene volcanoclastic intervals.
3D seismic is being acquired over the area with exploration drilling scheduled for later in 2009.
Bulgaria Exploration activity In March 2005, JKX farmed-in to two onshore exploration permits, B Golitza in 2009 is geared to and B1 Golitza, covering a total of 3,351sq.
Since that processing the 3D data time, JKX and its partner Aurelian Oil & Gas have acquired 200km 2D seismic for seismic data and data and drilled the Golitza B-1 exploration dry hole in 2007. producing a drill ready During 2008, the focus for exploration turned to the Tertiary age sands, south of prospect by the third the town of Varna.
Legacy well data demonstrated a working petroleum system quarter of 2009. and commercial flow rates of high quality gas from Eocene sandstone reservoir intervals.
The area includes several leads which could each contain 50 Bcf of gas at a depth of less than 2,000m.
km 3D seismic survey was initiated in the third quarter of the period.
Exploration activity in 2009 is geared to processing the 3D data for seismic data attributes amplitude versus offset or AVO anomalies and producing a drill ready prospect by the third quarter of 2009.
Slovakia Seismic data In the first half of 2008, JKX farmed-in to three exploration licences in the acquired in the Carpathian Fold Belt in Slovakia.
The licences cover a total area of Carpathian Fold Belt 2,278sq.
JKX acquired a 25% interest in the Svidnik, Medzilaborce and Snina licences a high-risk, licences from Aurelian Oil & Gas plc by funding the first 1.6 million of a high reward prospect 238km, 2D seismic programme which was largely acquired in the third for the future.
The Carpathian Fold Belt has been an active area for oil and gas exploration and production for many years.
Advances in seismic imaging technology have resulted in recent discoveries in analogous structural settings in Poland.
Similar exploration efforts in Slovakia, a high-risk high-reward province with existing oil seeps and wells with gas shows, could prove up an economic petroleum system in an area with potential for dip-closed thrust traps of significant size.
