Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 55-99 38-54 49 Directors reports The Board believes that the performance-related The Chief Executive may earn an annual elements of remuneration which feature in the performance related bonus payment of up to 100% Annual Bonus Scheme and the Medium Term of his basic salary Bonus Factor, the Finance Incentive Plan Share Option Scheme should form Director & Company Secretary 70% and the a significant proportion of the total remuneration Technical and Commercial Directors 60%.
Other package of Executive Directors.
These are designed senior managers can earn an annual bonus to align the interests of Executive Directors with payment of up to a maximum of 50% of their Basic those of shareholders and structured to give them Salary.
keen incentives to perform at the highest levels.
The Committee establishes the performance The remuneration packages are prudently designed conditions objectives that must be met for each to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the high financial year.
The performance conditions, which calibre needed to maintain the Groups position in are derived from the Companys Annual Budget and the market and to reward them for enhancing value Strategic Plan approved by the Board, are divided to shareholders.
into three segments: 1. financial: 2. increase in It is the Groups policy that service contracts, share price: and 3. strategic, as follows: including the Chief Executives, be unlimited in term but capable in normal circumstances of 1.
Financial Objectives termination on 12 months notice.
The Directors i Pre-Tax Profit and ii Return on Average Capital contracts of service that include details of Employed: Target levels are set and the bonus remuneration will be available for inspection at the element earned varies from zero at 90% of Target to Annual General Meeting.
A sliding scale operates between zero and the maximum.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing that 2.
Increase in Share Price the Chairmans permission is sought and granted.
i Average Annual Share Price and ii Spot Year The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is Start and Year End Share Price.
determined by the Board within limits set out in the A strike price of Base Price 10% is established Articles of Association.
respectively for each measurement before any bonus element is paid.
For the maximum to be Basic salary earned the average strike price must increase 20% An Executive Directors basic salary is determined and the spot strike price must increase 10%.
by the Committee at the beginning of each year A sliding scale operates between the base and and when an individual changes position or maximum.
In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the Group as a whole and 3.
Strategic Objectives relies on independent and objective research that This segment includes a variety of measures gives up-to-date information on a comparator group including the booking of new reserves, acquisition of UK companies operating in the independent oil of new licences, production increases and the and gas sector.
The individual salaries and benefits drilling of exploration wells: as far as possible, of Executive Directors are reviewed and adjusted these measures all contain quantifiable figures to taking into account individual performance and reduce the subjective assessment of performance.
No Executive Director plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
The table on the following page shows that the weighting applied to each performance condition In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors varies slightly for each Executive Director and for receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally health senior management.
This is done so that the cover.
performance conditions are structured individually Details of the Executive Directors basic salary and to reflect each Executive Directors area of benefits in 2008 are shown on page 53. responsibility and his ability to influence results although the need for the executive management to Annual bonus scheme operate as a team is also recognised.
The Annual Bonus Scheme, which is based on the To earn the maximum level of bonus requires: achievement of relevant and stretching all Pre-Tax Profit, Return on Average Capital and performance conditions determined by the average and spot share price maxima to be met or Committee, was introduced in 2001 for Executive exceeded and all of the strategic objectives to be Directors and certain senior management including met.
staff in Poltava Petroleum Company PPC and Yuzhgazenergie YGE.
The application of the scheme in any given year is discretionary and annual awards are not pensionable.
