Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 12-23 21 Operational review Ukraine The revised 2P Koshekhablskoye field exploration and appraisal: JKX inherited a YGE reserves are obligation to initiate drilling an exploration well to appraise the production 41.2 MMboe, an increase potential of the underlying Callovian sandstone reservoir in mid 2009. of 14% on the reserves The Russian authorities have recognised the significant amount of exploration estimated by the and appraisal activity that YGE is undertaking on the Callovian reservoir independent reservoir including: consultants at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition, processing and interpretation of the 3D seismic Integration of the maps with a complete re-evaluation of the well logs and other geological data to determine reservoir distribution and the potential resources in the Callovian sandstone Acquisition of the shut-in Callovian production Well 9 from the Russian state authorities.
Workover and testing of Well 9 in 2009 to establish the potential production from at least 2 of the main producing horizons in the Callovian Integration of the test data with the seismic and other data to identify a drilling location for the initial and, possibly subsequent, Callovian appraisal wells.
In light of the above, the State Geological Institute responsible for the YGE ongoing exploration and appraisal programme is now recommending that the first appraisal well should be deferred to 2011, and possibly later.
Russian reserves: An independent assessment by Senergy Ltd of the reserves and resources in the Koshekhablskoye field has been carried out subsequent to completion of the 3D seismic survey.
The revised 2P reserves are 41.2 MMboe, an increase of 14% on the reserves estimated by the independent reservoir consultants at the date of acquisition.
Hungary Successful exploration Hernd Licences: JKX holds 50% equity in the northern Pannonian Basin with gas expected Hernd licences in a joint venture with the operator, Hungarian Horizon Energy to flow by third HHE.
km and the Hernd II licence covers quarter of 2009.
The Pannonian Basin comprises numerous sub-basins developed promising prospects across Hungary, Slovenia and Romania.
It is prospective for gas and oil, and across the whole of exploration risk can be reduced by the use of seismic data attributes amplitude the Hernd licences.
versus offset or AVO and calibrated well log data.
Hajdnns Discovery: During 2007, HHE acquired 348sq.
km of 3D seismic data over the south eastern portion of Hernd I and identified the Hajdnns prospect.
The first exploration well was spudded in May 2008 and successfully tested gas from three levels: two Pannonian sand intervals and a Miocene fractured volcanoclastic sequence.
The combined flow rates exceeded 13 MMcfd.
An appraisal well was spudded in November 2008 and encountered a thicker sequence of Pannonian sands.
Two drillstem tests DSTs were completed and tested a combined flow rate of 15 MMcfd.
Gas quality is excellent and requires minimal processing before export.
A Development Plan has been submitted to the Hungarian authorities for connection of the Hajdnns field facilities to the extensive and simply accessed Hungarian gas distribution system.
First gas is expected by the third quarter of 2009.
Hajdnns Reserves: Currently, approximately 1.0 MMboe of 2P reserves in the Pannonian intervals have been ascribed to JKXs interest.
Further exploration is required to define the size of the underlying volcanoclastic sequence.
