52 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Remuneration continued Total Shareholder Return, relative performance JKX Oil and Gas 800 FTSE Actuaries Fledgling Price Index 700 FTSE Small Cap Price Index FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Price Index 600 FTSE 250 Price Index 500 400 300 200 100 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 To encourage the retention of key staff, the Non-Executive Directors Committee has determined that an option holder All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of will only be able to exercise up to 50% of vested engagement and their remuneration is determined options at any one time and up to 50% after a by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of period of 12 months, unless determined otherwise Association and based on independent surveys of by the Committee.
fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies.
The setting of the Chairmans The graph above shows the Companys remuneration is the responsibility of the Board and performance, measured by Total Shareholder not the Committee, as recommended by Section Return, compared with the performance of the FTSE B.
The Board believes FI, the FTSE SI the FTSE 250I and the FTSE Oil this is appropriate given the Board size.
Producers Index measured by Total Shareholder Return.
Lord Fraser and Viscount Asquith have NonExecutive Director service contracts dated The Committee also confirmed that prudent and 1st January 2002.
Mr N Moores Non-Executive appropriate arrangements are in place for any Director service contract is dated 12th July 2007. acquisition and financing of shares to meet Mr D Shah and Mr MM Delcommune have Noncontingent liabilities and to provide shares or meet Executive Director service contracts dated 1st June obligations.
These service contracts are for an indefinite The Company does not operate any long-term term, not a finite term as recommended by Section incentive schemes other than the share option A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, subject to re-election schemes described above.
However, all of the contracts are subject to three months notice by Pension arrangements either party and as such, the Board continues to The Company makes a contribution equivalent to believe this is appropriate given the company size, 15% of basic salary to the pension scheme of the the non-executive skill set, and the continuing Directors choice.
evaluation of performance and independence.
In the event of early termination, the Non-Executive Directors contracts Directors contracts provide for compensation of It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors three months base fee.
should have contracts with an indefinite term but The Non-Executive Directors contracts specify the with two-way notice periods.
Dr P Davies and powers and duties of the Non-Executive Directors Mr B J Burrows have employment contracts dated and the time commitments anticipated and 1st January 2007 and Mr M Miller and Mr P Dixon remuneration arrangements.
The Non-Executive have employment contracts dated 1st July 2007.
All Directors are paid a base fee for carrying out their the contracts are subject to one years notice by duties and responsibilities as Directors, and fees either party.
for membership and, where applicable, In the event of early termination, the Directors chairmanship of each of the remuneration and contracts provide for compensation up to a audit committees.
The base fee is based on a per maximum of basic salary for the notice period.
annum rate in sterling that is compared to
