48 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with 17th March: to approve the strategic objectives, schedule 7 A to the Companies Act 1985.
The report financial and share price targets for the 2008 also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Annual Bonus Scheme, to confirm the vesting of Rules of the Financial Services Authority and share options made in 2004 and to discuss and describes how the Board has applied the Principles agree the performance conditions to be used in of Good Governance relating to Directors and agree the allocation of share options in 2008. remuneration.
As required by the regulations the report will be approved by the Board of the Remuneration policy Company and signed by a Director or Secretary on The Companys overall approach to pay and benefits behalf of the Board.
is to reward employees competitively, taking into account Company and individual performance, Unaudited information market value and competitive pressures in the independent oil and gas sector.
The Company does Remuneration Committee not seek to maintain any strict market position but The Remuneration Committee the Committee aims to ensure that pay is set at an appropriate operates under the delegated authority of the level and is comparable with peer group Board: the Committees primary role is to review, companies.
agree and approve, or as required under the Combined Code to make recommendations to the The Committee has appointed Mercer to provide Board, on: technical advice on developments and market trends in how Directors remuneration packages the Companys remuneration policy for Executive are structured, to provide general advice on Directors and senior management remuneration matters including contract structure service contracts of the Executive Directors and to provide information on remuneration levels in comparator oil and gas companies.
Mercer remuneration of the Executive Directors provides no other services to the Group.
remuneration of senior management identified The comparator companies are UK-based oil and by the Committee: and gas companies and are primarily quoted on the LSE participation in, and operation of, the Companys or AIM.
These companies subscribe to a survey share option plans conducted by Mercer.
For comparator purposes the Committee requested Mercer to group them into The full terms of reference are available from the three divisions: a first comparator group of seven Company Secretary.
companies whose characteristics are considered to The Committee is chaired by Mr Dipesh Shah be as close to a peer group as can be obtained: having been appointed to the Board on 1st June a second comparator group which includes 15 2008 and comprises three independent Noncompanies: and a final group of 51 companies in Executive Directors Mr Shah, Viscount Asquith and the UK oil and gas sector and which includes Mr Nigel Moore.
Prior to Mr Shah being appointed subsidiaries of non UK parent companies.
to the Committee, Viscount Asquith chaired the Mercer undertook a health check of the Committee and the Chairman, Lord Fraser, was Companys remuneration practices and policies in included to meet the Companys objective of the 2007 and concluded that the Company was Committee comprising three members.
Dr P Davies, continuing to apply a best practices approach.
The the Chief Executive, attends the Committee conclusions of the report are considered applicable meetings by invitation but is not able to vote and is for the 2008 period.
It is intended to appoint an not present when his own remuneration independent advisor in 2009 to undertake a further arrangements are agreed.
No Director plays a part detailed review of the Companys remuneration in any discussion about his own remuneration.
practices and policies and to recommend changes, None of the Committee has any personal financial if appropriate.
interest other than as a shareholder as detailed in There are four main elements of the remuneration page 41, which given the level of holdings the Board package for Executive Directors and senior accepts as not impairing independence, conflicts management: of interests arising from cross-directorships or dayto-day involvement in running the business.
Basic annual salary including Directors fees and benefits: In 2008 the Committee met on two occasions to discuss, agree and make recommendations to the Annual bonus payments: Board on the following issues:- Medium Term Incentive arrangement i. e. Share 22nd January: to approve payments to be made Option Scheme: and under the Annual Bonus Scheme relating to Pension.
performance in 2007 and to approve salary changes for 2008: and
