16 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Ukraine Poltava Petroleum Company PPC, a wholly owned subsidiary of JKX, holds four production licences covering 271sq.
km in the Poltava region of Ukraine.
Each production licence contains one or more distinct fields which together form the Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex.
PPC has three exploration permits in the area: Zaplavskoye, Elizavetovskoye and Chervonoyarske East, representing a total licensed exploration area of 171.2sq.
2009 will be an The results of the 2008 work programme were very successful in some areas important year for but we have also had some inconclusive and disappointing outcomes: establishing the Drilling, testing and or completing a total of nine appraisal and development near-term production wells profile for our four production licences Drilling of two exploration wells: both awaiting testing equipment and three exploration Further appraisal of the Tournasian carbonate and sandstone in licences.
Molchanovskoye North with mixed results Continued development of the Devonian sandstone in Molchanovskoye North Re-evaluation of the potential for fracture stimulation of the tight and technically challenging sandstone reservoir in Rudenkovskoye and preparation of the 2009 programme Evaluation of the potential for acid fracture stimulation of the Tournasian carbonates which are present across all licences and preparation of the 2009 programme Further appraisal of the Tournasian carbonate reservoir in the structures to the west of the Ignatovskoye field Completion of the tie-in to the Soyuz gas trunkline Continued re-interpretation of the 3D and 2D seismic datasets to generate additional targets in and around the producing areas Update of reserves in Ignatovskoye, Molchanovskoye North and Novo-Nikolaevskoye.
2008 saw completion The Ignatovskoye production licence is located in the centre of the Novoof the tie-in to the Nikolaevskoye Complex and contains the first field to be developed by PPC.
Two Soyuz gas trunkline additional structural trends are now being evaluated, one to the southwest, and and updated reserves one to the west of the main field.
in Ignatovskoye, The main field is an uplifted fault block containing Devonian sandstone and Molchanovskoye overlying Carboniferous Tournasian sandstone and limestone.
On top of that is North and a carbonate reef build up of Visean age.
There is also a series of thin sandstone Novo-Nikolaevskoye.
channels on the flank of the structure, also of Visean age.
Black oil is found in the Devonian sandstone and the lower parts of the Tournasian and Visean reservoirs: the oil is overlain by a rich condensate bearing gas cap and, therefore, the Visean channels can be oil or gas bearing.
Reservoir quality in the Devonian sandstone and Visean reef is generally good whilst the Tournasian sandstone and limestone both are variable and often dependent on local depositional and tectonic influences.
Reservoir stimulation in these reservoirs is often necessary and, although this can give high initial flow rates, the rates often decline to a more modest plateau production.
The main focus of activity was in drilling in-fill wells in the main structure and appraising additional structures to the west: Development well I136 was drilled on the north flank of the Ignatovskoye field: it failed to produce oil from the depleted lowermost carbonate section and plans are now underway to design and install an electric submersible pump Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 12-23 17 Operational review Ukraine Development well I137 was drilled as a Visean carbonate oil producer on the Share of Ukraine southeast of the main Ignatovskoye field but was suspended with a fish in the oil production hole below the 7 casing.
A sidetrack will be drilled in 2009 Development well I138 was drilled as a Tournasian carbonate producer, also Total market on the southeast flank of the main Ignatovskoye field, and had an initial flow 34 MMbbl rate of 1.97 MMcfd of gas and 448 bpd of condensate with a wellhead pressure of 930 psi Appraisal Well I133 was drilled at the northern end of a structure to the west of the Ignatovskoye field and brought on-stream in the first quarter of the period at a flow rate of 3.7 MMcfd of gas and 560 bpd of condensate from the 6.7% produced by Tournasian sandstone.
This flow declined and additional perforations in the private companies overlying Tournasian carbonate failed to flow.
The well is a candidate for acid fracturing or recompletion in the Visean sandstone Appraisal Well I134 was drilled to the west of the Ignatovskoye field and tested water from the lowermost Tournasian sandstone.
It also failed to flow from the overlying gas-bearing, low porosity, Tournasian carbonate.
The well JKX shar e 62% is now being abandoned.
of private companies share Materials and equipment are being mobilised for acid fracture stimulation tests 1.4 MMbbl on Wells I131 and M162 in the second quarter of 2009.
The results of these tests will indicate the production potential of our tighter carbonate reservoirs.
Drilling activity planned for 2009 will include the side tracking of Well I137 and a further Visean carbonate infill well.
The Molchanovskoye production licence is located approximately 8km from the Ignatovskoye field and contains the southernmost producing field within the Share of Ukraine complex.
The licence now contains two distinct field areas: gas production Molchanovskoye North is a black oil reservoir with a gas cap in the Devonian sandstone with an overlying Tournasian sandstone gas condensate reservoir.
Total market There are also newly appraised overlying Tournasian carbonate and sandstone 742 Bcf gas condensate reservoirs that extend over the Ignatovskoye licence boundary.
Work in 2008 continued to focus on the Tournasian carbonate reservoir: Development Well M159 flowed at an initial rate of 1.4 MMcfd and 100 bpd of condensate.
Subsequent acid treatment increased this rate to 7.0 MMcfd and 6.8% produced by 400 bpd of condensate private companies Infill development Well M163 was drilled and brought on-stream in July at a flow rate of 11.5 MMcfd of gas and 1,200 bpd of condensate from the Tournasian sandstone and carbonate Disappointingly, Well M165, a high angle development well to the Tournasian carbonate on the eastern flank of Molchanovskoye North, produced gas at JKX shar e 31% less than 0.5 MMcfd with minimal condensate and a flowing wellhead of private companies share pressure of 249 psi.
The nature of the apparently poor reservoir quality found 15.5 Bcf in this well is being examined before deciding on remedial action Well M164 was drilled as a horizontal development well to the Devonian sandstone and flowed gas at 7.4 MMcfd with 1,200 bpd of condensate.
Activity planned for 2009 will include an acid fracture stimulation of Well M162, which may lead to further such stimulations, and a further horizontal well to the Devonian sandstone.
Molchanovskoye Main produces gas condensate in the Devonian sandstone and is now being evaluated for additional reserves in the overlying Tournasian carbonate and Visean sandstone reservoirs.
There was no new drilling activity during the period.
However, there are workovers planned in 2009 for wells M202, M204 and M205, together with two new wells, one targeting the Tournasian carbonate and the second targeting the Devonian sandstone.
18 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Where possible, the wells will also appraise the Visean sandstones which have a variable distribution over the field.
The Novo-Nikolaevskoye production licence lies 3km to the west of the Ignatovskoye field.
Well N9 continues to produce oil and gas from the shallower Visean sandstone, and a number of potential targets were identified from further seismic processing and re-interpretation in the period Well N71 was drilled and logged hydrocarbons in two Visean sandstone layers.
The well has started producing from the lowermost reservoir at a rate of 1.9 MMcfd with 118 bpd condensate, but its current decline rate indicates that the well will be recompleted later in the year in the upper reservoir.
A further well is planned in 2009 with its primary objective in the shallower Visean sandstones and, if this is successful, further shallow targets may be selected for drilling.
The Rudenkovskoye production licence is the most northern of the four production licences.
The principal reservoirs in the licence are the Tournasian and Devonian sandstones at depths of between 3,000m and 5,000m.
Productive areas have been identified in the northern and southern areas of the licence: Well R101, drilled in 2006 and the first new well in the northern area, encountered 200m net of gas-bearing Tournasian sandstone, the deeper zones at such high pressure that they had to be plugged back for safety reasons.
The shallower section was tested and a 110m interval put into production at an initial flow rate of 2 MMcfd.
Following an unsuccessful hydraulic fracture stimulation of this section, the well is being plugged back in preparation for a further fracture stimulation test this year Well R102, was drilled in early 2007 in the southern area.
It found two main gas-bearing zones in the Devonian sandstone and the lower 45m interval was tested at an average rate of 7.7 million cubic feet of gas, 90 barrels of condensate and 230 barrels of water per day.
The presence of water precluded any fracture stimulation testing in this interval and the well has been plugged back to a higher interval which has tested gas at 1.9 MMcfd and 12 bpd condensate.
Equipment is being mobilised for fracture stimulation of both wells R101 and R102 in the second quarter of this year.
Poltava production facilities: 2008 saw the culmination of a significant 2008 saw the upgrade to the Central Production Facility on the Poltava fields, including: culmination of a significant upgrade in Connection to the Soyuz gas pipeline which carries gas from Russia through the Central Production Ukraine to Western Europe.
This access enables PPC to increase its gas Facility on the production beyond the constraints of the existing facility Poltava fields.
Linked to the Soyuz connection is the addition of a sophisticated gas metering system to monitor production and composition of the gas entering the system In parallel, work began on the installation of an oil metering system to improve monitoring of the oil going into storage at the field, being transferred to the production loading facility and being loaded onto railcars for distribution to customers.
Environmental related activities in the period included: the implementation of a new produced water treatment facility improved fire protection systems and Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 12-23 19 Operational review Ukraine progressive installation of an oil metering system to aid in the detection and prevention of theft from the oil export line and the related damage that this can cause.
Work planned for 2009 includes: the replacement of one of the compressors and the upgrade of a second to give greater reliability and flexibility further work on the fire protection systems and updating of all operating and safety procedures manuals to match the increased sophistication of the plant and implementation of higher standards of health, safety and environmental practice.
Ongoing work to streamline operations will include the commissioning of the additional well testing facility which will enable PPC to maintain its regulatory reporting and provide better reservoir monitoring and management as the number of producing wells increases.
Other possible The Zaplavskoye exploration licence is adjacent to the Molchanovskoye extensions to the east production licence and comprises an area of 95.7sq.
The permit is valid of the licence area are until 2010. also being examined During 2008 two exploration wells were drilled on the licence: and could lead to additional seismic Exploration Well Z3 was drilled from a location 2km to the west of the acquisition in 2009 Molchanovskoye Main field.
Logs indicate an 80m gross gas bearing T2 and drilling in 2010. carbonate interval at a pressure in excess of 5,000 psi.
High pressure wellhead equipment has been installed but delays in mobilising other testing equipment has deferred testing to the second quarter of 2009 Exploration Well Z2 was drilled from a location approximately 4km to the southeast of the Molchanovskoye Main field and 1.5km up-dip from the earlier exploration Well Z1 which was drilled off structure.
Well Z2 encountered thicker than expected T2 carbonate with the primary sandstone objective being deeper than expected.
Logs again indicate an 80m gross gas column in the carbonate and testing will commence on this more remote location on completion of testing of Well Z3.
Additional 2D seismic was acquired in 2008 which extended from the licence area to potentially prospective areas between the licence and the western part of the Ignatovskoye licence.
Other possible extensions to the east of the licence area are also being examined and could lead to additional seismic acquisition in 2009 and drilling in 2010.
The Elizavetovskoye exploration licence is located in the central part of the Dnieper-Donets basin and covers an area of 70sq.
It is approximately 45km from PPCs existing production licences.
Three shut-in production wells on the licence are owned by Ukrgasvydobuvannya, a subsidiary of Naftogaz of Ukraine, the state oil and gas company, and are tied into its production facility.
Negotiations with Ukrgasvydobuvannya to resolve the issues related to these wells, and to establish conditions under which PPC can initiate production from this licence, continue, with limited success so far.
The Chervonoyarske East exploration licence was acquired in December 2005.
The licence covers a total area of 5.5sq.
km and is located about 75km from the PPC production licences on the northern margin of the DnieperDonets basin.
km 3D seismic survey acquired in 2008 supports the interpretation of potential hydrocarbons trapped against the flanks of a major salt wall.
Two prospects have been identified and are being assessed for possible drilling in 2010.
