24 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational review Gas Turbine Services We are the world leading independent provider of integrated maintenance solutions, and repair and overhaul services for industrial gas turbines, used for power generation, compression and transmission in the oil & gas and power generation industries.
2008 2007 Change $m $m Revenue 956.6 955.7 EBITA 72.6 64.3 13% EBITA margin 7.6% 6.7% People 4,100 3,700 11% Operating and financial highlights Gas Turbine Services revenue was unchanged in the period, with a Mark Papworth, 14% increase in underlying revenue being offset by the divestment of Group Director, Gas Turbine Services non core businesses and lower fast track power solutions revenue.
The increase in EBITA margin from 6.7% to 7.6% was as a result of ongoing initiatives to increase the amount of work performed under longer term contracts, changes in the mix towards higher margin activities, the divestment of non core activities and a focus on cost reduction and efficiency.
EBITA We have increased the amount of revenue generated under longer term contracts from 39% to 41%.
We continue to focus on increasing up 13% the breadth of our core activities, adding further new product capability and providing customer focused solutions.
We now have over 4,100 people, serving customers in over 100 countries.
EBITA margin up to 7.6% Gas Turbine Services services and sectors Oil & Gas Power & Industrial Light Industrial Turbines less than 10MW Aero-derivative Turbines 10-50MW Heavy Industrial Turbines more than 50MW To read about our directors turn to pages 42-43.
Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements poWEr station opErations & maintEnancE, clEar lakE, ioWa poWEr and industrial turBinEs, usa go online at www.
com annualreport2008 25 : Oil & gas There are power shortages in the developing world and in parts of Our oil & gas activities support turbines that are used for power the developed world where distribution networks are insufficient to generation, gas compression and transmission and represent take power to where it is needed.
This has led to demand for fast around one third of Gas Turbine Services revenue.
Through our OEM track power solutions where we have a competitive advantage in licensed joint ventures we have broad technical capabilities and our ability to locate, refurbish, install, operate, warrant and maintain know how, a strong service culture and a market leading share of equipment.
During 2008 we made equipment sales into the Middle the aftermarket for aero-derivative gas turbines.
Most of the installed East and South America and we successfully completed the fast turbines on which we work are linked to existing production and track power projects for American Electric Power AEP which therefore have relatively lower sensitivity to oil and gas prices.
We also secured three relocation projects in 2008 we were active on an increasing number of turbines for NOCs Texas, one for El Paso Electric and two for East Texas Electric including Petrobras, Pemex and Petronas and our newly formed Co-operative ETEC which will be executed in 2009.
Asset Management Solutions AMS group secured longer term rotating equipment contracts with TAQA in the North Sea and Total Gas Turbine Services outlook in the Netherlands.
Our light industrial turbine activities continued We anticipate that demand for our oil & gas related maintenance, to grow and increased market share through success in developing repair & overhaul services will remain robust in 2009, due to its new products and penetrating new regions.
production focussed nature and the longer term contracts we have in place.
We have a good spread of business with NOCs, IOCs Power and large independents.
In the power market there may be some Our power activities provide support for turbines that are used for regional short term weakness, as certain customers look to defer power generation and industrial applications, and represent around maintenance but in the longer term, demand for power, and in two thirds of Gas Turbine Services revenues.
Demand for our particular gas turbine generated power, is expected to increase, services is driven by the maintenance budgets of customers.
Recent leading to strong ongoing demand for our services.
We continue to reductions in the gas price have made gas a more cost effective focus on initiatives to increase the amount of business under longer input for power generation and in the longer term the environmental term contracts, expand our regional and customer portfolio, divest benefits of gas relative to other fossil fuels mean that it is forecast of non core businesses and reduce costs.
Overall we anticipate to gain an increasing share of generating capacity.
During 2008 we a resilient aftermarket performance.
The outlook for our fast track were active on a large number of projects including those for NYPA, power package activities is being impacted by the continuing tight Suez and Duke.
credit markets, although we currently see strong enquiry levels.
solar gas turBinE sErvicE facility, houston, tEXas turBinE systEms solutions
