20 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational review Engineering & Production Facilities We deliver a wide range of market leading engineering services to the upstream, midstream, downstream and industrial sectors.
These include conceptual studies, engineering, project and construction management EPCM and control systems upgrades.
We provide life of field support to producing assets, through brownfield engineering and modifications, production enhancement, operations management including UK duty holder services, training, maintenance management and abandonment services.
2008 2007 Change $m $m Revenue 3,244.7 2,582.8 26% EBITA 316.1 214.5 47% EBITA margin 9.7% 8.3% People 20,000 16,800 19% Operating and financial highlights Throughout the year we have benefited from strong demand across left to right: the Engineering & Production Facilities division.
The revenue split in the Mike Straughen, period between Engineering and Production Facilities was 48% to 52% Group Director, Engineering 2007: 44% to 56%.
Engineering was active across all sectors, and Les Thomas, continues to expand its range of services and geographic footprint.
Group Director, Production Facilities Production Facilities continues to be active in the North Sea and a number of international markets.
EBITA margin increased from 8.3% to 9.7%, due to increases in the Revenue underlying margins in both Engineering and in Production Facilities along with an increased proportion of higher margin Engineering work.
up 26% Divisional headcount, including contractors, is approximately 20,000 people, an increase of 19% since last year.
Engineering now has 8,700 people, an increase of 20% on 2007, while Production Facilities, with 11,300 people, rose 19%.
EBITA up 47% Engineering services and sectors Production Facilities services and sectors Enhanced Services Sector Expertise includes Exploration Development Production Recovery Abandonment Upstream deepwater and lightweight Training topsides Pre-operations onshore processing facilities Engineering, project Commissioning Start-up support including oil sands and construction Subsea management, refinery subsea engineering Operations and maintenance and pipelines upgrades and onshore and offshore Modifications inc. engineering, operational pipelines project management & construction Production enhancement enhancement Downstream refineries, petrochemical Life extension and industrial plants, process and industrial Decommissioning facilities To read about our directors turn to pages 42-43.
Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements imv, fostEr crEEk, canada go online at www.
com annualreport2008 21 : Engineering ongoing engineering, operations support, production enhancement Upstream activities represent around 40% of Engineering revenue and asset integrity services.
In addition we have grown a significant and 12% of Group revenue.
We continue to develop our market duty holder business during the year, providing support to the newer leading positions in deepwater engineering and lightweight topsides entrants to the region.
Our duty holder installations now include the and in engineering for the in situ oil sands market.
The developments Beatrice offshore complex and wind farm, the onshore terminal at on which we work are typically longer term, complex projects and Nigg, Ventures Hummingbird FPSO and the four TAQA platforms have the potential to add meaningfully to our customers reserve Tern, Eider, North Cormorant and Cormorant Alpha.
We work predominantly with International Oil Companies we will continue to adapt and develop our service provision as the IOCs, National Oil Companies NOCs and large independents market evolves.
and during the period worked on upstream projects for Shell Perdido, ConocoPhillips Ekofisk, BP Valhall and Thunderhorse, Our international activities, which make up 40% of Production ENI Nikaitchuq, Alaska, Hess Corporation Pony, Statoil Peregrino, Facilities and 12% of Group revenue, continued to perform well.
Brazil and Leismer, Canada, Encana Foster Creek, Tullow Uganda We continue to be active under longer term contracts in Algeria, and Modec Ghana.
Brunei, Colombia, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Peru and Trinidad.
We enhanced our position in the US with the acquisition of PAC in Subsea engineering, pipelines and midstream represents around January 2008, extending our significant Gulf of Mexico presence 30% of Engineering and 9% of Group revenue.
We consolidated into the support of the US onshore production market.
In August our market leading position with the acquisition of MCS during 2008 we acquired M&O Global, a provider of industrial safety and the year, a global subsea engineering consultancy with a market emergency response training.
M&O will help us to further support a leading position in riser & mooring design, and a leading offering broad range of international customers, especially NOCs, in training of advanced engineering and software solutions to the subsea and developing their local workforces.
In the Middle East we entered industry.
Along with other Group companies J P Kenny, Multiphase into a joint venture with Consolidated Contractors Company CCC, Solutions Inc. and Ionik Consulting, MCS is now part of the Subsea an international construction company with a market leading position & Pipelines Technology business group, which is the largest of in the region, in order to provide operations and maintenance its kind in the world.
Our customer base includes IOCs, NOCs services in the region.
and large independents and we are working with customers such as BP various projects under a global framework agreement, Engineering & Production Facilities outlook Chevron Gorgon, Shell Gumusut-Kakap, Malaysia, Total Statoil In Engineering & Production Facilities, we entered 2009 with a strong Gazprom Shtokman and Woodside Pluto to develop large longer order book.
We believe that in upstream the deepwater sector term projects with meaningful reserves.
The onshore pipeline will remain active, although some delays are expected in oil sands group has been busy connecting new oil and gas developments to developments.
Subsea and offshore pipeline spending is expected consumers, working with Williams various compressor stations, to be robust and onshore pipeline demand is anticipated to remain Cairn Rajasthan, India, Kinder Morgan various pipelines and Rocky high.
In our downstream activities the levels of regulatory work are Mountain Express.
During the year we were awarded the FEED expected to remain strong in 2009, with significant activity required contract for Masdars Carbon Capture and Storage CCS project by customers to meet MSAT2 clean air regulations by 2011. in the United Arab Emirates, which is an area where we see good Automation, which focuses on efficiency benefits for customers, future growth.
We have also been involved in a number of floating continues to be very active.
We have a high quality flexible resource LNG studies for Petronras, Teekay and BW Offshore.
across Engineering and have already taken action to keep utilisation levels high.
Current markets will also provide opportunities for quality Downstream, process and industrial represents around 30% of FEED work and fit for purpose engineering, as our clients look for Engineering and 9% of Group revenue.
upgrades and heavy oil modifications have meant that our refining business had a successful year performing work for CCRL Production Facilities, with around 70% of revenue under longer term Saskatchewan project, Tesoro, Valero and Citgo.
The automation contracts and a focus on the support of ongoing production, has group has been active on work for ExxonMobil in Singapore and relatively lower sensitivity to the oil price.
We have consolidated our various projects for Chevron and ConocoPhillips.
market leading position in the North Sea and expanded our scope with new entrants, which will provide an important contribution in Production Facilities 2009.
Internationally, we continue to see good scope for growth and Our activities in the North Sea, where we are the largest expansion into new markets, particularly where there is limited local maintenance, modifications and operations contractor, represent capability.
We continue to offer performance contracting solutions 60% of Production Facilities revenue and 19% of Group revenue.
to add value to our customers and have recently taken a number of We operate under long term contracts with customers such as steps to respond to cost challenges.
Apache, BP, Hess, Shell, Talisman and Total providing them with BroWnfiEld EnginEEring dEsign, uk
