22 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational review Well Support We provide solutions, products and services to enhance production rates and efficiency from oil & gas reservoirs.
We are among the market leaders in artificial lift using electric submersible pumps ESPs, in surface wellheads and valves, and in electric and slickline services in the Gulf of Mexico.
2008 2007 Change $m $m Revenue 1,008.6 862.1 17% EBITA 105.0 87.1 21% EBITA margin 10.4% 10.1% People 4,300 3,900 10% Operating and financial highlights 2008 was a good year for the Well Support division with revenue Jim Renfroe, growth in all three businesses contributing to an overall increase of Group Director, Well Support 17%.
The percentage of business performed outside the US continues to increase and is now over 50%.
Specific areas of strength in 2008 were Latin America and Middle East & Africa.
Activity levels throughout 2008 remained high despite a falling US rig count at the end of the year.
The EBITA margin increased from 10.1% to 10.4% benefiting from revenue growth and our investment in higher margin products Revenue and services.
up 17% EBITA up 21% Well Support services and sectors Development Production Enhanced Recovery Pressure Control Logging Services Electric Submersible Pumps To read about our directors turn to pages 42-43.
Energy Supporting Energy Operational review At a glance Governance Financial statements surfacE multistagE cEntrifugal pumping systEm prEssurE control, china go online at www.
com annualreport2008 23 : Electric Submersible Pumps Logging Services Our ESP business represents around 50% of Well Support and Our Logging Services business represents around 15% of Well around 9% of Group revenue.
Our business is mainly driven by the Support and 3% of Group revenue.
Our development focused operating expenditure of customers and the need for artificial lift in electric wireline services and production focused slickline services new and mature oil reservoirs.
Approximately 25% of our revenue both performed well.
In recent years we have expanded our capacity comes from the US where we have a market leading position and opened new bases which have helped us develop a strong in the sale, operation and service of ESPs used for production position in value added services.
During the year we have worked enhancement through artificial lift.
The remaining 75% of our revenue on projects for operators in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Pan comes from outside the US where we typically have longer term American in Argentina and several US based independents on contracts and a strong IOC and NOC customer base.
Examples of onshore shale developments.
projects worked on in 2008 include pay for performance contracts in Africa and the Middle East.
Well Support outlook 2009 will be a challenging year for Well Support, with the number Pressure Control of active rigs operating in the US significantly reduced.
In Pressure Our Pressure Control business represents around 35% of Well Control, which is primarily focused on gas developments, the Support and around 7% of Group revenue.
Our business is driven reduction in drilling activity means the outlook is more demanding primarily by the gas drilling activity of our customers.
In the US, and we expect significant volume decreases and pricing pressure.
where we generated around 60% of our revenue in 2008, we believe In Logging Services, the market outlook is similarly challenging, we are now the largest provider of surface valves and wellheads.
although we have an element of production related revenue.
In Increasing levels of rig activity for most of 2008 and high depletion ESP, our strong production related content, good international rates in unconventional gas developments contributed to strong exposure and flexible approach to market should lead to a robust activity levels and demand for our services.
We have already taken decisive management action around 40% of revenue is generated, we continue to expand our to reduce SG&A, achieve supply chain efficiencies and to reduce business under longer term contracts with IOC and NOC customers.
headcount significantly in all three businesses as market activity has Examples of key projects worked on in 2008 include for Sinopec in changed, particularly in North America.
China, Aramco in Saudi Arabia and Pemex in Mexico.
logging sErvicEs, gulf of mEXico, usa surfacE WEll hEad inspEction, canada
