1 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2008 2 At a glance At a glance Our vision Our operating highlights 2008 Engineering & Production Facilities Our vision is to be a leading global energy services provider.
Share of Group revenue Active across all areas in 2008 and strong Engineering momentum into 2009 Engineering & Margin Strengthened our market leading positions Production For more detail about our people We will strive to attract, develop and retain the Facilities Important project wins initiatives turn to pages 34-35.
9.7% Rest of Group best people, and to keep them safe.
Strong demand from North Sea and international Production Facilities For more detail about our safety markets initiatives turn to pages 36-37.
Long term relationships, with over 70% of 2009 We will consistently seek to provide services revenue under contract and products that are recognised as market For more detail about our market Continued to expand our duty holder business Printed in the UK by MPG impressions, Environmental Management leading positions turn to pages 4-5. leading.
System ISO 14001 accredited and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody certified.
Well Support Activity levels good through 2008 Well Support Margin And we will endeavour to exceed our Success in driving increased internationalisation Rest of Group This report is printed utilising vegetable based inks on paper stocks and delivering continued margin improvement customers expectations and deliver superior which are produced from FSC certified fibre from well managed 10.4% Flexible and responsive approach to our markets forests independently certified according to the rules of the Forest returns.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and the manufacturing mill is accredited with the ISO 14001 standard for Gas Turbine Services Increasing amount of work under longer term environmental management.
Gas Turbine Margin contracts Services Our strategy For examples of how we are putting our strategy into action around the Focus on efficiency driving margin improvement Rest of Group Designed and produced by aka:design www.
Around 85% of revenue is generated by customers Our strategy is to achieve long term sustainable operating expenditure growth by adding value to our customers operations with world leading, highly differentiated products and services.
How we measure our performance Our strategy has four strands: For more information on We use the following Key Performance Indicators KPIs to measure the Groups Financial performance performance and in the management of our business.
to maintain a good balance between field turn to pages 26-29. developments and later cycle production KPI Objective 2008 2007 support 1 EBITA Long term EBITA growth $441.0m $318.4m to grow and maintain market leading Return on Capital Employed 33.3% Increase ROCE 28.3% positions, based on differentiated 2 ROCE know how Operating Capital Employed to Reduce OCER 18.2% 19.0% 3 Revenue OCER to develop longer term customer relationships often through performance 4 Adjusted diluted EPS Long term adjusted diluted earnings per share 52.1c 36.9c based contracts growth Safety cases per million Reduce incident rate 3.3 3.9 to extend our services and broaden our 5 man hours international presence For footnotes turn to page 29.
