Over the last five years dividends have also grown at a compound annual rate of 9%, in line with earnings.
The group uses a range of key performance indicators KPIs We define return on invested capital ROIC for the group to monitor performance over time in line with the financial as underlying operating profit divided by average capital objectives and strategy summarised in the previous section.
employed equity plus net debt.
ROIC for individual divisions is The principal KPIs, together with the groups performance calculated using average segment assets minus average segment against them in 2007 08, are described below: liabilities as the denominator.
In 2007 08 the groups return on invested capital increased Financial by 0.9% to 18.5%, well ahead of our long run pre-tax cost of Underlying earnings per share growth and return on invested capital, which we estimate to be 11.3% on a pre-tax basis.
Over capital are two of the principal financial KPIs we use to measure the five years from 2003 04, the groups ROIC has increased by the groups performance.
In calculating these measures we 2.3%.
In 2007 08 Precious Metal Products Division achieved a exclude the following items which can distort the trend in return of 54.3%, well ahead of the groups target of 20%.
measuring results: Environmental Technologies Division and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division achieved returns between our cost of capital Profits and losses on disposal of businesses.
and the 20% target of 15.2% and 13.9% respectively.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition of In measuring sales growth and return on sales we focus businesses acquired intangibles.
on sales excluding the value of precious metals.
Total revenue can be distorted by trading activity as well as fluctuations in Major restructuring or impairment charges.
precious metal prices and do not provide a good guide to Major tax items arising from changes in legislation.
As it happens in 2007 08 both revenue 7.5 billion and sales excluding precious metals In 2007 08 the only adjustment in calculating underlying 1.8 billion grew at similar rates 22% and 20% respectively.
earnings per share and return on invested capital was Over five years sales excluding precious metals have grown by amortisation of acquired intangibles, mainly arising on the 9% p. a. despite the sale of Ceramics Division.
acquisition of Argillon Group in February 2008.
Underlying Johnson Matthey is a global business with operations in earnings per share were 89.5 pence, 9% up on 2006 07.
Total many countries around the world which report in different earnings per share were 88.5 pence, 9% below 2006 07 which currencies.
We report sales and operating profit translated both included the profit on sale of Ceramics Division.
Over the five at actual exchange rates and at constant rates translating last years from 2003 04, underlying earnings per share have grown years results at this years rates to measure underlying growth.
at a compound annual rate of 9% p. a.
The groups five year We also monitor several key cash flow and capital ratios both for financial record is shown on page 104. the group and individual divisions.
More details of financial KPIs In accordance with our policy of increasing dividends in are given in the Financial Review on pages 10 to 13 and line with earnings, the board is recommending a final dividend Operations on pages 15 to 21.
8 Johnson Matthey Voluntary Employee Turnover by Region Johnson Matthey Share Price Five Year Performance versus FTSE 100 For calendar year 2007 continuing businesses % Johnson Matthey FTSE 100 20 280 260 16 240 220 12 200 180 8 160 140 120 4 100 80 0 March 03 March 04 March 05 March 06 March 07 March 08 Europe North Asia Rest of Group America World Market Shares Employees One measure we use to monitor the commercial performance Our employees are our most valuable resource.
We are of our businesses is market share.
We aim to achieve a leading committed to recruiting high calibre employees and providing position usually number one or two in the global markets in them with the information, training and working environment which we operate.
In Emission Control Technologies we they need to perform at the highest standards.
Johnson Matthey estimate we have a 31% share of the available market has a relatively low voluntary staff turnover 7.6% in calendar excluding in house manufacture by car companies for light year 2007 compared with 7.5% in 2006 with many employees duty catalysts.
Our two major competitors have similar shares staying with the company for the whole of their careers.
More with the remaining 5% of the market supplied by smaller details of the groups training and employment policies are competitors mainly in China.
In the new market for heavy duty given on page 33. diesel catalysts to original equipment manufacturers Johnson Matthey is the market leader with a share in excess of 45%.
Health and Safety The market for sales of platinum group metals pgms to We monitor health and safety performance very closely across end customers is more fragmented and precise shares are all our sites.
We collect data on near misses as well as actual more difficult to estimate.
Johnson Matthey is the global market accidents using an electronic AirsWeb system.
Over the last five leader.
We are also the leader in fabricated pgm products for years the rate of greater than three day accidents has reduced the industrial market with a worldwide share of about a third.
In Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Further KPIs relating to our health and safety performance are we sell a wide range of products into niche markets.
Johnson set out on page 32 and in our Sustainability Report on the Matthey is the market leader in syngas catalysts used in the companys website at www.
manufacture of ammonia, methanol and hydrogen from hydrocarbon feedstocks.
We are also the leader in the available Environment market for catalysts used in pharmaceutical production.
Johnson Matthey is committed to running its business in a sustainable way which includes minimising the impact of our Research and Development R&D own activities on the environment.
On pages 30 to 32 we set We monitor progress on all our R&D projects on a regular out the companys five year record for total acid gas emissions, basis against individual milestones.
One measure of ultimate total global warming potential, energy consumption, water success is the proportion of new products in our sales consumption and total waste.
Many of Johnson Mattheys launched in the last four years as a result of R&D activity.
Most products and technologies provide a significant positive benefit of our R&D is concentrated in Environmental Technologies to the environment and details of some these are described in Division.
We estimate that about 70% of the divisions sales are our Sustainability Report on the companys website.
For example, for products introduced in the last four years.
the amount of pollutants removed from the atmosphere by the companys autocatalyst products since their introduction in 1974 now amounts to over four billion tonnes.
