Fischer Tropsch Chemistry at the Nano Scale Research & Development Fischer Tropsch FT catalysis is a key step in gas to liquids Research and development is an integral part of Johnson GTL processes and will be a key enabler in the conversion Mattheys high technology businesses.
One of the groups of coal and biomass to liquid fuels.
Although FT catalysis was strategies is to differentiate ourselves by using our world class discovered nearly one hundred years ago, 21st century technology and we invest significantly in research and applications will require the design of catalysts with specific development to develop new products and manufacturing functionalities.
Johnson Matthey has pioneered the use of processes.
In 2007 08 Johnson Matthey spent 73.0 million advanced characterisation techniques to examine the structure gross on R&D.
of FT catalysts from micron scale catalyst particles right through We have a group technology centre located at Sonning to individual atoms at the nano scale.
Common in the UK which is focused on longer term research Using our in house expertise and working in collaboration and has a worldwide reputation for excellence in catalysis and with world leading academic groups, Johnson Matthey has been precious metals technology.
In addition we have important able to fully characterise FT catalysts at the nano scale.
This research centres at Royston, Billingham and Stockton-on-Tees detailed understanding is enabling us to assist customers in the in the UK located close to some of our major businesses.
design of advanced FT catalyst systems with specific functionalities, Worldwide we have technical centres in many countries tailored to their individual requirements.
including the US, Japan, Sweden and the Netherlands.
Fuel Cell Catalyst Design Johnson Matthey Technology Centre In fuel cell catalysts, the specific arrangement of surface and bulk The Johnson Matthey Technology Centre JMTC is the groups atoms holds the key to optimising catalytic activity and selectivity.
central resource for longer term research and employs over Determining the detailed structure of catalyst particles is 180 world class scientists.
It supports the research and therefore fundamental to developing the optimum fuel cell development of new products and technology across all of catalyst.
Johnson Matthey has been working in collaboration Johnson Mattheys businesses and has expertise in catalysis, with a number of academic partners to study the arrangement precious metals, materials science and many other fields in of atoms within individual fuel cell catalyst particles.
Advanced which Johnson Matthey operates.
techniques such as solid state nuclear magnetic resonance and JMTC has state of the art facilities and resources for the x-ray absorption spectroscopy have been used to provide vital development and testing of catalysts as well as one of the most information about the arrangement of atoms and their nearest advanced analytical science groups in the world, equipped with neighbours.
In addition a specially designed fuel cell allows us to the latest tools for materials characterisation.
characterise catalysts in situ under realistic operating conditions.
Collaboration is important and JMTC works closely with Scientific knowledge gained from these advanced techniques will the groups global network of business specific technology enable Johnson Matthey to design and manufacture optimum centres and development groups.
It also participates in external fuel cell catalysts of the future.
collaborative research and development programmes worldwide.
Advanced Characterisation of Autocatalysts Many projects at JMTC are sponsored by the operating Johnson Mattheys Emission Control Technologies business divisions to meet their longer term objectives alongside which manufactures platinum group metal pgm containing catalyst run a number of core science projects to address the systems to remove harmful pollutants from automotive fundamental science that lies at the heart of many of our exhausts.
Catalysts must perform to meet legislated limits for businesses.
Our core science projects also address sustainability exhaust emissions but must also have the durability and issues such as energy efficiency, waste reduction, resource longevity to operate effectively under the harsh operating thrifting and low carbon technology.
These projects focus on conditions of a vehicle.
improving the sustainability performance of our own operations Understanding how and why these catalysts deactivate and on developing the next generation of sustainable products over time is key to the manufacture of the next generation and technologies for our customers.
Knowledge gained in the of highly active, highly durable products.
Deactivation of the core science programmes is used to accelerate and improve catalyst is usually due to a reduction in surface area of the product development across the group, reducing time to active metal species caused by particle size enlargement.
At market and improving our ability to design products to meet JMTC we are using our characterisation expertise to examine customers needs.
the sizes of pgm nanoparticles in autocatalysts and the routes Materials characterisation is a key component of all our by which they intermix over time.
We have state of the art facilities and unique In our laboratories we subject catalysts to accelerated expertise in house as well as access to some of the worlds ageing and use a range of advanced techniques to characterise most advanced equipment.
These techniques provide us with the aged materials.
The data obtained enables us to examine an insight into the structure of materials at an atomic level and understand how metal particles aggregate over time.
This in which gives us the ability to relate the chemical structure of our turn can be related to catalyst performance.
Further developing products to their performance.
This provides knowledge and our understanding of the relationship between metal particle information which is vital to the design and optimisation of new aggregation and catalyst ageing enables us to design more and enhanced products for our customers.
effective products for our customers.
Three examples of how this approach is being used to deliver advanced new catalysts for the Environmental Technologies Division are outlined below.
