DIRECTORS REPORT The directors submit to shareholders their one hundred and Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares seventeenth Annual Report, together with the audited accounts of The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when the group for the year ended 31st March 2008. declared, the companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the company, to appoint proxies and to Principal Activities exercise voting rights.
A review of the groups principal activities and an indication of likely There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of future developments for the company and its subsidiaries are set ordinary shares and no requirements to obtain prior approval to any out on pages 5 to 21 and a description of the groups activities in transfers except where the company has exercised its right to research and development can be found on page 23, both of which suspend their voting rights, withhold a dividend or prohibit their are incorporated into this directors report by reference.
transfer following the failure by the member or any other person appearing to be interested in the shares to provide the company Business Review with information requested under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
The directors may, in certain circumstances, also refuse to The company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully business of the group during the financial year ended 31st March paid up, where the instrument of transfer does not comply with the 2008 and of the position of the group at the end of that financial requirements of the Articles of Association, or if entitled to do so year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
No ordinary the group, consistent with the size and complexity of the business shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the known as a Business Review.
The Business Review is set out on company and there are no restrictions on voting rights except that pages 6 to 35. a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
There are no known Dividends agreements between holders of securities that may result in The interim dividend of 10.6 pence per share 2007 9.9 pence was restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights and no paid in February 2008.
The directors recommend a final dividend of known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a 26.0 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31st March 2008 person other than the holder of the shares.
2007 23.7 pence, making a total for the year of 36.6 pence per share Shares acquired by employees through the Johnson Matthey 2007 33.6 pence, payable on 5th August 2008 to shareholders on employee share schemes rank equally with the other shares in issue the register at the close of business on 13th June 2008. and have no special rights.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan is in place which allows shareholders to purchase additional shares in the company with their dividend Annual General Meeting payment.
Further information and a mandate can be obtained from The notice of the 2008 AGM of the company to be held on Tuesday the companys registrars, Equiniti, whose details are set out on 22nd July 2008 at 11.00 am at The Institution of Engineering and page 109.
Technology The Lecture Theatre, 2 Savoy Place, London, WC2R 0BL is contained in the AGM circular accompanying this Annual Report, Share Capital together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at As at 31st March 2008, the companys authorised share capital was the meeting.
The issued share capital of the company at 31st March 2008 Employee Share Schemes was 214,675,736 ordinary shares of 1.00 each, excluding At 31st March 2008 5,487 current and former employees, 5,997,877 shares held as treasury shares.
representing approximately 56.9% of employees worldwide, were During the year 196,330 ordinary shares of 1.00 each were allotted shareholders in Johnson Matthey through the groups employee pursuant to the exercise of executive share options.
share schemes, which held 3,329,070 shares 1.55% of issued share capital, excluding treasury shares.
A total of 791 current and At the 2007 annual general meeting AGM, shareholders renewed former executives held options over 4,946,246 shares through the the companys authority to make market purchases of up to companys executive share option schemes.
21,707,361 ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the company excluding treasury shares as at 31st May 2007.
Directors During the year the company purchased 2,397,877 of its own The names and biographical details of the directors of the company ordinary shares of 1 each representing 1.1% of the called-up are shown on pages 36 and 37.
During the year, Mr M J Roney and share capital of the company as at 31st March 2008 for an Mrs D C Thompson were appointed as non-executive directors and aggregate consideration of 39.1 million.
All such purchases were Mr M B Dearden and Mr C D Mackay retired as non-executive made on-market and all of the purchased shares are held by the directors.
In accordance with the provisions for retirement by company as treasury shares.
Authority to purchase up to rotation in the companys Articles of Association, Mr D W Morgan, 19,309,484 shares remained in place at 31st March 2008.
At the Mr A M Thomson and Mr R J W Walvis retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM the board will again seek shareholders approval forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
to renew the annual authority for the company to make purchases Mrs D C Thompson, who was appointed to the board as a of its own shares through the market.
non-executive director on 1st September 2007, offers herself for election.
Details of the constitution of the board and its committees are set out on pages 40 and 41.
38 Johnson Matthey DIRECTORS REPORT Appointment and Replacement of Directors Change of Control The Articles of Association provide that the number of directors is The company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of not subject to any maximum but must not be less than six, unless commercial agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or otherwise determined by the company by ordinary resolution.
terminate the arrangements on a change of control of the company Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the following a takeover bid.
Other than the matters referred to below, members or by a resolution of the directors.
A director appointed by these are not deemed by the company to be significant in terms of the directors must retire at the next following AGM and is not taken their potential effect on the group as a whole.
into account in determining the directors who are to retire by The group has a number of loan notes and borrowing facilities rotation at the meeting.
which may require prepayment of principal and payment of accrued At every AGM at least one third of directors must retire by rotation.
interest and breakage costs if there is change in control of the The directors to retire by rotation must include any director who has company.
The group has also entered into a series of financial not been subject to election or re-election at the time of the two instruments to hedge its currency, interest rate and commodity preceding AGMs, and if so required to constitute one third of exposures which provide for termination or alteration if a change directors those directors who have been longest in office since their of control of the company materially weakens the creditworthiness last appointment or re-appointment.
A director may be removed by an extraordinary resolution of the The company is party to a marketing agreement with a subsidiary company.
In addition, a director must automatically cease to be a of Anglo Platinum Limited, originally entered into in 1992, under director if i he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provision of which the company was appointed as sales and marketing agent the Companies Acts or he becomes prohibited by law from being a for refined platinum group metals worldwide excluding the US and director, or ii he becomes bankrupt or makes any arrangement or the company agreed to provide certain marketing services.
The composition with his creditors generally, or iii he is suffering from a agreement contains provisions under which the counterparty may mental disorder, or iv he resigns from his office by notice in writing have the right to terminate the agreement on a change of control of to the company, or in the case of an executive director, his the company.
appointment is terminated or expires and the directors resolve that The rules of the companys employee share schemes set out the his office be vacated, or v he is absent for more than six consequences of a change of control of the company on consecutive months without permission of the directors from participants rights under the schemes.
Generally such rights will meetings of the directors and the directors resolve that his office be vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the vacated or vi he is requested in writing, or by electronic form, by all satisfaction of relevant performance conditions.
the other directors to resign.
The executive directors service contracts each contain a provision to the effect that if the contract is terminated by the company within Powers of the Directors one year after a change of control of the company, the company will The powers of the directors are determined by the companys pay to the director as liquidated damages an amount equivalent to Memorandum and Articles of Association, the Companies Act 1985 one years gross basic salary and other contractual benefits less the and Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the company period of any notice given by the company to the director.
The directors have been authorised by the Articles of Association to issue and allot ordinary shares and to Disabled Persons make market purchases of shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Any shares purchased may be Details of the companys policy relating to the employment and cancelled or held as treasury shares.
training of disabled persons can be found on page 33.
Directors Interests Use of Financial Instruments Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in Information on the companys financial risk management and the shares of the company are set out in the Remuneration Report policies and its exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and on pages 45 to 51. cash flow risk can be found on pages 87 to 91.
Other than service contracts, no director had any interest in any Employee Involvement material contract with any group company at any time during the year.
Information on the action taken by the company during the year relating to employee involvement can be found on pages 29 to 35.
Major Shareholders As at 30th May 2008, the following information had been disclosed Policy on Payment of Commercial Debts to the company under Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules in respect of holdings exceeding The groups policy in relation to the payment of all suppliers set out the 3% notification threshold: in its Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group Total % of total operations is that payment should be made within the credit terms 1 2 voting rights voting rights agreed with the supplier, subject to the supplier having performed its obligations under the relevant contract.
At 31st March 2008, the Prudential plc 21,548,111 10.03 companys aggregate level of creditor days amounted to 5 days.
Aviva plc 13,749,083 6.41 Creditor days are calculated by dividing the aggregate of the BlackRock, Inc 10,984,350 5.11 amounts which were outstanding as trade payables at the end of Lloyds TSB Group plc 10,490,545 4.89 the year by the aggregate of the amounts the company was Legal & General Group Plc 8,879,144 4.13 invoiced by suppliers during the year and multiplying by 365 to 1 Includes direct and or indirect voting rights.
express the ratio as a number of days.
2 Total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the company excluding treasury shares at the date of disclosure.
Charitable Donations During the year the group donated 415,000 2007 330,000 to charitable organisations worldwide, of which 264,000 2007 259,000 was in the UK.
