The boards strategies to achieve these financial objectives are: Group Activities Focus the business on the groups core skills in catalysis, Johnson Matthey is a global speciality chemicals company.
We precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
serve our customer base from operations in over 30 countries Position the group in growth markets where our core and employ around 8,700 people worldwide.
The group is skills are applicable.
Catalysis is a key technology in many organised into three global divisions: Environmental Technologies: developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those Precious Metal Products and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts.
concerned with protecting the environment such as in emission control, cleaner fuel, more efficient use of Environmental Technologies is a global supplier of catalysts hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
Environmental and related technologies for applications which benefit the Technologies Division, which combines our skills in catalysts environment such as pollution control, cleaner fuel, more and process technology, is well positioned to serve these efficient use of hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
Catalysis is also important in the The division comprises three businesses: manufacture of fine chemicals where Johnson Matthey Emission Control Technologies is a global leader in catalytic has a number of strong niche market positions.
Johnson systems for emissions control from vehicles and industrial Mattheys expertise and international strength in precious processes.
metals, particularly platinum group metals, was the starting point for many of our businesses.
The market for platinum Process Technologies serves the worlds chemical, oil, gas has grown steadily for many decades and demand is and refining industries.
It manufactures catalysts, provides expected to grow significantly over the next ten years.
specialist services and designs and licenses chemical processes.
Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
We will continue to invest significantly in research and Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells develops and manufactures development to develop new products and manufacturing catalysts and catalysed components for a wide range of processes.
Technology is the key driver for most of our clean energy fuel cell systems.
businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base Precious Metal Products activities comprise the marketing, with technical centres located in all our major markets.
distribution, refining and recycling of platinum group metals, Maintain strong relationships with our major customers, fabrication of products using precious metals and related suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by materials, and refining of gold and silver.
investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group Fine Chemicals & Catalysts is a global supplier of fine chemicals, is well positioned for future market development.
catalysts and other speciality chemical products and services to Continue to invest in Johnson Mattheys employees to a wide range of chemical and pharmaceutical industry customers ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged and research institutes.
to meet the challenges of the future.
Ensure the business is run in a sustainable way by using resources efficiently, minimising waste in our manufacturing processes and designing new products that help our Strategy and Objectives customers to be more sustainable and competitive.
Johnson Mattheys strategic intent is to achieve consistent growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of high added value products and services in areas where our expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis, precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
The groups financial objectives are: To continue to achieve consistent and above average growth in underlying earnings per share.
To grow dividends in line with underlying earnings while maintaining dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
To deliver a return on investment above the groups cost of capital.
We estimate Johnson Mattheys post tax cost of capital is currently about 8% 11.3% pre-tax.
In addition we have a long run pre-tax target rate for the group of 20%.
