I C Strachan OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT Age 65: appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of Transocean Inc. Xstrata plc, Rolls Royce Group plc and Caithness Petroleum Limited.
Previously Chairman of Environmental Technologies Instinet Group Inc. Chief Executive of BTR plc and Deputy Chief S M Christley Division Finance Director, Emission Control Technologies Executive of Rio Tinto plc.
A, M, N A M Myers President, Emission Control Technologies, North America D W Prest Technology and Business Development Director, M J Roney Emission Control Technologies Age 53: appointed a non-executive director on 1st June 2007.
Currently J F Walker Managing Director, Emission Control Technologies, Europe Chief Executive of Bunzl plc.
Joined Bunzl plc as a non-executive director in 2003.
Prior to joining Bunzl he was Chief Executive Officer J V Zubrickas Managing Director, Emission Control Technologies, Asia of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV and had an extensive career N Whitley Divisional Director, Process Technologies with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co holding a number of senior G L McGregor Divisional Finance Director, Process Technologies management positions with responsibilities in Latin America, Asia, P C Framp Business Development Director, Process Technologies Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
A, M, N A C Hurst Managing Director, Tracerco and Vertec D C Thompson D J Tomlinson President, Davy Process Technology Age 47: appointed a non-executive director on 1st September 2007.
J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells Currently Chief Executive of Drax Group plc.
Joined the board of Drax Group plc as Chief Executive in 2005.
Prior to joining Drax she was head of the European business of the global power generation Precious Metal Products firm, InterGen.
First starting her career in banking she has had senior W F Sandford Division Director management roles in the UK, Asia and Africa.
A, M, N B M OConnell Division Finance Director M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing P N Hawker BSc, PhD, FRSC C C Howlett General Manager, Noble Metals, Europe Executive Director, Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts, age 55: joined Johnson Matthey in 1985 as Research & J D Malanga General Manager, Noble Metals, North America Development Manager and was subsequently Managing Director, A J McCullough General Manager, Gold, North America Autocatalysts Europe and Division Director, Environmental Catalysts and J J W Murkens Managing Director, Colour Technologies Technologies.
Appointed Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts G P Otterman Managing Director, Pgm Refining and Recycling and Technologies in August 2003.
He was appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in July 2004 and assumed additional responsibility for Pharmaceutical Materials Division in April 2006.
Fine Chemicals & Catalysts N P H Garner Director, Finance and Planning, Process Technologies and L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Executive Director, Emission Control Technologies, age 53: joined M T Durney President, Catalysts and Chemicals Johnson Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having held a series of senior J B Fowler President, Pharmaceutical Materials and Services management positions within Catalysts Division in the US.
Appointed R M Kilburn Managing Director, Macfarlan Smith Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003 F K Sheffy Director, Business Development, Fine Chemicals & Catalysts and to his current position in July 2004.
B C Singelais President, Global Research Chemicals Corporate Committees of the Board A Audit Committee G J Coates Group Treasurer M Management Development and Remuneration Committee S Farrant Group Legal Director and Company Secretary N Nomination Committee I D Godwin Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications V E Gough Group Reporting Controller T Hassan Group Business Development Director B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre S P Robinson Director of Tax I F Stephenson Director, Group Systems, Environment, Health and Safety and Human Resources M V Twigg Chief Scientist Annual Report & Accounts 2008 37
