L C Pentz 9 10 11 Sir John Banham DL, MA, HonLLD A M Thomson MA, CA Chairman, age 67: joined Johnson Matthey as Chairman Designate Age 61: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002. in January 2006: appointed Chairman on 1st April 2006.
Currently Currently Chairman of Bodycote International Plc and a Chairman of Spacelabs Healthcare Inc. and the Senior Independent non-executive director of Alstom S. A. France.
Until his retirement Director of Invesco Inc. and Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals Inc.
He was in 2006 he was Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
Mr Thomson previously a director at McKinsey & Company, the first Controller is also Junior Vice President and Chairman of the Technical Policy of the Audit Commission and is a former Director General of the Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Previously a director of National A, M, N Power and National Westminster Bank, and Chairman of Tarmac plc, Kingfisher plc, Geest plc, Whitbread PLC and Cyclacel Plc.
R J W Walvis M, N Age 61: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of British Energy Group plc, N A P Carson BSc Associated British Ports Holdings Ltd, Balfour Beatty plc and Chief Executive, age 51: joined Johnson Matthey in 1980: appointed Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Group Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having held NV.
He was previously Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell senior management positions in the Precious Metals Division as International Limited and prior to that held a series of senior well as Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
Appointed management positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
to the board as Managing Director, Catalysts & Chemicals in A, M, N August 1999 and additionally assumed board level responsibility for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Appointed Chief D W Morgan MA, ACA Executive in July 2004.
Currently Chairman, Business Taskforce on Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 50: joined Sustainable Consumption and Production.
Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
Appointed an executive director in August 1999.
Responsible for J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT the groups corporate development activities and legal and Group Finance Director, age 58: joined Johnson Matthey as secretarial affairs.
In addition, assumed board level responsibility Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed for the companys central research activities in August 2002. current job title in September 1995.
Previously Group Treasurer of Currently a member of the International Advisory Board of The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of API Group Conduit Ventures Limited.
Currently a non-executive director of GKN plc.
