Directors Report: Governance Other Statutory Information Principal activities Share capital Kazakhmys PLC is the holding company of the Kazakhmys Group.
The Companys authorised share capital as at 31 December 2008 The principal activities of the Group are the production of copper was 150 million comprising 750 million ordinary shares of and other metals as by-products, including zinc, silver and gold, 20 pence each.
The Companys issued share capital as at that date was 535,240,338 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as and power generation.
A list of main subsidiary undertakings, fully paid.
Further details of the Companys authorised and issued and their principal activity, is given in note 47 on page 131. share capital are shown in note 26 on pages 111 and 112.
Directors The Companys shares are listed on the London and Kazakhstan The Directors of the Company who served during the year were stock exchanges.
as indicated on page 53, together with James Rutland who ceased to be a Director on 5 December 2008.
Details of Directors Purchase of own shares interests in shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration The Company was given authority at the 2008 AGM to make Report on page 65. market purchases of up to 45,495,428 of its own ordinary shares of 20 pence each at a maximum market price per share of 105% Daulet Yergozhin and Peter Hickson were appointed to the of the average closing price of the Companys shares as derived Board as non-executive Directors on 19 November 2008 and from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Ofcial List for the five 5 March 2009, respectively.
Newly appointed Directors are required trading days prior to the relevant buy-back.
This authority will to retire at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following expire at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM and approval from their appointment and to seek election by shareholders.
They shareholders will be sought at that meeting to renew the authority will therefore both be seeking election by shareholders at the for a further year.
During the year ended 31 December 2008, 2009 AGM.
the Company completed the share buy-back programme of up In addition, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders to $400 million announced in September 2007, having purchased every three years.
However, no Directors are subject to retirement 15,079,577 ordinary shares of 20 pence each at an average price by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
Of these shares, 5,169,000 representing 1.12% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 January 2008 had During the year no Director had any interest in any shares or been bought back and cancelled for a total consideration debentures of the Companys subsidiaries, or any material of 61,708,631 $121 million, including expenses, during interests in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being the year ended 31 December 2008. a contract of signicance in relation to the Companys business.
Major shareholdings Directors indemnity and insurance As at 30 March 2009, the Company had been notied under Kazakhmys maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial ofcers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the Services Authority of the following interests of 3% or more Directors, Matthew Hird Chief Financial officer and the Company in its ordinary share capital: Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are Percentage of uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities Number of total ordinary which they may incur to third parties in the course of acting as ordinary shares share capital a Director or officer or company secretary as the case may be of 20 pence held as at of the Company or any of its associated companies.
Neither the Name of holder each held 30 March 2009 indemnity nor insurance cover provides cover in the event that Cuprum Holding B. V. 135,944,325 25.4 a Director or officer or company secretary as the case may be State Privatisation is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Committee of the The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party Ministry of Finance of indemnity for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will the Republic of Kazakhstan 80,286,050 15.0 continue in force for the benefit of Directors or officer or company Tobermory Holding secretary as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
Europe B. V. 50,735,450 9.5 Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 5.5 Dividend As noted in the Chairmans Statement on page 8, the Board Perry Partners S. A.
21,503,813 4.0 does not recommend the payment of a final dividend given the 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding B. V. Tobermory fall in commodity price, the continued market uncertainty and Holding Europe B. V. and Perry Partners S. A. the emphasis on conserving cash.
The total dividend for the year 2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
ended 31 December 2008 comprises the interim dividend of 14.0 US cents per share paid on 24 October 2008.
Relationship agreement In September 2005, Cuprum Holding B. V. Perry Partners S. A.
Annual General Meeting Harper Finance Limited together the Major Shareholders, The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm Vladimir Kim, Yong Keu Cha and Oleg Novachuk together the on Friday 15 May 2009 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn beneficial Owners and the Company entered into a relationship Fields, London WC2A 3ED.
Details of the meeting venue and agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
the resolutions to be proposed, including amendments to the The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure Articles of Association, together with explanatory notes, are set that the Group is capable of carrying on its business for the benefit out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies this of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
Under the terms Annual Report and Accounts.
of the agreement, it shall terminate in respect of a beneficial A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be Owner if such beneficial Owner ceases to control at least published on the Companys website www.
a shareholding of 10% of the Company.
As of 14 December 2006 66 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance and 2 April 2007, Yong Keu Cha and Oleg Novachuk, respectively, commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2008 and into 2009. ceased to be bound by the terms of the relationship agreement, Whilst the Group has good access to customers in the key markets their holdings having fallen below 10%.
of China and Europe as a result of its advantageous geographical position, a period of sustained commodity price weakness will Political and charitable donations signicantly reduce the profitability of the Group and cash The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the generation from the operating businesses compared to 2008.
United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political As a result of acquisitions made during 2008, the Group has organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
moved to a net debt position of $1,628 million as at 31 December The Group made charitable donations of $5.3 million during the year 2008.
Of the outstanding debt balance of $2,200 million at 2007: $4.8 million.
Further details of payments for charitable and 31 December 2008, $626 million is repayable over the next 12 community purposes made during the year are given on page 37. months to March 2010.
Further details of the repayment prole can be found in note 30 on page 115.
Suppliers It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made In response to market conditions, the Group has implemented in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between a series of cost cutting measures in the operating businesses, the Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading including a significant reduction in discretionary capital terms and conditions have been complied with.
The Directors have also not recommended the payment of a final dividend for 2008.
Advanced negotiations The average creditor payment period for the year ended 31 over the sale of a proportion of Ekibastuz GRES-1 are taking place December 2008 for the Company was 6.0 days 2007: 9.4 days.
which, if successful, should generate significant proceeds which will be used to reduce the Groups debt.
In addition, the Groups Market value of land and buildings future borrowing requirements are being discussed with Land acquired prior to 1 January 2002, is carried in the balance its bankers, its major shareholders and the Government of sheet at deemed cost resulting from a revaluation, which was Kazakhstan.
The Groups major capital expenditure projects undertaken as at 1 January 2002 as part of the Groups transition will only proceed to the extent that committed nancing is to reporting under IFRS.
Land and buildings acquired since fully secured.
1 January 2002 are recorded at cost.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of land, buildings and mineral reserves and As at 31 December 2008, the Group has available funds resources at each balance sheet date.
totalling $572 million, and an undrawn revolving credit facility of $200 million of which $150 million has been put on a committed Policy on derivatives and financial instruments basis to 31 March 2010.
The Group also holds a 26% stake in The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, ENRC a FTSE 100 company listed on the London Stock Exchange and information on the Groups exposures to foreign currency, which, at 27 March 2009, had a market value of $2,165 million.
credit, commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be The Directors believe that the Groups current cash position and found in note 34 commencing on page 116. available credit lines, the cost cutting measures implemented within the operating businesses, together with the curtailment in significant agreements change of control discretionary capital spending, anticipated sales proceeds from the The following significant agreement contains certain termination disposal of a proportion of Ekibastuz GRES-1 and other potential and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control asset disposals, all provide sufficient cover to meet the Groups of the Company.
The terms of a $2.1 billion pre-export finance anticipated cash ow requirements.
After making enquiries, the debt facility the Facility dated 29 February 2008 between Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has the Company and the financial institutions named in the Facility adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim or Oleg foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going Novachuk or group of people acting in concert secures control concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
of the Company: i a lender under the Facility shall not be obliged to fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing more than Memorandum and Articles of Association two-thirds of the amount of the Facility so require, the parties The following description summarises certain provisions of the shall enter into negotiations for a period of not more than 30 days Companys Memorandum of Association and of its Articles of with a view to agreeing alternative terms for continuing the Facility.
Association and applicable English law concerning companies If no alternative basis has been agreed during such period then the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006.
This summary is qualied the lenders may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles of the Facility and declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
Association and the Companies Acts.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Going concern a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely class rights are varied, such amendments must be approved by to impact its future growth and operating performance are set out the members of each class of shares respectively.
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 50.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, financial risk management policies and At the 2009 AGM a special resolution will be put to shareholders available debt facilities are described in the Financial Review on proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association pages 38 to 47.
In addition, note 34 commencing on page 116 primarily in order to accommodate the provisions of the sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for Companies Act 2006, to take account of the implementation of managing its capital structure, liquidity position and financial risks the EU Shareholder Rights Directive and to increase the number arising from exposures to commodity prices, interest rates and of Directors the Company is permitted to appoint.
the changes will be reected in the summary of the Articles of Association which will appear in the 2009 Annual Report As described in the Market Overview commencing on page 22, and Accounts.
the global economic downturn has resulted in a significant fall in www.
com 67 Directors Report: Governance Other Statutory Information continued Rights attaching to shares i it is in respect of only one class of shares, ii it is in favour of The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are a single transferee or not more than four joint transferees, iii the dened in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if so required and Association may be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
delivered for registration to the ofce or such other place as the A shareholder whose name appears on the register can choose Board may determine accompanied by the certicate for the whether his shares are evidenced by share certicates or held shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board in electronic form in CREST the electronic settlement system may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor or in the UK.
person renouncing to make the transfer.
Voting rights Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
CREST and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncerticated On a show of hands every member or his representative who share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution of CREST.
and on a poll every member or his representative who is present The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, in person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register to shareholders.
each share of which he is the holder.
The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any At any general meeting a resolution put to a vote of the meeting uncerticated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
shall be decided on a show of hands, unless before or on the Electronic and web communications declaration of the result of the show of hands a poll is duly The Companys Articles of Association allow for communications demanded.
Subject to the provisions of Companies Acts, a poll to its members to be made in electronic form and, in addition, may be demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least they also deem documents or information made available on the five members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote Companys website in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, at the meeting or a member or members present in person or by validly sent or supplied by the Company.
These provisions require proxy representing not less than one tenth of the total voting the members to opt-in to receive documents or information rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting in paper form, making electronic communications the default or a member or members present in person or by proxy holding method of communication.
The provisions require the Company shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting, being shares on to consult with members as to whether they wish to receive which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than information by means of the Companys website.
one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that Employee benefit trust right.
As a result of changes introduced by the Companies Act In order to hedge its obligations under the Kazakhmys Long Term 2006 to allow multiple proxies appointed by a single member Incentive Plan 2007 and the Kazakhmys Deferred Share Bonus to vote on a show of hands, resulting in the potential for a vote Plan 2007, the Company intends to fund an employee benefit on a show of hands to be unrepresentative of the wishes of the trust to acquire shares in the Company.
Shares used to satisfy meeting of the Company, all substantive resolutions at general the obligations under both plans will be purchased on the open meetings will be put to a poll vote.
market thereby avoiding any dilution of shareholders.
Where Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in shares are held by the employee benefit trust, the trustee will relation to any general meeting must be received whether in abstain from voting.
written form or electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the Winding up time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at In the event the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
the sanction of a special resolution of the Company and any other Dividend rights sanction required by law, divide among the members in specie Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value any but the amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as recommended by the Board.
The Board can declare and pay between the members or different classes of members.
The Board may declare and pay such interim liquidator may also vest the whole or any part of the assets in dividends including any dividend payable at a xed rate of the trustees on such trusts for the benefit of the members, but no amounts and on the dates and for the periods it decides provided member shall be compelled to accept any assets on which there the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
any time the share capital of the Company is divided into different Variation of rights classes, the Board may pay such interim dividends on shares which If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into rank after shares conferring preferential rights with regard to shares of different classes, the rights attached to any share or dividend as well as on shares conferring preferential rights, unless class of shares in the Company may be varied or abrogated in at the time of payment any preferential dividend is in arrears.
such manner if any as may be provided by such rights or, in the absence of any such provision, either with the consent in writing If a dividend has not been claimed for 12 years after the of the holders of not less than three quarters in nominal value of date such dividend became due for payment, it may be invested the issued shares of the class or upon the adoption of a resolution or otherwise made use of by the Board for the benefit of passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares the Company.
Transfer of shares The rights or privileges attached to any class of shares shall be The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certicated share deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue which is not fully paid or renunciation of a renounceable letter of any new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to those of allotment, provided that refusal does not prevent dealings in already issued or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper shares or by the purchase or redemption by the Company of its basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer unless 68 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance own shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial Acts and the Companys Articles of Association.
statements, the Directors are required to: Powers of the Directors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The Directors are responsible for the management of the business consistently: of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money up to an aggregate amount prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis of $5 billion.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
A resolution to increase the maximum number of Directors from 10 to 12 shall be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Notication of the acquisition or disposal of major financial position of the parent company and of the Group and shareholdings that enable them to ensure that their financial statements comply Rule 5 of the Disclosures and Transparency Rules requires with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility disclosure to the issuer by a holders of shares with voting rights for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard attached, b those entitled to exercise voting rights, and c those the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other holding financial instruments which result in a right to acquire irregularities, and have adopted a control framework for shares with voting rights already in issue, when their interests reach, application across the Group.
exceed or fall below 3%, and every percentage point above 3%.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also Audit information responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Directors As required by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each Remuneration Report and a Governance Framework that comply of the Directors has approved this report and confirmed that so with that law and those regulations.
far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing Responsibility statement their audit report, of which the Companys auditors are unaware, The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: and he has taken all steps that he ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in information and to establish that the Companys auditors are accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards: aware of that information.
the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Auditors the Company and the undertakings included in the Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the consolidation taken as a whole: and auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue development and performance of the business and the position in ofce and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors of the Company and the undertakings included in the and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description proposed at the 2009 AGM.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors Report comprising pages 1 to 69, and including Responsibilities of the Directors for the preparation the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in of the financial statements these pages, has been approved by the Board and signed on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report its behalf by: and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Robert Welch Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company Secretary company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that 30 March 2009 law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements Registered Ofce in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 6th Floor, Cardinal Place IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law and 100 Victoria Street have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements London on the same basis.
SW1E 5JL The Group and parent company financial statements are required Registered in England and Wales No.
5180783 by law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
