Directors Report: Governance Board of Directors 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 8 9 9 52 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Governance 1.
Simon Heale 55 Chairman since 2005 Non-executive Director since 2007 Joined the Group in 1995 when he was appointed managing A non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc, director and chief executive officer of Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC.
Panmure Gordon & Co plc, Marex Group Limited and PZ Cussons He was elected chairman of the board of directors of that plc.
He was formerly chief executive of The London Metal company in December 2000 and became Chairman of Exchange, chief operating officer of Jardine Fleming Ltd and Kazakhmys PLC in September 2005.
He is chairman of the deputy managing director of Cathay Pacic Airways.
chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Oleg Novachuk 38 Chief Executive since 2007 8.
Daulet Yergozhin 29 Joined the Group in 2001 and was appointed Chief Executive in Non-executive Director since November 2008 2007, having been Finance Director since 2005.
He was formerly Chairman of the tax committee of the Ministry of Finance vice president of financial projects for Kazakhmys Corporation LLC since October 2008 and vice minister of finance of the Republic and the financial adviser to the president of Kazakhmys of Kazakhstan since January 2007, having held a number of Corporation LLC, and chairman of the board of directors other governmental positions since early 2006.
He was formerly of Kazprombank JSC.
a non-executive director of ENRC PLC.
Prior to his governmental appointments, he was deputy director of the North-Caspian 3.
David Munro 53 project department of JSC NC KazMunaiGas before moving to Development Director from April 2009 a deputy director general role in JSC Offshore Oil Company Joined the Group in 2005 as a non-executive Director and now KazMunayTeniz, a subsidiary of JSC KazMunaiGas.
He also Development Director, having previously been Strategy Director.
previously worked for KazTransOil JSC.
He is a non-executive director of Lonmin plc and was formerly chief executive of RMC Group plc, chief development officer of BHP 9.
Peter Hickson 63 Billiton plc and an executive director of Billiton plc responsible for Non-executive Director since March 2009 its global aluminium and base metals businesses.
He is chairman Chairman of Communisis plc and senior independent director of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
of London & Continental Railways Ltd.
He was previously chairman of Anglian Water Group Ltd, group finance director of Powergen 4.
Vladimir Ni 76 plc and a non-executive director of Telent plc, Scottish Power plc Non-executive Director since 2005 and RAC plc.
He is also a trustee of the ORBIS Charitable Trust.
Chairman of the board of directors of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC He is a member of the Audit and Group Health, Safety and since 2006, having previously been vice chairman.
He is also Environment Committees.
a director of HOZU Corporation LLC.
Other senior management not pictured 5.
Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG 71 Non-executive Director since 2005 Matthew Hird 36 Vice chairman, Investment Banking of JPMorgan Europe and Chief Financial officer since 2007 vice chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove.
He serves on the boards Joined the Group in 2005 as Group Financial Controller and of Compagnie Financire Richemont AG, Fluor Limited and GEM Company Secretary.
He was formerly senior manager with Deloitte Diamonds Limited.
He was formerly British Ambassador to the & Touches global mining team, and group reporting manager and United States and to South Africa, and a non-executive director company secretary of Vedanta Resources plc.
of SABMiller plc, BHP Billiton plc, British Airways plc and Liberty International plc.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee Eduard Ogay 39 and a member of the Nomination Committee.
Chief Executive officer of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC since 2006 Joined the Group in 2001 as director of marketing and 6.
Appointed director of corporate Non-executive Director since 2006 development in 2005 prior to becoming chief executive officer Chairman of Robert Walters plc, a non-executive director of of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC in 2006.
National Grid PLC and a senior advisor to Macquarie Capital Markets.
He was formerly president, UK of BHP Billiton plc, having previously been group president of BHP Billitons energy business, president, BHP Billiton Petroleum, an executive director of BTR plc and held a number of senior positions in BOC Group plc.
He is the Senior Independent Director and a member of the Audit, Group Health, Safety and Environment, and Remuneration Committees.
