Directors Report: Business Review 29785 p009 013 NEW.
qxd:29785 P010 NEW 6 4 09 14:37 Page 13 Our strategy in action We aim to be a leading natural resources company in Central Asia, combining international best practice with the exceptional mineral opportunities available in the region.
Our long-term strategy is based around three key objectives, with asset optimisation our priority for 2009.
Underpinning these priorities is our commitment to operating responsibly.
East Region Asset optimisation Our change programme, launched in 2009, aims to to control costs through improved improve productivity and efficiency and targeted expansion reduce costs 14 Boschekul Organic growth This copper project offers significant growth to secure the long-term success of potential for the Group the Group by delivering our major growth projects 16 Power Diversication The acquisition of Ekibastuz gives us access to diversify our earnings base through to the rapidly growing the expansion of resource assets in electricity market Central Asia 18 Satpayev Responsibility Our new training facility behind our strategy is a commitment is helping us to raise standards in health and to operate responsibly taking account safety.
of our employees, the environment and communities around us 20 www.
com 13 Our strategy in action Optimising performance: East Region 14 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review East Region The change programme is a key part of our strategy of optimising our assets and will be important to the future development of the Group.
Vladimir Jumanbayev Head of the Corporate Development Centre The idea of a change programme was international experience in key areas such and planning stage, the projects were established in early 2008 and the first pilot as metallurgy, production, maintenance identied and developed.
At this point, projects were launched in early 2009.
specic teams were created to lead their are reviewing existing working methods, projects in 2009.
During 2010, successful As Kazakhmys is such a large organisation, to define new approaches and as a result, change initiatives will be rolled out across the change programme will start in the improve productivity and reduce costs.
the other regions of Kazakhmys.
East Region, where we will test and The change team consists of around 40 develop new operating and management We believe that the change programme people and members have a wide range techniques before taking these to the will be a key part of our strategy of of skills, from mining to project rest of the organisation.
optimising our assets and will be management.
I was previously Chief important to the future development The programme consists of three stages.
Financial officer of the Copper Division of the Group.
It is a great challenge as and the team is principally drawn from The project initiation was completed in August 2008, during which the scope it requires changes in working culture, experienced Kazakhmys employees, as much as technical procedures, but though we have also recruited some and basic plan of the programme was the potential rewards are significant.
additional individuals with specic established.
In the second, or design www.
com 15 Our strategy in action Organic growth: Boschekul 16 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review Boschekul 4.0m tonnes of copper from 1,300 million tonnes of ore Boschekul is a copper project in the early stages of development, with significant growth potential.
Alexander Li Deputy Head of Kazakhmys Projects Kazakhmys Projects is responsible for all The eastern part of the ore body has per annum open pit mine and onsite new major mining developments within the potential to increase the resource concentrator, which, in addition to Kazakhmys and is based in Karaganda to around 1,300 MT of ore with 4.0 MT copper concentrate, will also produce the industrial centre of Kazakhstan.
We are currently carrying gold and molybdenum in concentrate have a total team of 81 people, and work out an extensive drilling programme as by-products.
alongside our key external contractors to report the total resource under Approval of the pre-feasibility study by including Fluor, SRK and AMC.
The same international classication standards.
the Board, would then lead to a feasibility team manages the project at Aktogay.
From this work we will be able to obtain study, which will take up to 12 months.
Boschekul is a major copper growth sufficient data to define the resource project, 270 km east of Astana.
It is body and develop the optimum mine currently in the pre-feasibility stage which plan, utilising 3D block modelling software.
will be complete in the first half of 2009.
At present we envisage a 25 to 30 MT www.
com 17 Our strategy in action Diversication: Power 18 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review Ekibastuz 10bn produced in 2008 kWh The acquisition of Ekibastuz in 2008 has been key to Kazakhmys diversication strategy.
Nikolay Korobovsky General Director Ekibastuz GRES-1 The electricity market has been growing Last year Ekibastuz GRES-1 generated Potential capacity to meet rapidly in Kazakhstan and although 10.4 billion kWh which represented expected growth in demand growth may slow down in this economic 14% of all the electricity generated environment, the current expectation in Kazakhstan.
85% of this was sold in for our production in 2009 is around the local market and the remainder was Ekibastuz GRES-1 potential capacity 9 billion kWh.
The station was built 4,000MW to run on coal from the local Bogatyr coal Ekibastuz is the key plant in the country mine, which is able to extract around for allowing Kazakh capacity to expand 47 MT per annum.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 to match demand, particularly as the current capacity resource industry continues to grow.
To increase capacity at Ekibastuz will 2,250MW When constructed, Ekibastuz GRES-1 require capital investment of over $1billion.
was the largest power station in the Soviet This includes around $160 million to be Union and remains today a significant spent on precipitators which will improve global power producer, employing air quality, benefiting the local community around 995 people.
com 19 Our strategy in action Operating responsibly 20 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review Satpayev 24,000 workers trained each year The new Kazakhmys training facility in Satpayev is a key development in raising standards in health and safety.
Kozhakhmet Abishev Deputy Director, responsible for field work training In 2008 the Training Centre in Satpayev moved to a new building and came together with the new Technological College, both funded and constructed by Kazakhmys.
The new college, which cost $5 million, is unique in Kazakhstan in both its size and facilities.
I came to the Kazakhmys Training Centre in 2007 after 25 years of experience in electrical engineering in the mining industry.
I started in 1976 as a tunnelling mechanic and worked at the Zhezkazgan safety training for all newly recruited with a dummy underground mine, Complex for many years.
workers at the Zhezkazgan Complex, equipped with relevant mining and the regular operational retraining of equipment.
There is much work to be We currently train around 900 students all Zhezkazgan employees.
We will train done on health and safety, but raising each year at the Centre in a wide range around 24,000 workers a year, which training standards, particularly amongst of mining specialities.
The Centre also includes at least one annual course new recruits, is an important first step.
provides additional professional retraining for every regional employee.
As well as operational training, the Centre helps We have some excellent facilities including virtual simulators for training provide health and safety training for employees and aims to improve health operators of load-haul-dump units, dump-trucks and excavators.
There is a and safety in the Zhezkazgan Complex facilities through research and the training ground covering all technological processes of ore mining including practice incorporation of best practice.
The curriculum includes initial health and overground and underground operations, www.
