OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED UK We were pleased to hand over the foundations at the Olympic Stadium in October 2008, ahead of schedule and on budget.
Highlights Olympics-related work successfully completed Good result from geotechnical business Ground improvement business hit by housing crash Significant overheads reduction in Q4 Priorities for 2009 Focus on cash generation Firm cost control Continue to develop internal synergies Further develop safety and environmental programmes The rapid deterioration in UK housing impacted in the second half of the year Revenue by type of service on the ground improvement business and, to a lesser extent, on Phi, which 1 Anchors nails are most dependent on this sector.
As minipiles 40% 4 2 Specialty grouting 25% a result, both of these businesses have 3 Piling diaphragm 3 1 walls 25% taken steps to scale back their costs.
4 Ground The geotechnical business, which is improvement 10% 2 more focused on infrastructure work, fared rather better in the year and a good contribution was made by the components manufacturing division.
Revenue by end market We were pleased to hand over the 1 Office commercial 43% 2 Residential 28% 4 foundations at the Olympic Stadium in 3 Infrastructure 23% 3 October 2008, ahead of schedule and on 4 Power manufacturing 1 industrial 6% budget, marking our contribution towards London meeting its 2012 deadline.
Phi 2 also benefited from Olympics-related work, with a contract to install retaining walls for roadways and other infrastructure for the Olympic Park.
Employees Much lower profile, but equally successful, 595 2007: 571 Top Above was another of the years notable contracts, Installation of tension piles, Compaction grouting and 1 Rest of Group 91% removable ground anchors dynamic compaction at a at the site of a new leisure centre in 2 UK 9% and a grout curtain for the landfill site in Buckinghamshire.
Oxfordshire, with particularly challenging SouthGate centre in Bristol.
Lying on brownfield 2 1 land, with a main road to one side and a river to the other, the higher level of the river exposed the site to a flood risk.
The sites previous use as a refuse tip meant there was a risk that any disturbance of the ground might release contaminants into the water supply and this was exacerbated by 18 Keller Group plc Operating Review Operations UK Results summary and KPIs continuing operations Revenue 2008 85.2m 2007 78.0m Operating profit 2008 2.7m 2007 3.8m Operating margin Above and right Installation of driven cast in 2008 3.2% situ piles, continuous flight 2007 4.9% auger piles and vibro concrete columns for the 2012 Olympics Stadium in London.
Our growth compared with the growth of our markets underlying layers of soft clay and sand advantage: providing bigger and more 2008 2007 beneath the polluted landfill waste.
Our sophisticated foundation systems, for over 1-year 9% 5% 28% 7% solution was to use environmental stone which a growing demand is being driven over 3-years 96% 17% 102% 16% columns with a concrete plug in the base by long-term trends such as: Definition and method of calculation to prevent the potential transfer of the increased use of marginal land: Year-on-year sales growth including acquisitions compared with absolute growth defined as real growth plus estimated price contamination via rainwater into the sands the prevalence of very large-scale 1 inflation in the total UK construction market in brackets.
and out into the water course.
To satisfy development projects: concerns about flooding, we built a increasing investment in power plants Return on net operating assets reinforced earth retaining wall along the and outdated road and rail infrastructure: 2008 9% boundary with the river.
Like many of the climate change triggering more river and 2007 16% projects we are involved in daily around the dam flood protection projects: and Definition and method of calculation world, this one illustrates how the toughest an expanding market for buildings with Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net operating 2 technical challenges are often solved well reduced environmental impacts which assets including goodwill acquired through acquisitions.
should, over time, create a shift in favour Staff turnover of more sustainable ground engineering Makers techniques.
2008 7% We reported in our interim results 2007 8% announcement in July 2008 that, having Over the medium to long term, we expect Definition and method of calculation The number of managerial, professional and technical staff leaving successfully completed the disposal of the to continue to see above-average levels of the division in the period, expressed as a percentage of vast majority of the Makers business in construction growth in those emerging employees in this category.
2007, we continue to resolve the legacy markets where we are established and 1 Estimates of real annual growth plus estimated change in issues, which resulted in a post-tax loss of have the means to grow.
We will focus construction prices published by Euroconstruct in December 2008.
resources on those regions which continue Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred consideration and net defined benefit pension liabilities.
to offer growth opportunities through the Future performance, development global downturn.
and position As indicated in the Chairmans Statement, Finally, we can expect the current difficult the prospects for worldwide construction market conditions to give rise to further markets in the short to medium term are consolidation within our highly fragmented uncertain, with much resting on the speed industry and we are well placed to take and effectiveness of measures taken by full advantage of such opportunities as governments to stimulate their economies.
With some further contraction in privatelyfunded construction, we expect to face By continuing to focus on what we do best, increased competition for standard we expect to continue our track record of products where the ground conditions are out-performing general construction markets relatively uncomplicated and where the over the medium to long term.
barriers to entry are lower.
Justin Atkinson We will continue to focus on those sectors 2 March 2009 where we have a clear competitive Operating Review Keller Group plc 19
