GEOGRAPHIC LOCATIONS Our overriding strategic objective is to extend our global leadership in specialist ground engineering services, through a combination of organic growth and targeted acquisitions.
US UK HJ installs an Systems Osterberg Cell in Geotechnique augercast piles for installs reinforced the Regalia project concrete piles for in Sunny Isles, the foundations of a Florida the first multi-storey car park time ever, we for the Princess believe, that of Wales Hospital this technique has in Bridgend, been employed.
Per country turnover 2008 m 100 and over 10 to 100 1 to 10 0.1 to 1 Potential target 4 Keller Group plc Geographic Locations There are three key elements to our strategy: transfer of technologies and methods within our current geographic regions: expansion into new geographic regions: acquisition and development of new technologies and methods.
CEMEA Australia Keller Grundbau Vibro-Pile installs undertakes jet continuous flight grouting at Hafen auger piles to a City, as part of depth of 17 metres the commercial for the Wodonga redevelopment of Rail Bypass in the former harbour Victoria, Australia.
Emerging Markets Keller uses wet vibro replacement to a depth of 22 metres during the early stage of construction of a new port in Cochin, India.
Geographic Locations Keller Group plc 5 YEAR AT A GLANCE Apart from excellent financial results, 2008 was a year of progress in vital aspects of our business, such as product development, staff training and development, safety, environmental management and developing the synergies between our businesses.
January April All work and no play.... Keller employees The Ipoh to Padang Besar double-tracking and their families from south east Europe, and electrification project is one of several joined by colleagues from other parts of road and rail projects in Malaysia in which we the globe, took to the slopes for the annual participated in 2008.
Following mobilisation in Keller ski competition at Zauchensee, April, we are now well into the project, using near Salzburg.
our dry vibro replacement technology, chosen because it will not pollute the surrounding rice fields and waterways.
February Our commitment to innovation and sustainable solutions was recognised May when Keller won the Geotechnical GeoThe Keller team working on the foundations environmental Private Sector Project over for the 2012 London Olympics main stadium 1m category at the Ground Engineering met with the Prime Minister, the Mayor of Awards.
The winning project, located London and the Secretary of State for Culture, near the UKs Dartford Tunnel, used a Media and Sport, when they attended a combination of techniques to minimise ceremony to mark the construction of the the use of construction material and the first pile.
need to transport materials and waste to and from site.
June Whats June without a blizzard?
Working March in 20-inch snow, on a remote road in No sooner had the snow melted, than we Montanas Glacier National Park, Hayward started work on the second phase of the Baker was not deterred.
Its task was to From top June large slope stabilisation project on the A2 densify the soils along the sloping edge of Glacier National Park, US.
motorway between Vienna and Graz.
We the road by injecting compaction grouting April are employing advanced technology with to a depth of 30 feet at some 350 locations, Rail Project, Malaysia.
the strongest ground anchors ever used enabling the road to be used in safety.
for this type of application.
6 Keller Group plc Year at a Glance July October At the summer meeting of the International In Australia, we commenced the second Association of Foundation Drilling in phase of work for a road bypass scheme in Canada, Anderson took away two Queensland, where Piling Contractors is prestigious safety awards: first prize in the installing bored and driven piles.
Working Category 1 section for large contractors : alongside is sister company, KGE, which and a special award only made once is installing stone columns and undertaking before: the Rick Marshall Award of dry soil mixing, supported by experienced Excellence given to the company with the engineers from other parts of the Group.
best safety programme within the industry.
Another example of value creation through co-operation.
August They say the whole of France goes on November holiday in August, but it was business London is not the only European capital as usual for Keller Fondations Spciales facing a major 2012 deadline.
In Poland, when they were awarded the contract to we are working on the foundations for the construct foundations for a new uranium new Warsaw National Stadium for the treatment plant in Pierrelatte.
They were 2012 European Football Championship.
able to help their client, Areva, to meet its A seminar and visit to the site of the environmental objectives by demonstrating stadium in November attracted around 400 the energy efficiency of their vibro stone participants who were able to watch the column solution.
construction of the stone columns that will one day support their football heroes.
September The last day of the final module of December our 2007 08 Strategic Development As the year-end approached, the sun still Programme was marked with an evening shone on Abu Dhabi, where we continued boat trip down the River Thames.
21 of the our piling and ground improvement works Groups senior managers from 10 countries at the Al Raha Beach complex and the attended the programme which provides new Khalifa Bin Zayed National Stadium.
a valuable opportunity for participants to make contacts and exchange ideas, as well as developing management skills.
From top March A2 Motorway, Austria.
September River Thames boat trip, UK.
Year at a Glance Keller Group plc 7
