DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report, together with the audited The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 36.
Directors conflicts of interest are discussed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 39. Business review and principal activities The Companys articles of association indemnify the Directors The Groups principal activity is specialist ground engineering.
out of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer In accordance with Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006, any loss or liability in the execution of their duties as Directors, the Directors are required to produce a Business Review in subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. this report.
The information which fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set out below and is incorporated by reference into this report.
A review of: Retirement and re-election Mr Lpez Jimnez and Mr Rubright will retire by rotation at the Groups progress and future prospects, including the Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for discussion of the Groups markets and competitive re-election.
Mr Franklin, who has been re-appointed since the environment and the main trends and factors likely to last Annual General Meeting, will retire in accordance with affect the future development, performance and position the articles of association and will offer himself for election.
of the Groups business is given on pages 8 to 22: and In addition, Dr West, who has served on the Board as a Nonenvironmental matters, employees and social and executive Director for eleven years, will retire and offer himself community issues may be found on pages 23 to 27. for re-election.
Principal risks and uncertainties and key performance Share capital and substantial shareholdings indicators The structure of the Companys share capital, including The key business risks and uncertainties affecting the Group the rights and obligations attaching to shares, is given in relate to market cycles, acquisitions, technical risk and people.
note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
These are explained more fully in the Operating Review, Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year where the key performance indicators, measuring success appear in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
in managing these risks, are also shown.
At 2 March 2009, the Company had been notified in The Group is geographically diverse and is managed as a accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of series of local businesses, which gives it a relatively low the Financial Services Authority of the following interests in risk profile.
There are no contractual arrangements which, its issued ordinary share capital: individually, are critical to the business of the Group.
Percentage of the Results and dividends Number Companys The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of shares total voting held rights of 113.2m 2007: 103.2m, are set out on page 44.
J P Morgan Chase & Co. 4,798,351 7.5% The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.8p per share GTCEISU Construccin, S. A.
3,691,985 5.7% to be paid on 29 May 2009, to members on the register at the Legal & General Investment close of business on 1 May 2009.
An interim dividend of Management 3,406,5415.1% 6.9p per share was paid on 3 November 2008.
The total AXA Investment Managers 3,204,463 4.9% dividend for the year of 20.7p 2007: 18.0p will amount Barclays Global Investors 2,550,357 3.9% to 13.3m 2007: 11.9m.
Directors Research and development The rules governing the election and re-election of directors The Group continues to have in-house design, development may be found in the Corporate Governance Report on and manufacturing facilities, where staff work closely with site page 39.
The powers of directors of the Company are as set engineers to develop new and more effective methods of out in the Companys articles of association.
solving problems of ground behaviour.
Much of the specialised The names and biographical details of the Directors who hold equipment we use is designed and built by us and, where office at the date of this report are given on pages 28 and 29. applicable, the development costs are included in the cost All served throughout the year.
In addition, Mr Keith Payne of the equipment.
served on the Board until he retired on 31 January 2008.
30 Keller Group plc Directors Report Corporate governance Disclosure of information to auditors This is the subject of a separate report on pages 38 to 41 The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this which details the Companys compliance with the Combined Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Code on Corporate Governance as appended to the Listing there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Remuneration Report Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps is set out on pages 32 to 37. that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Social responsibility The Groups approach to employee involvement, disabled persons, health and safety and the environment is set out Auditors in the Social Responsibility Report on pages 23 to 27.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors to the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Management of financial risks Annual General Meeting.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are discussed in the Financial Review on page 22.
On behalf of the Board Going concern The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis Jackie Holman as the Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider Secretary that the Group has adequate resources to continue in 2 March 2009 operational existence for the foreseeable future, as discussed in the Financial Review on page 21.
Payments to suppliers The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction and to abide by those terms, providing that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
At 31 December 2008 the Group had 63 days 2007: 58 days purchases outstanding.
Political and charitable contributions No contributions were made to any political party during the year.
Donations made by the Group in the UK for charitable purposes were 2,000 2007: 9,000 with charitable donations of 108,000 2007: 88,000 made by the Group as a whole.
Annual General Meeting The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 75.
Directors Report Keller Group plc 31
