OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED UNITED STATES On a constant currency basis, revenue In the last quarter of the year Hayward We anticipate continued from our US operations as a whole Baker acquired Olden for a total strength in the power was up by 5%, whilst operating profit consideration of $13.0m 7.0m, including was down by 21%, mainly reflecting the assumption of debt.
The acquired sector and, in particular, a loss of contribution from Suncoast.
business reported annual revenues of we expect to see an Translated into sterling, overall revenue around $35m 19m for the year ended was 12% up, whilst operating profit 31 October 2008, with approximately 75% increasing number of was down by 15%.
of its sales coming from the public sector.
electricity transmission As the leading earth retention contractor projects over the Hayward Baker in Texas, Olden is the preferred supplier 2008 was another outstanding year for of earth retention solutions to the Texas medium term.
Hayward Baker, the largest of our US Department of Transport.
Bob Rubright, foundation businesses and the most Managing Director, US diverse in terms of its geographic presence, Case, McKinney, Anderson and HJ range of services and the sectors it serves.
Amongst our US piling businesses, a strong This diversity has served Hayward Baker performance was delivered by Case and Highlights Excellent performance from Hayward Baker well, enabling it to take advantage of McKinney, whilst Anderson and HJ did well Suncoast breakeven, despite US continued strong demand in sectors to manage a sharp fall-off in demand for housing crash such as power, health and infrastructure.
privately funded projects in their respective Strong synergies between Keller companies Power-related projects in which it was home markets of California and Florida.
Progress in developing share of CFA market Acquisition of Olden October involved included piling and dynamic compaction works to support new wind Our US businesses once again found that, farms in Wyoming and Oregon: design by combining their skills and resources on Priorities for 2009 and build of an earth retention system for large or particularly complex projects, they Focus on cash generation the installation of a coal conveyor at an created good opportunities.
The successful Firm cost control energy plant in Texas: vibro works for the first-half co-operation between Case and Develop synergies from Olden acquisition Further develop safety and construction of petroleum storage tanks McKinney to install foundations for the Fort environmental programmes on the Gulf Coast: micropiling for a hybrid Martin Power Station in West Virginia was power plant in Virginia: jet grouting at a gas followed up in the second half with several plant in New Jersey: and soil mixing at Revenue by type of service a nuclear plant in North Connecticut.
Below 1 Piling diaphragm Installation of a secant wall walls 39% 5 forming the perimeter walls Flood prevention work on dams was also 2 Post-tensioning 20% of an underground car park, 4 3 Ground 1 a significant feature of its 2008 workload.
for a tower development at improvement 15% Chicagos Museum Park.
4 Anchors nails Major grouting works were undertaken at 3 minipiles 15% the Elk Water Dam in West Virginia and 2 5 Specialty grouting 11% awarded at Wolf Creek Dam in Kentucky.
Following the successful deployment of its new TRD Trench cutting Re-mixing Deep Revenue by end market wall technology on a test section of the Herbert Hoover Dyke, Hayward Baker is 1 Infrastructure 32% continuing to use TRD technology to create 2 Office commercial 24% 4 3 Power manufacturing a cutoff wall within the existing levee 1 industrial 22% 4 Residential 22% around Floridas Lake Okeechobee.
3 2 As a national network of local businesses, Hayward Baker is close to its clients and can respond quickly to their needs.
Its ability and willingness to mobilise for small Employees and medium-sized jobs as well as larger, complex jobs has been an important factor 2,824 2007: 2,792 in its success.
Sometimes the small jobs develop into very significant contracts.
Such 1 Rest of Group 55% 2 US 45% was the case on what first appeared to be a minor slab-jacking project in Alabama, 2 1 where Hayward Baker discovered that underlying the facility was actually a 200- feet diameter sinkhole, requiring emergency compaction grouting on a large scale.
12 Keller Group plc Operating Review Operations US Results summary and KPIs Revenue 2008 532.1m 2007 473.2m Operating profit 2008 52.1m 2007 61.6m Operating margin Above Above 2008 9.8% Fabricated post-tensioning Construction of foundations 2007 13.0% materials being prepared for for a wind farm in Mountain delivery to a Suncoast job site.
Our growth compared with the growth of our markets 2008 2007 similar joint ventures, including foundations Suncoast for the upgrade of the Brandon Shores Despite the deepening recession in US over 1-year 5% 5% 8% 2% over 3-years 36% 4% 85% 11% Power Plant in Maryland and the new housing, Suncoast managed to maintain Definition and method of calculation Philadelphia Convention Center.
We a good sales volume, albeit down 16% in Year-on-year sales growth including acquisitions in local anticipate continued strength in the power dollar terms on the previous year.
However, currency compared with growth in the total US construction 1 sector and, in particular, we expect to as expected, competitive selling prices, market in brackets.
see an increasing number of electricity combined with high material costs for most Return on net operating assets transmission projects over the medium of the year, put margins under extreme term.
Several of our US businesses should pressure.
Tight cost management, including 2008 25% benefit from this opportunity: in particular a further reduction in headcount which is 2007 40% McKinney, whose broad geographic spread now at around one third of its peak level, Definition and method of calculation Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net operating and lighter, mobile fleet are well suited produced a breakeven result for the year.
2 assets including goodwill acquired through acquisitions.
Existing home selling prices are now more Staff turnover We made progress in increasing our than 25% below their 2006 high on a 2 Foundation contracting businesses share of the fast-developing and highly national basis and the actual decline 2008 8% fragmented continuous flight augur CFA in many of Suncoasts markets is even 2007 7% market, despite the adverse market greater.
Construction activity in housing is Suncoast conditions.
Our approach to this involves unlikely to increase until prices have levelled two or more of our businesses, usually out and the inventory of unsold homes has 2008 18% 2007 26% including HJ with its particular CFA reduced.
Most commentators, including the Definition and method of calculation expertise, co-operating on very large National Association of Home Builders, are The number of managerial, professional and technical staff projects, such as the Majestic Star Casino not anticipating a significant turnaround leaving the division in the period, expressed as a percentage project in Pennsylvania, which was before 2011.
Until then, management will of employees in this category.
completed in the first half.
In addition, continue to focus on preserving cash, 1 Data published by the US Census Bureau of the Department individual businesses are seeking to tight cost control and reducing overheads.
of Commerce on 2 February 2009. introduce this technique into their local 2 2 S&P Case-Schiller US National Home Price Index, Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred markets where to date it has not been consideration and net defined benefit pension liabilities.
24 February 2009. widely-used, such as southern California, where Anderson used CFA for the foundation system for a new office and condominium development.
Right Installation of drilled shafts for the Phillip Morris Research and Technology Campus in Richmond, Virginia.
Operating Review Keller Group plc 13
