DIRECtORs REPORt The directors present their annual report and audited financial a safe working environment.
The Group operates a sharesave scheme statements for the year ended 30 June 2008. for all eligible employees and makes available a dealing service to enable employees to buy and sell its shares with a minimum Principal activities and business review of formality and on attractive commission terms.
The Group also The Groups principal activities are construction, support services, operates an AESOP scheme for all employees which comprises a residential and commercial property development and infrastructure share matching element.
Combined Code A review of the Groups business and progress is given on pages A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 42 to 44.
Going concern basis Results and dividends After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation The Group profit for the year after taxation and exceptional items was that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational 48.2m 2007: 56.3m.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to An interim dividend of 18p per share 2007: 9.6p amounting to 6.5m adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors propose a final Donations dividend of 37p per share 2007: 40.4p per share amounting to 13.5m Group donations to charity in the United Kingdom were 72,000 2007: 14.5m payable on 28 November 2008 to shareholders on the 2007: 71,000.
In addition the Group has considerable involvement Register of Members at the close of business on 26 September 2008. in the community as set out in the corporate responsibility report on Share capital pages 27 to 33.
No political donations were made Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year appear in 2007: nil.
note 22 of the consolidated financial statements.
Policy on payment of creditors Directors The Group agrees payments with its suppliers and subcontractors on The directors of the Company as at 17 September 2008 are shown an individual contract basis rather than following a standard code.
on pages 38 and 39, all of whom were directors throughout the year.
The policy is to abide by these agreed terms whenever it is satisfied Mr P T Warry stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2007. that the suppliers or subcontractors have provided the goods or Mr M OFarrell stepped down from the Board on 6 June 2008. services in accordance with the contract terms and conditions.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company at the end At the forthcoming annual general meeting resolutions will be of the year was nil 2007: nil.
proposed for the re-election of Mr J Dodds, Mr R W Simkin and Mr S W Leathes.
At that date, the unexpired term of the contract of Subsidiary trading companies within the Group, acting in accordance employment with the Company of each of the executive directors will with the above policy, exhibit creditor days averaging 28 2007: 32 in be 12 months.
respect of suppliers of invoiced goods and services and 18 2007: 20 in respect of certified amounts due to subcontractors.
These figures Details of directors interests are disclosed in the directors exclude amounts not currently due for payment but included within remuneration report on page 48 and 49. trade creditors.
The articles of association of the Company provide for the Financial instruments indemnification of its directors out of the assets of the Company Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution of Group along with its exposure to material financial risks are set out in their duties as directors and the Company has entered into deeds of notes 1 and 26 of the consolidated financial statements.
indemnity with its directors entitling them to be indemnified to the extent permitted by statute.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc The Company has insurance in favour of its directors and officers in KPMG, will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
The directors respect of certain losses or liabilities to which they may be exposed who held office at the date of approval of this directors report due to their office.
confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit Substantial voting rights information of which the auditors are unaware: and each director has At 15 September 2008 the Company had been notified of the taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Standard Life Investments Limited 11.09% Legal & General Plc and its subsidiaries 5.34% Signed on behalf of the Board.
J P Morgan Chase & Co 4.73% M D Barton Lloyds TSB Group plc 4.49% Secretary Barclays Global Investors 3.07% 17 September 2008 Employees Tempsford Hall The companies in the Group are equal opportunity employers.
Sandy The Group provides relevant information on matters of concern to Bedfordshire employees through newsletters and formal and informal meetings SG19 2BD with local management.
The Group encourages and assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, training, and career development of disabled people and the retention of those who become disabled during the course of their employment and who can be employed in KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 41
