BUSINESS RISKS 1 H M Prison Wayland is one of many prisons provided with new facilities, extensions and or refurbishment work by Kier Regional companies throughout England for the Ministry of Justice Custodial Properties framework.
The work here was undertaken by Kier Eastern.
2 Kier Scotland has completed the construction of several hotels and hotel extensions.
This track record has helped deliver exceptional residential accommodation for students now occupying two four-storey units at Fettes College in Edinburgh.
3 The housing market: Our ability to sell houses 3 Kier Eastern constructed a Ryanair depends on the demand for housing which, in hangar and flight simulator at Stansted turn, is linked to consumer sentiment.
We manage Airport to accommodate up to five the exposure by ensuring that we closely control Boeing 737 aircraft at one time.
During the year, Kier was appointed by BAA levels of work in progress to match the level plc as one of its Commodity Build of demand.
Prices and incentives are reviewed Framework contractors for a total of regularly and adjusted as appropriate.
650m of projects over five years at Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted and a Property development risk: Similar to housing 2 number of other UK airports.
land acquisition, acquiring the right property at the right price is fundamental to the profitability Business risks of the Property division.
The division controls its Core to our continued success is our ability to development risk by commencing construction identify and effectively manage the risks to our generally when it has either pre-sold or pre-let business.
Accordingly the Group has well defined, the development.
Board approvals are required rigorous policies and processes designed to identify, depending upon the value and nature of the mitigate and control risk.
Risks are specific to each development.
of our businesses and are controlled through the Investment risk: The Group is selective in the PFI Groups risk management processes.
The primary projects for which it bids, primarily concentrating risks that have the potential to adversely impact on the sectors where we have established on our business over the next twelve months are construction expertise.
considered to be as follows: People are the key to this business and good Contract and build risk: We carry out several people are a scarce resource.
It is important that hundred contracts annually and the risks to which we attract the best, look after them and retain the Group is exposed are dependent upon the them.
Health & Safety is a key feature and we nature of the work, the duration of the contract have rigorous health and safety policies aimed at and the legal form of the contract.
The Groups minimising health and safety incidents that may appetite for very long-term, large, competitively affect any staff, subcontractors and members tendered construction contracts is limited, of the public coming into contact with our driven by the desire to manage risk.
contracts are subject to approval by the Board, chief executive and finance director or divisional Pension scheme deficit: The pension scheme directors depending on the value and nature of liabilities and assets are subject to market the contract.
Contracts in progress are controlled movements and, although a long-term issue, and managed through the Groups operating regulations require us to respond to these longstructure and procedures including rigorous and term issues over the short term.
Steps have been regular review of forecast revenue and costs taken to eradicate our calculated deficit over a to complete.
timeframe agreed with the scheme trustees.
Land acquisition risk: The cost and quality Counterparty risk: The Group depends for its of land is fundamental to the profitability of a success on the stability of its customers, suppliers, housing development business.
Site evaluation funders, bondsmen and insurers.
Considerable is a key process and site appraisals are carried efforts are made to assess the financial strength out in detail including external advice where of counterparties before entering into contract appropriate.
Land acquisitions are subject to and to structure payments so as to mitigate our approval by the Board, chief executive and financial exposure to them for the duration of finance director or divisional directors depending our relationship.
Where the Group is particularly on the value and nature of the contract.
dependant on the continued financial strength Developments in progress are controlled and of the providers of key financial services to the managed through the Groups operating structure Group, we take steps to spread this exposure and procedures including rigorous and regular across a range of counterparties so as to diversify review of forecast revenue and costs to complete.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 37
