22 Group sourcing programme King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 01 01 02 03 01 Colours paint in Kotas s tores 02 Own-brand multi-language packaging 03 New ranges of Colours decorative products Extending our sourcing coverage Kingfi shers direct sourcing Eastern Europe and Latin The photo shows network is taking on a truly America, providing direct FSC-certifi ed sucupira global perspective.
Our wellaccess to major manufacturers hardwood fl ooring from established sourcing offi ces around the world.
This Kingfi shers new sourcing in Asia continue to grow and balance in our sourcing offi ce in Brazil.
are now complemented by portfolio gives us a strong additional offi ces in Poland advantage both in terms and, since November 2007, of fi nding new and unique So Paulo in Brazil.
This products, and allowing us allows us to extend our to source at lower cost in sourcing coverage deep into an infl ationary environment.
04 05 06 04 Buying catalogues produced by Kingfi sher 05 James Walker, B&Q Power Tools Buyer, 06 Paul Mir, Group Commercial Director, Sourcing Offi ces discussing a joint-buy of cordless drills with presenting at the Kingfi sher Vendor Claude Manach, Group Category Manager Conference in Shenzhen, China KF6712 IFC-p32 v13c.
indd 22 19 4 08 14:56:19 19 4 08 14:56:19 23 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Stronger supplier relationships Making the most of King shers unique competitive advantage Also last year King sher held its largest Vendor Conference, As the leading home improvement retailer in Europe and Asia, with which brought together around 150 suppliers from Asia, Eastern operations in nine countries, King sher has a scale and international Europe, South America and India to meet with buyers from reach which give it unique competitive advantages.
But these across the Group.
The event, held in Shenzhen, China, focused advantages can only be truly realised with the Groups commercial on further strengthening existing relationships and working function, its operating companies and its global supplier base together to develop growth opportunities.
Common purchasing programmes A year of signi cant change saw a thorough re-engineering Last year saw the development of common purchasing programmes of King shers international commercial organisation, designed dedicated to key product ranges within categories such as tools, to bring it closer to the businesses it supports, fide ne shared light bulbs and wood ooring.
More than 20 programmes are priorities and launch a series of initiatives that will deliver against now under way, covering own-brand as well as third-party branded those priorities.
products, and more are in the pipeline.
Progress was made in several key areas, notably direct sourcing, By bringing product buyers together for joint purchasing trips and developing supplier partnerships, common purchasing and dedicated networking events, these programmes allow greater reinforcing own-brands.
sharing of ideas and expertise between King shers largest businesses, as well as boosting the Groups purchasing power.
Direct sourcing continues to drive quality, innovation and value Crucially, they also allow King sher to take the lead in determining King shers direct sourcing network, which enables Group the design and speci cations of many products, using the in-house companies to buy goods directly from the manufacturer, offers design and product benchmarking expertise of B&Q UK and major competitive advantages, not least the ability to secure lower Castorama France.
Increasingly, King sher is also using direct sourcing to drive quality, innovation and design excellence Using quality own-brands to add value and grow market share in the products it buys.
Continued progress was made throughout the year to strengthen and diversify King shers own and exclusive-brand portfolio, notably Last year, the value of Group purchases made through the direct in hand tools, power tools and decorative products.
King shers sourcing network increased by 17% to US$821 million at factory own-brands in these areas include Performance Power and prices.
Combined, approximately 17,000 individual products MacAllister power tools and the Colours range of decorative products, generated 10% of total Group sales revenues.
which includes paint, wallpaper, lighting and soft furnishings.
Growth was particularly strong in the decorative, lighting and Developing strategic supplier partnerships bathroom categories, as customers recognised great value During the year, negotiations took place with approximately 20 key from recently introduced stylish designer products which, strategic suppliers responsible for a signi cant proportion of Group thanks to King shers global scale, are priced very competitively.
purchases, aimed at putting in place international contracts that will improve purchase terms, facilitate the development of common Coverage of the worlds key product supply markets was extended ranges between operating companies and secure exclusive by the opening of a direct sourcing of ce in So Paulo, Brazil, products.
With much of the groundwork now complete, these which provides greater access to the rich natural resources of agreements are due to be nalised in the 2008 09 financial year.
South America, such as FSC certi ed timber, natural stone and ceramics.
The new of ce joins existing ones in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Poland and India, each specialising in distinct product areas that, when combined, provide the broad range of options demanded by product buyers within King shers businesses.
