Directors report 33 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 The directors are pleased to present their report for the financial During the year, the market value of the Groups land and buildings year ended 2 February 2008. increased to 3.5bn: 0.8bn above their net carrying amount.
The market value of the Groups investment properties increased Principal activities and developments in the year to 44m: 15m above their net carrying amount.
King sher is an international home improvement business operating in markets that t strategic criteria of attractive scale, King sher paid an interim dividend of 3.85p 2006 07: 3.85p structure and economics.
Operating principally through its main per ordinary share amounting to 90m 2006 07: 90m on retail brands B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dpt and Screw x, 16 November 2007.
The directors recommend a final dividend King sher operates in nine countries across Europe and Asia of 3.4p 2006 07: 6.8p per ordinary share amounting to 80m and is market leader in five countries.
This continues to give 2006 07: 159m to be paid on 13 June 2008 to those the Group an excellent platform for growth in all of its markets.
shareholders whose names are on the register of members In addition, King sher has property interests in the countries at the close of business on 18 April 2008, making a total for in which it operates, which are primarily managed through the the year of 7.25p 2006 07: 10.65p per ordinary share amounting relevant retail business.
The ex-dividend date will be 16 April 2008. Dividend cheques and tax vouchers will be posted A review of the business, providing a comprehensive analysis on 11 June 2008. of the main trends and factors likely to affect the development, performance and position of the business, including environmental, The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available to all shareholders employee and social and community issues, together with the who would prefer to invest their dividends in the shares of the Groups Key Performance Indicators KPIs, and a description Company.
If shareholders wish to elect for the DRIP for the final of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and dividend and have not already done so, a letter or completed which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference DRIP mandate form must be received by the Companys Registrars is detailed on pages 2 to 31 as follows: by 22 May 2008.
Certi cates for shareholders electing for the DRIP will be posted by no later than 26 June 2008.
Further details of the King sher at a glance page 2, KPIs pages 4 and 5, review of the DRIP and an application form are available from the Companys business and progress, including the Operating review pages 8 Registrars whose details can be found on page 104. to 17, and an overview of markets, Group talent development, the Group sourcing programme and corporate responsibility pages 18 Directors to 25, Financial Review pages 26 to 29 and risks pages 30 and 31.
Details of the directors of the Company are shown on page 32, and in the Corporate Governance Report on page 37.
In total, 85 net new stores excluding discontinued operations were opened in the year, taking the Groups total to 780.
John Nelson stepped down from his role as Deputy Chairman at the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2007 but remained In the UK, B&Q continued its modernisation programme, with as Senior Independent Director.
Gerry Murphy stepped down from 38 larger stores now trading in the new format.
60% of its product his role as Group Chief Executive on 2 February 2008.
Ian Cheshire ranges were updated during the year.
Screw x continued the was appointed Group Chief Executive on 28 January 2008. expansion of its trade counters nationwide, taking the number of branches from 38 to 93.
Re-election of directors The Articles of Association require one third of the directors who In August 2007 King sher agreed to sell its freehold interest in are subject to retirement by rotation to retire and submit themselves B&Qs distribution centre in Worksop, Nottinghamshire for a total for re-election at the AGM each year and, in any event, at least of 73m.
The sale gave rise to a pre-tax exceptional gain of 40m.
Accordingly, Ian Cheshire and Hartmut In France, 42% of Castoramas selling space is now trading in the Krmer retire by rotation and are offering themselves for re-election.
new format and Brico Dpt opened eight stores during the year.
Having served for over 10 years as a non-executive director, and in accordance with the Combined Code, Michael Hepher is also On 4 January 2008 King sher sold its 50% joint venture stake retiring and offers himself for re-election.
He has taken this step in B&Q Taiwan to its joint venture partner, Test Rite International.
to provide continuity of Board membership as King shers new In South Korea where the Groups two trial stores were making Group Chief Executive takes of ce.
The Board continues to believe progress, opening suf cient stores to achieve economic scale in a that the two non-executive directors standing for re-election reasonable timeframe appeared unlikely.
Accordingly, the business are independent, and that they make an effective and valuable was closed during the year.
contribution to the Board, demonstrating continued commitment to the role.
In Mr Hephers case, his independence is assured In Russia, Castorama continued to make good progress with two through his continued application of his breadth of experience new stores opened, including the first in Moscow.
in a manner that provides challenge within a supportive context.
Results and dividends He maintains strong principles, acting as the conscience of The pro t before taxation of the Group amounted to 395m 2006 07: shareholders as well as an ambassador for the business.
Neither of the non-executive directors standing for re-election has a service contract with the Company.
indd 33 21 4 08 14:50:09 21 4 08 14:50:09 34 Directors report King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Directors interests performance and objectives, community involvement and other The directors who held of ce at 2 February 2008 had the following issues.
King shers intranet systems are also used to interests in the shares of the Company: communicate results announcements to employees throughout the Group and to distribute information about other important Ordinary Ordinary business developments.
shares shares 2 February 3 February Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss 2008 2007 with employees matters of current interest and concern.
or, if later, on Shares appointment To supplement existing communication within each business, Phil Bentley 18,097 18,097 the King sher European Forum was established in 2003.
Daniel Bernard 10,651 10,000 The Forum provides information and consultation with employee Ian Cheshire 342,506 22,879 representatives from King shers businesses in EU countries on Michael Hepher 1,599 1,599 speci ed trans-national business issues affecting those countries.
Peter Jackson 60,000 60,000 Janis Kong 24,000 24,000 We are committed to, and focused on, the development of Hartmut Krmer our people and have identi ed a talent population across the Gerry Murphy until 2 February 2008 497,604 359,151 organisation in whom we will invest signi cantly to further the John Nelson 43,750 43,750 capability of our leaders, both now and in the future.
We are Duncan Tatton-Brown 83,845 57,688 committed with passion and energy to the challenges we face across our business and strive for excellence in our leadership.
Between 2 February 2008 and 26 March 2008 there was no change The use of in-house and specialist training programmes as well in the relevant interests of the directors.
as links with the general educational sector, reinforces King shers commitment to employee involvement and development.
Employees As at 26 March 2008 no person who was then a director had any are also represented on the trustee board of King shers UK interest in any derivative or other financial instrument relating to the pension arrangements.
Companys shares and, so far as the Company is aware, none of their connected persons had any relevant interest.
All UK employees as well as those in Ireland and Hong Kong are entitled to participate in King shers long-standing Savings-Related The directors interests in options over shares of the Company as Share Option Scheme ShareSave, regardless of number of hours at 2 February 2008 are shown within the Remuneration report on worked, provided they meet certain service conditions.
In addition, pages 42 to 52. save-as-you-earn plans, not linked directly to the purchase of Deeds of indemnity King sher shares, operate in other countries along similar lines to As at the date of this report, indemnities that are qualifying third the UK scheme, taking account of local tax and legal requirements.
party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Respect for the diversity of people Act 2006 are in force under which the Company has agreed to King sher is committed to treating its employees and customers indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by law, in respect with dignity and respect, and to valuing diversity.
of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the King sher strives to create an environment that respects, welcomes Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Such indemnities were also in and enables employees to reach their full potential for their own force in respect of each person who was a director of the Company bene t and that of the Company.
at any time during the financial year ended 2 February 2008.
It is King shers policy to: Going concern Ensure there is no discrimination in employment on the grounds The directors con rm that, after reviewing expenditure commitments, of race, gender, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation expected cash ows and borrowing facilities, they have a reasonable or religious belief: expectation that King sher has adequate resources to continue Implement measures in stores to ensure a level of customer in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason service for disabled people equivalent to that offered to nonthey continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing disabled people: and these accounts.
Maintain a mechanism which customers and employees can use to give feedback on our performance and ensure Employee involvement that all customer comments are analysed, responded to The Board continues to emphasise high standards of customer and acted upon.
care and service in each operating company.
The commitment of employees to this principle is vital, and each operating company King sher sets speci c standards on diversity across the Group has developed channels of communication to help people to through its social and environmental programme Steps to expand their knowledge of, and involvement with, King sher.
Guidance has been developed for King shers subsidiaries to help them understand diversity and These channels include engagement surveys, brie ng groups, to ensure they meet the standards required within Steps.
Diversity internal magazines and newsletters that report on business KF6712 p33-53 v6b.
indd 34 22 4 08 12:36:35 22 4 08 12:36:35 35 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 data is published in the Corporate Responsibility Report, available change of control the Companys credit rating is downgraded on the website www.
com CR below investment grade BBB-, or equivalent or better any holder of the MTNs may require the Company to prepay the Charitable donations principal amount of that note together with interest accrued.
King sher and its subsidiaries made contributions to charity community projects worth an estimated 1.5m in the financial A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any person year ended 2 February 2008 equivalent to 0.4% of pre-tax or persons acting in concert as fide ned in the City Code on pro ts.
This included cash donations 0.3m and gifts-in-kind Takeovers and Mergers at any time is are or become s interested 1.0m retail cost.
Support was also given through the donation in more than 50% of the issued ordinary share capital of the of time by employees 0.2m.
Company or shares in the capital of the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general Supplier payment policy meeting of the Company.
The Company does not impose standard payment terms on its suppliers but agrees speci c terms with each of them, and then Share capital and control pays in accordance with those terms.
The Company is a holding Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out on page company and therefore has no trade creditors.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report The ordinary shares are listed on the Of cial List and traded on con rms that: so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant the London Stock Exchange and are also listed on the Paris audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: Bourse in France.
In addition, the Company has entered into and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought a level I American Depositary Receipt programme with the Bank to have taken as a director to make him or herself aware of any of New York Mellon, under which the Companys shares are relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys traded on the over-the-counter market in the form of American auditors are aware of that information.
This con rmation is given Depositary shares.
and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions During the year ended 2 February 2008, options were exercised of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in Takeover directive the allotment of 1,789,548 new ordinary shares.
No new ordinary Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end implements the EU Takeovers Directive the Company is required to of the financial year to the date of this report.
Such disclosures, which are Rights attaching to shares not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, include the following: The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Signi cant agreements change of control shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the such as bank loan agreements, Eurobond documentation, private UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
placement debt and employees share plans.
None of these are The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys deemed to be signi cant in terms of their potential impact on the reports and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings business of the Group as a whole except for the following: of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
The 500m credit facility dated 15 March 2005 between, the Company, HSBC Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks Transfers of shares named therein as lenders, contains a provision such that in the There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or event of a change of control, any lender may, if they so require, on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where notify the agent that they wish to cancel their commitment the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights whereupon the commitment of that lender will be cancelled or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder and all their outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, or any person interested in them to provide the Company with will become immediately due and payable: information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the The $466.5m US Private Placement notes, issued pursuant to a Companies Act 2006 or ii where their holder is precluded from note purchase agreement dated 24 May 2006 by the Company exercising voting rights by the FSAs listing rules or the City Code to various institutions, contains a provision such that in the event on Takeovers and Mergers.
of a change of control, the Company is required to make an offer Purchase of own shares to the holders of the US Private Placement notes to prepay the At the AGM on 31 May 2007, shareholders approved a resolution principal amount of the notes together with interest accrued: for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum The 550m Medium Term Notes MTNs, issued on 23 number of 235,920,341 ordinary shares.
This resolution remains November 2005 under the Groups 2,500m MTN programme valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
As at 2 February 2008 by the Company to various institutions, contains an option such the directors had not used this authority.
It is King shers present that in the event of a change of control and as a result of the KF6712 p33-53 v6b.
indd 35 18 4 08 16:14:23 18 4 08 16:14:23 36 Directors report King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 intention to cancel any shares acquired under such authority, Appointment and replacement of directors unless purchased to satisfy outstanding awards under employee The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement share incentive plans.
A resolution will be proposed at this years of directors are contained in the Articles and accord with usual AGM to renew this authority.
The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the Memorandum and Issue of shares Articles of Association of the Company in force from time to time.
At the 2007 AGM shareholders approved a resolution to give the directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal New Articles of Association value of 104,267,996.
In addition, shareholders approved a Changes to the Articles must be approved by the shareholders resolution giving the directors a limited power to allot shares for passing a special resolution.
A resolution will be put to this years cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
These resolutions AGM to adopt new Articles with effect from 1 October 2008, remain valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
Resolutions primarily as a result of changes to English company law introduced will be proposed at this years AGM to renew these authorities.
An explanation of the main changes The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares, proposed to be made to the Articles is included with the notice other than pursuant to employee share schemes and pursuant of the meeting circulated to shareholders with this report.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 Further explanation of the resolutions is included with the notice The directors con rm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: of the meeting circulated to shareholders with this report.
a the Group financial statements in this report, which have been Major shareholders prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting As at 26 March 2008, the Company had been noti ed in accordance Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretation with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial and those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to Services Authority of the following interests in the Companys shares: companies reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group taken Percentage of as a whole: and Number of issued share Company shares held capital held b the parent Company financial statements in the report, which Amvescap 117,914,880 5.00% have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 118,049,678 5.00% Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Capital Research and Accounting Practice and applicable law give a true and fair view Management Company 119,203,483 5.05% of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Legal & General Group plc 96,039,913 4.07% Company: and Templeton Global Advisors Limited 149,231,047 6.32% c the management report contained in this report includes a Walter Scott & Partners Limited 92,178,075 3.90% fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By Order of the Board Nick Folland Company Secretary 26 March 2008 KF6712 p33-53 v6b.
