32 Board of Directors King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Peter Jackson Ian Cheshire Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Peter Jackson joined the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed Executive Director in June 2000 and Group Appointed Group Finance Director and a Director of the Director with effect from 3 January 2006 and took Chief Executive in January 2008.
He was previously Company in February 2004.
He was Finance Director of on the role of Chairman on 24 May 2006.
He retired Chief Executive, B&Q from June 2005.
He was appointed B&Q from January 2001.
Previously he was Chief Financial as Chief Executive of international food and retail group Chief Executive International and Development in September Of cer at Virgin Entertainment Group and has held various Associated British Foods plc ABF in April 2005, after 2002, Chief Executive of e-King sher in May 2000 and was finance positions at Burton Group plc.
He is also a six years in that role.
He joined the Board of ABF Group Director of Strategy & Development.
Before joining non-executive director of Rentokil Initial plc.
Age 43. in 1992 following its acquisition of British Sugar plc.
King sher he worked for a number of retail businesses He is also Senior Independent Director of Smiths Group, including Sears plc where he was Group Commercial the international engineering group.
He is also a non-executive director of Bradford & Bingley plc.
Daniel Bernard John Nelson Phil Bentley Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on 24 May Appointed to the Board in January 2002 and is the Senior Appointed to the Board in October 2002.
He was Chairman and Chief Executive of Carrefour, Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of Managing Director of British Gas, and has been on the the Paris-based retail group and worlds second largest European real estate group, Hammerson plc, and Senior Board of Centrica plc since 2000, which he joined as retailer, from 1992 to 2005.
Prior to Carrefour, he was Adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
He retired Group Finance Director.
He previously spent five years Chief Operating Of cer of METRO, Germanys leading as Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe in at Diageo plc and 15 years in international finance roles international retailer.
He is President of Provestis, his own 2002 and was formerly Vice Chairman of Lazard Brothers, at BP plc.
Age 49. investment company and a non-executive director of Alcatel non-executive director of BT Group plc and non-executive Lucent and Cap Gemini.
He was previously non-executive director of Woolwich plc.
Age 60. director of Compagnie fide St Gobain until June 2006.
Michael Hepher Janis Kong Hartmut Krmer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in September 1997.
He is a Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
She is a Appointed to the Board in November 2002 having non-executive director of Catlin Group Ltd, Canada Life non-executive director of The Royal Bank of Scotland been CEO of the retail clothing group, Peek & U. K. Ltd and Great West Life Assurance Company.
Group Plc, Portmeirion Group PLC and VisitBritain, as Cloppenburg, and subsequently of Groupe Redcats, His former roles include non-executive Chairman of Lane, well as being Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Forum the home shopping division of .
Clark and Peacock, non-executive Chairman of TeleCity for the Future.
She was, until her retirement in March 2006, He is also a non-executive director of GSE SAS, plc, Chairman and Chief Executive of Charterhouse plc, a director of BAA plc and Chairman of Heathrow Airport Ltd Toupargel Groupe S. A. and Alfesca Ltd. Age 61.
Group Managing Director of BT plc and non-executive for five years as well as Chairman of Heathrow Express.
director of Diageo plc and Lloyds Bank plc.
Prior to that she was Managing Director of Gatwick Airport and held a number of operational roles within BAA during her 33 year career with the company.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee See page 37 for further details KF6712 IFC-p32 v13c.
