20 Group talent development King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Maximising the performance of an international workforce As a large international retailer, with stores in nine countries, King sher From 2008 the survey will be extended across the Group to include can provide unique career and personal development opportunities all the members of the KLG and the KEG.
for its people and provide a high quality international talent pool for Another successful initiative has been implemented at Castorama the Group.
France, where innovative use of technology has improved To help maximise these opportunities, the King sher Executive Group engagement through greater dialogue between employees and KEG and the King sher Talent Group KTG were both established management.
Vizavi, launched in November 2007, is a webcast in 2006 07 to help identify, retain and cultivate the next generation debate between a group of nominated employees and a panel of of business leaders within King sher.
senior managers including the Chief Executive see panel for more details.
By encouraging honest and straightforward discussion Their role is to underpin and provide a succession pipeline to the outside of hierarchical lines, Vizavi has joined the staff website well-established King sher Leadership Group KLG, the top tier Castoramoa launched in 2006 as one of the key communication of King shers talent pyramid with a membership drawn from the tools supporting Castoramas ongoing modernisation programme.
Group Board, the Boards of the three largest operating companies and the heads of the other international businesses.
Employee engagement is also a key element of an integrated performance management process launched at Screw x The KEGs membership is therefore drawn from the 150 most senior last year.
A new engagement survey joined a new induction roles below the KLG, with the expectation that it will act as a stepping programme, appraisal process and succession management stone to that grouping, while the KTG offers a platform for future in the tool box now available to managers across the business.
success to the brightest and best employees seeking an international career and not currently occupying senior management positions.
In France, Brico Dpt has installed computer terminals in its stores, giving all employees the ability to access the With these groups in place, the focus last year shifted towards companys online HR Information System to manage HR-related developing a series of initiatives to maximise the potential of their administrative tasks.
Principal among these was the creation of Leadership Attributes, which provide a clear articulation of what it means to be a A major focus on management development good leader in King sher, as well as fide ning the personal characteristics Management development remained a major focus.
At Kotas, that can help an individual drive success in international retailing.
the Groups joint venture business in Turkey, nearly 100 employees from different managerial levels took part in a year-long Produced by a cross-company working group and with the full development programme that included classroom-based training, participation of colleagues throughout Europe and Asia, the action plans and meetings with senior managers.
In the UK, Trade Leadership Attributes are now being embedded within the Group, Depot laid the groundwork for a new initiative entitled Leaders complementing existing work in this area that has already taken of the Future to identify and develop talented people within place at operating company level.
the business, while Screw x introduced a fast-track development KTG members bene ted from a number of development activities programme for trade counter managers.
during the year and in January 2008 an event was organised for Bridging the talent gap the entire group, after which they joined the annual King sher As Chinas retail industry continues to grow at pace, its key players Management Forum for the first time.
are facing an ever greater gap between supply and demand for Recognising the bene ts of an engaged workforce talented individuals.
In order to attract, motivate, develop and Ensuring that employees are highly engaged with the strategies retain talented people, B&Q China continues to invest signi cantly and action plans of King shers businesses is a top priority.
Key in staff training and development.
Last year store staff received to improving this is to understand accurately and in detail the level an average of 60 hours training each.
In addition, 100 employees of engagement and how to in uence this level.
successfully completed Fast Track training and assessment, thereby earning promotion to key management positions in the Within King sher, B&Q UK is the leader in measuring and in uencing companys 60-plus stores.
In 2000 it launched the Q12 survey, a well-established measurement tool run by Gallup based on 12 key Valuing diversity in the workplace employee expectations that, when satis ed, form the foundation King sher is committed to equality in the workplace, and of strong feelings of commitment and motivation among staff.
encourages policies on gender, age, disability and race.
A good This survey has been the cornerstone of their efforts to measure example is Castorama France and its policy of integrating disabled and improve workforce engagement and over 30,000 staff take people into its workforce wherever possible the number of part twice a year.
In 2007 B&Q became the first company outside disabled Castorama employees had risen to 412 by the year end.
the United States, and the first retailer in the world, to win the Gallup Worldwide award for outstanding employee engagement.
indd 20 21 4 08 14:33:38 21 4 08 14:33:38 21 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Sharing ideas and talent around the Group As an international home roles.
He joined Castorama employees to do their improvement business Russia in September 2006 best: the second revolving Kingfi sher is uniquely wellas Operations Director.
around my belief that positioned to share talent and success in retailing comes He said: This has been ideas across borders, enriching to those who keep it simple.
a fantastic move for me a the local knowledge base and From my own perspective chance to experience a new providing personal and career I continue to learn every retail market and to operate development opportunities day about doing business at a more strategic level.
in Russia, and in particular to employees with the drive I hope Ive been able to try something new.
the vital importance of to infl uence my Russian building strong relationships Robert Johnstone 48 spent colleagues in two key areas: with government and fi five-and-a-half years at B&Q the fi first by demonstrating other stakeholders.
UK in Regional Manager the benefi ts of motivating 01 02 In 2007 Castorama France launched a new televised debate with senior management to help boost employee engagement.
Called Vizavi, the debates feature a panel of senior management who are questioned by staff members in the audience.
The programmes see photos on right are then screened on Castoramas intranet.
01 A Vizavi programme being recorded in Paris 02 Guy Colleau centre, new CEO of Castorama France Project Con dence training at B&Q UK Jane Laybourne, from She says of the training: can discuss them in a way B&Qs Sunderland store, It has vastly improved my we all understand and are is one of more than 2,000 confi dence in talking to comfortable with.
B&Q UK employees who customers about power tools.
With training already have taken part in B&Qs I fi nd the customers take on delivered in the dcor, Project Confi dence training board what we are saying fl ooring and ceramics, programme.
This is a twonow and have greater trust and power tools categories, day practical workshop in the advice they are getting.
the programme will be to improve their product It has also helped to pull our broadened in 2008 to include knowledge and boost their team closer together before, gardening, electrospares, confi dence in dealing with we didnt understand each hardware, joinery, building customer enquiries.
others level of knowledge and showroom.
on power tools, but now we KF6712 IFC-p32 v13c.
