DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Corporate responsibility The directors during the year were those listed A report on Corporate Responsibility CR is on on pages 28 and 29 other than Mr R J Ames the Companys website www.
com and Mr P Erskine who were appointed on and highlights, which the following should be 1 January 2009. considered in conjunction with, are given on pages 22 to 25.
Biographical details of all the directors are The directors have pleasure in on pages 28 and 29.
The processes described in the section Internal submitting their report for the year control on page 33 applied to CR, as did the Details of directors service contracts, their share ended 31 December 2008. practices described on page 31 for ensuring the interests and other details of their remuneration Board is supplied with appropriate and timely by the Company are contained in the Directors information and for assisting the directors to Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 46. update their knowledge.
In addition to business Auditor and disclosure of information presentations regularly made to the Board to the auditor at which CR was considered as appropriate, Each of the directors in office as of the date the Board conducts an annual CR review and of approval of this report confirms that so far Board members regularly receive CR updates.
as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit CR performance is included in divisional information being information needed by the accountability systems and remuneration A review of the Groups activities and future auditor in connection with preparing its report arrangements.
The remuneration committee developments, which fulfils the requirements of which the auditor is unaware and that in determining executive remuneration takes of the business review, including the financial he she has taken all the steps that he she ought into account CR matters as described in the performance during the year, key performance to have taken as a director in order to make Directors Remuneration Report on page 37. indicators and a description of the principal risks himself herself aware of any relevant audit The risks and opportunities relating to CR in and uncertainties facing the Group is given on information and to establish that the auditor 2008 primarily revolved around the reputation pages 10 to 27 and forms part of this report.
is aware of that information.
of the Group and the quality of its brands.
The description of the Groups corporate Share capital Of particular importance was the promotion governance arrangements on pages 31 to 34 At 18 February 2009, the Company had been of responsible gambling and the protection also forms part of this report.
A description of the notified of the following holdings of voting rights of children and the vulnerable.
CR also impacted Groups financial risk management objectives attaching to the Companys shares in accordance i the performance of the Groups employees and policies and its exposure to price, credit with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: on whom the Group relies for the provision liquidity and cash flow risk is contained in note 26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 5.01%, of high quality services to customers and ii to the consolidated accounts on pages 76 and Citigroup Global Markets UK Equity Limited the health and safety of these employees 77.
Other matters material to the appreciation 4.99%, Legal and General Investment and the customers they serve.
of the Groups position are contained in the Management Limited 4.08%, MFS Investment Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7 and the Performance indicators continued to be developed Management 5.04%: and Morgan Stanley Chief Executives statement on pages 8 and 9. in accordance with Group-wide CR.
No breaches Investment Management Limited 4.91%.
of CR policies and procedures material to the Results The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Group were identified by the Board in 2008.
The results for the year are shown in the Trust, which is used in connection with certain consolidated income statement on page 48.
The identification and management of CR issues, of the Companys employee share ownership the CR reporting framework and accuracy Dividends plans, waives dividends on shares in the trust of any associated data has been verified by The directors recommend the payment of not allocated to plan members.
the Companys CR adviser, Acona Group AS.
a final dividend of 9.05 pence on each of the Further details in respect of the share capital and ordinary shares entitled thereto, making a total purchases by the Company of its own shares are of 14.15 pence per share for the year.
Subject to shown on pages 82 and 83, note 29 which shareholders approval at the Annual General forms part of this report.
Meeting to be held on 15 May 2009, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 1 June 2009 Branch registration to shareholders registered on 27 February 2009.
The Company was registered as a foreign company in Australia on 7 January 2009.
Annual General Meeting This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on 15 May 2009 at 11.00am.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 DIRECTORS REPORT Employee policies Directors indemnities and insurance The Board values two-way communication The Company continues to maintain Directors between senior management and employees and Officers liability insurance.
In accordance on all matters affecting the welfare of the with the Companys articles of association, the business.
As well as regular management Company has entered into a deed of indemnity roadshows and visits to operating units, to the extent permitted by law with each of conferences and meetings, communication the directors.
is via the intranet and other multimedia formats.
Charitable donations Throughout the Group via the Staff Council, During 2008, in addition to donations made to opinion surveys and feedback programmes, overseas charities, Group companies donated employees are encouraged to be involved in 655,000 to UK charitable organisations.
the running of the business.
The Companys Supplier payment policy Annual Report is made available to staff and, The Company agrees payment terms for its together with regular staff magazines, provides business transactions when goods and services employees with a greater awareness of the are ordered.
It ensures that suppliers are aware Groups performance as well as the financial of the terms of payment and the relevant terms and economic factors that affect it.
are included in contracts where appropriate.
In addition, those employees who are eligible Subject to satisfactory performance by the are also encouraged to become involved in supplier, arrangements are adhered to when the Groups performance through participation making payments.
At the year end, the in share schemes.
Company had no trade creditors.
During 2008, the Company offered free shares Going concern for a value of up to 250 to employees as they The directors consider that the Group has completed one years service with the Group.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is Throughout the Group, the principles of equal therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern opportunities are recognised in the formulation basis in preparing its financial statements.
and development of employment policies.
By order of the Board It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the M J Noble continued provision of suitable employment, Secretary either in the same or an alternative position, 19 February 2009 with appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share equally in the opportunities for training, career development and promotion.
