OTHER FOCAL AREAS Other International The Ladbrokes Brand development operations Ladbrokes has in 2008 maintained its position as the leading In April, Sportium, the Spanish joint venture with Cirsa, was awarded its licence to operate betting brand in the UK according to an independent survey in the Madrid region and at 31 December of betting shop customers by TNS Taylor Nelson Sofres 2008, 38 outlets had been opened.
Our international team continue to explore Following changes introduced by the UK a number of growth opportunities around Gambling Act 2005 in September 2007, the world, with a particular focus currently Ladbrokes became the first company in in China.
the UK to air TV advertising for sports betting.
Since then the Company has run Corporate costs additional Ladbrokes brand advertising Corporate costs fell by 6.2 million to around the European Championships 14.9 million, mainly reflecting lower generic in June 2008, while the television TV advertising costs.
com and Before non-trading items.
com form key initiatives in the eGaming growth strategy.
In addition the eGaming business has sought to improve brand awareness abroad with Ladbrokes television advertising in the Nordic region.
2008 has also heralded the introduction of the industrys first brand loyalty card, OddsOn!
The scheme promotes brand loyalty by rewarding customers with points for the amount staked, which they can The survey revealed that in 2008 the accumulate and redeem for odds Ladbrokes brand continues to have the enhancement, free bets or bonus points.
highest level of spontaneous awareness among both the general public and bettors.
The Board and senior management recognise the importance of the brand, Ladbrokes recorded 40% spontaneous first mentioned awareness compared with both in the UK and overseas, and will continue to develop it and monitor 14% or below for all our competitors.
It also continued to register the largest share of visits performance to ensure Ladbrokes stays ahead of the competition.
at the end of 2008 with 31%, while William Hill accounted for 27% and Coral for 14%.
20 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 OTHER FOCAL AREAS Technology communications services are always up-toThese suppliers are integrated into the overall Technology remains a central pillar of date, ensuring the best possible service and infrastructure and services that guarantee Ladbrokes strategy and is pivotal to providing experience for our customers.
the delivery and support of our sophisticated the best solutions and services in the betting technology platforms, which are deployed Ladbrokes partners with best-of-breed third and gaming industry.
Irrespective of whether consistently at installations throughout parties, qualified in the development and customers are playing on one of Ladbrokes the world.
delivery for specific services across channels.
websites, using the call centre or in-store, Ladbrokes industry-leading technology infrastructure and operating platform are critical The technology requirements in determining the quality of a customers overall experience.
We have created a system which integrates the core competencies of being a retailer providing our customers with a full breadth of products, a bank odds managing risk and a media company providing dynamic and static content Price Odds Products across various channels with the additional Prizes and Risk Wealth of different complexity of doing so in absolute real-time.
Managed risk across products fed across Our technological infrastructure enables: 26,000 live markets different channels and per week international markets on average, three new betting opportunities every minute: almost 20,000 bets per minute at peak times: Customer over 26,000 live markets per week: and Experience over 4.5 million customers to gain access to our betting and gaming content around the globe.
Overlaying this are compliance requirements of the industry and differing regulatory regimes adopted by the various countries in Content which we operate.
Security and compliance Dynamic and static is paramount in the overall design and content including live operation of every Ladbrokes environment, audio and video with advanced, real-time, integrated security systems installed to protect personal, financial and transactional data.
To ensure fail-safe integrity of our data, Ladbrokes has implemented a series of storage systems.
Infrastructure, software systems and Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21
