BOARD OF DIRECTORS Christopher Bell Sir Ian Robinson FREng Brian G Wallace ACA Chief Executive Chairman Group Finance Direc tor Sir Ian was appointed Chairman in October Chris became Chief Executive of Ladbrokes plc Brian rejoined the Board in 2007.
He joined as a non-executive director and in 2006.
He was previously Chief Executive of being Finance Director, he has, since September Deputy Chairman in February 2001.
Prior to this Ladbrokes Worldwide and was appointed to 2008, responsibility for the Belgian and Italian he was Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc the Board in 2000.
He joined Ladbrokes in 1991 businesses and Paddington Casino.
He is a fellow of the Royal and became Managing Director in 1995.
Prior to sale of Hilton International in 2006, he was the Academy of Engineering, a member of The joining he held a number of senior positions with Deputy Chief Executive from 2000 and Group Takeover Panel, a non-executive director of Allied Domecq.
He is currently Vice Chairman of Finance Director from 1995 of the Company, Compass Group plc and an advisory Board the Association of British Bookmakers, Chairman then named Hilton Group plc.
Prior to that member of Siemens Holdings plc.
Previously, of the Bookmakers Committee, a Board member he held senior financial positions in Geest and he was a non-executive director of Scottish of the Horserace Betting Levy Board and a Schlumberger.
He was a non-executive director & Newcastle plc.
Age 66. non-executive and senior independent director of Scottish & Newcastle plc and a non-executive of Game Group plc.
Age 51. and senior independent director of Hays plc.
Peter Erskine John F Jarvis CVO, CBE Nicholas M H Jones FCA Independent Independent Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Peter was appointed a non-executive director John was appointed a non-executive director Nicholas was appointed a non-executive director on 1 January 2009.
He was Chairman and Chief in 2006.
Currently Chairman of Jarvis Hotels Ltd, in 2002.
He is a qualified chartered accountant Executive of O until January 2008 and is a he is also non-executive Chairman of Sandown and business school graduate.
He is currently 2 non-executive director of Telefnica.
Prior to this Park and a member of The Jockey Club.
He was a Senior Adviser to Lazard where he was, he held senior positions with BT from 1993 to previously a non-executive director at United until July 2008, a Managing Director and Vice 2001, UNITEL and Mars.
He is a member of the Racecourses and non-executive Chairman of Chairman.
He is a member of The Jockey Club Telecoms and IT Advisory boards of Macquarie Sporting Index.
From 1979 to 1990, he was an and a non-executive director of Candover Bank and Apax Private Equity and is a member executive director of the Company, then named Investments plc and Newbury Racecourse PLC.
of the Advisory Board on Strategy of Henley Ladbroke Group plc, and Chairman of Hilton From 1991 to 2000 he was Chairman of the Management College.
Board Committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee As at 19 February 2009 Chaired by Nicholas Jones Chaired by Sir Ian Robinson Chaired by Christopher Rodrigues 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Richard J Ames John P OReilly Alan S Ross Managing Director, Managing Director, Remote Corporate Development UK and Ireland Retail Betting and Gaming Director Richard was appointed to the Board on John joined the Board in 2006.
He has led Alan joined the Board in 2006.
A business school graduate, Ladbrokes eGaming since its creation in 2000. responsible for the Groups relationships with he joined Ladbrokes in 2005 as Retail In addition to Remote Betting and Gaming he Government, the industry and the Gambling Commercial Director.
He was appointed has, since September 2008, responsibility for Commission.
Since joining Ladbrokes in 1971 Managing Director UK Retail in 2006 and trading operations and the Spanish business.
he has held a number of senior positions and assumed responsibility for Ireland in September Since joining Ladbrokes in 1992, he has had was Managing Director of Ladbrokes Retail 2008.
He previously held senior management senior responsibility for marketing, public from 2000 to September 2008.
He is Chairman positions with Dixons and Asda.
Age 39. relations, public affairs, property and business of 49s Limited and a director of Satellite development.
Prior to joining Ladbrokes he Information Services.
He is a member of the held senior positions with Thorn EMI.
He is Business in Sport and Leisure Board, the British a non-executive director of Telecity Group plc Greyhound Racing Fund Board, the Association and is Vice Chairman of the Remote Gambling of British Bookmakers Council, the Bookmakers Association.
Committee and the GamCare Advisory Group.
Christopher J Rodrigues C Pippa Wicks Henry E Staunton FCA Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Christopher was appointed a non-executive Henry was appointed a non-executive director Pippa was appointed a non-executive director director in 2003.
He is currently the Chairman in 2006.
He was the Finance Director at ITV plc in 2004.
A business school graduate, she of International Personal Finance plc and the from 2003 to 2006 and at Granada Group plc joined AlixPartners Ltd, London, the specialist Executive Chair of the national tourism body, from 1993 to 2003.
He is a non-executive performance improvement and turnaround firm VisitBritain.
Until 2006 he was President and director of Legal & General plc, Standard Bank as a Managing Director in 2003.
She previously Chief Executive of Visa International.
Prior to plc and The Merchants Trust PLC.
He was a held senior positions with Pearson plc and this he was Group Chief Executive of Bradford non-executive director of Emap plc, BSkyB plc, was Group Finance Director of Courtaulds & Bingley plc, Group Chief Executive of Thomas Independent Television News Limited and Textiles plc between 1993 and 1999.
She was Cook and also held several senior management Ashtead Group plc, of which he was also a non-executive director of Arcadia Group plc.
Age 46. of Henley Royal Regatta.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 LADBROKES TV ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN TV campaign comprised three advertisements Shark, Climb, and Parachute using a documentary style format to depict fantastical situations where people undertake bizarre acts to quench their thrill buds.
