Business Review ` Executing our plan How are we executing our plan?
We are building on our distinctive As a result, we have grown our nearshore and See pages 8 to 9 for results so far, key P8 qualities to forge a sustainable and offshore headcount to over 5,000 in 2008. metrics and what we expect beyond 2008. pro table business.
As a percentage of our workforce, this is up from 9% last year to 13%.
Recruitment will By improving cost competitiveness to By increasing customer focus continue as we extend our services and build allow us to invest in the future Logica works with a very broad range of capacity.
In addition to centres in Bangalore In a competitive marketplace we are customers right across Europe.
There is improving our customer offering, by adding India and the Philippines, we opened a new great scope for developing our existing site in Chennai India in 2008 with space value and lowering costs.
Our increased longstanding customer relationships by for 1,500 people.
Our centre in Morocco, operational ef ciency will allow us to build broadening and deepening them.
In 2008, which services our French speaking clients, market share whilst improving our margins.
our top 50 customers accounted for 32% of has also grown.
Margins improved this year in four out of six of revenue.
As IT services customers reduce the our geographies.
number of suppliers working with them, this See pages 8 to 9 for results so far, key With the creation of our outsourcing P8 metrics and what we expect beyond 2008. creates opportunities for us to engage more services business, we are also disclosing our fully with them.
outsourcing margins for the first time this Our customer satisfaction survey, By developing a One Logica identity year.
At 6.6%, our outsourcing margins are involving more than 600 customers in over Logica grew out of four successful businesses, only slightly below our Group margins.
20 countries, showed increasing satisfaction each with its own skill sets and local identity.
With cost rationalisation well under way, compared to 2007.
It indicated a clear That respect for difference continues today.
we have prepared a sound financial base to recognition of the changes we are making to Indeed, it is one of the strengths of the Group face adverse trading conditions.
We made improve our products and services.
that, for instance, Logica is very Finnish in 25 million in cost savings this year, In general, our customers are very happy Finland and very French in France.
In February 2009, with what we do for them but say that we We now also operate with the con dence we announced that we would accelerate our could be selling our services more proactively.
of a truly European group, servicing our 2009 cost savings by 25 million to 75 million We increased our emphasis on selling in European customers around the world and and reinvest around 30 million of those 2008.
We identi ed priority accounts, operating under a single name, Logica.
appointed 27 new account managers, We are on a journey to strengthen the value of The UK business will generate the largest among 65 new salespeople, strengthened our this brand across our markets.
Logica today is percentage of cost savings for the Group.
We outsourcing sales team, created a large deals cross-selling propositions and capabilities, have reduced headcount and are rationalising team within Outsourcing Services and drawing on its local account managers our UK property portfolio, with nine buildings launched a consulting recruitment campaign.
intimate knowledge of their customers.
We also invested in strengthening our Building a coherent identity and operating The rationalisation and offshoring of HR propositions in high growth areas, which we ef ciently as one company are interconnected and payroll processing is also under way.
expect to grow above the market.
The better we combine our Centralising procurement and streamlining areas such as Business Intelligence, services the more seamlessly we can our internal IT spend will control costs more Intelligent Transport Solutions, Payments and integrate the organisation.
We have targeted areas for Risk Assurance.
Our effort has so far resulted We have strengthened the way we manage common procurement and initiated in a doubling of our high growth area pipeline.
We are introducing discussions with suppliers.
common tools and processes for tasks such By 2010 we expect to generate net savings See pages 8 to 9 for results so far, key as project bidding and resource planning after re-investments of around 50 million of P8 metrics and what we expect beyond 2008. which improve our customer responsiveness around 60 million annually.
This will bolster and reduce the costs of doing business our operating margin and cushion the By accelerating blended delivery across the Group.
We expect the new business against the impact of a severe We earn around 75% of our revenue in bidding tool which is being rolled out to be downturn.
Delivering our strategy should mainland Europe and we believe that, for used by over 1,500 people processing bids allow us to retain operating margins among many European customers, a blended model on over 36,000 projects.
In 2009, we will have the best of European peers.
is their preferred route to deploy offshore in place standardised tools for how we manage resources, minimising the risk.
See pages 8 to 9 for results so far, key P8 metrics and what we expect beyond 2008. continued to see a shift through 2008 to more Other initiatives are helping to bring about acceptance of offshore in our markets and are a change in culture and a stronger sense of speeding the development of our blend in shared identity.
HR and finance now report support of that.
For the first time, more than under a single global function.
We are aligning 50% of resources deployed out of our top managers behaviour with Group nearshore and offshore centres are working performance through a new incentive with customers in mainland Europe.
We are changing the way we train As customer focus has turned to managing our people by using the Logica University costs, the argument that blended services across the Group.
can deliver cost reduction has gained traction.
10 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008
