Governance Report of the Directors Principal Activities Share Capital The Directors present Throughout the year, the Group was in the The share capital of the Company, issued their report together with business of providing information technology and unissued, consists entirely of one class the financial statements services, concentrating on: of ordinary shares of 10p each.
Each share of the Company and its ranks equally and carries the same rights to z the marketing, design, production, vote and receive dividends and other subsidiaries for the year integration and maintenance of customdistributions declared, made or paid by the ended 31 December 2008. built software and associated hardware Company.
No restrictions exist on the transfer systems integration These will be laid before or holding of securities in the Company under z the outsourcing of information technology shareholders at the Annual the Articles of Association.
and business services At the AGM held on 14 May 2008, the General Meeting AGM to z consultancy, applications management shareholders approved a resolution giving be held on 30 April 2009. and project management in the eld of the Company authority to purchase up to information technology 145,883,289 of its ordinary shares.
No shares Business Review z the design, development, implementation were purchased during the year under this The Business review can be found in the and marketing of software products and authority which will expire at the forthcoming following sections of the Annual Report the reusable elements of applications AGM to be held on 30 April 2009.
Accordingly, and Accounts: software, called systems kernels.
at the 2009 AGM, the Directors will be seeking to renew the authority to make market A review of the development, P2 Results and Dividends purchases of up to a maximum of 10% of the performance and financial position of the business as well as an analysis of Consolidated revenue amounted to issued share capital of the Company.
At the Key Performance Indicators KPIs : 3,588 million, compared with 3,073 million present time the Company has no plans to Programme for Growth highlights for the year ended 31 December 2007.
on page 2 CEOs review on page 3 pro t before tax was 44 million compared The issued ordinary share capital was Business review on pages 4 to 21 with 84 million for the year ended 31 increased by 140,713,442 ordinary shares Financial review on pages 22 to 33 December 2007.
The pro t attributable to during the year as a result of the issue of equity holders of the parent company was 135,000,000 new ordinary shares by way of Our 2009 outlook, future direction, 39 million compared with 170 million for an equity placing on 16 December 2008 and P3 strategic plan and guiding principles the previous year.
Basic earnings per share the issue of 5,713,442 ordinary shares on the for the business: CEOs review on page 3 from total operations were 2.7p 2007: 11.4p.
exercise of options under the Companys Business review Our strategic plan Adjusted basic earnings per share from Share Plans including a small number under on pages 7 to 9 continuing operations were 12.3p 2007: Liquidity Agreements arising out of the Chairmans statement on page 35 10.2p.
Net debt at 31 December 2008 stood acquisition of Unilog S. A. in 2005.
31 December 2008 the issued ordinary share Risk Factors on pages 66 to 67 P66 The Directors have proposed a final capital totalled 1,598,359,521 shares.
dividend of 0.6p per share 2007: 3.5p per share which, when taken with the interim Details of shareholders with a signi cant Group Key Performance Indicators P42 P144 and disclosable holding are set out in on pages 144 to 145 dividend of 2.4p 2007: 2.3p per share paid the substantial shareholdings note on to shareholders on 17 October 2008 will page 42 These sections are incorporated into this amount to a dividend for the year of 3.0p Report by reference.
KPIs are identi ed by 2007: 5.8p per share.
If approved, the The Company offers a number of share plans the symbol throughout this Report.
final dividend will be paid on 1 May 2009 to for its employees.
The rights attached to eligible shareholders on the register at close ordinary shares which are the subject of of business on 14 April 2009. awards within any of the Companys share In December 2008, the Board reviewed the plans are not available until any share award Companys dividend policy and it is now or option granted is exercised and the shares expected that the 2009 dividend will be are allotted or transferred to that awardee.
maintained at a level of around 3.0p per share, The Trustee of each of the Companys with progressive increases thereafter.
employee bene t trusts is obliged to act in the best interests of the share plans Dividend waiver details are set out in bene ciaries.
At General Meetings, the P109 note 32 on page 109 Trustee may exercise discretion and vote in respect of shares held in the Trust although they may not always choose to do so.
Where shares are bene cially held by an employee within a share plan they may direct the Trustee to vote on their behalf.
40 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Report of the Directors Restrictions on Voting Rights Creditor Payment Policy and Practice Directors All shareholders entitled to attend and vote The Companies Act 1985 Directors Report In accordance with the Articles of Association may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, Regulations 1997 Statement of Payment the appointment of new Directors must be speak and vote in their place at General Practice require the Company to make a rati ed by the shareholders at the Companys Meetings.
A member may appoint more statement of its policy and practice on the AGM following their appointment.
In addition, than one proxy provided that each proxy payment of creditors.
The Company and its one-third of the Directors of the Company not is appointed to exercise the rights attached subsidiaries seek the best possible terms including any newly appointed Directors must to a different share or shares held by the from suppliers appropriate to their businesses retire by rotation and seek re-election by the shareholder.
A proxy need not be a and, in placing orders, give consideration to shareholders at each AGM.
Each Director shareholder of the Company.
Proxy forms quality, delivery, price and the terms of should seek re-election by shareholders at must be received by the Companys payment which will be agreed with suppliers least every three years.
Registrars at least 48 hours before the time when the details of each transaction are appointed for holding the meeting as set out agreed.
The Company and its subsidiaries will Further details of the election and P44 re-election of the Directors can be found in any Notices concerning a General Meeting continue to honour their contractual and other in the Corporate governance report on or in any form or proxy sent by or on behalf legal obligations and to pay creditors on the page 44 of the Company in relation to the Meeting.
dates agreed in contract and purchase The appointment of a proxy does not orders.
At 31 December 2008, the number The following changes to the Board were preclude a shareholder from attending and of days of annual purchases represented made during 2008: voting in person at a General Meeting.
Further by year-end trade creditors for the Group details may be found in the Notice of Meeting amounted to 65 days 2007: 55 days and 1 Jan 2008 Andy Green appointed as and the proxy card.
for the Company amounted to nil days Chief Executive Of cer 2007: nil days.
14 May 2008 Angela Knight retired as a Issue of New Share Capital Non-Executive Director In order to allot equity securities the Research and Development 30 Sep 2008 Jim McKenna retired as an Directors require express authorisation from During the year the Group invested Executive Director shareholders.
The authority can be granted 17.9 million 2007: 21.7 million in research for a period of five years.
However, the and development on software products, of The following changes to the Board, to take Company follows best practice and seeks which 10.9 million 2007: 6.7 million place in 2009, were announced prior to the shareholder approval annually to allot the was capitalised.
year end: Companys equity securities.
At the AGM held on 14 May 2008 the Financial Instruments 24 Feb 2009 Sergio Giacoletto appointed Directors were granted the authority to allot The exposure of the Group to financial risks as a Non-Executive Director the Companys unissued shares up to an including the use of financial instruments 30 Apr 2009 Frdric Rose to be appointed aggregate nominal amount of 48,141,485. and policies for hedging and the exposure as a Non-Executive Director: This amount represented approximately one to price, credit, cash ow and liquidity risk Wim Dik and Grard Philippot third of the Companys issued Ordinary Share can be found in Note 27 to the Financial to retire as Non-Executive capital as at 20 March 2008.
Directors be asked to renew this authority by Ordinary Resolution at the AGM on 30 April 2009.
Agreements The biographical details of the current P36 In addition, the usual Special Resolution There are no signi cant agreements to which Directors are set out on pages 36 and 37 to disapply pre-emption rights will also be the Company is a party that take effect, alter proposed subject to shareholder approval of or terminate upon a change of control of the The current governance structure of the P44 the authority to allot shares referred to above.
Company following a takeover bid, other than Board is illustrated on page 44 one of the Groups principal debt facilities where the lenders can require the repayment of amounts drawn down against the facility in the event of a change of control.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of of ce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
41 Governance ` Report of the Directors Directors and Of cers Insurance Employee Involvement Auditors Right to Information The Company maintains insurance cover for The Company is committed to ensuring that Each person who is a Director of the all Directors and Of cers of Group companies employees share in the success of the Company at the date of approval of this report against liabilities which may be incurred by Company.
Employees are encouraged to con rms that: them while acting as Directors and Of cers.
participate in share option and share a so far as each Director is aware, there is As at the date of this report, indemnities are purchase plans.
The Group continued its no relevant audit information of which the in force under which the Company has agreed policy of informing and involving employees in Companys auditors are unaware: to indemnify the Directors, to the extent matters which concern them through the use b each Director has taken all the steps that permitted by law and the Companys Articles of regular meetings between management he or she ought to have taken as a Director of Association, against all costs, charges, and employees, corporate news magazines, to make himself or herself aware of any losses and liabilities that they may incur in the knowledge management tools, intranets, relevant audit information and to establish execution of their duties, powers, authorities and the issue of bulletins and brie ngs.
To that the Companys auditors are aware of and discretions as Directors of the Company, encourage feedback and suggestions from that information.
or any other company of which, at the request employees, an annual staff survey is of the Company, they are Directors or Of cers.
The results of the survey are Directors Interests Copies of these indemnities are kept at the provided to the Board, HR and all employees.
Directors Interests in the shares of the Companys registered of ce and are open for In addition, Andy Green, Chief Executive Company on 31 December 2008 are shown inspection by any member of the Company.
Of cer, communicates directly to employees in the Directors Remuneration Report on These indemnities do not cover the Directors through a regularly updated personal blog, page 61. or Of cers for fraudulent activity.
accessible worldwide on the Groups intranet, in which he describes his own day to day Annual General Meeting Substantial Shareholdings activities and those of other senior Group The Companys AGM will be held on 30 April At 6 March 2009 the Company had been executives.
He also sets out his views on the 2009 at 2.00pm at 20 Moorgate, London noti ed that the following had an interest in principal internal and external issues affecting EC2R 6DA.
3% or more of the Companys share capital.
the Group and encourages comments and A summary of the resolutions being The percentages below have been calculated discussion on his postings through an open proposed at the 2009 AGM is set out below: on the shares in issue gure at that date.
Tell Andy response facility, which is widely utilised.
of shares % z to receive the Directors and Auditors Schroders plc 237,453,187 14.85 Further details on our employment P69 reports and the Audited Accounts for policies and employee involvement are Aviva Plc 162,146,317 10.14 included in the Corporate Responsibility the year ended 31 December 2008 UBS Global Asset report on pages 69 to 71 z to approve the final dividend of 0.6p for Management 101,455,905 6.35 each ordinary share for the year ended 31 Fidelity International Ltd 76,334,203 4.78 Branches December 2008 Axa Investment The Group continues to operate a number of z to approve the Directors Remuneration Managers 72,043,934 4.51 overseas branches.
Report for the year ended 31 December Legal & General 2008 Group Plc 62,456,565 3.91 Events after the Balance Sheet Date z to reappoint  LLP UBS Investment Bank 58,458,345 3.66 See note 43, page 124 of the Financial as auditors of the Company and to Statements.
set their fees z to elect Sergio Giacoletto as a Employment Policies and Directors Remuneration Report Non-Executive Director Equal Opportunities The Directors Remuneration Report is set out z to elect Frdric Rose as a The Group operates in a number of countries on pages 52 to 65.
Non-Executive Director and its employment practices vary to meet z to re-elect Nol Harwerth as a local conditions and requirements.
In all Auditors Non-Executive Director cases, they are established on the basis of After due and careful consideration, z to re-elect Wolfhart Hauser as a best practice in that country.
The Group is the Directors have recommended the Non-Executive Director committed to providing equal opportunities reappointment of  z to re-elect Seamus Keating as an to all employees irrespective of their gender, LLP as the Companys auditors.
Executive Director sexual orientation, marital status, age,  LLP has expressed z to renew the authority given to the religion, race or disability.
It is the Groups its willingness to continue in of ce and Directors to allot securities.
policy to give full and fair consideration to therefore a resolution for their reappointment disabled persons with respect to applications will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
for employment, continued employment, training, career development and promotion, having regard to each individuals particular aptitudes and abilities.
42 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Report of the Directors Special Resolutions Charity The following approvals must be sought as Our staff continue to be generous in their Special Resolutions.
Such resolutions will support for charitable causes.
The Company be passed if 75% or more of the votes cast supports give as you earn schemes to are in favour: facilitate financial donations by staff via the payroll.
In addition, the Company encourages z to renew the authority given to the staff to support charities and participate in Directors to allot securities for cash other local charitable events and, where possible, than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders donates surplus computers to local good z to renew the Companys authority to causes.
When making charitable donations, purchase its own shares this will allow the the Companys aim is to develop partnerships Company to repurchase the Companys with national charities and non-governmental Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of 10% organisations in the countries in which it of the issued share capital operates.
Total UK charitable donations in z to approve an amendment to the Partners 2008 were 97,100 2007: 95,000.
Our Incentive Plan this will include authority to community and charity policy is aimed at use new issue and treasury shares in developing people in need to help them connection with the operation of the Plan release their potential.
Given Logicas role in z to approve the Performance Multiplier Plan the knowledge economy we have chosen the z to approve the use of new issue and education of people, particularly children, as treasury shares for the existing Employee our priority area of community work.
We Equity Partnership Plan support projects that actively involve our z to amend the notice period of a general employees and, where possible, make use of meeting other than an annual general their technical knowledge and expertise.
also encourage our employees to raise money Further information can be found in the Notice for causes that support the objective of our of Meeting.
This is only a summary of the business to Further information about the Groups be conducted at the AGM, the full details of activities in the community and charitable the resolutions can be found in the Notice of donations can be found in the Corporate Meeting, a copy of which is available on the Responsibility report on pages 68 to 71.
com or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Political Donations and Contributions The Companys policy is not to make any donations or contributions to political parties or organisations and no such payments were made during the year.
Future Developments Further information on future developments can be found in the Chief Executive Of cers review on page 3 and in the Business Review on pages 4 to 33.
By order of the Board Alice Rivers Company Secretary 6 March 2009 43
