Key metrics This is Logica Revenue We are a leading European IT and business services company with 40,000 people worldwide.
We use our global reach, local knowledge and 3.6bn domain expertise to deliver world-class services.
2007 actual: 3.1 billion Who are our customers?
What are our five industry sectors?
Employees They are mainly European headquartered We are deeply embedded in our chosen companies operating internationally, both markets and share skills between them.
For within and beyond the European market.
We example, we develop and manage billing have a strong presence in the public sector systems in each of our key sectors.
and Utilities we are furthering the 40,000 environmental and business agenda with What are our principal services?
smart metering and emissions management 2007: 39,000 As a vendor-independent systems integrator, solutions.
In Financial Services our shared we apply our technical skills and industry service centres manage complex global IT Adjusted operating pro t knowledge to develop bespoke systems and systems and we are leaders in payments integrate existing systems for our customers, processing.
In the Industry, Distribution using business applications from leading and Transport sector we are transforming software providers, such as Microsoft, Oracle supply chains for global businesses.
active partners with Public Sector agencies 267m We offer a full range of IT and business across Europe.
In Telecoms and Media our process outsourcing solutions.
We combine projects are helping our customers respond 2007 actual: 208 million onsite, onshore, nearshore and offshore better to convergence.
resources to deliver high quality services cost Revenue from outsourcing effectively and ef ciently.
Our consulting capability has two elements.
Our management consulting practice looks into a customers business to deliver end to end transformational 32% programmes while our technology consultants apply specialist industry 2007 pro forma: 32% knowledge to address speci c IT requirements.
Revenue by market sector T 263m PS FS 1,073m 633m 3,588m E&U 587m IDT 1,032m PS Public Sector Throughout this report, Key IDT Indust ry, Distribution and Transport Performance Indicators KPIs E&U Energy and Utilities are denoted by the symbol For a fide nition of adjusted operating pro t and FS Financial Services See page 14 see page 144. margin, see note 9 on page 88.
T Telecoms and Media for full key 1
