Governance Board members David Tyler, 56 Andy Green, 53 Crister Stjernfelt, 65 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Of cer Executive Vice President Nordic Region David joined Logica as a Non-Executive Executive Director and Chief Marketing Of cer Director and Joint Deputy Chairman in July Executive Committee member Executive Director 2007 and became Non-Executive Chairman Andy was appointed Chief Executive Of cer Executive Committee member in November 2007.
He is Chairman of the and a member of the Board on 1 January Crister was appointed to the Board in October Nominations Committee and a member of the 2008.
He is a member of the Nominations 2006 with responsibility for the Nordic region.
David held senior Committee and the Executive Committee.
Former CEO of WM-data, he has extensive financial and general management positions Previously, Andy was a Board member at experience of IT services in the Nordic region with Unilever plc from 1974 to 1986, County BT plc and CEO of Group Strategy and having held a number of management NatWest Limited from 1986 to 1989 and Operations.
Until April 2007, Andy was CEO of positions at WM-data over the last three Christies International plc from 1989 to 1996.
During his 21 years at BT, decades.
Crister joined WM-data in 1977 as From 1997 to 2006 he was the Group Finance Andy held several senior positions, including Managing Director of their Danish operations Director of GUS plc.
He is currently Chairman that of CEO, BT Openworld.
He began his and became Sales Director for application of 3i Quoted Private Equity plc and a Noncareer with Shell and subsequently joined software in Sweden before being appointed Executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
He is currently a Managing Director for application software plc, Experian plc and Burberry Group plc Board member of e-skills UK, the Sector operations.
He became a member of where he chairs the Remuneration Skills Council for IT and Telecoms, a member WM-datas Executive Board in 1990: was Committee.
David brings extensive financial of the CBI Presidents Committee and a appointed Senior Vice President in charge of and general management experience to the Companion of the Chartered Management marketing and information in 1995 and was Board, having worked in the FMCG, finance, Institute, and was a Non-Executive Director appointed President and CEO of the WM-data services and retail sectors.
He has an MA of NAVTEQ Inc until July 2008.
He holds a Group in April 2001. in Economics from Cambridge, is a Fellow degree in Chemical Engineering from Leeds of the Chartered Institute of Management University.
Wim Dik, 70 Accountants and a Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Non-Executive Director Seamus Keating, 45 Deputy Chairman Chief Financial Of cer Wim joined the Board as a Non-Executive Executive Director Director in December 2002, having been a Executive Committee member Non-Executive Director of CMG since May Seamus has been Chief Financial Of cer and 2001.
He will serve as the Senior Independent a member of the Board since February 2002, Non-Executive Director and a member of the having been Director of Group Finance since Audit and Nominations Committees until the 1999.
He joined Logica from Getronics, where AGM in April 2009.
A professor in the he had been Finance Director of its Olivetti Technology and Management Faculty of the Solutions business.
Prior to that, he had been Delft Technical University, he was previously Finance Director of Olivettis UK operations, Chairman and CEO of Koninklijke KPN NV, having joined its finance function in 1989.
Prior to that, he was He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Chairman and CEO of Royal PTT Nederland Management Accountants.
telecom and post, Chairman of Unilevers Dutch operations and Minister for Foreign Trade in the Dutch Government 1981-82.
He holds non-executive positions with Unilever NV, Unilever plc, Aviva plc and Ziggo Holding BV and is an adviser to Spencer Stuart Netherlands BV.
36 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Board of Directors Roger Payne, 60 Nol Harwerth, 61 Wolfhart Hauser, 59 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman, Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Committee Wolfhart joined the Board as a Non-Executive Roger joined the Board as a Non-Executive Nol joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2007.
He is a member of Director in September 2004, is Chairman of Director in January 2007, is Chairman of the the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the Audit Committee and a member of the Boards Remuneration Committee and a He is currently Chief Executive Of cer of Nominations Committee.
He is currently member of the Nominations Committee.
Intertek Group plc, having been appointed a Non-Executive Director with Nelson and She is currently a Non-Executive Director and to their Board as a Non-Executive Director Russell Holdings Limited.
In September 2005 Deputy Chair of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking in 2002.
Wolfhart started his career as a he retired from his position as Finance Corporation Europe, the Senior Independent scientist in pharmacology and ergonomics Director of Rentokil Initial plc, then a UK-listed Non-Executive Director with Impellam Group before establishing and leading a broad range FTSE-100 company.
He was also the Senior plc formerly Corporate Services Group and of successful international service industry Independent Non-Executive Director of Biffa a Non-Executive Director of RSA Insurance businesses in the testing industry.
For 10 plc and Chairman of its Audit Committee, until Group plc formerly Royal & Sun Alliance years he was CEO of TV Product Service its delisting in April 2008 following its sale to a Insurance Company and Harry Winston Inc. GmbH and for four years CEO of TV Sd AG, private equity consortium.
He is an FCCAFrom 1998 to 2003 Nol was Chief Operating the largest testing, inspection and certi cation Chartered Certi ed accountant and currently Of cer of Citibank International plc in London.
serves as an independent member of the Nol has extensive experience in corporate Remuneration Committee of the Association governance, including the UK Combined Frdric Rose, 46 of Chartered Certi ed Accountants.
Code and Sarbanes-Oxley, international finance and risk management.
She was Non-Executive Director educated at the University of Texas in Austin Frdric is expected to join the Board of Grard Philippot, 67 and holds a Juris Doctor degree from the Logica on 30 April 2009.
He is currently Non-Executive Director University of Texas Law School.
CEO of Thomson SA which he joined from Grard was appointed a Non-Executive Alcatel-Lucent where he was President of the Director of the Board in October 2005.
Europe, Asia and Africa Region and a member Sergio Giacoletto, 59 He had been President of Unilog since 1992 of its Executive Committee.
He also held the and during his 13-year tenure Unilog rose Non-Executive Director position of President of Alcatel Shanghai Bell, from being the 23rd largest IT services Sergio was appointed a Non-Executive Alcatel-Lucents agship joint venture in company in France, to its fourth largest.
Director of Logica plc on 24 February 2009.
During his 15-year career with Graduating from cole Polytechnique in 1962, He is currently a Non-Executive Director of Alcatel-Lucent, Frdric established a track Grard began his career as an engineer with CSR plc.
In December 2008, he retired from record of building winning teams and the consultancy CGO Compagnie Gnrale Oracle Corporation, where he had been acquired extensive international experience.
In 1968, he teamed up with Executive Vice President of Oracle He is a graduate of the Georgetown four former colleagues to establish the Unilog Corporation, Europe, Middle East and Africa University, School of Foreign Service and Group.
Grard was appointed a member of since 2000 and a member of their Executive holds a Juris Doctor degree from the the Management Board of Unilog in 1983 and Committee.
Prior to joining Oracle in 1997, Georgetown University Law Center.
president of Unilog Industrie and Unilog Sergio was President, Value Added Services Multi-Systmes in 1987.
In February 2006 at AT&T, before which he spent 20 years with he was appointed to the supervisory board Digital Equipment Corporation in various of Amboise Investissement SCA.
senior management and executive roles.
He has served on multiple company boards and advisory councils and holds a Masters in Computer Science from the University of Turin.
