Business Review ` Logicas distinctive strengths What makes Logica distinctive?
Logica is a major European IT services With our balanced exposure to different France market position player, both by revenue and by number of sectors and territories we are well placed employees, with strong market positions to weather economic cycles.
We have good exposure to defensive economic With over 85% of our 40,000 employees in sectors.
We are Europes fifth largest provider Europe we are a top-four IT services player by to the public sector.
Together our Public 4 th revenue in the Netherlands, France, Sweden, Sector and Energy and Utilities revenue was Finland and Portugal.
We are not overly reliant on helping us to grow market share at the speci c customers or contracts.
No customer Netherlands market position expense of smaller competitors.
In 2008 we accounted for more than 2% of revenue generated 3.6 billion in revenue, up by over in 2008.
500 million on 2007 on a reported basis as a result of organic growth and European We have acknowledged areas of strength currency exposure.
in outsourcing and are successfully 3 rd leveraging offshore resources into Europe.
We are close to our customers, We are Europes recognised leader in understand their markets and are applications management source: PAC.
We Sweden market position embedded in their cultures.
are leveraging our unrivalled infrastructure Our main focus is on large organisations with management expertise in the Nordics to win signi cant European operations.
Among our more business in other European territories.
focus accounts are many leading European Local teams combine with Logicas global names: including six of its top 10 utilities, delivery network to create a blended offering 2 nd nine out of 15 of its top banks and insurance to European customers that incorporates their companies, and five of its top 10 telecoms cultural and language requirements.
For the first time, the number of offshore Finland market position We have forged numerous longstanding and nearshore resources being deployed relationships by working closely with our on customer projects in mainland Europe customers.
Our top five clients in each exceeded those working in the UK.
industry sector have been with us for at least seven years: some for over 30 years.
We are committed to acting responsibly 3 rd in the best interests of our customers We operate in a exible, collaborative and employees.
culture and create innovative, practical We are a company totally focused on Portugal market position solutions tailored to customer needs.
delivering solutions that help our customers Our people are committed, intelligent and make the world a better place such as our technically excellent.
They work with our work with emissions trading organisations customers to build and run some of the most around the world.
In the long run, successful technically advanced IT applications in companies are also responsible companies: 2 nd Europe including energy trading systems, they attract and retain better quality people satellite control systems and financial and they win more business.
Source: PAC 6 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008
