Business Review ` The right resources Do we have the right operational and financial resources to succeed?
As shareholders would expect, 2008 Our strategy includes some restructuring to Strategic focus has been a year of transition.
Signi cant Communication and compensation are key reduce overheads and replace legacy skills.
actions during the year strengthened elements to ensuring an organisation is t We seek to utilise our offshore facilities in the our strategic, operational and financial first instance before recruiting or hiring to deliver.
Communication to align the entire additional subcontractors, with the choice organisation behind the strategy was a core dictated by local demand outlook.
A net Strengthened management and activity during 2008.
We held staff brie ngs increase in our total employee headcount in leadership to communicate our strategy and ensure that 2008 represented the effect of an increase in Logica has a clear, transformative agenda.
we put in place the means to deliver it locally.
our offshore headcount, balanced against a The strategy calls for decisive, concerted The message was rolled out directly by Andy small decrease in our onshore headcount.
By action on multiple fronts.
Making that work Green to over a third of our employees.
the end of 2008, 13% of our employees were depends on effective, coordinated leadership Our remuneration for the senior teams has based in nearshore and offshore centres.
been reset as outlined further in the Directors Our approach to resource allocation aims Organisational changes and external Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 65. to maximise the utilisation of our existing staff appointments at Executive Committee level The Partners Incentive Plan put in place in while maintaining a reasonable level of have clari ed responsibilities and signi cantly 2008 identi es over 200 Partners who are subcontracting as a buffer against any future strengthened the leadership team.
managing the business at senior level and demand weakness.
Responsibility for two of our five incentivises them according to Group geographies moved to new leaders.
At other levels, our rewards and Enhanced financial position Netherlands, ex-Atos Origin executive Wilbert recognition programme has also changed.
In late 2008, we signi cantly strengthened the Kieboom will head the Benelux region from Employee satisfaction improved over long-term nancing of the Group.
Joo Baptista joined as Chief 2007 as detailed on page 71, with 79% The severe shortage of funds in the Executive, International, in mid-2008, taking participating in our employee satisfaction debt markets made re nancing more control of Logicas operations outside its four survey.
Despite this, in November 2008, main territories.
we successfully negotiated new long-term Outsourcing Services was created as a banking facilities of 500 million, maturing in new organisation with Pro t and Loss 2011 and 2013.
Ensuring the exibility responsibility under Jean-Marc Lazzari who We also placed an additional 135 million to improve long-term joined from Unisys, with a goal to increase our ordinary shares in December 2008, with gross growth rate in outsourcing.
proceeds amounting to around 90.5 million.
shareholder value Global Operations was created to ensure In conjunction with this, the Board has we had the delivery capability in place in our reviewed Logicas dividend policy, with nearshore and offshore locations and to More exibility in operational cost base the proposed full year dividend rebased to ensure the industrialisation of our tools and Our business is about employing bright 3.0p per share.
The dividend is expected to processes.
Craig Boundy joined us from people and supplying the right ones to do the be maintained at a level of around 3.0p for Cable & Wireless to lead this function.
right things at the right time for customers.
2009 with progressive increases in the Central Functions were given a wider remit, The single largest element of our cost base is dividend thereafter.
enabling us to effectively reduce our nonemployees.
Around two-thirds of our cost The equity placing and dividend reduction sales and marketing overheads and transition base is salary related, with billable staff reduce our reliance on debt and provide some of our own internal functions to lower accounting for around 90% of this.
additional exibility should debt markets cost locations, with Stephen Kelly joining from We deliver cost-effective services to remain dif cult.
the BBC to lead our HR function and Seamus customers by optimising the way we allocate We have signi cantly improved our cash Keating leading the Finance function.
those employees to customer projects.
In 2008, cash conversion In addition, new changes below the We balance the utilisation of full-time was 148%.
Executive Committee level strengthened our employees with the use of subcontractors.
The steps taken in 2008 ensure Logica focus, with a new Chief Information Of cer Recruitment is driven by attrition, growth and has the appropriate nancing in place to CIO, a new CEO in our Indian operations the need to align our skills base with changing implement its strategic objectives.
managing the growth of our presence there, customer requirements.
The additional funding gives us greater and a newly created role of Global Innovation We continued to manage our recruitment financial exibility and allows us to focus on Director.
Finally, we have appointed people to and utilisation carefully in the context of the improving long-term shareholder value with head up each of our large customer accounts, economic downturn and to prioritise offshore increased con dence.
our high growth areas and consulting-led and nearshore recruitment.
remained unchanged through the first half of 2008, decreasing to 13% towards the end of the year in the face of a more uncertain economic environment.
