Business Review ` Our strategic plan What is our strategic plan?
In early 2008, we set out a clear plan for with key customers and in Logica over the period from 2008 to 2010.
Focus for Our three-year plan is based on a strategy chosen areas with an investment that builds on Logicas distinctive strengths Growth growing to around 50m per with the intention of making us our customers most trusted innovation partner and delivering annum in 2010 real value to our shareholders.
In essence, the plan will reduce our overhead costs and enhance our operational exibility while investing in the future growth with offshore nearshore of the Company.
Several months on, in more Accelerate dif cult economic conditions, we rmly headcount more than doubling believe that this remains the right strategy blended from 3,450 at April 2008 to 8,000 for Logica.
We are integrating our assets more by end of 2009 delivery effectively by leveraging our scale and sector advantages and by making greater use of our offshore and nearshore facilities.
We are driving down costs through increased that drives sales and ef ciencies.
The resulting savings, which Create a we have accelerated since 2008, are being customer value and maximises partly invested in customer-facing activities One Logica the ef ciencies of our scale such as better account management and speci c high growth areas which offer good culture prospects for above-market revenue growth.
We are adopting an organic approach, building on what we already have in place Funded by: rather than depending on new acquisitions.
We are aligning the business more directly with our key customers, who are, primarily, European governments, Europeanto deliver 110m of annualised headquartered multinationals and Driving cost savings by 2010 based on international businesses with a presence competitive in Europe.
total one-off restructuring costs We expect to be measured against our of 145m costs ability to increase our market share and deliver revenue growth above the market in 2009 and 2010 and against our ability to deliver the cost savings that will protect margins and, dependent on market conditions, drive margin improvements.
This shift in focus ensures we develop as a distinctive European company with an internationally competitive cost structure offering real value to customers.
This will bring tangible results over the longer term.
Shareholders will bene t from improved returns as revenue growth outpaces the market and margins improve.
See our website for the details of logica.
7 Business Review ` Our strategic plan Strategic aim Key metrics Progress in 2008 We are extending the duration of our In 2008, organic revenue growth was Focus for Growth already long-term relationships with 5%.
We hired 65 salespeople, strengthened customers, increasing customer our outsourcing sales team, launched a satisfaction.
Strengthening our consulting recruitment campaign and relationships with clients should over the created a large deals team within longer term lead to revenue growth Outsourcing Services.
We identi ed key ` ` ` above the market.
accounts, made initial investments in high growth areas and increased our high growth area pipeline.
Our customer satisfaction survey saw a 3% improvement over 2007.
The change in the total number of people At the end of 2008, we had over 5,000 Accelerate in our nearshore and offshore centres.
people deployed nearshore and blended delivery offshore, an increase of more than 1,550 or 45% over 2007.
We opened our second Indian centre in Chennai in September 2008 and had more than 900 ` ` ` people in that location by the end of 2008.
Our clients should increasingly recognise In 2008, we made strong progress on One Logica us as a single company and contract with cultural integration under a strengthened us as such.
We should be realising the Executive Committee and operational bene ts of operating as a single company, team.
We communicated extensively including winning more business, internally and launched new incentives to processing bids more ef ciently and encourage people to deliver against our ` ` ` staf ng projects more rapidly.
We introduced new bidding and resource planning tools.
Our overall cost base in 2010 will reduce Cost savings of 25 million delivered Competitive by 110 million over 2007 compared to our in 2008 with progress on HR and Finance costs original target of 80 million.
Headcount reductions and UK property rationalisation are underway.
Actions are in place to deliver future cost savings.
2008 adjusted ` ` ` operating margin of 7.5% was in line with expectations.
8 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Business Review ` Our strategic plan What to expect Responsibility beyond 2008 z Revenue growth above the market, Crister Stjernfelt with outsourcing the fastest growing element.
Watch Crister Stjernfelt explain z More major contract wins, building on the key aspects of Focus for 2008 successes.
Growth in chapter 4 of our ` presentation at: z Continuing improvements in customer programmeforgrowth.
z 8,000 people deployed in nearshore Craig Boundy and offshore locations by end-2009.
Watch Craig Boundy explain the key aspects of Accelerate blended delivery in chapter 2 of ` our presentation at: programmeforgrowth.
com z A stronger brand and more coherent Craig Boundy identity promoting a bigger pipeline of larger opportunities.
Watch Craig Boundy explain z Common tools and processes which the key aspects of One Logica in enhance our responsiveness and chapter 2 of our presentation at: operational ef ciency.
com z Cost savings of 75 million in 2009 Seamus Keating compared to our original target of 50 million and 110 million annually Watch Seamus Keating explain from 2010 compared to our original the key aspects of Competitive target of 80 million.
costs in chapter 3 of our ` presentation at: programmeforgrowth.
