Business Review ` Getting closer to customers How are we getting closer to customers?
Our sales and marketing investments During 2008, Logica was appointed as We are winning consulting-led contracts are going into areas where we believe We are also developing a more visible preferred outsourcing supplier to one of market demand will be strong and where international consultancy presence to support Swedens largest telecoms specialists.
we can build on our technical excellence, We also won the contract to provide an our focus on more consulting-led innovative ideas and our deep industry transformational deals.
Our pragmatic application project to handle all state understanding.
approach and industry awareness allows us administration in Finland.
s of these investments will The real bene t to offer bespoke solutions that deliver tangible Logica has been a trusted partner for obviously be seen over the longer term but customer bene ts.
We took on 35 senior E. ON for more than 15 years.
In 2003, the results so far are encouraging like the consultancy leaders during 2008 and are we took over support for the Companys 300% increase in the pipeline value in the winning more consulting-led projects.
We raised its Nordics or the 200% increase in the number recent win with EADS which involved our local ef ciency levels and consistently of deals signed with a value of over 20 million capabilities from six different countries is a outperformed against tough targets.
in 2008. good example of what we have achieved in This led to the contracts renewal in 2008. this area.
In the public sector we are trusted to Getting the bene ts of European scale develop and maintain sensitive information More contracts are gravitating towards the We are winning blended delivery deals systems.
In 2008, the UK Home Of ce larger suppliers as customers increasingly opt against our international competitors appointed Logica to develop, host and for closer relationships with fewer suppliers.
Our understanding of local conditions has support information systems to protect As a major supplier in each of our four main resulted in some important contract wins children and vulnerable adults.
territories we are bene ting from that trend.
Following our work for the Crown We believe this is contributing to a growing When Volvo Cars centralised its testing Prosecution Services our relationship with market share in a number of countries.
activities in Gothenburg it chose Logica to the UK Ministry of Justice continues to Pierre Audoin Consultants PAC assessed provide performance-testing services.
We are now delivering a secure Logica at the top of its table of European This contract has now been renewed and performance management system for the applications management in 2008, ahead of extended to encompass comprehensive Of ce for Criminal Justice Reform which will Accenture, Capgemini, IBM Global Services testing.
Logicas ability to deliver onshore improve the way the UK justice system and Atos Origin.
and offshore services under its blended operates.
sourcing model was decisive for Volvo in KPN in the Netherlands is another example Percentage of revenue from outsourcing awarding the contract.
of where we continue to strengthen existing BPO In Norway, Logica has signed a five-year relationships.
At the beginning of 2009, 6% contract to provide global Shared Services to we announced a multi-year outsourcing deal StatoilHydro.
With StatoilHydro seeking to to manage their internal helpdesk service, internationalise its activities we were able to underlining the con dence KPN has in Logica.
demonstrate that it had the global reach to During 2008, KPN awarded Logica with the AM support it in all jurisdictions.
The new contract application management of their strategic 47% extends a relationship going back to 2003. network information as well as outsourcing 1,161m contracts of their HR shared services centre.
IM 47% We are winning larger outsourcing deals We said we would work to get closer to our customers.
The results so far are and renewing major contracts Our scale, capability and reach allow us to very promising and are something that the compete effectively for major opportunities entire organisation is aligned to help win and deliver whether they are in global and larger customers.
A three-year Applications Management AM application services contract for Michelin was operations trying to understand how a Infrastructure Management IM the largest such project awarded in Europe German customer might approach a Business Process Outsourcing BPO blended delivery contract, or in outsourcing this year.
It builds on our close, longstanding relationship with the international tyremaker.
structuring a large project with their Nordic We are winning contracts in the high We were also shortlisted for a major project account manager colleagues.
growth areas we identi ed as areas for This is a One Logica strategy and we are with the European Space Agency and are investment expanding on our previous work with them.
all working together to improve our market Even in times when overall market growth is We have been winning some signi cant share and deliver revenue growth above the modest there are areas of high growth.
And market at sustainable and growing margins.
With our strong local as part of our new strategy we have identi ed knowledge and global capabilities we are well a number of such areas and concentrated our placed to assist Nordic companies as they investments in these.
We can already see the seek to outsource more activities.
Logica was result of this in a doubling of our high growth the top performer in the annual Outsourcing areas pipeline.
We recently announced our Service Provider Performance Study 2008 in first major win in the Business Intelligence the Nordics, gaining the highest customer area with Total.
rating in six out of seven categories.
