22 Board of Directors Ian Farmer 46 Chief Executive Officer Alan Ferguson 50 Chief Financial Officer Sir John Craven 67 Chairman Appointed as Chief Financial Officer and a director in Appointed a director in 2001 and as Chief Appointed as an independent Non-executive Director Executive Officer in September 2008, following June 2007.
Prior to joining Lonmin, he was Group and Chairman of the Board in 1997.
He was previously Finance Director of The BOC Group BOC until late seven years as Chief Strategic Officer.
A chartered Chairman of Fleming Family and Partners Limited, an accountant, he joined the company in 1986 and 2006, following the Linde Groups acquisition of BOC.
independent, privately-owned investment house, and was transferred to a group company in Zambia in 1990.
Before joining BOC in 2005, he worked for Inchcape plc the group Chief Executive and Chairman of Morgan Grenfell In 1995 he was appointed Finance Director of for 22 years in a variety of roles including Group Finance Group plc and a member of the Board of Managing Lonmin Platinum in South Africa, which position he Director from 1999 until his departure.
Alan is a Directors of Deutsche Bank AG after that companys relinquished upon his transfer to London in 2001.
Chartered Accountant and is a British national.
Sir John is a director of Ian has both South African and British nationality.
GEMS Oriental and General Funds II and III.
He has held a number of Non-executive Directorships, including Reuters Holdings plc, and is a Non-executive Chairman of Patagonia Gold Plc and a Non-executive director of The Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust.
Sir John holds both British and Canadian nationality and was knighted for his services to banking and the City.
Dr Sivi Gounden 50 Peter Godsoe 70 Karen fide Segundo 61 Appointed an independent Non-executive Director A chartered accountant and banker with an MBA Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in September 2005.
An engineer by profession, from Harvard, he was appointed an independent in April 2005 and a member of the Audit and Risk Sivi joined the South African Government in 1994 Non-executive Director in 2001.
He is a member of Committee and the Safety and Sustainability Committee.
and in 1999 he was appointed Director-General the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of the Formerly Chief Executive Officer of Shell International of the newly established Department of Public Board.
Formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Renewables and Chief Executive of Shells global gas Enterprises.
He was previously the Chief Executive of The Bank of Nova Scotia and Non-executive Director and power business.
She is currently a member of Officer of Bateman NV, a global process of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Plc.
the supervisory board of Ahold NV and of E. on AG, a engineering company and a trustee of the He is currently a Non-executive Director of Barrick Gold, Non-executive Director of British American Tobacco Plc, Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation.
He also served Onex Corporation, Rogers Communications Inc. and BlackRock New Energy Investment Trust Plc, Ensus as a Non-executive Director of Anglo American Ingersoll-Rand Company.
Limited and a member of the board of Pyry Oyj.
Karen Corporation of South Africa and of Grindrod is a Dutch national.
Limited, a company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Sivi is a South African national.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc 23 Roger Phillimore 59 Deputy Chairman Michael Hartnall 66 Senior Independent Director Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in 1997.
Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration May 2003.
He is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committees, and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Formerly joint managing director of Committee, the Safety and Sustainability Committee Minorco, he is currently a Non-executive Director of and, the Nomination Committee.
A chartered Harry Winston Diamond Corporation.
Roger holds both accountant and former finance director of Rexam Plc, South African and British nationality.
he is also a Non-executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
Jim Sutcliffe 52 David Munro 53 Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in August 2007.
Formerly Chief Executive of Old Mutual August 2007.
He is currently Executive Director, plc, a post which he assumed in November 2001 after Strategy of Kazakhmys plc, a post he has held since acting as Chief Executive of the Old Mutual Groups life October 2006.
Before joining Kazakhmys, David was assurance business since January 2000.
Before joining Chief Executive Officer of RMC Group PLC from Old Mutual, Jim was Chief Executive UK of Prudential plc.
January 2004 until RMCs acquisition by Mexicos Jim is a British national.
From 1981 he held a variety of positions with Gencor Billiton and then BHP Billiton including Chief Development Officer from 2003 to 2004, Vice President, Strategy and Business Development from 2002 to 2003 and Executive Director Aluminium from 1997 to 2002.
David was a Non-executive Director of Wogen plc from 2005 to 2007 and Kazakhmys plc from 2005 to 2006.
