24 Directors Report Business Review The Companies Act 2006, Section 417 requires the Directors to present a Business Review in this report.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the sections set below and is incorporated by reference into this report: The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3: The Chief Executives Review including discussion of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business on pages 4 to 6: The Review of Operations on pages 7 to 11: The Financial Review on pages 12 to 15: The key performance indicators on pages 16 and 17 together with the Operational Statistics on pages 114 to 116: The discussion of environmental matters, employees and social and community issues on pages 18 to 21: and The discussion of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 34 to 36: The disclosure of contractual arrangements below.
This Business Review has been prepared to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the business of the Company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it.
It may not be relied upon by anyone, including the Companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
This Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward looking statements.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward looking statements.
No assurance can be given that the forward looking statements in this Business Review will be realised.
Statements about the Directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions and strategies are inherently subject to change and they are based on expectations and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which are in some cases outside the Companys control.
The information contained in this Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the knowledge and information available to Directors at the date of its preparation and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise this Business Review during the financial year ahead.
It is believed that the expectations set out in these forward looking statements are reasonable, but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results or trends to differ materially.
The forward looking statements should be read in particular in the context of the specific risk factors for the Company identified in this Business Review.
The Companys shareholders are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward looking statements.
Shareholders should note that this Business Review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
Principal activities of the Group The principal activities of the Group during the year continued to be mining, refining and marketing of Platinum Group Metals.
Analyses of revenue, operating profit, principal activities and geographical origins appear in note 2 to the accounts and a list of the principal subsidiary undertakings, indicating their main activities, appears in note 34.
This Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, Review of Operations and the Financial Review which, together, give a fair review of historic and likely future developments in the business of the Company and the principal trading operations of the Group.
There were no material changes from 30 September 2008 to the date of this report.
Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa as a branch which is registered in that country as an overseas company, in addition to the business conducted by its subsidiary undertakings.
Pre-conditional offer by Xstrata Plc Xstrata On 6 August 2008, Xstrata announced an unsolicited, proposed pre-conditional offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company at a price of 33 per share.
Xstrata also announced that it had acquired 16,706,483 shares in the Company representing 10.68% of the issued share capital.
The Board considered that this proposed pre-conditional offer was inadequate and significantly undervalued Lonmins business and subsequently advised shareholders that they should reject any offer at this price.
By agreement with the Takeover Panel, Xstrata was required by 2 October 2008 to either announce a firm intention to make an offer for the Company or announce that it did not intend to make an offer.
On 1 October 2008, Xstrata announced that, in light of uncertainty in the financial markets and due to certain terms of their finance arrangements, it would not proceed with an offer for the Company within the deadline set by the Takeover Panel.
Xstrata subsequently acquired an additional 22,232,940 shares in the Company which, together with those shares already held, totals 38,939,421 shares and represents 24.9% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Dividends As noted in the Chairmans Statement on page 2, the Board does not recommend the payment of a final dividend given the continuing difficulties in both the PGM and credit markets.
The total dividend for the year ended 30 September 2008 comprises the net interim dividend of 59 US cents paid on 8 August 2008 total dividend 2007 115 US cents.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report 25 Directorate The present Board of the Company and their biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23.
In addition, Brad Mills served as a Director of the Company for the whole of the year under review.
On 29 September 2008, the Board announced that Ian Farmer had been appointed Chief Executive Officer with immediate effect and Brad Mills had stepped down as CEO by mutual consent.
Mr Mills subsequently resigned as a director of the Company on 9 October 2008.
A summary of the rules regarding the appointment and replacement of Directors can be found in the Corporate Governance report on page 31.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Sir John Craven and Michael Hartnall retire by rotation, as does Roger Phillimore who is now subject to annual re-election having already served three three-year terms as a Director.
Being eligible, each offers himself for re-election.
The Board has carried out formal performance evaluations of all the non-executive Directors seeking re-election and has concluded that each is effective and demonstrates commitment to his respective role.
Further information on those seeking re-election is contained in the Directors biographies and in the Annual General Meeting circular accompanying this document.
Each of the Directors seeking re-election is a non-executive Director and none is party to a service contract with the Company.
Directors responsibilities Information about the Directors responsibilities in respect of the preparation of financial statements is given in the Corporate Governance section within this Annual Report and on page 62 of this document.
Directors interests Contracts of significance: No Director had at any time during the year a material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Companys business.
Share interests: The interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year, and to the date of this report, are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 52 and 53.
No Director held any beneficial interests in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year or at the year end.
Audit information Statements in relation to the disclosure of information to the auditors and in relation to the going concern basis used in the preparation of the accounts can be found in the Corporate Governance report on page 32.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Accounting policies The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
The Group adopted the US Dollar as its reporting currency in 1998.
Financial risk management Details of the Groups financial risk management are described in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 34 to 36 and Financial Review on pages 14 to 15 of this report.
Employees The Lonmin Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity and equity by maintaining an appropriately skilled and diverse workforce irrespective of age, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origin, sex, mental or physical handicaps, marital status, sexual orientation, religion or belief.
The Group seeks to fulfil this commitment through the application of various policies and procedures, details of which can be found in the Summary Sustainable Development Report for the year ended 30 September 2008 and which can be downloaded from the Companys website.
Employee engagement continues to be a key focus for the Group.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and objectives of the Group through team briefings, consultation with union representatives, regular newsletters from the Chief Executive translated into the four key languages spoken by the vast majority of our South African employees, all of which is supplemented with communications produced by the operations on a shaft specific basis.
The Company has also recently introduced an internal television network at the K3 shaft, reaching a target audience of approximately 5,000 of our employees and which has proved exceptionally popular.
com 26 Directors Report Charitable and political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the United Kingdom amounted to 33,083 $65,470 2007 23,223 $45,330.
During the year, the Group funded a number of long-term social welfare and community development projects.
The Groups funding for these projects for the year amounted to R5.2 million $0.7 million 2007 R27 million $3.6 million.
These amounts are in addition to amounts expensed by the Group as the normal costs of the operation of its corporate social responsibility programme.
A fuller explanation of this expenditure will be contained in Lonmins Summary Sustainable Development Report for the year ended 30 September 2008 which, can be downloaded from the Companys website.
Research and development Group companies continue to be actively involved in research and development projects in the areas of mineral extraction and refining.
Policy on the payment of creditors The Company complies with, and has registered its support of, the Better Payment Practice Code, available from the Better Payment Practice Group website, www.
The Company has a consistent policy and practice of paying its bills in accordance with contracts by settling the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, either by accepting suppliers standard terms of payment or by proposing alternative terms but, in either case, then abiding by the agreed payment terms.
Trade creditors of the Company at 30 September 2008 represented 5 days 2007 6 days of annual purchases.
Annual General Meeting The 2009 Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 29 January 2009 at the QEII Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE.
A separate circular containing the Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of special business, is enclosed with this Annual Report.
Additional information Share capital and reserves The authorised and issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2008 is set out in note 26 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares and the provisions relating to the transfer of the ordinary shares are governed by law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, to receive notice of any general meeting, to attend, speak and exercise voting rights, either in person or by proxy and are entitled to participate in distribution of income or capital.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend voting rights or to prohibit transfer.
The share capital comprises 50,000 sterling deferred shares in addition to the ordinary shares.
These shares were created in 2002 and issued to a nominee company by the capitalisation of reserves in order to comply with the requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000 in sterling.
These shares do not rank pari passu with the ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of such shares are not entitled to receive notice of any general meeting or to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting.
They are also not entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
The trustee of the Lonmin Employee Share Trust does not seek to exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares held in trust.
The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $2,147 million at 30 September 2008.
This compares with $1,968 million at 30 September 2007.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 24 January 2008, shareholders approved an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares, up to a maximum of 15,600,000 shares being approximately 10% of the issued share capital at prices not less than the nominal value of each share being $1 and not exceeding 105% of the average mid-market price for the preceding five business days.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
During the year, the Company allotted 231,338 ordinary shares of $1 each, for cash, following the exercise of options granted under the Companys share schemes and to provide the Companys employee benefit trust with sufficient shares to meet its obligations in connection with employees share schemes.
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting seeking shareholders consent to the allotment of equity securities, a limited dis-application of the statutory pre-emption rights and an authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own shares.
A special resolution will also be proposed seeking shareholders consent to amendment of the Articles of Association.
Further details of all of these matters are set out in the circular accompanying this document.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Directors Report 27 Additional information continued Substantial shareholdings The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights up to 17 November 2008: Percentage of the Companys Number of Number of total voting 1 shares voting rights rights Direct Indirect Xstrata Plc 38,939,421 38,939,421 24.90 Indirect Prudential Plc and group companies 19,034,741 19,034,741 12.17 Direct Credit Suisse Securities Europe Ltd 9,125,207 9,125,207 5.84 Direct 2 Ameripise Financial Inc and group companies 7,677,367 7,677,367 4.91 Indirect Capital Research and Management Company 7,291,700 7,291,700 4.72 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 6,381,318 6,381,318 4.08 Direct Vanguard Precious Metals and Mining Fund 6,269,413 6,269,413 4.01 Direct 3 Tradewinds Global Investors LLC 5,602,835 5,602,835 3.58 Direct 1 Percentages as at date of notification.
2 Comprises 4.74% held indirectly and 0.17% held directly.
3 Comprises 1.02% held indirectly and 2.56% held directly.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
A special resolution proposing amendments to the Articles of Association to accommodate certain provisions within the Companies Act 2006, primarily relating to Directors conflicts of interest will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Further details are set out in the circular accompanying the Annual Report.
Powers of the Directors Subject to legislation, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company including the power to authorise the issue and buy back of the Companys shares subject to the authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
Essential contractual arrangements Certain Group companies are party to contracts and other arrangements which the Board judges are essential to the business of the Company.
For any mining company, its mineral rights and mining licences are of crucial importance and therefore the New Order Mining Licence granted by the South African governments Department of Minerals and Energy to certain Group companies in respect of the Marikana operations falls into this category, as do the old order mining rights in respect of the Limpopo operations and the various prospecting rights held by Group companies.
The remaining essential contractual arrangements can be summarised as follows: Contracts for the purchase of inputs while most of the supplies needed to operate the Groups mines and refining facilities are secured through competitive tendering in the open market, the Group is heavily dependent on Eskom for the supply of electricity, and Rand Water in respect of the supply of water.
The Company does not believe that it has any debt facilities which could not be replaced in the open market.
Contracts relating to labour and services the principal arrangements essential to our business are collective agreements with trade unions representing the majority of the Groups employees, most notably with the National Union of Mineworkers in South Africa Contracts for the sale of goods certain Group companies are party to separate contracts with BASF and Mitsubishi under which substantially the whole of the Groups production of finished metal for the period under review was sold.
Significant Agreements change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as debt facilities and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant except for the Companys banking facilities in the amount of $975 million spread amongst five separate facilities with the counterparties generally being syndicates of different banks.
Three of these facilities contain provisions which, in the event new terms to continue the facility are not agreed within 45 days of a change of control, the lender is entitled to give notice cancelling the facility and declaring all outstanding loans together with accrued interest to become payable within 30 days of such notice.
The remaining two facilities contain provisions entitling the lender to declare all outstanding loans immediately due.
com 28 Directors Report Additional information continued Significant Agreements change of control continued The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except that certain provisions in some of the Companys share plans may be triggered.
These are briefly described below and further information on these plans and on the Directors service agreements can be found in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 37 to 54.
Awards made under the Stay & Prosper Plan crystallise immediately following a change of control, although they vest and become payable on their normal maturity date three years from the date of grant and subject generally to continued employment of the participant.
Directors of the Company are not permitted to hold awards under this Plan.
Awards under the remainder of the share plans will vest to the extent specified by the Remuneration Committee, who will generally take into account the extent to which the performance targets have been met and such other factors as they believe to be relevant in line with the rules of the relevant plans.
By order of the Board Rob Bellhouse Company Secretary 17 November 2008 Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL Registered in England Number 103002
