B L A C K E C O N O M I C E M P OW E R M E N T EMPOWERING OUR PARTNERS Anglo Platinum is fully committed to the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act and the mining charter, and to achieving the associated sustainable economic transformation.
Anglo Platinum implemented an Employee Share Participation Scheme ESOP on 31 March 2008.
As part of the landmark BEE transactions announced on 4 September 2007, Anglo Platinum concluded the sale of its Phillimon Mukunbe is the Polokwane Northam shares to Smelter manager.
Phillimon and his Mvelaphanda Resources team at the smelter implemented the smelters recovery plan effectively in on 20 August 2008.
The smelters standing time was less than originally anticipated.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 81 B L A C K E C O N O M I C E M P OW E R M E N T The black economic empowerment process and controlled South African platinum group mineral reserves and resources, will result in started in 2000 with the sale of a 22.4% metal producers, which will have critical mass Anooraq, through the newly created vehicle, and interest in Northam Platinum Limited Northam and significant growth potential.
Mvelaphanda Resources, through Northam, shareholding at 31 December 2007 to controlling the third and fifth largest PGM Mvelaphanda Resources Limited Mvelaphanda In terms of the proposed transactions, the Anglo resource bases in South Africa respectively.
Resources, and continued in 2001 with the Platinum Group would sell an effective 51% of This signifies a meaningful and sustainable establishment of a 50:50 joint venture with African Lebowa and an additional 1% of the Ga-Phasha, transformation of the countrys platinum industry.
Rainbow Minerals at the Modikwa Mine.
Boikgantsho and Kwanda Joint Venture 50:50.
Subsequent transactions included the 50:50 joint Following this transaction, Anooraq, the current venture with the Royal Bafokeng Nation at owner of 50% of Ga-Phasha, Boikgantsho and ANGLO PLATINUM KOTULA Bafokeng-Rasimone Platinum Mine BRPM in Kwanda, will own an effective 51% of Lebowa, EMPLOYEE SHARE 2002: the Booysendal 50:50 joint venture with Ga-Phasha, Boikgantsho and Kwanda through a PARTICIPATION SCHEME Khumama Platinum in 2003: the Pandora Joint newly created entity.
ESOP Venture with the Bapo-Ba-Mogale traditional Anglo Platinum, in consultation with its community and Mvelaphanda Resources each Mvelaphanda Resources purchased 50% recognised unions, designed an effective 1.5% holding a 7.5% interest, in 2004: the Ga-Phasha interest in the Booysendal project and a 22.4% ESOP to benefit all permanent employees that 50:50 joint venture with Anooraq Resources interest in Northam for a total consideration were not benefiting from any other company Corporation Anooraq in 2004: and the sale of a of R4 billion.
As part of the transaction share scheme.
Shareholders voted on 31 March 15% interest in Union Mine to the  Resources sold a 100% interest in 2008 to implement the ESOP and an Kgafela Bakgatla traditional community in 2006. the Booysendal project to Northam.
independent trust, controlled by union Anglo Platinum further disposed in 2006 of a 55% representatives, was set up to manage it.
The interest in its Rooderand mineral rights with the The suite of definitive legal agreements for both trust subscribed for 1,008,519 ordinary shares Bakgatla and set up an exploration joint venture transactions was entered into in March and April and 1,512,780 A-ordinary shares a special class on its Magazynskraal property.
Several conditions precedent to the of shares that was created specifically for the conclusion of the transactions have since been plan on 16 May 2008, to the value of R1.95 billion.
In 2007, following a joint review process met.
The sale of Anglo Platinums shares in The ESOP was officially launched on 11 June conducted by Anglo Platinum and the Northam was finalised on 20 August 2008.
More than 90% of the schemes Department of Minerals DME, Anglo Platinum one remaining condition needs to be met in beneficiaries are HDSAs.
The ESOP is unitised and announced historic BEE transactions that order to conclude the Booysendal sale, which is the trust will allocate 10 million Kotula shares to envisaged the creation of two major HDSAlikely to be concluded during the first quarter of participants annually, based on each employees managed andcontrolled PGM producers with 2009.
It was envisaged that the Anooraq employment status on 31 March every year.
The significant broad-based empowerment, which transaction would be concluded on first allocation of Kotula shares was made to included communities, women and employees, 30 November 2008, following approval of the some 51,000 employees.
The ESOP will benefit and the implementation of an employee share transaction by the Competition Commission employees over seven years, by paying dividends ownership plan to benefit some 50,000 and the South African Reserve Bank in August annually and capital in years 5, 6 and 7.
The details of the significant BEE 2008.
However, the significant deterioration of beneficiaries were paid their first dividend of transactions are discussed herein.
the global debt and equity markets during the R1,441 in November 2008. second half of 2008 has resulted in Anglo Platinum and Anooraq reviewing the transaction MVELAPHANDA terms.
Anglo Platinum and Anooraq remain NORTHAM PLATINUM RESOURCES AND ANOORAQ committed to concluding the transaction and LIMITED NORTHAM TRANSACTIONS have extended the date for the fulfilment of In August 2000, Anglo Platinum sold a 17.5% On 4 September 2007, Anglo Platinum, Anooraq conditions precedent to 30 April 2009. interest in Northam to Mvelaphanda Resources, and Mvelaphanda Resources jointly announced an HDSA company, and facilitated the sale of an transactions that, when successfully concluded, The sale by Anglo Platinum of equity holdings, additional 5% interest from the Rembrandt will result in the creation of two major historically interests in operating mines, and interests in Group Remgro to Mvelaphanda Resources, disadvantaged South African HDSA managed development projects, inclusive of extensive resulting in Mvelaphanda Resources holding a ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 82 22.5% interest in Northam and Anglo Platinum operation will have an expected life of 30 years.
BOOYSENDAL JOINT holding the remaining 22.4% interest in VENTURE Northam.
Anglo Platinum has, as part of the Anglo Platinum has, as part of the transaction transaction announced on 4 September 2007 BAFOKENG-RASIMONE announced on 4 September 2007 with with Mvelaphanda Resources, sold its remaining PLATINUM MINE Mvelaphanda Resources, sold its 50% interest in 22.4% in Northam on 20 August 2008.
On 12 August 2002, RPM and the Royal Bafokeng Booysendal project to Mvelaphanda Resources, Nation RBN, a local traditional community barring one remaining condition which is comprising some 300,000 individuals, expected to be met during the first half of 2009.
MODIKWA PLATINUM MINE announced that agreement had been reached Mvelaphanda Resources sold 100% of the In August 2001, RPM and the ARM Mining to form a 50:50 joint venture to mine the Booysendal project to Northam.
Consortium Limited ARM, a BEE company Boschkoppie and Styldrift farms owned by Anglo comprising African Rainbow Minerals Platinum Platinum and RBN respectively, near Rustenburg and some 60,000 beneficiaries within the in the North West province.
In terms of the joint GA-PHASHA JOINT local Mampudima and Matimatjati traditional venture, which became unconditional in VENTURE communities, concluded a joint venture, February 2004, RPM and Royal Bafokeng In August 2004, Anglo Platinum signed a jointknown as the Modikwa Platinum Joint Venture, Resources RBR, a wholly owned subsidiary of venture agreement with Pelawan Investments to exploit the mineral resources of four the RBN, will cooperate as equal participants.
Proprietary Limited Pelawan, to develop the contiguous properties on the Eastern Limb of They intend to use the existing infrastructure at Ga-Phasha PGM project.
Plateau Resources the Bushveld Complex: Driekop, Maandagshoek, BRPM to gain access to Styldrift.
Additional Proprietary Limited Plateau, a wholly owned Onverwacht, Winterveld and Hendriksplaats.
infrastructure, including a new vertical shaft and South African subsidiary of Anooraq, replaced The mine was designed to produce 200,000 a 230,000 tonnes per month concentrator, will Pelawan as Anglo Platinums HDSA joint-venture tonnes of UG2 ore per month, using two shafts allow the joint venture to expand production by partner on the project as a result of a reverse at an initial capital cost of some R1.35 billion.
takeover of Anooraq by Pelawan.
The joint The mine plans to build up to 240,000 tonnes venture covers the farms Klipfontein 465KS and per month, with an annual production of The previously announced Styldrift expansion Paschaskraal 466KS, contributed by Anglo 160,000 ounces of platinum.
The full initial Platinum, and the farms Avoca 472KS and fide project capital cost is estimated at R10.3 billion.
Kamp 507KS, contributed by the DME on behalf of Pelawan.
Anglo Platinum has lent R100 million PANDORA JOINT VENTURE In October 2008, Anglo Platinum and Royal to Plateau to assist with funding towards the The Pandora Joint Venture project, which Bafokeng Holdings RBH, the investment arm of bankable feasibility study.
The successful became unconditional in April 2004, is located the RBN, announced an agreement to restructure conclusion, envisaged to occur by April 2009, of some 10 kilometres west of the town of Brits in the BRPM Joint Venture.
the BEE transactions announced in September North West province.
The joint venture comprises 2007, would result in Anglo Platinum selling an both Merensky and UG2 reefs.
The participants The restructuring will result in the creation of an additional 1% interest in Ga-Phasha to Anooraq to the joint venture are Rustenburg Platinum HDSA-controlled PGM producer, NewCo to give Anooraq control of the asset.
Anglo Mines 42.5%, Eastern Platinum Limited, a Platinum NewCo, a company that will hold a Platinum will remain a 49% effective shareholder subsidiary of Lonmin PLC 42.5%, Bapo-Ba- 67% interest in the BRPM Joint Venture.
Mogale Tribe 7.5% and Mvelaphanda Resources will be controlled by RBH and independently Limited 7.5% on behalf of Northam.
managed, and the parties have agreed to list NewCo within the next three years.
Prior to ELANDSFONTEIN The synergies of working together on the listing, Anglo Platinum will retain an effective In October 2005, Anglo Platinum signed an project are expected to realise significant 50% interest in the BRPM Joint Venture.
In order agreement with Eland Platinum Mines capital cost savings, and have facilitated an to facilitate the listing, Anglo Platinum will sell Proprietary Limited for the disposal of its mineral immediate tonnage build-up by using existing down its holding to an effective 43% interest in and surface rights on the property Elandsfontein Lonmin Mine access and infrastructure.
Pandora the BRPM Joint Venture.
The Ngazana will mine the UG2 Reef, with a resource estimated at 160 million tonnes.
The mining ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 83 B L A C K E C O N O M I C E M P OW E R M E N T Consortium, led by Dr Penuell Maduna, and Anglo Platinum further disposed of a 55% WESTERN BUSHVELD JOINT incorporating prominent businesswomen and interest in the mineral rights in respect of VENTURE other historically disadvantaged persons, held an Rooderand to the Bakgatla, and advanced a loan During 2008, Rustenburg Platinum Mines unencumbered 26% interest in Eland Platinum to the Bakgatla, secured by an interest in Limited RPM elected to dispose of its interest Mines EPM.
In addition to their unencumbered Rooderand.
On Magazynskraal, an exploration in the Western Bushveld Joint Venture WBJV beneficial interest, historically disadvantaged joint venture has been established, in terms of to Wesizwe Platinum Limited Wesizwe, an persons controlled the board of EPM.
Eland which the Bakgatla potentially with a suitably HDSA-owned company and the sole Patinum Holdings Limited, which held a further qualified partner will procure the funding for, shareholder of Africa Wide Mineral Prospecting 65% of EPM and was listed on the JSE Limited, and completion of, the exploration and and Exploration Proprietary Limited, the was acquired by Xstrata South Africa Proprietary feasibility work required to compile a bankable current 26% HDSA partner in the WBJV.
In June 2007, Anglo feasibility study in return for a majority stake in salient terms of the transaction are that RPM Platinum entered into an agreement with EPM the asset.
Should a mine be developed, Anglo will sell its interest in the WBJV to Wesizwe in to purchase the concentrate produced from Platinum will retain the right to increase its stake exchange for 211.9 million shares in Wesizwe.
in the asset, contributing a disproportionate The sale by RPM enables a reorganisation of the share of the development capital expenditure assets held by both Platinum Group Metal RSA required.
Proprietary Limited and Wesizwe, which will UNION SECTION, result in Wesizwe having a 100% interest in its ROODERAND AND In respect of the Union Mine transaction, Anglo core project while retaining a 26% interest in MAGAZYNSKRAAL Platinum will purchase the Bakgatlas 15% share the remaining WBJV projects.
The sale of RPMs Union Mine is an existing Anglo Platinum of the concentrate produced by Union Mine.
In interest in the WBJV has therefore further operation on the Western Limb of the Bushveld respect of the Rooderand and Magazynskraal enhanced the ownership of mining assets by Complex, located to the north of the transactions, Anglo Platinum retains the right to HDSA companies.
The agreements were signed Pilanesberg.
Portion 2 of Rooderand 46JQ and purchase the concentrate arising from these on 8 December 2008 and the parties are busy Magazynskraal 3JQ are early-stage assets to the projects at market-related terms.
Anglo Platinum concluded an agreement with CHROME AND TAILINGS PROSPECTING JOINT the Bakgatla, which is the local community in PROJECTS VENTURES the region and which provides approximately Siyanda Chrome Investments Proprietary Anglo Platinum has a number of South African 47% of Union Mines workforce.
Limited, an HDSA-controlled company, owns prospecting projects, either on its own or with 26% of the chromite recovery business at joint-venture partners, in respect of which it The transaction, concluded in November 2006, Union Mine.
Platinum Mile Resources is applying for conversion of its existing saw Anglo Platinum effectively exchanging the Proprietary Limited, which is jointly controlled prospecting permits or has applied for new royalty agreement it had with the Bakgatla on by Mvelaphanda Holdings Proprietary Limited prospecting rights.
portion 2 of Spitskop 410JQ for a participation and Aquarius Platinum South Africa, owns the interest in Union Mine.
The Bakgatla then platinum tailings retreatment business at The prospecting projects that have already been purchased a further participation interest in Rustenburg.
Kilken Platinum Proprietary concluded, which incorporate HDSA partners, Union Mine for R420 million in cash as well as Limited and Imbani Minerals, an HDSAinclude the Boikgantsho and Kwanda joint an undertaking to procure the use of various controlled company, are in a 70:30 joint venture ventures with Anooraq in the Mokopane area.
surface rights required by the mine.
The total and own the platinum tailings retreatment stake acquired is 15% of Union Mines mining business at Amandelbult.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 84 Lebowa shaft.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 85 ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 86
