O R E R E S E R V E S A N D M I N E R A L R E S O U RC E S R E V I E W CONVERTING RESOURCES TO RESERVES Total Proved Ore Reserves increased from 809 million tonnes in 2007 to 854 million tonnes in 2008 primarily due to higher confidence in the ore bodies at Rustenburg and Amandelbult mines UG2 deposits.
Outside of South Africas Bushveld Complex, Anglo Platinum continued to explore in Brazil, Canada, China, Russia and Zimbabwe in 2008.
In line with Anglo Platinums review and audit schedule, the external Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve process review will next be conducted during 2009.
Bridgid Moyo is a transport assistant who works underground at Union Mine.
Transport assistants direct the movement of locomotives.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 87 O R E R E S E R V E S A N D M I N E R A L R E S O U RC E S R E V I E W THE BUSHVELD COMPLEX eastern edge.
In 2007, it was reported that there operations to depths well in excess of The resources of platinum group metals PGMs are other deposits geologically similar to Platreef 200 metres at current prices and mining costs.
that result in Anglo Platinums major competitive in some respects, such as the Shebas Ridge Significantly, they provide a much safer mining edge reside mostly in South Africas uniquely deposit as yet these have not, however, been environment than does underground mining.
large, mineral-endowed, layered igneous able to support the development of a mining intrusion known as the Bushveld Complex.
This project and therefore are yet to be mined.
The Merensky Reef and the Platreef yield complex remains the worlds largest source of meaningful quantities of nickel and copper as platinum, despite substantial exploration effort The Merensky Reef has been the principal by-products of PGMs.
The UG2 is relatively and funding in other parts of the world to find a source of PGMs since it was first worked in 1925. devoid of nickel and copper, and although body of rock that can match it.
However, the other reefs have grown steadily in chromitite in this reef has potential for economic importance.
By 1999, the Merensky Reef gain and in some areas is being exploited in this Formed just over 2,000 million years ago, when accounted for only 50% of all platinum-bearing way, we have not considered this when molten rock known as magma was injected into ore processed in South Africa.
Exploitation of measuring the contained monetary values for the upper reaches of the earths crust from the UG2 Reef began in the 1970s and has Ore Reserve purposes.
However, other nonchambers deep below, the Bushveld Complex is steadily increased: in 1999, it was the source of significant UG2 base metals have been an enormous, irregularly shaped saucer 350 42% of ore processed.
This is now thought to considered, and their value has been accounted kilometres across, with its central area deep have increased to more than 50% across the for in the relevant economic evaluations.
underground but its commercially valuable rim complex.
The UG2 is found at a vertical distance exposed at or near the surface on its western, of between 16 and 400 metres below the eastern and northern sides, or limbs.
At the outer Merensky Reef, depending on location.
The OVERVIEW OF edges of each of the limbs, rocks known as Platreef, mined briefly in the 1920s, was first EXPLORATION pyroxenites, norites, gabbros and chromitites are exploited on a large scale in 1993 and is found interlayered in a variety of combinations gradually becoming a significant contributor of Exploration 2008 that make up several readily identifiable zones PGMs for Anglo Platinum.
The exploration department operated well extending the length and breadth of the within the safety standards that were set at the complex.
Within these zones are a number of Although narrow the Merensky and UG2 reefs beginning of the year, and no significant orebodies that yield a variety of minerals, are generally mined at a stoping width of less negative incidences were recorded.
including chromite, titaniferous magnetite, than a metre these tabular orebodies extend vanadium pentoxide, nickel, copper and, more laterally over hundreds of square kilometres, Extensive exploration activities on all Anglo importantly for Anglo Platinum, the PGMs.
resulting in extensive Mineral Resources, the Platinum properties continued once again, continuity of which, established over years of with a total of 470,050 metres of diamond Within the sequences of rocks, there are three exploration and mining, permits the long-range drilling completed in 2008.
This very significant distinct layers that contain concentrations of extrapolation of data.
effort is in line with the requirements for PGMs at levels that are currently economic to Resources set by the Companys project mine.
Other layers in the Bushveld Complex On the Northern Limb of the Bushveld, the portfolio for new developments and mine sequences also carry PGMs, but none of them UG2 Reef is not developed on Anglo Platinums planning, and the conversion of Resources to can currently be extracted on the basis of PGM properties.
On the other hand, the Platreef, Reserves where the latter occurs in proximity to content alone.
Even where PGMs have been which is substantially thicker than either the operations.
Prospecting based on recently produced as by-products, the quantities have Merensky Reef or the UG2, is well developed on issued prospecting permits is progressing in been insignificant in world terms.
The term Platreef describes line with the works programme schedules.
zones of mineralisation occurring in a variety of The principal PGM-bearing horizons being rocks that range from normal pyroxenites to a As was the case in 2007, the main focus of exploited remain the Merensky Reef and the host of rock types that have arisen through the exploration work in 2008 was risk mitigation Upper Group 2 UG2 Reef, which occur around contamination of Bushveld magma by and the upgrading of resources where the Eastern and Western Limbs of the complex, sediments from the underlying Transvaal appropriate.
Anglo Platinum has an impressive while a third PGM-rich layer, the Platreef, is Supergroup.
The thicknesses of Platreef are portfolio of announced and upcoming projects.
found only on the Northern Limb, at the northsuch that they can support open-pit mining These are being assessed in line with ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 88 Drilling at Der Brochen.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 89 O R E R E S E R V E S A N D M I N E R A L R E S O U RC E S R E V I E W CHANGES IN THE ORE RESERVES AND MINERAL RESOURCES STATEMENT FOR 2008 ORE RESERVE MINERAL RESOURCE SUMMARY 2008 2007 Million 4E million Million 4E million Category tonnes troy ounces tonnes troy ounces Total Ore Reserves 1,478.3 197.5 1,453.3 194.1 Proved Ore Reserves 853.6 108.4 808.6 104.6 Total Mineral Resources 5,203.1 654.7 5,696.2 720.0 Measured Mineral Resources 607.8 92.0 621.8 91.1 Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources 2,221.1 280.6 2,188.6 280.8 The total Ore Reserves increased primarily due to the conversion of additional Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves at: Amandelbult Mine Merensky Reef and UG2 Reef : and Rustenburg MIne Merensky Reef and UG2 Reef.
This resulted in a 1.7% tonnage increase and a 1.8% 4E ounce increase.
The Proved Ore Reserves increased primarily due to higher confidence from: Rustenburg Mine UG2 Reef where additional drilling and re-evaluation resulted in higher confidence and due to improved modifying factors: and Amandelbult Mine UG2 Reef where additional drilling and re-evaluation resulted in higher confidence.
This resulted in a 5.6% tonnage increase and a 3.7% 4E ounce increase.
The total Mineral Resource tonnage additional to the Ore Reserves has decreased considerably, mainly due to the successful transaction announced with Mvelaphanda Resources and the consequent exclusion of the Mineral Resources of the Booysendal project.
This resulted in a 8.7% tonnage decrease and a 9.1% 4E ounce decrease in total Mineral Resources.
The overall Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources changed marginally.
The tonnage increases by 1.5% and the 4E ounce decreases by 0.1%.
For detailed statistics refer to page 121 to 140.
GLOSSARY FOR WATERFALL GRAPHS Opening balance: As at 31 December 2007.
Production: The quantity of the commodity of interest delivered for beneficiation from underground or open-pit including material from stockpiles mine depletion during the financial year.
Conversion: Process of converting Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
Conversion reallocation : Process of down-grading of Ore Reserves to Mineral Resources.
Disposal: Reduced Ore Reserves Mineral Resources due to new JV agreements Transaction with Mvelaphanda Resources.
New information: The effect of additional resource definition information which initiates an update to the geological models facies, structural, grade, geo-technical and results in a new reclassified resource model.
Exploration: Includes ore bodies not previously reported.
4E grade: sum of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold grades.
Closing balance: As at 31 December 2008.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 90 Anglo Platinum Ore Reserves 4E million troy ounces : Merensky, UG2 and Platreef Changes between 2007 2008 attributable Anglo Platinum Mineral Resourcess 4E million troy ounces : Merensky, UG2 and Platreef Changes between 2007 2008 attributable ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 91 Opening balance 194,1 Opening balance 720,0 Total UG2 production 2,6 Total MR production 1,2 Disposal Booysendal JV 54,8 Total Platreef production 0,7 Mvelaphanda Resources Rustenburg Conversion MR and UG2 Reef 3,9 Disposal Portion of 8,6 Modikwa Conversion UG2 Reef 0,1 Der Brochen Booysendal JV Mvelaphanda Resources Twickenham Conversion UG2 Reef 0,0 Disposal Northam JV 1,1 Kroondal and Marikana PSA Conversion UG2 Reef 0,1 Mvelaphanda Resources Pandora Conversion UG2 Reef 0,1 Merensky Reef New information, 3,3 WBJV Conversion MR and UG2 Reef 1,6 conversion and some reallocation Der Brochen Conversion MR Reef 0,0 UG2 Reef New information, Amandelbult Conversion MR and UG2 Reef 6,1 1,2 conversion and some reallocation Northam Disposal MR and UG2 Reef 2,5 BRPM Conversion reallocation MR Reef 0,3 Platreef New information, 0,7 and conversion Mototolo Conversion reallocation UG2 Reef 0,5 Mogolakwena Conversion reallocation Platreef 0,6 Exploration WBJV 0,7 Lebowa Conversion reallocation MR and UG2 Reef 0,1 Union Conversion reallocation MR and UG2 Reef 0,2 654,7 Closing balance Closing balance 197,5 O R E R E S E R V E S A N D M I N E R A L R E S O U RC E S R E V I E W internationally recognised best practice, as Russia and Zimbabwe, with watching briefs in a western Sizhuan Province has been the primary attested to by both in-house and international number of other promising geological provinces.
geological target area in China, with the local third-party reviewers.
Drilling remains a primary Our goal remains to be able to evaluate projects focal points of activity being a number of tool in determining and evaluating resources, swiftly and promote them promptly where specific intrusive complexes.
The Emeishan and the extensive and structured drilling appropriate, with an information system in place basalt suite of flood basalts is emplaced above programmes reflect this systematic approach to promote these objectives.
conducive and reactive country rocks, creating to generating value for the organisation.
a mineralisation environment similar to the one Although some percussion drilling is used for Russia: Two projects are being explored, with Anglo Platinum is familiar with in South Africa.
specific needs, diamond drilling, using mostly differing styles of mineralisation.
In the Urals, an A range of occurrences and anomalies were BQ 48 mm diameter coring, is used for some alluvial platinum target is reaching an advanced identified.
Some were considered worthy of an 99% of boreholes drilled.
Only reef intersections stage, with appropriate documentation shortly to application for a special prospecting licence.
with 100% core recovery are used in the be filed.
If approved, this will permit exploratory These applications were under consideration geological models of resource grades.
mining to validate exploration results.
Several by the Chinese authorities during the year.
other placer occurrences are under review Advances in the technology of threeand being tested, each with a high potential Unfortunately, drilling in the Danba project area dimensional seismic surveys have been used to become a resource evaluation target.
did not provide sufficient encouragement to fully by the exploration team in recent years.
These deposits are dominated by platinum continue prospecting this deposit: work there These surveys continue to be an invaluable tool mineralisation, with the metal occurring as ferrohas been discontinued.
for supplementing borehole data, by providing platinum alloy in nugget form and individual exceptional detail on the structural deformation nuggets comprised of around 90% platinum.
Brazil: Ongoing mapping and geophysically of the orebodies, which is not discernable from Concentrations of platinum in the ore are in the targeted drilling progressed well during the 2008 borehole data alone.
This ensures the correct order of a few grams per cubic metre.
field season, with target identification strategies placement of shafts and other critical mining being successfully applied.
The work remains infrastructure, particularly where orebodies are In the Kola Peninsula, three large areas of focused on a geological terrain conducive to the at moderate to deep depths.
Several additional greenfields exploration remain our focus.
development of chromiteand sulphidesurveys are also in the planning stage and Where diamond drilling has been used as the associated PGEs within igneous intrusives.
will be implemented, subject to cost and main tool for exploration, it has revealed access considerations.
Aeromagnetic surveys, mineralised zones of considerable interest in Zimbabwe: Resource definition and geophysical logging and borehole radar are also two areas to date.
Geophysical surveys are quantification within and outside the Unki used to supplement geological knowledge on assisting in target generation and drillholeresource block were completed during 2008. each of the prospects.
Prospective resources additional to the Unki resource were successfully defined.
Exploration Where mine planning has reached an advanced Canada: The River Valley project progressed to activity has been maintained, pending the stage, a variety of additional drillhole and the level of a pre-feasibility study.
This indicated finalisation of ongoing government negotiations.
surface to near-surface imaging tools are that, under present economic circumstances, employed, to determine the structure and the deposit is not viable.
The process of In March 2008, an agreement was entered into competency of the ground targeted for acquiring a lease over the property was with the Government of Zimbabwe GOZ in development.
In-drillhole and rock surface concluded, which will facilitate its retention terms of which 31.3% of the PGM mining claims remote sensing are integral components of this until market conditions permit mining, or have been released to GOZ in return for cash and risk-mitigation process: they have proved permit a sale of the rights in future.
The agreement is highly cost beneficial over recent years.
ground evaluation and regional targeting the expected to become effective during 2009. objective of our 2007 field seasons activity Foreign exploration continued in 2008, with the were followed up on in 2008, but no additional Western Bushveld Joint Venture: In 2004, ongoing objective of finding, locating and potential was identified.
Rustenburg Mine entered into a joint-venture defining projects of value to the organisation.
agreement with Platinum Group Metals RSA This included projects in Brazil, Canada, China, China: The extensive Panxi Rift in southLimited and Africa Wide Mineral Prospecting ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 92 Seismic survey control room.
and Exploration Proprietary Limited, to in return for funding of R60 million to complete establish the Western Bushveld Joint Venture.
a feasibility study on the project.
Ridge Mining Wesizwe Platinum Limited acquired Africa Wide has completed the feasibility study with the Mineral Prospecting and Exploration in exception of the process strategy.
In mid-2008, the Western Bushveld Joint Venture completed a bankable feasibility study for its Project 1 area.
In December 2008, RPM entered into agreement to sell its interest in the WBJV to Wesizwe Platinum Limited.
The parties are currently in the process of fulfilling the suspensive conditions of the agreement.
Shebas Ridge Joint Venture: Shebas Ridge Ron Hieber Pr Sci Nat, FGSSA, MCIM Joint Venture is a project owned jointly Head: Exploration and Mineral Strategy between Ridge Mining 65% and Anglo Platinum 35%.
Ridge Mining agreed to sell to Johannesburg the Industrial Development Corporation of 5 February 2008 South Africa a 26% interest in the joint venture ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 93 O R E R E S E R V E S A N D M I N E R A L R E S O U RC E S R E V I E W ORE RESERVES AND geological circumstances applicable to mining geological and or grade continuity.
An Inferred MINERAL RESOURCES that resource.
Reserves, on the other hand, Mineral Resource is based on information DEFINITIONS include all such expected dilution.
gathered, through appropriate techniques, The Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources of the from outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and Group are classified, verified and reported on in Mineral Resources: A Mineral Resource is a drillholes that may be limited, or of uncertain accordance with statutory, stock exchange and concentration or occurrence of material of quality and reliability.
A Mineral Resource is industry professional guidelines.
The economic interest in or on the earths crust, in consistent with the inferred category when the classifications are based on the South African such form and quantity that there are reasonable risk associated with the grade or accumulated Mineral Recource Committee SAMREC code and realistic prospects for eventual economic metal estimate is greater than 20% at a 90% and on the code of the Joint Ore Reserves extraction.
The location, quantity, grade, confidence level.
Committee of the Australian Institute of Mining continuity and other geological characteristics of and Metallurgy.
Anglo Platinum has an ongoing a Mineral Resource are known, estimated from Indicated Mineral Resources: An Indicated programme of internal and external reviews specific geological evidence and knowledge, or Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral and audits conducted on its Reserve and interpreted from a well-constrained and Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, Resource generation processes, which includes portrayed geological model.
Mineral Resources physical characteristics, grade and mineral auditing reviewing borehole drilling and are subdivided, in order of increasing confidence content can be estimated with a reasonable logging, sample analysis, resource modelling in geoscientific evidence, into inferred, indicated level of confidence.
It is based on exploration, and resource-to-reserve conversion processes.
It should be noted sampling and testing information gathered that the continuity of the Bushveld Complex through appropriate techniques from outcrops, Reporting is by professionals with appropriate orebodies, coupled with the expectation of a trenches, pits, workings and drillholes.
The experience in the estimation, economic robust demand for PGEs and associated metals locations are too widely or inappropriately evaluation, exploitation and reporting of Ore well into the future, allows the PGE industry to spaced to confirm geological and or grade Reserves and Mineral Resources relevant to the classify large volumes of the three mineralised continuity, but are spaced closely enough for various styles of mineralisation under layers as Resources in the different categories continuity to be assumed.
The Groups experience with the defined in the SAMREC code, as stated below.
In with a risk associated with the accumulated various orebodies it is engaged in evaluating Anglo Platinum, cognisance is taken of cut-off metal estimate at a 90% confidence level of and mining spans decades, resulting in a grades which, in most instances, are derived 10% to 20% is consistent with an Indicated thorough understanding of the factors from information on pay limits in the mining Mineral Resource.
important in assessing their economic potential.
Measured Mineral Resources: A Measured Where Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources have Inferred Mineral Resources: An Inferred Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral been quoted for the same property, Resources Mineral Resource is that part of a Mineral Resource for which tonnage, densities, shape, are in addition to Reserves.
Attention is drawn to Resource for which tonnage, grade and mineral physical characteristics, grade and mineral the fact that Resources are by definition exclusive content can be estimated with a low level of content can be estimated with a high level of of any diluting materials that might arise as a confidence.
It is inferred from geological confidence.
It is based on detailed and reliable result of the mining method and or specific evidence, and from assumed but not verified, exploration, sampling and testing information ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 94 gathered through appropriate techniques from realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drillholes.
economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social The locations are spaced closely enough to and governmental factors.
These assessments confirm geological and grade continuity.
A demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that Mineral Resource with a risk associated with the extraction is reasonably justified.
accumulated metal estimate at a 90% confidence level of less than 10% is consistent Proved Ore Reserves: A Proved Ore Reserve is with a Measured Mineral Resource.
the economically mineable material derived from a measured Mineral Resource.
It is Ore Reserves: An Ore Reserve is the estimated with a high level of confidence, economically mineable material derived from a includes diluting materials, and allows for losses measured and or indicated Mineral Resource.
It that may occur when the material is mined.
includes diluting materials and allows for losses Appropriate assessments, which may include that may occur when the material is mined.
feasibility studies, have been carried out, Appropriate assessments, which may include including consideration of and modification by feasibility studies, have been carried out, realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, including consideration of and modification by economic, marketing, legal, environmental, realistically assumed mining, metallurgical, social and governmental factors.
These economic, marketing, legal, environmental, assessments demonstrate, at the time of social and governmental factors.
These reporting, that extraction is reasonably justified.
assessments demonstrate, at the time of Anglo Platinums Proved Ore Reserves are reporting, that extraction is justifiable.
Ore contained within the limits of the five-year Reserves are subdivided, in order of increasing mining plans of its operations, as they represent confidence, into Probable Ore Reserves and the area of greatest understanding and Proved Ore Reserves.
Probable Ore Reserves: A Probable Ore Reserve is the economically mineable material derived from a measured and or indicated Mineral Resource.
It is estimated with a lower level of confidence than a proved Mineral Reserve.
It includes diluting materials and allows for losses that may occur when the material is mined.
Appropriate assessments, which may include feasibility studies, have been carried out, including consideration of and modification by ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 95 ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 96
