M A R K E T R E V I E W A BALANCED PLATINUM MARKET Anglo Platinum expects a balanced platinum market in 2009.
The platinum price, in the Companys view, suffered a downside overcorrection in the second half of 2008 and the metal is likely to trade at above $1,000 per ounce in 2009.
Platinum remains a strategic industrial and premier jewellery metal, and the long-term fundamentals remain sound.
In 2009, demand will be negatively impacted by the expected further reduction in vehicle production, auto manufacturers stocks, and by possible reduction in industrial demand.
This is expected to be offset by increased demand resulting from the tightening of vehicleemission legislation, Chris van Rensburg was the winner of the increased jewellery demand and 10th PlatAfrica jewellery competition in the professional category for his innovative lower volumes of recycling.
This was not the first time Chris has won the PlatAfrica award.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 19 M A R K E T R E V I E W PLATINUM SUPPLY AND DEMAND PLATINUM AND PALLADIUM At 6.5 million ounces, net demand for platinum was marginally down on 2007 as the strength in the 000 oz 2008 2007 industrial and investment sectors was insufficient to make up for the weakness in the autocatalyst and Supply jewellery sectors.
Gross autocatalyst demand fell owing to a steep decline in the output of vehicles in South Africa 4,710 5,032 Russia 780 913 North America, coupled with a shift in consumer demand for smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.
High North America 318 326 prices in the first half of the year resulted in a decline in the fabrication of jewellery and a dramatic Other 270 291 increase in the recycling of scrap metals.
However, there was a significant uptake in jewellery during the Total supply 6,078 6,562 second half of the year, resulting in a higher demand than anticipated.
Supplies of platinum fell by 7%, the net effect of which was a deficit of about 400,000 ounces.
Demand Autocatalyst: Palladium demand remained virtually unchanged in 2008, with the decline in autocatalyst demand gross 3,800 4,155 offset by strength in other applications.
Palladium continued to increase its share of the gasoline and recovery 980 912 Jewellery 1,350 1,461 light-duty diesel markets, but the growth in these areas could not counteract the steep decline in Industrial 1,960 1,834 demand from the North American autocatalyst market.
Supplies of palladium declined sharply Investment 380 170 owing partly to a reduction in South African production, but more importantly to a decline in Total demand 6,510 6,708 shipments from Russia.
The decline from Russia is due to less production from Norilsk as a result of lower grades and the fact that there were reduced shipments from state-held inventories in 2008.
Movement in stocks 432 146 With the reduction in supplies, the market surplus decreased sharply to just short of 200,000 ounces.
Demand for rhodium declined by 12% in 2008 as automotive manufacturers efforts to reduce their loadings of rhodium resulted in a decline in purchases of the metal.
Supplies also fell by 16%, resulting PALLADIUM SUPPLY AND DEMAND in a deficit of 40,000 ounces.
000 oz 2008 2007 Supply South Africa 2,478 2,769 AUTOCATALYST Russia 3,520 4,539 Despite poor automobile sales in major markets in the second part of the year, gross demand for North America 856 989 platinum declined only marginally in 2008, falling by 8% to 3.8 million ounces.
The large decline in Other 273 283 platinum demand from North America was balanced out by increased demand from other regions.
Total supply 7,127 8,580 Growth in demand from Europe came on the back of an increase in the production of light-duty diesel vehicles and of the fitment of diesel particulate filters to these vehicles ahead of legislative Demand Autocatalyst requirements.
Growth in vehicle production in emerging markets, together with the adoption of gross 4,470 4,567 increasingly severe emissions legislation in some of them, also boosted demand for platinum.
The recovery 1,095 967 demand for palladium decreased by 2% to 4.5 million ounces, while demand for rhodium fell by 11% Jewellery 770 715 to 790,000 ounces.
Industrial 2,375 2,336 Investment 415 260 Total demand 6,935 6,911 Europe Movement in stocks 192 1,669 Demand for platinum in the European autocatalyst sector rose to over 2 million ounces in 2008 while demand for palladium rose to 1.1 million ounces.
Despite a decline of 3% in the production of new vehicles in 2008, the demand for platinum increased.
This increase resulted from the increasing market share for diesel vehicles fitted with platinum-dominated oxidation catalysts.
Light-duty diesel vehicles accounted for 52% of total lightduty vehicle production in 2008.
Although sales of diesel cars slipped in the third quarter of the year, this was in reaction to steep fuel prices rather than a change in trend.
Prices for diesel fuel rose disproportionally, eroding some of diesels advantage over petrol.
Platinum demand in this sector ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 20 THE CHALLENGES FACING THE AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY The global automobile industry has been pursued thrifting strategies, achieving filters in addition to diesel oxidation beset by problems arising out of the significant reductions in platinum and catalysts on diesel vehicles.
The collapse of rhodium loading.
The reduction in demand banks and the resultant reduced credit developing countries for PGMs has been Unlike in North America and Europe, availability has had a severe impact on compounded by a switch in favour of vehicle production increased in Japan in demand for new vehicles, and sales have smaller vehicles, and from trucks to cars.
Despite weakening demand in its fallen in North America, Europe and Japan.
The move by consumers towards smaller, domestic market, Japan increased its The outlook for 2009 is worse, with sales more fuel-efficient vehicles, has benefited production of light vehicles for export.
The expected to decline even further in every Asian transplants at the expense of the increase in demand for passenger vehicles region except China.
Overall, sales of lightDetroit Big Three.
This move will benefit in both Europe and North America duty vehicles are forecast to fall by 4.8%.
platinum as the Japanese, having increased necessitated an increase in the capacity their palladium usage in emission-control utilisation of Japanese plants to meet The effect of the decline in vehicle numbers systems, have not entirely eradicated supply shortfalls in the export markets.
on platinum group metal PGM demand platinums use in gasoline engines.
in 2009 will be in line with the decline in Demand for PGMs in the rest of world is vehicle sales.
However, shifts in market In Europe, demand for platinum is forecast expected to increase in 2009, owing to share between different vehicle types, the to decline further in 2009.
Most of the continued increases in car ownership in thrifting of PGMs and metal substitution are decline can be attributed to the production Russia and China, and to strong demand affecting the individual PGMs differently.
cutbacks and the switching to palladium for platinum in the light-duty diesel sector, catalyst formulations on both gasoline and particularly in South Korea and India.
While North America has borne the brunt of diesel vehicles.
Production of vehicles in the reduction in vehicle numbers, demand Europe in 2009 is predicted to fall to just Overall, the market is likely to balance in for platinum and rhodium has decreased over 18 million units.
Demand for platinum 2009 and is expected to recover in 2010, disproportionately.
Original equipment is expected to rise in 2010, with the when demand for platinum in this sector is manufacturers OEMs have aggressively increased fitment of diesel particulate expected to exceed 2007 levels.
was further enhanced by the fitment of diesel particulate filters, ahead of legislation that will be phased in from next year.
Demand for palladium rose by 16% to 1.1 million ounces.
Most of this increase can be attributed to the increasing use of palladium in the light-duty diesel sector.
Substitution of palladium for platinum in the light-duty diesel sector increased as the platinum price rose during the first half of the year.
The high price differential between platinum and palladium accelerated advances in technology that have enabled the use of greater amounts of palladium in diesel oxidation catalysis.
With the implementation of this technology now available, palladium usage in diesel vehicles rose to over 200,000 ounces in 2008.
Most of the transition to palladium in gasoline systems in Europe has already occurred, with only a minor amount of platinum remaining in the light-duty gasoline sector.
Effective thrifting strategies embarked upon by original equipment manufacturers OEMs in Europe have enabled the achievement of more exacting emission legislation without the need for additional palladium.
Therefore, demand for palladium in the gasoline sector remained static.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 21 M A R K E T R E V I E W SELEC TIVE CATALY TIC REDUC TION SCR NOx TRAP In Europe, over half of new vehicles sold annually are now powered by diesel engines.
Euro 6 emissions legislation coming into force for cars and light commercial vehicles in Europe from 2014 will tighten allowable nitrogen oxides NOx emissions from diesel vehicles by around 70% compared with todays Euro 4 standards.
It is likely that these tighter Euro 6 limits will require the majority of diesel vehicles to be fitted with additional catalytic aftertreatment to control NOx emissions.
In the US, although the number of diesel passenger cars sold each year is relatively low, Tier II Bin 5 legislation already requires new diesel vehicles to be fitted with NOx aftertreatment.
Besides engine management, there are two main ways in which car manufacturers can choose to reduce vehicle NOx emissions: selective catalytic reduction SCR or the use of lean NOx traps LNTs, also called NOx adsorber catalysts or NACs.
The two technologies can also be used in combination.
Selective catalytic reduction SCR is already widely used to control NOx emissions from industrial sources, and on heavyduty vehicles in Europe and the US.
SCR is also being used on some of the Tier II Bin 5 diesel passenger cars in the US, such as the well-publicised Mercedes-Benz BlueTec vehicle.
Hydrocarbons HC Carbon monoxide CO Nitrogen oxides NOx Cross section of an SCR catalyst used to control NOx emissions SCR systems work by chemically reducing nitrogen oxides to nitrogen.
In a lean gas stream, such as in a diesel vehicle, it is necessary to add a reductant to the system to enable this reaction.
The most common reductant applied on vehicles today is ammonia.
Any source of ammonia can be used, but most TM commonly the source is Adblue, a water urea solution, which Air is supplied to the exhaust system via an additional tank.
This solution decomposes in the exhaust stream to form the ammonia.
Mercedes-Benz has also developed a BlueTec vehicle in which the ammonia required for the SCR reaction is generated onboard by the use of an additional NOx storage catalyst, thus removing the need TM for a separate AdBlue tank.
Water H 0 2 Carbon dioxide CO 2 Nitrogen N 2 SCR technology uses a non-precious metal catalyst such as vanadium, iron or copper, but requires the use of an additional oxidation catalyst to reduce emissions of carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons, and a particulate filter to reduce soot emissions.
Both of these additional catalysts contain platinum group metals.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 22 Lean NOx traps LNTs Alternatively, NOx can be removed from a lean gas stream by chemical adsorption onto a catalyst, hence the term NOx adsorber catalyst NAC or lean NOx trap LNT.
The LNT has a finite capacity for NOx but it can be regenerated by changing to a rich gas stream.
Under these conditions the catalyst releases the NOx and is thereby regenerated, and the NOx is reduced to nitrogen.
How a lean NOx trap functions NOx adsorber catalyst lean conditions NOx adsorber catalyst rich conditions Lean conditions: Engine-out nitrogen oxides NOx are adsorbed onto the catalyst surface.
The process of adsorption releases carbon dioxide CO. 2 Rich conditions: The catalyst is regenerated by changing to a rich gas stream: First, the catalyst releases the NOx and is thereby regenerated.
The NOx is then reduced to nitrogen N. LNTs use relatively high amounts of platinum 2 group metals platinum-rhodium or  as their catalytic component.
In addition to trapping nitrogen oxides, LNTs also reduce carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions.
It is expected, therefore, that an NOx trap will be used in place of an oxidation catalyst on many Euro 6 vehicles, to reduce the costs of catalytic aftertreatment.
However, a particulate filter will still be required to control soot emissions.
An example of a vehicle with a lean NOx trap in use today is the VW Jetta TDI which won the Green Car of the Year award in the United States in 2008.
Most carmakers have yet to decide on their chosen NOx reduction strategies to meet Euro 6 legislation when it is enforced in 2014.
The current development work suggests that the smallest diesel engines may rely on advanced engine technology to control NOx exhaust emissions, without the need for additional NOx after-treatment.
In contrast, the largest vehicles are more suited to SCR technology, with sufficient space to accommodate the TM extra AdBlue tank.
Medium-sized vehicles, representing perhaps up to a third of the European light-duty diesel fleet, are expected to use some form of PGM-containing LNT.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 23 M A R K E T R E V I E W Further erosion of platinum demand by palladium in the light-duty diesel sector is expected in the short term.
There are however, constraints on the greater usage of palladium in the diesel sector, such as the higher light-off temperature of the bi-metal catalyst.
Furthermore, the choice of nitrous oxides NOx treatment adopted for Euro 6 legislation will influence the metal ratios in diesel oxidation catalysts DOCs.
For example, as platinum possesses a higher nitrous oxide NO oxidation activity, a dual metal oxidation catalyst with a high platinum to palladium is expected to be preferred for use in conjunction with selective catalytic reduction SCR.
Japan Production of light-duty vehicles increased by 2% in Japan in 2008.
Sluggishness in the domestic market was compensated for by increasing demand in export markets.
With fuel prices rising rapidly, consumer demand in the US and other countries for more fuel-efficient Asian vehicles increased at the expense of  vehicles.
The smaller-capacity vehicles require less platinum group metals PGMs on their catalyst and therefore overall demand and potential future demand have been negatively impacted by this shift in consumer preference.
Demand for platinum is estimated to have remained at around 600,000 ounces in 2008.
The light-duty sector showed a decline in demand that was counterbalanced by an increase in demand from the heavy-duty sector.
Demand in the light-duty sector declined as Japanese OEMs accelerated the substitution by palladium of platinum-rich technology in light-duty gasoline vehicles.
The Japanese, for strategic reasons, have lagged behind other developed nations in adopting palladium-rich technology in their gasoline vehicles, using PGMs in ratios approximating those found in South African ore reserves.
Furthermore, owing to substantial exports to a variety of countries, concerns over possible recalls resulting from catalyst failure in regions with inferior fuel quality encouraged the use of platinum, which is more sulphur tolerant.
Recently, the improvement in fuel quality across their export markets has enabled a greater proportion of palladium usage.
The rising platinum price in the last two years and, more importantly, platinums record differential to the palladium price, has accelerated the move towards palladium substitution.
Platinum demand is expected to recover in 2010 despite the substitution.
Demand from Asia and growth in the domestic market are expected to make up for weakness in North America.
Statements have been made by Japanese OEMs recently regarding the developments of emissioncontrol technology that will reduce the amount of PGMs required in autocatalysts.
Efforts to thrift PGM use in autocatalysts have been ongoing since the first catalytic converters were introduced in the 1970s and have contributed to the sustainability of PGM use in autocatalysts.
Average PGM loadings will continue to be a function of technological advances resulting in thrifting and tightening emissions limits, which are met using increased loadings.
The recently announced technology will aid thrifting of PGM use over the long term.
However, geographical spread of the implementation of emission legislation, combined with the increasing severity of emission limits, will continue to underpin growth in PGM demand in autocatalysis.
North America North American demand for platinum in the autocatalyst sector dropped by almost 50% in 2008, to around 500,000 ounces, while palladium demand declined by 25% to 1.3 million ounces.
The decrease was the result of a combination of factors: falling vehicle production, the shift towards lighter vehicles and decreasing market share for the domestic OEMs.
The production of light-duty vehicles declined ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 24 by 15% in the year to 11 million units, a 26-year low.
The decline in demand was exacerbated by consumers rejection of large SUV vehicles, which contain more PGMs in their catalysts, in favour of smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles.
With sales of heavy-duty vehicles closely aligned to economic growth, the decline in production of these predominantly diesel-powered vehicles further reduced overall demand for platinum.
North America has been at the forefront of the substitution of platinum by palladium in gasoline vehicles.
The residual platinum still in use in gasoline systems is in older models, and it is unlikely that platinum will be used in any gasoline vehicles after 2011.
A further decline in vehicle production is expected in 2009 and demand for PGMs is unlikely to recover in the short term.
However, platinums application in light-duty diesel vehicles will ensure some growth in demand in the North American autocatalyst sector in the longer term.
China The production of light-duty vehicles in China grew by 9% to 8.6 million units in 2008.
More stringent Euro 3-equivalent emission legislation was scheduled for introduction in 2007, but the lack of widespread availability of high-quality fuel resulted in its postponement till 2008.
Euro 3 standards have now been implemented across most of China, with Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou adhering to the more exacting Euro 4 standards.
OEMs raised average loadings in order to comply with the legislation and platinum demand increased to about 190,000 ounces, while demand for palladium increased to 400,000 ounces.
The production of light-duty vehicles is forecast to continue to grow at an average annual rate of around 7% over the next 10 years.
The production of diesel vehicles is forecast to grow from 4.5% of the market to close to 10%, which is positive for platinum.
However, the growth in the light-duty sector will be predominantly gasoline-based favouring the use of palladium over platinum.
Rest of the world Demand for PGMs in the rest of the world was boosted by rising vehicle output in Brazil, Russia and India, and increased production of diesel vehicles in Korea and Mexico.
Rising production of vehicles in the BRIC nations Brazil, Russia, India and China, underpinned a 10% rise in palladium to 900,000 RHODIUM SUPPLY AND DEMAND ounces.
An increase in demand for diesel vehicles in Europe is supporting growth in production in 000 oz 2008 2007 South East Asia, which resulted in a 6% increase in demand for platinum.
Supply South Africa 601 696 Production of vehicles in the rest of the world is expected to grow over the next 10 years, with a Russia 85 90 concomitant increase in demand for PGMs.
Despite a decline in the production of vehicles in India in North America 18 20 2008, the longer-term outlook for the Indian automotive industry remains positive.
India is expected Other 18 18 to grow vehicle production over the next five years to become the fifth largest producer of light-duty Total supply 722 824 vehicles in the world.
Diesel vehicles account for one third of the passenger car market in India, ensuring growth in demand for platinum.
The outlook for vehicle production in Russia is also positive.
Demand Autocatalyst After a year-on-year increase of 10% in 2008, growth in output is expected to slow in 2009, prior to gross 790 891 new manufacturing capacity coming on stream and boosting output.
recovery 190 175 Industrial 165 150 Total demand 765 866 Rhodium in autocatalyst Movement in stocks 43 42 Demand for rhodium declined by 11% in 2008, to 790,000 ounces.
With the rhodium price rising dramatically over the past years, major OEMs have intensified their efforts to reduce the rhodium content of their catalyst systems.
Demand has therefore declined in the developed markets of North ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 25 M A R K E T R E V I E W America, Europe and Japan.
The decline was further exacerbated by the reduction in strategic inventory by some industry players, which reduced demand for new metal.
An increase in demand from developing nations such as Russia and China was insufficient to make up for these declines, and overall demand fell to its lowest level in seven years.
Increasingly more stringent legislation covering emissions of NOx will be implemented over the next few years.
In Europe, Euro 6 legislation, which will be implemented in major regions in 2014, will require exhaust after-treatment in order to meet the NOx limits.
SCR is not ideally suitable for use in small diesel vehicles primarily due to space considerations.
The fitment of lean NOx traps presents a viable option to control and should underpin substantial demand for rhodium.
RECYCLING OF AUTOCATALYST SCRAP High metal prices at the beginning of 2008 encouraged the collection of spent autocatalyst, particularly in North America, resulting in an increase in supplies of metal from this source.
Platinum supplies were further enhanced by an increase in the number of diesel vehicles fitted with catalysts that were scrapped in Europe.
Platinum supplies from the recycling of autocatalyst scrap amounted to over 980,000 ounces.
Comparable figures for palladium supplies were 1.1 million ounces, and for rhodium supplies, 200,000 ounces.
With lower prevailing prices for PGMs, scrap collectors are likely to hold back stocks and supplies from end-of-life autocatalysts.
In the longer term however, supplies of PGMs from spent autocatalyst will increase as collection networks spread and legislation covering end-of-life equipment is enforced in some regions of the world.
JEWELLERY 2008 was a year of two very different halves for the jewellery industry.
The platinum price reached record levels early in the first half of the year, driving increased recycling, especially in China and Japan, and substitution by less expensive metals.
As a result, the higher prices led to the lower availability of platinum jewellery at retail, leading to a slowing of consumer sales.
Sharply declining prices in the second half of the year reignited trade interest, particularly in the fourth quarter, with Chinese purchases on the Shanghai Gold Exchange SGE attaining record volumes.
Lower prices reduced recycling and boosted retail restocking.
Overall, demand for new metal for platinum jewellery fabrication was 8% down on that in 2007.
China The Chinese jewellery industrys demand for new platinum in 2008 reached 840,000 ounces, 8% higher than in 2007.
Purchases declined in the first half of the year owing to the substantial price rises and an increase in the recycling of retail stocks as the trade returned slow-moving stock items to manufacturers.
Sharply lower prices in the final quarter of the year discouraged recycling and prompted pipeline restocking, leading to a substantial increase in manufacturers purchases.
This increase has continued into 2009, with high volumes sustained on the SGE.
Consumer demand is expected to grow as the lower prices filter down to retail level.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 26 Despite a slowdown in the rate of growth in the Chinese economy, the expanding middle class is expected to continue to increase expenditure on luxury goods, with jewellery an important segment.
Platinum is well established as a strong bridal and jewellery brand following 11 years of market development by Platinum Guild International PGI.
China remains a strong precious-metal market and, with platinum more affordable, growth in this market is expected to continue in line with growth in the economy.
Demand for palladium for jewellery fabrication in China increased by 10% in 2008, to 550,000 ounces.
The increase was limited by the price rise in the second quarter, which led to inventory reduction.
Purchases were also negatively impacted by the earthquake in Sizhuan province, a major regional market for palladium jewellery.
The large differential in the price of platinum and palladium afforded palladium jewellery an advantage in the smaller cities in China.
Recently, more competitive and affordable platinum prices have led to a shift from palladium and white gold jewellery to platinum.
More importantly, the decrease in the price differential between platinum and palladium has reduced the incentive for purchasing palladium, and in consequence sales of palladium jewellery pieces have slowed.
New palladium demand was also negatively affected by stock recycling in 2008, as the stock of Pd950 alloy in the distribution chain was recycled and remanufactured as Pd990 alloy.
In 2009 pipeline stock should be reduced and in consequence demand for the metal should more closely reflect retail sales.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 27 M A R K E T R E V I E W USA New platinum demand for jewellery fabrication in the US declined by 11% in 2008, to 200,000 ounces.
High metal prices in the first half of the year led to substitution by less expensive metals, especially in mens wedding bands, dampening demand for platinum.
In parallel there was an increase in recycling, reducing demand for new metal for jewellery fabrication.
Many retailers and manufacturers in the US reduced or liquidated their platinum stocks for cash or as trade-in for other metals.
Sales of platinum bridal at the high end of the market remained resilient and there were signs of recovery towards the end of the year as prices fell.
Palladium jewellery gained from platinums high price, increasing substantially off a low base.
Many manufacturers added palladium to their platinum production to cover the lower price segments.
During the period of high platinum prices, palladium established a market in the mens wedding band sector: however, following the recent price decline in the platinum price, platinum has gained back market share.
Future demand will be determined largely by price and by the level of market development support that palladium receives.
Japan Japanese consumers maintain their strong affinity for platinum, which is borne out by their strong preference for platinum in the bridal sector.
This sector is relatively price inelastic, and has shown resilience in the higher price environment.
Despite similar demand at the retail level, net demand for new platinum for jewellery fabrication in Japan fell sharply to below 50,000 ounces in 2008, from 180,000 ounces in 2007.
The decline was due to the dramatic increase in the recycling of used material, which reduced manufacturers purchase of new metal.
Recycling was encouraged both by the high prices for platinum in the first half of the year and by an established infrastructure for the collection and recycling of old jewellery.
The decline in demand was also exacerbated by a lack of finance within the jewellery industry.
At retail, the high prices led to substitution with white gold.
Platinum demand improved in the last few months of 2008 as lower prices discouraged recycling and the falling price differential with gold led to a move back to platinum.
The outlook for 2009 is likely to be conditioned by low overall consumer confidence.
Investment buying of Kihei, a heavy type of mens chain, had a positive effect at the end of 2008, which has extended into 2009.
Europe Demand for platinum for the manufacture of jewellery in Europe declined marginally in 2008, to 200,000 ounces.
High metal prices, as elsewhere in the first part of the year, put pressure on the market and UK hallmarking statistics reported a decline of 15% for 2008.
Some manufacturers reacted to the higher prices by reducing the weight of pieces.
At retail level, the price volatility created challenges, with the rapid price decline in the second half of the year leaving many retailers bearing losses on their stock.
In contrast to the demand for jewellery, the demand for platinum watches increased in 2008.
The manufacture of platinum watches in Switzerland rose by 25% in the first 10 months of the year, compared with the same period a year before.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 28 India Net sales of platinum into the Indian jewellery industry are estimated to have fallen in 2008.
The decline was due mainly to lower exports of finished jewellery on the back of weak demand from the US.
In the past, about half of the consumption of platinum in jewellery manufacture in India was for export.
With the decline in demand from the US, jewellery fabricators turned mostly to the domestic market.
Manufacturers continue actively to target other export markets in Europe and Asia, yet the effect of these efforts did not impact demand in 2008.
Two focused retail promotion campaigns run in conjunction with PGI India, in partnership with leading retailers in the key city of Chennai and with national retailer Orra, proved successful in 2008, with all parties reporting a strong increase in platinum consumption.
With the growing awareness of platinum in India and ongoing support of this market, demand is expected to increase in the future.
INVESTMENT DEMAND Investment demand for platinum more than doubled in 2008, to 380,000 ounces.
Unprecedented demand for platinum bars in Japan in the second half of 2008, more than compensated for declining interest in the UK-based platinum ETF.
In July and August, the actions of investors in ETFs, eager to convert their investment holdings into cash, offloaded 250,000 ounces of platinum onto the market.
This decline was eventually more than compensated for by the increase in purchases of platinum bars in Japan.
INDUSTRIAL DEMAND Industrial demand for platinum in 2008 attained an all-time high of 1.96 million ounces owing to increased demand from the chemical, glass and petroleum sectors, particularly in developing nations.
CHEMICAL USE DEMAND A deficit of para-xylene used in the production of polyester fibres and plastics in the Asia Pacific region resulted in the growth of new production capacity in the region.
This has underpinned growth in the demand for platinum in the process catalyst area.
New silicones capacity in the East has also resulted in increased demand for platinum.
Because the platinum used in the production of silicones is lost in the process and the high prices of platinum have affected this demand sector more than other PGM catalyst sectors, resulting in the industry focusing attention on reducing the amount of platinum consumed in the process.
The effect of this thrifting will limit the growth in this sector in the future.
Demand for platinum has also benefited from an increase in the production of nitric acid in Russia.
Demand for palladium in the chemical sector increased in 2008 owing to expansion in the manufacturing capacity for purified terephthalic acid, vinyl acetate and hydrogen peroxide.
Terephthalic acid is used in the manufacture of polyester, while vinyl acetate is used in the production of polyvinyl acetate.
Both products are raw materials for plastic.
The economic downturn will negatively impact demand for chemical products and limit the availability of funding for expansions.
This will have a negative effect on demand for PGMs in 2009.
However, the construction of new plants in China will compensate to some extent for the loss of PGM demand from other regions.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 29 M A R K E T R E V I E W INVESTMENT IN PLATINUM ME TAL There is a limited number of physical are seen as a good investment opportunity the last two months of that year.
Purchases investment vehicles available in platinum and sharp falls in the platinum price can rose sharply higher in the first half of 2008 and palladium.
Investing in physical metal attract large purchases.
This occurred for in response to supply concerns, with the was initially confined to small bullion bars.
example in 1998, when a 20% fall in the combined holdings in platinum peaking on It was only in the 1970s that the first price over three weeks resulted in a three- 7 July, at 480,800 ounces.
Thereafter, global modern platinum bullion coins were fold increase in purchases of platinum bars.
financial market weakness, coupled with released onto the market.
Previously the Similarly, the rapid decline in the platinum the need for ready cash, saw positions only coins in issue were Russian coins price in the second half of 2008 attracted liquidated in London.
Net positions of ETFs dating from the nineteenth century.
buyers in Japan, and monthly sales to at the end of 2008 were just short of However, after just 18 years, these coins investors rose to unprecedented levels.
300,000 ounces, showing an increase of were recalled.
Following the initial release This was partly offset by the disinvestment 100,000 ounces over the year.
Interestingly, of the Platinum Noble in 1977, a number of in the first half of the year, and overall investors increased their holdings in platinum coins were minted and popularity investment demand for platinum in Japan palladium this year.
Investment demand net of was 241,000 ounces in 2008. sparked by supply concerns following disinvestment reached 415,000 ounces in the electricity crisis in South Africa, 1988, an all-time record.
but contrary to what happended with ETFs platinum, investors retained and increased In Europe and North America, legal tender Exchange-traded funds ETFs have existed their holdings.
Holders of palladium ETFs in coins such as the US Eagle, Maple Leaf, for various commodities, such as gold, for a Europe tend to be large pension schemes Koala and Noble are popular as a means of while.
An ETF allows an investor to possess with long-term investment strategies.
In Japan, investors a commodity without having the risk of may well explain the resilience of the Swiss have a choice of small and large bars.
taking physical delivery of it.
As the ETF is palladium ETFs in the volatile price Whereas investors in North America tend backed by physical metal, activity in these environment.
At 368,000 ounces, the net to purchase for investment in a rising price funds can affect liquidity in markets.
Two increase in palladium in the combined environment, in the belief that the markets platinum and palladium ETFs were holdings over the year accounted for 5% of have further upside potential, the Japanese launched in 2007, ETF Securities and Zurich total palladium demand.
investors tend to buy in a declining price Kantonalbank.
In Japan, low platinum prices sluggish response, demand increased in ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 30 ELECTRONICS Demand for hard disks continued to increase strongly in computer and other mobile applications.
Demand for platinum, however, declined in this sector in 2008 owing to the successful thrifting of platinum in hard disk drives.
Manufacturers have managed to reduce the platinum content of the alloy applied to the disk, and also to reduce the thickness of the layer, resulting in a fall in demand for platinum.
Demand from this sector will also be constrained by the use of flash memory in many smaller mobile applications.
Palladium pastes in multi-layer ceramic capacitors MLCCs remain the single largest user of palladium in the electronics sector, despite the move to base metal processes.
Nickel-based MLCC production presently accounts for around 75% of the market.
The growth in this substitution has, however, slowed.
The manufacturers have managed to reduce the amount of palladium used per unit, lowering costs.
Furthermore, the investment in palladium-based production lines is fully depreciated.
Owing to palladiums physical properties, palladium-based MLCCs are still preferred for use in more exacting environments, such as aerospace and engine management systems in vehicles.
Despite developments that have enabled a reduction of palladium in palladium silver pastes used in MLCCs, and in miniaturisation, rising production volumes of MLCCs have underpinned an increase in demand for palladium.
Strong demand for hybrid integrated circuits HICs from the automotive sector is also contributing to demand for palladium.
As in MLCC applications, a palladium HIC performs better in the harsh environment found in vehicle engines.
Demand from this sector made up for weaker demand from the telecommunications sector, which uses predominantly silver pastes containing little or no palladium.
The high price differential between palladium and gold has resulted in a shift away from gold plating in connector applications.
In addition, owing to its density, 30% less palladium than gold can be used.
Significant growth is expected from this application.
GLASS Strong demand for liquid crystal display LCD glass continues to underpin demand for platinum and rhodium in the glass sector.
All new desktop and laptop computers are fitted with LCD screens, while the production of panels produced for television sets is growing rapidly.
It is predicted that global LCD TV shipments will amount to 93 million units in 2008 and 113 million units in 2009.
Capacity expansions, particularly in China, have driven the growth for platinum and rhodium, and this growth is expected to continue in 2009.
Thereafter, demand will be limited to top-up replacement metal.
Manufacturers in North America have managed to reduce the amount of rhodium in platinum rhodium alloys used in bushings in the fibreglass industry.
This is resulting in the return of rhodium to the market, and as a result net demand from this region is negative.
Overall rhodium demand in the glass sector grew by 13% in 2008, to 70,000 ounces.
PETROLEUM REFINING Platinum catalysts are used in the reforming and isomerisation steps in the refining process.
Losses in process are small, and so demand increases only when new capacity expansions are undertaken.
Purchases of platinum by the petroleum sector increased by 22% in 2008, to 260,000 ounces.
Demand has been boosted by new gasoline production capacity in North America.
North America has been in ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 31 M A R K E T R E V I E W a gasoline deficit for some time, necessitating investment in refining capacity.
Investments in production capacity in the Asia Pacific region are also supporting demand for platinum.
Platinum catalysts are also used in the production of biofuels.
With the global focus on secure, renewable sources of energy, growth in this sector is forecast as significant.
DENTAL ALLOYS Platinum and palladium are used in dental alloys to provide strength and durability in dental restorations.
The recent high prices of the metals have resulted in the acceleration of the move to use lower-cost ceramic and other materials such as resins.
This is particularly prevalent in Europe, where patients contribution to treatment costs has increased, and where palladium demand declined by 15% to 65,000 ounces in 2008.
In Japan, where the amount of palladium contained in dental alloys is mandated by government, demand for palladium remained unchanged at 275,000 ounces.
In North America, non-precious metal systems such as ceramics are gaining popularity, while the use of gold alloys is falling.
In the American dental industry high-gold alloys are usually alloyed with small amounts of platinum, while low-gold alloys are principally 50% to 80% palladium.
The high price of gold and, more importantly, the price differential between gold and palladium, has encouraged a move to low-gold alloys, which has benefited palladium off-take in this sector.
Other industrial applications for OTHER APPLICATIONS Platinum 515 000 ounces Non-catalyst automotive Platinum is used in other automotive applications besides autocatalysis.
The use of platinum in oxygen sensors and sparkplugs also contributes to the reduction in emissions.
Oxygen sensors are essential in controlling the ratio of air to fuel in gasoline engines.
An air fuel ratio of 15:1 is imperative for the optimum operation of emission control systems.
Traditional base-metal-tipped spark plugs erode, leading to engine misfires that damage the catalytic converter.
The addition of platinum in spark plugs prevents this from happening.
Platinum-based anti-cancer drugs have been used since the 1970s.
The established drugs cisplatin, Oxygen sensors 15% carboplatin and oxaliplatin are all available in generic versions.
Spark plugs 12% Anti-cancer drugs 5% Catheters and pacemakers 18% Dental 20% Stationary pollution control 3% Small engines 2% Non-road engines 1% Turbine blades 16% Other 8% ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 32 OSMIUM FOUND TO COMBINE WELL WITH PLATINUM IN ANTI-CANCER THERAPIES CISPLATIN MOLECULES Researchers have discovered that a precious metal that has never before been used in a medical context could be a valuable anti-cancer agent.
The team of scientists from the University of Warwick found that osmium which is closely related to platinum could be used to treat the disease in the form of the drug, cisplatin.
As a result, the researchers have joined forces with Warwick Ventures, the universitys technology transfer office, as they attempt to find partners to conduct further biological tests on the metal.
Professor Peter Sadler, from the universitys Chemistry Department, has been aided by post-graduate researcher Sabine van Rijt in the quest to pinpoint potential compounds using osmium.
Ms van Rijt explained that the tests have focused on how compounds interact with DNA in cancer cells and said they believe that the metal could be combined particularly effectively with platinum.
She added: Another advantage is that these compounds are not cross-resistant with platinum.
They kill the cancerous cells in a different way, so they could be used alongside platinum in combination therapies.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 33 ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 34
