O P E R AT I O N S R E V I E W Process Anglo Platinums processing operations consist media consumption, and the roll-out of IsaMills A balanced portfolio of projects has been of concentrator plants, smelters and refineries.
As a result, recoveries on developed.
These projects are part of assetThe concentrator plants treat ore from the managed operations were maintained despite optimisation programmes with a time frame of mining operations to produce platinum group the increase in UG2 and Platreef ores, which five years, aimed at improving process safety metal PGM and base metals in metallics have lower recovery potential.
Smelter and cost efficiency in the short-term.
These products are further productivity has been improved by removing of blue-sky projects of a long-term nature processed at the three smelters Mortimer, fluxing from smelting operations.
ranging from 5 to 20 years aims to address Polokwane and Waterval and the two longer-term strategic objectives.
refineries Rustenburg Base Metals Refiners Inflationary pressures on key commodity RBMR and Precious Metals Refinery PMR to input costs, combined with lower throughput, An advanced process-control strategy supports produce saleable metals.
negatively affected cost performances for the the pursuit of operational excellence.
This resulted in an increase of 29% in cash line operational performance monitoring Continual business improvements during 2008 processing costs per equivalent refined centre established in 2007 was expanded in resulted in the restructuring of the refineries.
platinum ounce during the year.
2008 to cover all process operations in Anglo The management of RBMR and PMR was split in Platinum.
order to encourage an individual focus in respect of the two businesses.
Concentrators RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Anglo Platinums R&D requirements are and smelters remained separately managed by Anglo Platinums research and development serviced by Anglo Research and by selected their respective general managers.
R&D strategy is to carry out long-term, leading external research partners.
The benefits of this The key operating agenda for the process approach are being realised through the operations during 2008 was asset-optimisation, implementation and piloting of new which consistently proved to yield significant technologies and in the contributions made to results for the Group.
These included the asset-optimisation initiatives.
improved efficiency on reagent and grinding Mogalakwena North concentrator.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 72 CONCENTRATORS CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Capital expenditure totalled R2.3 billion, of which stay-in-business capex accounted for R562 million.
The balance of R1.7 billion was spent on project capital.
PROJECTS Project capital was spent on the completion of the Mogalakwena North plant R468 million and Waterval Retrofit plant R90 million : the upgrade of Amandelbult UG2 No 2 plant, from a design capacity of 75,000 tonnes to a capacity of 210,000 tonnes per month R496 milion and the installation of IsaMills Willem McCarthy, Derrick Madiba Richard Pilkington, head of concentrators, Brian Hayward, R639 million.
and Fanie Kruger, Anglo Platinum operates 20 individual and concentrator recovery, which decreased by The upgrading of the Amandelbult concentrator concentrators in nine geographical locations 2% to 78%.
The installation of IsaMills technology is progressing well, with commissioning around the Bushveld Complex.
These units played a key role in mitigating the group expected in the first half of 2009. are managed by the general manager: concentrator recovery reductions resulting from concentrators, who is a member of the process the lower built-up head grade.
operations committee chaired by the executive OUTLOOK head: process.
Tonnes milled increased by 3% year on year, to Concentrator operations will continue to focus 42.6 million tonnes, largely as a result of the on operational excellence through the The 620,000 tonnes per month Waterval retrofit commissioning of the Mogalakwena North deployment of advanced control strategies and plant and the 600,000 per month Mogalakwena concentrator, which milled 3.6 million tonnes of asset-optimisation projects.
Commissioning of North plant were commissioned in 2007 and Platreef ore during the year.
Concentrators the Amandelbult UG2 expansion and the 2008 respectively.
As a result, the old inefficient operated efficiently to match ore production rollout of the IsaMills, including MIG projects, Klipfontein plant was decommissioned and from the mines.
Platinum metallics and will further improve performance.
concentrate decreased by 3% to 2.5 million ounces, owing mainly to lower grades mined.
Operating cost increases are expected to be moderate during 2009, owing to the expected PRODUCTION decrease in the prices of key input commodities Ore mix mined was characterised by a 71% COSTS and consumables, and to improve operating increase in Platreef ore treated at the Cash concentrating costs were severely efficiencies.
Mogalakwena North plant and a 6% increase affected by  price increases in UG2 ore relative to Merensky across the Group.
in key input commodities at concentrator These two ore types have lower recovery operations.
These related mostly to grinding potential compared with Merensky Reef ore.
This media 52%, chemicals 22% and power 35%.
had a negative impact on both the 4E built-up As a result, the unit cost per tonne milled head grade, which decreased by 7% to 3.36 g t, increased by 34% despite increased throughput.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 73 O P E R AT I O N S R E V I E W Process SMELTERS conducted to identify and correct the flaws that had caused the failure.
The furnace will shut down in 2009 to incorporate the design improvements.
The ACP and acid plants were shut down for major repairs and maintenance work in July, to enable the changeover from the phase B to the phase A converter.
Operational stability at the ACP and the availability of the acid plant ensured that sulphur dioxide emissions from the Waterval Smelter complex remained well below the permitted 20 tonnes per day.
Environmental compliance was also achieved at the Polokwane and Mortimer smelters.
Martin Malesa, Mark Zaborowski, Bayanda Mncwango, Bertus fide Villiers, head: smelting operations and Duan Anderson.
Anglo Platinum operates three smelting cleaning furnace in May and June.
In all cases, PRODUCTION complexes, namely the Mortimer, Waterval and the furnaces were repaired and brought back to Concentrate smelted for the year decreased by Polokwane smelters.
Following the November run-out 4% to 1.0 million tonnes, mainly as a result of two from the concentrators operated by Anglo through the matte end wall at Polokwane, furnace sidewall failures at Polokwane Smelter, Platinum, joint-venture partners and third minimal contingent damage was experienced the planned shutdown of the Mortimer Smelter parties is smelted at the smelters, resulting in as a result of the mitigatory steps taken following furnace for a rebuild, and the repair of the side the production of furnace matte.
The furnace the February failure.
This ensured that the and end walls of Furnace No 2 at Waterval.
This matte is then treated using the Anglo Platinum furnace was operational in the shortest time resulted in an increase in pipeline stocks of Converting Process ACP, which takes place at possible.
127,700 platinum ounces at the smelters, which the Waterval Smelter complex in Rustenburg.
is expected to be released in 2009.
The converter matte tapped from the converter The Mortimer Smelter had a planned full-furnace is slow-cooled, crushed and dispatched to the rebuild in the first half of the year and was Platinum ounces in converter matte produced base metal refinery for further processing.
The increased by 4% to 2.3 million ounces owing rebuild included design modifications to the to increased concentrate grades at the During the first half of the year, Eskom imposed a furnace hearth and the mechanical structure concentrators, combined with lower metallics 10% reduction in our usage of electricity.
As a to enable an upgrade to double the current dispatched to PMR.
result, Anglo Platinum mining and concentrating capacity.
This will permit operational flexibility operations were constrained and could not within the smelting operations, with some operate at maximum levels.
This was achieved by catch-up capacity.
COSTS selectively reducing power to other major loads, Smelter cash operating costs increased by 24% the most significant of which are smelters.
This The side and end walls of Waterval Smelters to R1.6 billion compared with 2007, owing to increased the thermal cycling of the smelters Furnace No 2 were replaced during a scheduled increased repairs and maintenance, and to and is believed to be a contributing factor in the rebuild in the third quarter, and the furnace was  increases on production increased frequency of smelter run-out failures.
These costs increases cleaning furnace at Waterval Smelter was shut together with the lower volumes smelted, Four such failures occurred during the year, two down in June for a lower sidewall replacement increased the unit cash cost per tonne smelted at the Polokwane Smelter in February and after an operating failure had occurred in the by 29% to R1,558.
November, and two at the Waterval slag same month.
A full design review was ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 74 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE During the first quarter of 2008, the Board The frequency of maintenance inspections of A total of R881 million was spent on capital for approved the construction of a second the Polokwane Smelter furnace will be the year.
Of this amount, R178 million was spent slag-cleaning furnace in line with anticipated increased to reduce the risk of unplanned on project capital that included early work on increased production.
A planned rebuild of the slag-cleaning the Slag-cleaning Furnace No 2 at Waterval economic decline necessitated the slowdown of furnace at Waterval Smelter, incorporating Smelter R167 million.
Stay-in-business capital project execution, with a concomitant deferment improved design changes, is expected to be of R703 million was spent mainly on the of capital expenditure from 2009 to 2010 11.
The completed in the first half of 2009.
The end upgrade and modification of the Mortimer planned first tap date has moved from the first walls of Furnace No 1 at Waterval Smelter are Smelter furnace R215 million, the Waterval quarter of 2010 to the second quarter of 2011. also expected to be replaced in the second half Furnace No 2 side wall rebuild R86 million, the of the year.
A complete design review of the Waterval converter matte crushing plant furnace crucible design for both primary R88 million, repairs to the Polokwane Smelter OUTLOOK furnaces at Waterval Smelter will be conducted furnace R83 million, information technology The smelting operations are expected to to facilitate anticipated increased slag infrastructure R71 million, critical stock of reduce smelter pipeline stocks and fully treat temperature operation as a result of the change refractory material R17 million at Polokwane the planned production receipts in 2009. in ore blend, in preparation for the next major and stores relocation at Waterval R15 million.
Combined with the expected decrease in rebuild cycle.
commodity and consumables input prices, this will result in a decrease in unit cost of PROJECTS production.
The asset-optimisation process within the smelting operations is also expected Slag-cleaning Furnace No 2 to deliver cost savings and improve operating Anglo Platinum smelters utilise one slagefficiencies.
cleaning furnace to treat slag from the ACP.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 75 O P E R AT I O N S R E V I E W Process REFINERIES MCP and for the BMR expansion, from 21,500 to 33,000 nickel tonnes per annum.
PROJECTS MCP expansion project In the second quarter of 2008, the Board approved R698 million for expansion of the MCP.
The expansion will increase milling and magnetic separation capacity, from 64,000 to 95,000 tonnes per annum.
The MCPs capacity will then be limited by the 75,000 tonnes per annum leach section, on which further studies have begun in order to find ways of removing bottlenecks.
Lungelo Nyandeni, Keith Hines, Mark Gilmore, head: RBMR and Fred Williams Construction of the project started in the Rustenburg Base Metals Refiners RBMR processes Production of refined base metals decreased by second half of 2008 and is only expected to be converter matte from Waterval Smelter to 20% to 23,300 tonnes, to facilitate the tie-in of completed by the fourth quarter of 2009 owing produce a precious metals concentrate and the expanded base metal plant and lower to the slow-down of Anglo Platinums capital base metals refined products.
However, as a result of the capital expenditure as a result of the global economic metals concentrate is further refined at the reduction, the project has been deferred, and downturn.
excess base metals are being considered for toll-refining.
BMR expansion project Rustenburg Base Metals The BMR expansion project began in the Refiners COSTS second half of 2007 following Board approval.
The RBMR consists of two metallurgical plants: Cash operating costs increased by 3% on 2007, It is 50% complete, with certain areas handed the magnetic concentration plant MCP and to R521 million.
Cash cost per tonne of base over to operations, including autoclaves No 1 the base metals refinery BMR.
metal produced increased by 29% to R24,571 and No 2, and the copper removal thickener.
primarily as a result of lower throughput and The crystalliser facility is expected to be fully higher reagent costs.
Cash costs per platinum commissioned in the first half of 2009.
PRODUCTION ounce produced decreased from R248 to R247 The MCP performed acceptably with respect to as a result of higher output.
management of stock, considering a reduction OUTLOOK in receipts associated with a decrease in mining The initiatives to improve operating efficiencies production and lock-up of ounces in front of CAPITAL EXPENDITURE in terms of safety, costs and recoveries will the smelter.
Platinum ounces in final Capital expenditure was R1.4 billion, of which continue into 2009. concentrate produced increased by 5% to R123 million was for stay-in-business 2.3 million ounces, owing to improved pipeline expenditure and R1.3 billion for projects.
The Owing to the current global economic crisis, management and the receipt of higher-grade former included information technology certain areas of the BMR expansion will be converter matte.
infrastructure and equipment rehabilitation of delayed.
Base metals in excess of the BMRs the sodium sulphate removal circuit in the BMR.
current capacity will continue to be stockpiled Project capital was for the expansion of the and toll-refined.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 76 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Capital expenditure totalled R227 million for the year, of which R130 million was for projects and R97 million for stay-in-business expenditure.
A review of capacity requirements in line with Anglo Platinums growth plan has been formulated and is currently under way.
PROJECTS PMR expansion project The PMR capacity-increase study and initial project work to increase production from 3.5 to 5 million platinum ounces has been started, but Emma-Rentia Engelbrecht, Deryck Spann, head: PMR, Eric Moepeng and Fortune Mashimbye.
will be slowed down in line with deferred mining expansion projects.
Precious Metals Refiners COSTS PMR Cash operating costs increased by 7% over The PMR receives final concentrate from the 2007, to R406 million.
Cash cost per refined OUTLOOK BMR, and metallic concentrate directly from platinum ounce, however, increased by 12%, Group platinum refined production is expected some joint ventures and concentrators in the mostly because of a high fixed-cost base with to be 2.4 million ounces in 2009.
The concentrate is refined into the reduced throughput in 2008. expected to refine receipts of all final respective platinum group metals and gold to concentrate and metallics while maintaining high degrees of purity, and is customised to low levels of pipeline stocks.
PRODUCTION Overall platinum recoveries were maintained at levels slightly above 98%, in line with the prior year.
Focus was placed on improving recoveries of rhodium, ruthenium and osmium.
Platinum pipeline stocks increased by 50% to 91,600 platinum ounces compared with the previous year, primarily as the result of late receipts of final concentrate in December.
Group refined production for 2008 decreased by 4% to 2.39 million platinum ounces.
This was the result of unplanned smelter outages.
