O P E R AT I O N S R E V I E W Human resources A stable, skilled and motivated employee base CAREER AND EMPLOYEE University of Cape Town was introduced during is critical for the Group to achieve its goals.
During 2008, 76 middle managers 2008, the Group recorded a turnover of 0.5% for The focus of our skills-development initiatives is attended this programme.
unskilled employees: 0.49% for semi-skilled to build human capital, ensure the transferability employees: 1.1% for skilled employees and of skills and contribute to Anglo Platinums 1.7% for employees in management roles.
PERFORMANCE Positions regarded as critical and scarce were, MANAGEMENT however, in great demand.
The turnover in Anglo Platinum continues to believe that the Anglo Platinum is committed to effective 2008 was 18% and 11% for the mining and provision of Adult Basic Education and Training employee-performance management, through engineering disciplines respectively.
ABET has a positive impact on our employees regular formal and informal feedback and ability to communicate effectively and hence review and through open communication.
In addition, it allows our employees Our aim is to ensure that every employee has a TALENT MANAGEMENT to develop their skills and realise their full face-to-face meeting with a direct line manager The growing shortage of critical skills in the potential.
Employees, contractors and annually, during which performance targets are mining industry in South Africa has highlighted community members were offered ongoing agreed and performance and development the importance of talent management and ABET opportunities in 2008.
Enrolments have needs are reviewed.
Feedback and discussions people development.
The talent identification increased significantly, with December 2008 on performance assist employees to work and retention process in the Group aims to figures reaching 6,589 enrolments an increase more effectively by building on strengths and identify, develop and retain high-potential of 91% compared with 2007. identifying ways to address any performance and high-performing individuals.
These conversations influences other human resource-related ensure that employees understand what is decisions such as recruitment, succession LEADERSHIP SUPPLY expected of them, and are aware of the ways in planning, rotation plans, career-development In 2008, Anglo Platinum invested in world-class which their individual contributions support panels and various retention initiatives.
leadership development programmes and in the business strategy.
executive potential assessment programmes at The war for talent and the scarcity of skills has different career stages.
Selected employees introduced a highly fluctuating labour market received international exposure and also TRANSFORMATION and has made it necessary for Anglo Platinum opportunities to network with employees from Anglo Platinums efforts in this area are founded to consider specific measures in order to be other business units.
on the principle that a diverse workforce able to retain skills.
brings value to an organisation.
The Company Fifty-three managers attended the Junior endeavours to create an inclusive culture in Retention interviews were undertaken to Management Programme and 63 potential which all employees feel appreciated for their determine the risks associated with incumbents senior managers graduated from the Programme uniqueness and contribution.
By focusing on in critical positions and those with critical skills.
for Management Excellence, thereby increasing building an inclusive culture, Anglo Platinum Findings from this survey have served as a guide the leadership supply from within the Group.
To benefits from the many advantages of a richly in introducing a number of skills-retention enhance performance at supervisory levels, diverse workforce.
initiatives and in providing for enhanced various development programmes were initiated, leadership development and succession.
To with over 3,500 supervisors attending them.
The Groups employment equity status shows date, 86% of those employees on retention satisfactory progress towards achieving the contracts have remained in the employ of Anglo At middle management level, the senior equitable representation of designated groups Platinum.
management programme hosted by the across all occupational levels and categories of the ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 48 workforce.
As required by the Employment Equity recognition and collective bargaining rights Group has a labour-supply strategy in place, and Act and its amended regulations, Anglo Platinum thresholds.
The review will result in the reduction this is reviewed annually.
Aspects of Anglo submitted a consolidated employment equity of the number of recognised trade unions, from Platinums labour-supply strategy include fastreport for the 2008 reporting period ending seven to three.
The new employee relations tracking programmes: focused recruitment 31 May 2008 to the Department of Labour.
policy will come into effect on 1 February 2009. strategies: young professional intakes: accelerated development: and various disciplineAs at 31 May 2008, the Group had achieved 27% specific development programmes.
equitable representation at top management EMPLOYEE RELATIONS VALUE level, while at senior management, middle CHARTER management and supervisory levels, it had In support of the Groups values, unions and VALUES AND CULTURE achieved 29%, 46% and 64% equitable management developed the employee In 2008, an extensive diagnostic process, representation respectively.
Overall, equitable relations values charter, which was signed off in involving input from the bottom of the representation of 44% has been reached at Ocotber 2008.
Each operation will implement organisation upwards, was initiated to determine management level, against the mining charter the values charter with an objective to improve a new set of values for the organisation.
target of 40%, which comes into effect in 2009. relationships.
At the end of 2008, 10% of Anglo Platinums This process led to six new values and are as employees were women, meeting the mining follows: charters requirement of 10% by the year 2009.
DISPUTES However, the Group still experiences challenges There was a two-day unprotected strike by the We put safety first.
in attracting suitably qualified women into the National Union of Mineworkers of South Africa We deliver on our promises.
NUMSA in August 2008, arising from We value and care about each other.
disagreement over the payment of productionWe act with honesty and integrity.
Some 282 NUMSA We are one team.
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS members were involved in the strike action, We are passionate and take pride in In terms of the Groups employee relations resulting in a loss of 422 man-days.
policy, which was signed by all recognised members who participated in the unprotected unions and management, partnership structures strike received a warning.
These values have been rolled out across the were established at various levels.
The fully organisation to encourage a high-performing functional partnership structures are: and caring culture.
HUMAN RESOURCES the central partnership forum CPF : PLANNING the CPF steering committee: and Labour forecasts have been generated in order the operating unit partnership forum.
to support Anglo Platinums labour requirements associated with existing and future operations The table on page 135 of the Sustainable defined to 2015.
Plans are in place to ensure that Development Report shows the number of the projected labour demand, and related employees represented by the various majority training, housing and recruitment requirements, unions.
A model has also been implemented to manage the ratio of contract employees to The employee relations policy is under review, enrolled employees employed by the Group in with the critical issues being trade union core mining operations.
Every discipline in the ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 49
