O P E R AT I O N S R E V I E W S afet y PERFORMANCE The lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR courses are being developed to cater for staff at Regrettably, 17 employees were fatally injured decreased in 2008, from 2.03 to 1.74. the supervisory level.
in 2008 compared with 25 in 2007 as a result of mining-related incidents at our managed While the safety-incident rates and statistics are To complement the risk-management courses operations.
A further three miners lost their showing an encouraging trend, there remains already under way, Anglo Platinum has lives at our non-managed operations: two at significant scope for improvement in order to developed a course aimed specifically at middle Marikana and one at Kroondal.
The Board and achieve the ultimate goal of zero harm.
The management, which is based on the main management extend their condolences to the implementation of the enhanced  theme of planning for safe families and employees affected by these improvement plans developed in 2007 has led production.
The course is currently being piloted.
events and will continue to do everything to the identification of a number of areas possible to ensure zero harm.
requiring further focus, including incident During 2008, Anglo Platinum began the investigation and risk management.
These are implementation of some of the modules of its The causes of the fatalities were falls of ground being integrated into the overall safety Integrated Risk Management IRM.
net web- 5, falls from a height 3, transportation 2, management system.
net is the consolidation fires and explosions 2, moving machinery 2, of previous applications and is based on the riskmud rush 1, drowning 1 and electricity 1. management principles of international SAFETY STRATEGY specifications and standards such as OHSAS The Union and Twickenham mines, the Anglo Platinums safety strategy has three core 18001 and ISO 14001.
The application has the Polokwane, Mortimer and Waterval smelters, dimensions, namely: systems, behaviour and potential to provide the type of safety Rustenburg Base Metal Refiners and Precious engineering out-risk.
information that is required daily by managers Metals Refinery were fatality-free during 2008. and supervisors who have to operate proactively Lebowa Platinum Mine and Rustenburg Upper and respond strategically.
Further modules are Mine, comprising the Bleskop, Waterval and POLICY planned for implementation during 2009.
Brakspruit shafts, achieved two million fatalityAnglo Platinums safety, health and free shifts during the year: while Amandelbult environmental policy was amended in 2008 Mine, Bafokeng-Rasimone Platinum Mine and now embraces the overriding aim of Fatal-risk standards BRPM and Twickenham Mine all achieved achieving zero harm through the effective At the end of 2007, Anglo Platinum adopted a one million fatality-free shifts.
Zero harm means set of standards focused on mitigating the injury Mine successfully achieved a year without a lostcreating a work environment in which no one risks associated with the 10 most common time injury.
gets hurt, and is underpinned by the three categories of fatal incidents.
These were related principles of zero mindset, no repeats, and to light vehicles: surface mobile equipment: The performance of Union Mine and Mortimer simple, non-negotiable standards.
hazardous materials: molten materials: the Smelter has been exemplary.
The mine has safeguarding of equipment: working at heights: operated for more than 6.5 million shifts without lifting operations: isolation: underground a fatality, which equates to a period longer than Risk management scraping and transport equipment: and injuries two years, while the smelter has operated for Anglo Platinum is implementing a safety-risk related to underground ground control.
Lessons management programme that aims to ensure from these operations are being shared to consistent and robust practices on risk The fundamental principle imbedded in these ensure a Group-wide improvement in safety assessment, evaluation and management.
standards is a hierarchy of risk mitigation.
The achievement of Union Mine is Clearly it is crucial that line managers should the elimination of risk is not practicable, an industry record for underground hard-rock have a good understanding of risk and know engineering mitigation is sought, supported by mining in South Africa.
In addition, the mine how to manage it.
In 2008, and in partnership proper systems and trained staff.
achieved 10 million fall of ground fatality-free with local universities, Anglo Platinum trained shifts during 2008 and won an Anglo American all its executives and 96 of its line managers in Operations are presently at different levels of plc group safety award.
Further implementation with these 10 standards.
Full ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 46 80 ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS things, state-of-the-art winch signalling devices 70 Anglo Platinum is in the process of redesigning are being fitted to all centre gulley winches.
60 a number of critical pieces of mining equipment These devices enable any person along the 50 in order to design out, and thereby eliminate, length of the gulley to stop the winch 40 certain injury hazards.
Some of these redesigns themselves, by pulling the pull-wire on either 30 involve: side of the scraper gulley.
Air loaders are used to load ore and Rock passes.
Rock and ore passes are used to 10 waste rock underground, and have resulted in convey ore and waste rock in the mine.
0 injuries in the past as they are prone to roll.
The Mudrush fatalities have occurred in the past, Companys new standard is to instal two when water has entered the rock passes.
The telescopic arms fitted to the operators side of Company has taken a decision that no water the loaders.
Through leveraging off the side will be allowed to enter a rock or ore pass.
walls, these arms prevent the loader from rolling.
Wherever physically possible, water-conveying compliance to be achieved before the end of pipes over rock passes have been re-routed 2010.
Current compliance for the Group is 56%.
Locomotives are used away from the passes.
Where this was not Full compliance with the standards will reduce underground to transport ore and waste rock.
possible, high-pressure seamless pipes have the risk of injuries significantly.
There have been a number of incidents in which been installed.
locomotives have collided with one another Compliance in the workplace to the 10 standards owing to poor underground visibility.
As a result, Conveyor-belt fire safety.
Every underground is externally measured.
all locomotives are currently being fitted with conveyor belt is being fitted with automatic dual white red LED lights that automatically fire-detection and suppression systems.
Each shine white in the direction of travel, red at the pulley-bearing will have heat-detection probes BEHAVIOURAL SOLUTIONS rear and flashing red when standing.
Proximity and these will trip the belt in the event of The behaviour of individuals and teams is a key devices that warn the driver of other locomotives elevated temperature.
aspect in ensuring zero harm.
In 2008, a values in the vicinity have been installed on the and culture project team assessed the values Companys 846 locomotives.
All load-haul dump and behaviours that are needed in the Company canopies have been added to locomotives to and dump trucks are being fitted with vehicleto ensure the desired performance.
In some instances, this has and or people-detection systems, depending which included input from all levels in the required a complete redesign of the locomotives on the mining methods and mine layouts Company, culminated in the launch of a new battery compartment.
The vehicle-detection systems have a Company objective and set of values.
These buzzer fitted in the cap-lamp cable of have been rolled out at all operations, and a Guard cars.
The Company is busy installing employees, that warns them of a vehicle in their process is under way to align individual new-generation guard cars at the rear of every vicinity.
The people-detection systems warn behaviours with the new values.
The guard cars have been designed with the drivers of vehicles that there are people in aim is to create, at every level, highly motivated safety roll bars and interlocking doors that their vicinity.
and energised leadership teams who will live prevent the guards from jumping out of the the values, and instil the culture of zero harm guard car in the event of an impending collision.
All haul trucks at Mogalakwena and high performance in the organisations.
Mine have been fitted with cameras, radars and Winches.
Winches are used with a scraper driver-fatigue monitors.
The trucks also have Among other activities related to alignment with bucket system underground to scrape ore and bull bars in front, to prevent them from riding the new values, a new leadership academy waste rock to loading facilities.
Winch-andover other vehicles in the open pits.
established for supervisors will in 2009 begin scraper incidents have occurred because the to train supervisory staff in the desired winch operator cannot see what is happening organisational culture and behaviour.
in the full length of the gulley.
Among other ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 47 % progress Mines Concentrators Reneries Smelters Anglo Platinum
