B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S Fred Phaswana and Neville Nicolau Bongani Nqwababa Cynthia Carroll and Kuseni Dlamini chief executive of Anglo Platinum in June 2008.
He is a TSHAMANO MOHAU FREDERIK KUSENI DOUGLAS DLAMINI 40 director of subsidiaries of the Anglo Platinum Group.
FRED PHASWANA 64 Bachelor of Social Science Honours, MPhil BCom Honours Energy Economics Non-executive director BONGANI NQWABABA 42 Chairman Appointed a director in September 2008 Appointment subsequent to 31 December 2008 Non-executive director BAcc Honours University of Zimbabwe, CA Zimbabwe, Kuseni is head of Anglo American South Africa and a Joined Anglo American in 2002 and was appointed MBA University of Manchester and Wales member of the Executive Committee of Anglo American director and chairman of Anglo Platinum in 2006 plc.
From December 2005 to June 2008 he was the Executive director: Finance executive chairman of Richards Bay Coal Terminal Fred joined the Board of Anglo American South Africa in Appointed a director in January 2009 Company Limited.
Kuseni previously held a number of June 2002.
He is chairman of the Nomination Committee senior management positions at the operations in South From September 2004 to September 2008 Bongani served and a member of the Governance Committee.
He attends Africa and the London offices of fide Beers Consolidated as finance director of Eskom Holdings Limited.
Prior to the Audit Committee by invitation.
He is currently chairman Mines Limited, and at AngloGold Ashantis corporate office joining Eskom, he served as treasurer and chief financial of Transnet and a director of Naspers, and was previously in Johannesburg.
In March 2008, he was named a Young officer of Shell Southern Africa.
In January 2009 he was BP regional president: Africa: a director of BP Oil Benelux : Global Leader by the World Economic Forum.
In the same appointed chief financial officer of Anglo Platinum.
Bongani an associate president of BP Netherlands: and chairman month, Miningmx selected him as one of the 100 most is currently a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc and and chief executive of BP Southern Africa.
His other influential people in South African mining.
chairman of the South African Revenue Service Audit appointments include the South African Institute of Committee.
He trained as an accountant with International Affairs.
REN MDORI 51 Doctorate in Economics NEVILLE FRANCIS NICOLAU 49 CYNTHIA BLUM CARROLL 52 Non-executive director BTech Mining Engineering, MBA BSc Geology, MSc Geology, MBA Appointed a director in 2007 Chief executive Non-executive director Ren is the finance director of Anglo American plc, a Executive director Appointed a director in 2007 member of Anglo American plcs Executive Committee Appointed a director and chief executive in June 2008 and chairman of the investment committee of the Board.
Cynthia is chief executive of Anglo American plc.
Before Neville joined Anglo American Corporation in January He is a former finance director of BOC Group plc, and a joining Anglo American in January 2007 she was president 1979, working in the Gold and Uranium Division at different non-executive director of Scottish and Southern Energy and chief executive of Primary Metal Group, and an officer managerial levels in all the major operating areas in South plc.
Ren is also a director of fide Beers Socit Anonyme of Alcan Inc, located in Montreal, Canada.
In 2000 and 2001 he was the technical director of DBsa and DB Investments SA.
this position in January 2002 she was for three years the AngloGolds South American operations in Brazil.
He president of Bauxite, Alumina and Speciality Chemicals.
became the chief operating officer Africa of AngloGold She is also a director of fide Beers Socit Anonyme DBsa Ashanti in 2005 and finally the chief operating officer of and a non-executive director of BP plc.
Neville was appointed ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 8 Ren Mdori, Russell King, and Richard Dunne Bongani Khumalo, Valli Moosa, Sonja Sebotsa and Tom Wixley RUSSELL JOHN KING 51 BONGANI AUGUSTINE KHUMALO SONJA EMILIA NCUMISA SEBOTSA 56 37 BA Honours Politics DAdmin hc, MA, MBA, Diploma in Management, AEP MA Economic Policy Management, LLB Honours Non-executive director International Law Independent non-executive director Appointed a director in 2007 Independent non-executive director Appointed a director in 2003 Russell joined Anglo American plc in 2001 and is the Chief Appointed a director in January 2008 Strategy Officer.
He is a member of Anglo American plcs Bongani is the chairman and chief executive of Gidani Executive Commitee.
Russell previously had a variety Proprietary Limited, and the chairman of Grey Africa Sonja is a founder and principal partner of Identity of business and functional responsibilities with Imperial Advertising, MediaCompete, EDS South Africa and the Partners, an investment, financing and advisory firm.
She Chemical Industries plc ICI in the UK and Australia.
Graduate School of Business Leadership at the University was previously an executive director of WDB Investment of South Africa Unisa.
He is a patron of the South African Holdings Proprietary Limited.
She was vice president, Business Coalition on HIV AIDS and Professor Extraordinaire Investment Banking, Deutsche Securities Inc. from 1997 to RICHARD MAT THEW WINGFIELD at the Africa Centre for HIV AIDS Management, University 2002.
Sonja is a non-executive director of other companies DUNNE 60 of Stellenbosch.
He is a member of the Council of Unisa.
on the JSE, including Discovery Holdings Limited and CA SA Mr Price Group Limited, and is a member of the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals ABSIP.
Independent non-executive director MOHAMMED VALLI MOOSA 51 Appointed a director in 2006 BSc Mathematics and Physics THOMAS ALEXANDER WIXLEY 68 Richard was the chief operating officer of Deloitte & Independent non-executive director BCom, CA SA Touche in South Africa until he retired in 2006.
He serves Appointed a director in January 2008 on the board of Investec Bank Limited and on the boards Deputy chairman and audit committees of Tiger Brands Limited and AECI Valli is a non-executive director of Sanlam Limited, Imperial Independent non-executive director Limited.
Holdings Limited, Real Africa Holdings Limited and Sun International Limited.
He is chairman of Lereko Investment Appointed a director and non-executive deputy chairman Holdings Proprietary Limited.
Valli is a member of the in 2001 Auditor-Generals Advisory Committee and of the National Tom is the retired chairman of Ernst & Young in South Executive Committee of the African National Congress.
He served for many years on the Accounting He was a cabinet minister from 1994 to 2004.
He was Practices Board and other professional bodies, and is a also chairman of the United Nations Commission on non-executive director of Avusa Limited previously Sustainable Development during 2002 and 2003.
Johnnic Communications, Clover Industries Limited, New Corpcapital Limited, Sanlam Developing Markets Limited and Sasol.
Tom is the co-author, with Professor Geoff Everingham, of the book entitled Corporate Governance.
