30 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC continually seek new and better ways of doing business, so that we can achieve the Plan A ambitious targets we have set ourselves.
Plan A is our five-year eco plan to Climate change address some of the key social and Despite opening more than 100 new stores environmental challenges facing M&S.
in 2007 08, we cut our total CO emissions 2 We pledged to meet 100 separate Plan A from our stores, offices and warehouses commitments within five years, and so by nearly 50,000 tonnes.
We achieved this far we have made progress on 94 of the 9% decrease on last year by switching an 100 commitments.
additional 21% of our electricity to renewable By 2012 M&S will: sources.
We also improved our energy efficiency by 4%, and started sourcing become carbon neutral with minimal Green from top electricity from farm-based wind turbines offsetting: to bottom and an anaerobic digestion facility which send no waste to landfill from our operations: generates power from food waste.
We worked in collaboration extend sustainable sourcing: with two suppliers MAS set new standards in ethical trading: and Because around 60% of our carbon Holdings and Brandix to help customers and employees live a footprint is generated by our suppliers, launch two eco clothing healthier lifestyle.
factories, which will use and a further 30% by our customers, 40% less energy and half weve been looking closely at how we can Were committed to Plan A, because its as much water as typical encourage our suppliers to reduce their CO 2 supplier factories.
From July, the right thing to do.
For example, we encouraged the customers can buy lingerie business case.
Plan A not only gives us development of low carbon supplier factories made from these factories, distinction in a crowded marketplace, but under our Autograph and see story to right.
challenges us to increase efficiencies, and per una labels.
We hope to open a similar plant later this year in Wales.
Banish the bag The carrier bag initiative has been a big hit with our customers who want to do their bit to make a difference.
We cant wait to start working with Groundwork in Leeds so we can begin to see changes here in the local area.
One of our highest profile projects in 2007 08 was undoubtedly our decision to introduce a food carrier bag charge of 5p in all of our UK stores, with profits funding local environmental projects run by our partner Wash at 30 Groundwork UK.
As part of the Climate Initial trials in more than 50 M&S stores in Northern Groups Together Ireland and the South West, showed around a 70% campaign, were drop in plastic carrier bag usage, and raised over encouraging our customers 80,000 to create and improve green spaces in local to save energy by washing neighbourhoods.
If M&S customers continue their laundry at 30C.
By at this rate, well save over 250 million bags introducing Think Climate from landfill every year.
Wash at 30 labels in 70% of our clothes and on our washing powder, weve Kate Edwards, Plan A seen the number of washes Champion for Leeds store Kate joined M&S as customer assistant now done at 30C increase in 2003 at the Blackburn store before by 23% to 31% since moving to the Leeds store in 2004.
Thats a total As a Plan A Champion, on top of reduction of 25,000 tonnes her everyday job as store operations manager, its her role to motivate some in CO emissions.
Shes pictured with the M&S cotton shoppers.
Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 31 Fairtrade commodity crops such as sugar Fancy a cuppa?
Additionally we are extending our Already, 100% of the tea and Fairtrade ranges of jams.
coffee we sell is Fairtrade: and were pleased to have The Fairtrade premium improves the standard recently launched a new of living in the local communities funding the range of single origin building of schools, healthcare clinics and Fairtrade coffees from transport links.
Rwanda, as part of Fairtrade Fortnight.
Health One of our most significant achievements Waste for the year is our commitment that all food Right across our business, weve been produced after 1 April 2008 is now entirely finding new ways to ensure that by 2012 free of artificial flavours and colouring.
we send zero waste to landfill from our Originally, we planned to only do this with own operations.
Weve seen a 6% reduction our childrens food, but having completed in the amount of waste sent to landfill, as this work by September 2007, we decided a result of improving the recycling of our to extend it to all foods.
Page 19 details our construction waste see page 24, and greatly increased range of Eat Well healthier collecting 122 million clothing hangers to options, as well as our excellent progress in reuse and recycle over double the amount salt reduction.
Award-winning In January 2008, we launched the M&S work and Oxfam Clothes Exchange calling on We were awarded the customers to dig deep into their wardrobes 1 World Environment to help fight poverty.
Customers taking M&S Centers WEC 24th items to an Oxfam store will help reduce the Annual Gold Medal for 1 million tonnes of clothing going to landfill International Corporate each year, and in doing so will receive a Achievement in 5 7 M&S discount voucher to spend Sustainable Development, for on purchases of 35 50 or more.
linking sustainability with our supply chain, One of the biggest challenges we face is to operations and reduce our packaging, but without making Plan A: next steps customers.
our products susceptible to damage, or in Weve achieved a great deal, and learned the case of food, reducing their freshness.
In We were named joint even more during our first full year as a Plan A 2 2007 08 we reduced the weight of packaging leaders in the Marine business.
But we know that theres a lot to do Conservation Societys around each Easter egg by nearly 20%.
At if we are to achieve our five-year targets.
supermarket league the same time, weve increased the amount of table on responsible our food packaging that is recyclable to 70%.
Plan A isnt perfect, and we revisited fish sourcing.
our ethical trading commitments to make Sustainable raw materials them stronger.
We will continue to review We won the RSPCA During the year we converted all our 3 Good Business award our progress and where we need to, change toilet rolls, kitchen rolls and tissues to for animal welfare in our commitments to meet emerging issues.
fashion for the third either Forestry Stewardship Council FSC consecutive year.
We also used In 2008 09 we will develop better, more FSC materials for more than 50% of our robust systems for gathering the data we We were named range of Christmas greeting cards over need to evaluate and improve our Plan A 4 Compassionate 30 million in total as well as our publications performance.
Well also be working harder Supermarket of the for customers, including the Your M&S Year for 2007 not than ever to develop partnerships that just because all of our magazine.
In total 62% of current wood communicate our messages or help us eggs are free range, materials used in M&S products are: FSC to find innovative solutions.
but because we only certified, certified by another independent sell UK reared veal organisation, or recycled excluding fabrics.
which meets high animal welfare Fair partner standards.
We use around one third of the worlds For more detailed information, please visit our Plan A website at marksandspencer.
We are working with local or download our 2007 08 How we do business communities and organisations around the report at marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 world, such as the Fairtrade Foundation, to increase the availability of this and other
