22 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Supporting our growth Service, IT Supporting our people behind the scenes, our supply chain and IT systems play a crucial part in ensuring our stores perform and logistics efficiently, and provide maximum customer satisfaction.
Good service continues to be a priority Teardrop trailers at M&S.
In addition to training and For our supply chain, the challenge in We became the first developing our in-store staff so that they company in the world 2007 08 was to handle significantly increased consistently perform well, were also to adopt a revolutionary volumes, while remaining cost-effective.
investing behind the scenes to improve new trailer developed by Despite the growth of M&S Direct, increasing Don-Bur whose teardrop our logistics and IT infrastructure.
This sales volumes and more direct buying from shape will reduce our investment will allow us to efficiently run our suppliers, our supply chain coped well carbon footprint.
our supply chain and IT systems so that under these pressures, delivering 13% more With 141 trailers now stock is managed tightly and transactions stock to our stores, and responding to a on the road, our teams are processed effectively.
63% rise in volume from M&S Direct.
have achieved a 10% improvement in fuelMystery shopping A more efficient future efficiency and a 20% Each of our stores is anonymously visited reduction in CO emissions The majority of our supply chains 2 once a month twice in the case of our per garment moved.
At the physical infrastructure the warehouses larger flagship stores by a mystery shopper same time, the teardrop and distribution centres has remained trailers also deliver up to who evaluates service quality.
In 2007 08 that unchanged since the 1970s.
The next 10% more load than a was the equivalent of some 6,240 visits to major requirement is to develop a world conventional trailer.
Were pleased with the outcome, class infrastructure that will support us as our teams achieved a new record average not just in the UK but around the world.
Having formed a strategic partnership with The mystery shopping programme was logistics property organisation ProLogis, developed in partnership with a customer weve been working together to build a new panel to help us identify where we need to 86% warehouse in Bradford see picture below.
support our stores with additional training.
This will play an important role in increasing As a result the questions and scoring system the speed and efficiency of our supply chain, The average accurately reflect our customers priorities, and further reducing costs.
such as the standard of our fitting rooms.
score in our mystery shopping programme New Bradford warehouse computer generated image.
Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 23 Cotton fields Sold Factories We use around one third of the worlds The cotton is Fairtrade cotton.
Our Fairtrade cotton spun into yarn, commitment directly affects the welfare dyed and sewn of over 100,000 small-scale farmers, and into t-shirts to the helps improve the standard of living in highest ethical local communities.
The t-shirts become part of the 4.8 million Fairtrade cotton garments sold by M&S annually.
From hand to hanger the ethical supply chain Warehouses In-store Delivery The t-shirts arrive in our UK warehouses, and the The t-shirts arrive in our stores order what they need.
stores, are offloaded, and The t-shirts are prepped are put on display on the so they are ready for sale, sales-floor.
and are loaded onto lorries so they can be transported to our stores.
The plan has helped us to develop faster From source to store and more efficient IT systems throughout our As we expand our business internationally, business.
For instance, we are introducing were planning to take more control of our new point of sale systems, including more logistics from source to store, allowing us than 2,000 new tills and 258 new handheld to monitor our stock more efficiently and terminals in-store to make stockchecking improve margins.
This will help us We plan to develop a modern and streamlined further improve service in our stores.
We logistics network that consists of new overseas extended the trial of our food self-service warehouses, as well as offshore stockholding tills across the business, as well as a first and consolidation facilities.
Remodelling our supply chain infrastructure We also made vital behind the scenes is a major investment that will help us stay Giving goes improvements with the introduction of new one step ahead of demand in our market for financial and back-office systems.
Both of electronic at M&S the fresh and new.
Fast fashion, for example, these changes are behind an overall increase During the year, we is about to get faster still.
in operational efficiency, with 97% of our introduced the electronic tills fully operational, up from 90% two M&S Gift Card.
Smaller Getting our IT in and more convenient for years previously.
shape for growth our customers, as well as At the same time as renewing our physical At the same time as achieving these important being quicker and easier to process Gift Cards have network, we have also made progress in IT.
improvements, we also succeeded in reducing been an important success, We now have an integrated company-wide like-for-like IT running costs by 13.5%.
with over 80% transition IT plan: a three-year roadmap that sets out from paper to plastic.
how our systems will deliver on every aspect of our business plan, both within the UK and internationally.
This means, for example, that our IT strategy for China where we are only just establishing a foothold is already in place.
