16 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Home We achieved growth in every area of home our best performing business unit.
In the face of growing pricing pressures, we continued to raise our quality standards, whilst significantly widening choice and lowering prices.
Sales for the year were up by 7.9%.
In addition, in August 2007, we launched our first standalone home store in Lisburn, Northern Ireland, which performed ahead of expectations.
Well be opening two more in 2008 09.
Down with prices, up with quality Weve successfully met the challenge of price deflation, maintaining our home prices at 12% below the high street average.
Far from compromising on quality, we regularly upgrade our core ranges without increasing our prices.
For example, in 2007 08 we upgraded our good 100% cotton non-iron range in bedding, to 100% Supima cotton non-iron our mid-priced sheet, while keeping the price the same.
At the upper end of the price spectrum, we have grown our Autograph branded homeware range, offering the very best of M&S quality in everything from bedding and bathrooms to furniture and home accessories.
Stretching the brand, extending choice Jargon-busting During the year we successfully trialled with M&S an extended range of electrical goods in 20 stores and online, selling market-leading Customers who dont know a megabyte from a megapixel brands such as Sony and Apple.
Well be can relax: weve rewritten the extending this range to 50 stores in 2008 09. technology manufacturers A range of white goods, including fridges, instructions.
cookers and washing machines, were When technology introduced in Lisburn and online in 2007 08 instructions start to get too and we will continue to expand this offer to technical, we translate them new standalone home stores, as well as online.
into everyday language, so that theyre not only more Almost a quarter of M&S customers shop user-friendly, but help our from our home range, and we want to attract customers get the most At home with Plan A out of their product.
To do this, we will continue to widen Sleep easy on our new bedding that combines choice within existing home areas, and move both organic and Fairtrade cotton.
into new categories such as gardening tools.
We will also be redeveloping our beauty Were the only major retailer to ensure every business, while continuing to grow our light fitting we sell will accommodate energysaving light bulbs.
online service see page 26 for more details.
Branching out we offset CO emissions 2 from our deliveries by planting 10,000 trees every year.
