28 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC One of the most exciting examples of this new plan can be seen in India, where in April International 2008 we announced our intention to open In 2007 08 we announced plans to grow our up to 50 new stores in the next five years International business to between 15% and with Reliance Retail.
20% of total Group revenues within the next five years.
Were pleased to report strong progress towards this goal.
Not only have we expanded our franchise operation, but we have also entered into partnerships in some of the worlds most dynamic emerging economies.
A growing contribution At the end of 2007 08 we also completed Investing in Ireland In 2007 08 our International business two deals in Europe with existing franchise In 2007 08 we opened four contributed over 7.9% of total Group partners.
The first in February 2008 was new stores in the Republic turnover.
At 712.9m, sales were up with the Marinopoulos Group, the leading of Ireland bringing the 16.8% on last year, and operating profit portfolio up to 17 stores in private company in Greece.
Marinopoulos has was up 33% to 116.4m.
The pipeline of future been our franchise partner for 30 years and developments is strong, and currently operates 38 M&S stores in Greece During the year, we increased our overseas we expect to add between and the Balkan states, including Romania and stores by 38 bringing the total to 278, 30% and 40% to our footage Bulgaria, as well as Switzerland.
The 50m in the next few years.
and increased our space by over 18% to deal to acquire a 50% share of the business almost 266,400 sq m. In 2007 08 we entered will see an additional 50 new stores opened in Lithuania, Serbia, Taiwan and Ukraine, taking these markets over the next few years.
our global reach to 39 territories.
The second deal was signed in March A flexible business model 2008 with another existing franchise partner Our expansion to date has been primarily COMS a. s to expand in Central and through franchising which remains our Eastern Europe.
With a 51% stake in the preferred model for smaller or particularly partnership, we will work to open around challenging markets.
16.8% 30 new stores in the Czech Republic, Looking ahead though, we intend to invest Slovakia, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia our own capital to increase returns to our Sales increase over the next few years.
In some cases we will invest alongside partners who will bring local knowledge and expertise.
In other markets we may choose to go it alone.
Expanding in India One of the worlds fastest growing economies, India is expected to become the worlds fifth largest consumer market by 2025 McKinsey.
With an estimated 350 million middle-class consumer base by 2015, India presents an exciting opportunity for growth.
Whilst we have traded in India for a number of years through a franchise agreement, in view of the long term opportunity, we set out to find a new partner who could help us grow in the market.
One organisation stood out from the crowd, and in April 2008 we entered into a partnership with Reliance Retail, subject to the approval of the Indian Governments Foreign Investment Promotion Board and certain other conditions.
Reliance has great strength in technology, logistics and property in India.
With a 51% stake in the venture, we will work with Reliance to open around 50 new, stores in the next five years.
The new stores will sell a wider range of products than previously, and at lower prices, including a full range of clothing and homeware, and a growing number of products sourced from local suppliers.
INDIA Deal signed April with Reliance 2008 Retail Stake in 51% partnership New stores 30-50 in the next five years Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 29 Global emerging 55 stores RUSSIA LATVIA markets CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE LITHUANIA 50 new stores across the POLAND region in the next few years CZECH REP. UKRAINE SLOVAKIA SWITZERLAND HUNGARY ROMANIA SLOVENIA CROATIA SERBIA BULGARIA GREECE TURKEY GIBRALTAR MALTA CYPRUS TENERIFE GRAN CANARIA SOUTH KOREA CHINA 88 stores MEDITERRANEAN TAIWAN HONG KONG THAILAND PHILIPPINES MALAYSIA SINGAPORE 17 stores INDONESIA MIDDLE EAST KUWAIT INDIA BAHRAIN 14 stores 76 stores QATAR UNITED ARAB EMIRATES SAUDI ARABIA INDIAN SUBCONTINENT FAR EAST OMAN We expect to open a further First flagship store in Shanghai 30 to 50 stores in the next to open later this year five years Having secured a 4,836 sq m store in A taste of Britain A global fashion brand Shanghai, we look forward to opening our From Singapore to Switzerland, we work In 2007 08 we started to first store in China a new flagship for M&S with our overseas partners to ensure brand freeze our ready meals in Asia.
We will adapt our ranges, introducing consistency.
Our International merchandisers for international sale and smaller sizes into womenswear and 2-inch have launched a range of work closely with our UK-based buying 70 lines in eight countries.
shorter sleeve shirts in menswear, as we do in teams to ensure the products selected The new category has Hong Kong.
Well also stock the Asia special reflect the key M&S looks for the season.
been well received, and redcurrant puffs in the food section.
Our advertising and branding has also proven we are presently working to be highly relevant overseas.
For instance, on extending the range Looking ahead and the numbers of stores we are replicating our holiday campaign While the economic outlook remains carrying the lines.
The frozen throughout Europe and the rest of the world uncertain, our International business model ready meals, which include this summer.
gives us an opportunity to build a broader pizzas, rhubarb crumble and traditional marinated curries, revenue base and drive profitable growth in A foothold in China are prepared in the UK and some of the worlds most exciting emerging Drawing on our experience in Hong Kong join the growing range of markets.
We have a strong pipeline of where we have eight wholly-owned stores 1,200 ambient products International openings planned for 2008 09, already on sale in a number and have been trading for 20 years demonstrating the important role that of overseas stores.
Our in November 2007 we announced our ambient products include International will play in positioning M&S intention to enter the Chinese market a number of everyday for future growth.
items, and traditional British favourites, such as shortbread biscuits.
