14 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Making quality count Menswear As 2008 09 gets underway, weve observed a shift in priorities from some customers.
Menswear performed well in 2007 08, Lasting quality of the kind that M&S is despite the difficult second half.
We grew famous for, is appealing more to our and protected volume market share from customers as they begin to trade up, 11.1% last year to 13.1%, and value market for example from a 15 linen cotton shirt, share from 10.3% to 10.5%, by competing to a 29.50 100% ultimate linen option.
hard on price, quality and innovation.
Weve been doing all we can to respond to this trend, by searching for the highest Over the course of the year, we began quality materials, such as finer gauge to see a change of mood in the market.
merino wool and silks spun in Italy.
As weve seen in womenswear, some customers became less concerned about Our menswear brands finding the lowest possible prices but In menswear, as in womenswear, our more interested in the value represented sub-brands are important in helping customers by clothes of enduring style and quality.
quickly find products that match their tastes and needs.
All of our three key menswear A range of prices brands Autograph, Blue Harbour and Our strategy was to compete by having Collezione made good progress over Smart new ideas a wider price span ensuring customers the last year see below : always have a broad choice of price points.
More than a quarter of our menswear sales Tailoring is a good example.
We now offer come from products suits in a wide range of styles, fabric and fit with ground-breaking performance benefits.
from a great value first suit at 49.50 to From ultimate non-iron handmade suits at 799 that rival varieties shirts, and the high streets on Savile Row.
first machine washable formal wool trousers, to Autograph TM water repellent Stormwear jeans see above the Autograph has established its credentials M&S technical teams are as offering sharper styles and contemporary continuously looking for design, which helped it to achieve significant the latest developments growth in 2007 08.
Footwear, knitwear and in textiles.
tailoring are particular strengths, from designers such as the Jeffery-West team New in 2007 08 were for shoes and Timothy Everest for suits.
climate control underwear, As Autograph continues to grow, well featuring  technology have even more opportunity to bring in developed by NASA, and guest designers and faces, like we did coin catcher pockets in with Take That, who featured in autumns all of our chinos.
Blue Harbour Our Blue Harbour brand was reinvigorated in 2007 08.
Weve taken it back to its East Coast American roots, and in doing so, have begun to attract a younger 35 to 44 year-old customer.
Collezione Inspired by Italian style, our luxury Collezione brand continued to flourish in 2007 08.
We widened the choice of better and best options introducing new shoes at 75, as well as wool and cashmere mix trousers at 49.50.
