32 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC On 10 March 2008 we announced that with effect from 1 June 2008, Lord Burns will stand down as Chairman, Sir Stuart Rose will be appointed Your Board Executive Chairman and Sir David Michels will be appointed Deputy Chairman whilst continuing his role as senior independent director.
Sir David Michels will become Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 June 2008.
Lord Burns Chairman Chairman Sir David Michels Appointed in October 2005, becoming Chairman Senior Independent Director in July 2006.
Lord Burns will retire as Appointed in March 2006.
David will be Chairman on 1 June 2008.
He is Chairman of appointed Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Abbey National plc and Glas Cymru Ltd Welsh Nomination Committee on 1 June 2008.
He was Water and a non-executive director of Banco appointed senior independent director in September Santander SA and Pearson Group plc.
He is senior independent director of easyJet former non-executive director of Legal & General plc plc, and is also a non-executive director of Strategic and The British Land Company plc and a former Hotels & Resorts and Jumeriah Group, Dubai.
He Chairman of the National Lottery Commission.
is resigning as a senior independent director of The He was Permanent Secretary to HM Treasury from British Land Company plc and was a non-executive 1991 to 1998 and Chief Economic Advisor from director of RAB Capital plc until 18 April 2008.
He was appointed a Life Peer in 1998.
David spent his early career employed by Grand Metropolitan, Ladbrokes and Stakis before rejoining Hilton Ladbrokes in 1999 as Chief Executive, Sir Stuart Rose Chief Executive becoming Chief Executive of Hilton Group plc from Appointed in May 2004.
David was knighted in June 2006. appointed Executive Chairman on 1 June 2008.
He is a non-executive director of Land Securities plc and Chairman of Business in the Community.
Stuart Jeremy Darroch began his career in retail at Marks & Spencer in Non-Executive Director Chairman 1972 before going on to the Burton Group in 1989.
Jeremy was He left the Group following the demerger in 1997. appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee in Stuart was Chief Executive of Argos plc in 1998 and September 2006.
He was appointed the Chief later became Chief Executive of Booker plc.
Before Executive of British Sky Broadcasting Plc in rejoining Marks & Spencer as Chief Executive in December 2007 having been the Chief Financial 2004 he was Chief Executive of Arcadia Group plc Officer since 2004.
Jeremy was previously Group from 2000 until 2002.
Stuart was knighted in the Finance Director and Retail Finance Director at New Year Honours List this year, for his services to Dixons Group plc.
He spent 12 years at Procter & the retail industry and corporate social responsibility.
Gamble in a variety of roles, becoming European Finance Director for their Healthcare division.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells.
Kate Bostock Executive Director, Clothing Appointed in March 2008.
Kate joined Marks & Spencer in October 2004.
Previously Kate Martha Lane Fox was Product Director for Childrenswear at Next Non-Executive Director before joining Asda in 2001 as Product Director for Appointed on 1 June 2007.
Martha is a the George brand covering all areas of clothing and non-executive director of Channel 4 Television and footwear.
She was responsible for the launch of the a Trustee of the charity Reprieve.
She is founder of stand-alone George concept and the launch of the a chain of private room karaoke clubs, Lucky Voice, George brand globally.
and of her own grant giving foundation, Antigone.
Martha is also a director of mydeco.
com in 1998, taking the Company public in March 2000, remaining on the Ian Dyson Group Finance and Board until the company was purchased by Sabre Operations Director Holdings in 2005.
Martha is also a patron of Appointed in June 2005.
Group Finance Director in June 2005, becoming Group Finance and Operations Director in March Steven Holliday 2008.
Ian was formerly Finance Director of The Non-Executive Director Rank Group plc.
Prior to this he was Group Appointed in July 2004.
Steven was Financial Controller of Hilton Group plc.
He joined appointed Group CEO of National Grid plc at Hilton from Le Meridien, a division of Forte plc, the end of 2006, having at different times been where he had been Finance Director.
His early responsible for the UK Electricity and Gas career was spent with Arthur Andersen, where he businesses.
He was formerly an executive director qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 and of British Borneo Oil and Gas.
Previously, he spent was promoted to a Partner of the firm in 1994.
19 years with the Exxon Group where he held Ian was a non-executive director of Misys plc until numerous senior positions.
His international September 2005. experience includes a four-year spell in the US.
Steven has also developed business opportunities in Steven Esom Executive Director, Food countries such as China, Australia, Japan and Brazil.
Steven is a non-executive director of The Carphone Warehouse Louise Patten Group plc.
He joined Marks & Spencer in June 2007 Non-Executive Director Chairman from Waitrose where he had been the Managing Appointed in February 2006.
Steven joined the John Lewis Partnership appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 1996 as Director of Buying at Waitrose.
She is non-executive Chairman his early career at J Sainsburys in various buying of Brixton plc, a non-executive director of Bradford roles.
In 1993 Steven was appointed Buying and & Bingley plc and a senior adviser to Bain & Co.
Merchandising Director for Texas Homecare, later Louise began her career at Citibank and remained in becoming Vice-President Global Merchandising financial services until 1993 when she joined Bain & at Hilton International.
She was formerly a non-executive director of Hilton Group plc, GUS plc, Somerfield plc Steven Sharp Executive Director, Marketing and Harveys Furnishings plc.
Steven joined Marks & Spencer in May 2004.
He started his career with Bejam in 1978, progressing to the Argyll Group and became Marketing Director of Asda in Graham Oakley 1987.
He joined the Board of Debenhams in 1989.
Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance He later became Marketing Director of the Burton Group, Booker plc and Arcadia Group plc.
Steven is a non-executive director of Adnams plc.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, The Marketing Society and The Royal Society of Arts, as Independent well as a visiting Professor of Glasgow Caledonian Audit Committee University.
Steven is a special advisor to the Tate Remuneration Committee Members Council.
