Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 1 Our plan In the last year, weve built on our plan We will monitor and measure our to grow M&S into a world-class retailer performance against these objectives.
thats customer-focused, fast-moving In the following pages, weve begun this and flexible.
We work hard to ensure process by setting out Key Performance we offer only the highest quality products, Indicators KPIs.
service and shopping environments In the current difficult economic climate, in all of our stores.
our brand values quality, value, Looking forward, our plan hasnt changed, service, innovation and trust are more but it has broadened to focus on five key important than ever.
We will: to these values sets us apart from our competitors, and enables us to offer continue to invest in and grow our core our customers something truly special.
UK retail business, by introducing new goods and services: 2007 08 has been a year of positive strengthen our UK property portfolio: achievements, as youll see in the Chief drive our M&S Direct business: Executives statement.
Although the expand our International business: and outlook for the global and domestic integrate Plan A our eco plan into economy remains uncertain, were every aspect of how we do business, confident that were making good so that we grow in a sustainable way.
Food Total group sales UK sales excluding VAT 9,022m 4,250m 6.9% Food accounts for 51.1% of our UK business and we have a market share of 4.3% source: TNS Worldpanel.
We opened 98 Simply Food stores growing our portfolio to 299 across the UK, including franchised stores in BP International Connect forecourts, motorway service stations, railway stations and airports.
Sales excluding VAT read more on page 5 713m 16.8% Clothing and Home Our International business accounts for UK sales excluding VAT 7.9% of Group turnover and has grown to 278 stores in 39 territories globally.
4,059m 1.4% During the year, we entered 4 new territories and opened 38 new stores.
We are the UKs largest clothing retailer with a value market share of 11.0% and read more on page 5 volume market share of 11.2% source: TNS Worldpanel and sales accounting for 48.9% of our UK business.
