Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 17 We plan to achieve this growth by opening Percy Pig more Simply Food stores: expanding the Food superstar!
range of food we sell in all of our stores: Originally the star of our M&S has always been committed to being improving the value and quality of our lines: best selling sweets, Percy the first choice for fresh, high quality and maintaining our lead on innovation and has become an iconic figure convenient food that is ethically sourced.
quality: and enhancing our store experience featuring on everything from In achieving this, the emphasis in 2007 08 and hospitality offers.
We continue to money boxes to egg cups.
was firmly on provenance, healthy eating respond to food trends, such as cooking Weve now sold over 1 billion and innovation, as we reported continued Percy Pigs, with two pigs from scratch: Fairtrade and organic: and eaten every second.
His fans growth for the year.
health awareness through the reduction have also set up their very of saturated fats, salt, sugar, additives own Facebook Appreciation In the year ahead, as well as reinforcing and preservatives.
Society, registering more these values, we want to stretch the brand than 25,000 members.
further, so we offer our customers greater A convenient offer choice and convenience.
In the last year, weve responded to customer feedback by taking steps towards Performance becoming a more convenient food shop.
In 2007 08 we grew sales by 6.9% to Our first step was to begin opening more about 4.25bn, reflecting the contribution stores in out-of-town and retail park from new space, with the launch of 98 locations.
Weve now also recently begun Simply Food stores including 64 BP stores.
to broaden our product offer so that our Strong performance in key product areas, customers can buy more of what they realignment of prices on key product lines, want at M&S, whether cooking from scratch whilst rigorously maintaining and improving see page 18 : buying something partly The year in quality, also played an important role.
pre-prepared: or picking up a ready meal.
numbers Value market share for the year improved As part of our commitment to delivering Some 4,000 new and to 4.3%, despite increasing high street convenience and service to our customers, improved products, competition.
In the next few years, we including the new Food to we will also trial up to 350 lines of branded want to increase our market share to Go sandwiches and Gourmet food and household essential items in a just over 5% of the total UK food market.
to Go deli salads: more number of our stores in the North East of than 100 newly trained wine England from summer 2008.
New lines specialists: and over 300 include Marmite and Heinz tomato ketchup, awards for our cheese: just a few of the numbers behind as well as other branded must haves.
3 fast facts on M&S food We work with specialist producers, 2 nurturing smaller quality businesses at home and abroad our artisan chocolates by Gerard Coleman are just one example.
We submit hundreds of products each 1 year for independent taste testing.
According to independent research Products are rated on a scale of 3 by Allegra, our Fairtrade coffee 1 to 10, with our average score served in-store is the industrys best.
being 7.8 higher than our nearest competitor.
This year weve achieved a few perfect 10s including our raspberry and panacotta terrine and asparagus and pecorino frittata.
18 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Sustainable sourcing Sustainable sourcing is at the heart of our fish business, so that we not only protect our waters, but the communities that depend on them.
In the UK we love cod, but were loving it to the point of extinction.
Thats why were taking action to protect it and other endangered species.
British waters provide a range of wonderful seafood to enjoy, and weve been working in partnership with the fishing industry to bring more options from the sea to the plate.
In addition to our work in Scotland to provide sustainable farmed Lochmuir salmon, were the largest retailer of Scottish haddock, and weve also been working with the Cornish fishing industry.
For instance, an exercise in rebranding has transformed the once unpopular pilchards fished in the shallow waters of Penzance and Mevagissey, into the summertime favourite Cornish sardines.
The product was always great it just needed a new image.
In doing this weve helped create a viable industry using a sustainable and under-utilised catch.
At the same time, weve been encouraging the Cornish sardine, and other small-scale fisheries, to achieve Marine Stewardship Council MSC certification.
Weve also asked our suppliers to create more products using these species, such as Cornish pollack an alternative to cod and haddock.
Other projects include the National Lobster Hatchery and Meet the Fisherman days in local stores such as Truro Lemon Quay, where skippers cook sardines on the quayside and discuss sustainable sourcing with our customers.
Steven Esom: Executive Director of Food Steven joined M&S in June 2007 and was appointed to the Board as Executive Director of Food in March 2008.
Our new ingredients range gives customers Everyday value a choice of more than 300 new ingredients As part of this move to be a more convenient When its from fresh herbs and spices like our lazy place to shop, we have reviewed the prices garlic and cinnamon, to bread and cake of popular shopping basket items to ensure in season, mixes that make it easier to start cooking they are competitive.
These items range from its British.
And its easier still with the help cornflakes and frozen peas, to flavoured of our M&S recipe cards.
The best of British However, we firmly believe that low prices From that comfort food favourite, our should never be achieved through a outdoor bred Lincolnshire Pork Sausages, reduction of quality.
So although were to our hand-made Somerset cheddar, we responding to market demand on pricing, go to great lengths to source the very best we are doing so without any loss of M&S speciality foods right on our doorstep.
its in season, its British.
The return to cooking M&S is the only major retailer to stock 100% Great food starts with great ingredients home grown asparagus in season.
Weve something our ready meals have long been been working with British growers to extend famous for.
Now with more of our customers the season, so it lasts from April to July spending longer in the kitchen, we want to almost double the length it was five years ago.
make M&S the one-stop-shop for all of their cooking needs.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 19 The M&S food experience Not everyone who eats in one of our stores is an M&S food customer.
Thats why by improving the breadth of our in-store hospitality options, and achieving a balance between healthy eating and indulgence, were able to introduce new customers Simply Food to our food.
In fact, were one of the UKs Weve expanded the fastest growing hospitality providers, with presence of our Simply Food over 12% like-for-like growth in the last year.
business see page 24 so that our customers can now As part of our store modernisation pick up a pint of milk, or a programme, in 2007 08 we increased our ready meal from 299 stores in-store hospitality offer to create a repertoire located across the country, of unique breadth and quality.
We now offer including airports, train stations, and service station five in-store hospitality options, including This not only gives our customers more forecourts.
This year we 239 cafs, 5 restaurants, 7 delis, 34 Hot opportunity to enjoy asparagus, but also plan to open up to another Food to Go counters and 2 M&S Kitchens.
enables them to support farmers like John Chinn winner of the 2005 Grower of the Within these new formats weve stretched Year award for innovation.
the brand even further, for example offering kids meals in our restaurant, as well as Additionally, all of our fresh beef comes steaks cooked to our customers preference.
from the UK, much of it from Scotland, Our deli bars also offer the option of a glass and weve been working closely with Welsh of champagne and a greater volume of farmers to extend the lamb season by a fresh and raw ingredients, such as freshly full two months.
In 2008 09 well introduce prepared salads.
home-reared products to local stores, such Kids count too as home-reared Oakham chicken in Scotland.
Internationally, we look forward to opening an M&S Caf in our new Shanghai store Its not just food for grownWith no legally defined industry standard see page 29. ups where health matters for free range pork, we decided to review we dont believe in dumbing all of the many standards and specifications, Looking ahead down our kids food either.
Thats why we relaunched so that we could introduce our own leading In 2008 09 we will continue to grow our our entire range of childrens standard.
As a result we now offer in a food business in line with consumer trends products during 2007 08 number of stores truly free range pork, for cooking from scratch and healthy eating, so we could ensure every which is the first step towards meeting of and our programme to open more space.
product even treats such our Plan A commitment to convert all of as our Easter eggs see Provenance and ethical sourcing remain our outdoor bred fresh pork to free range.
above and birthday cakes high on our agenda, and we expect the Best is completely free of artificial additives.
of British range and our expanding Eat Well All of our food is free range to help us make further progress in from artificial colours, flavourings, attracting a younger customer.
Our Simply sweeteners and hydrogenated fats: Food business is important here, and will as part of our commitment to help work alongside our hospitality business in our customers eat well.
helping broaden our customer base.
As of 1 April 2008 we became the first Our move to become a more convenient retailer to remove all artificial colours and food shop is of increasing relevance, as flavourings from our entire food and soft we expand our ingredients and introduce drinks range.
It has taken three years to branded food and household items.
remove artificial colours and flavourings from over 900 products, with some more difficult than others.
For instance, finding a natural colour from fruit and vegetable extracts to replace the vibrant pink filling of Turkish Delight.
Weve also made excellent progress in salt reduction, having reached our 2010 targets in 11 out of 15 categories, including ready meals and sandwiches.
