Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 11 A few of our favourite things... Womenswear and lingerie Cashmere Selling at 49 in 2007 08 down In 2007 08 we strengthened our position from 69 in 2006 07, we sold as the number one brand for womenswear more than one cashmere item a and lingerie, despite a tough second half, minute during our busiest week in Londons Marble Arch store.
From classic and tailored looks, to fast fashion inspired from the catwalk, we demonstrated that Every Woman, Every Time is at the heart of our womenswear and lingerie plan.
In short, its our commitment to help every Lingerie woman regardless of her age, size and budget to find stylish clothes that are We offer 78 bra sizes, from 28AA beautifully made, at great value prices.
through to 44J, and are the only high street retailer to offer machine Our performance washable silk lingerie.
During the year, value market share in womenswear fell from 11.3% to 11.1% in the face of tough competition on the high street, strong downward pressure on prices, and a slowdown in customer spending.
However, volume market share remained steady at 10.0%.
We achieved this by looking Leather closely at our price structure to ensure our competitiveness at opening price points.
From biker jackets to our famous Little Black Dress, we introduced affordable leather in line with the latest catwalk trends.
Marketplace trends In 2007 08, the retail market offering greater breadth more for less driven by a what they buy where from continued to grow, but at a of choice in products and desire for fast fashion and the basics, to treats.
slower rate than previous shopping formats that fit multiple looks.
The growing trend for fresh years.
Increasing levels of around customers differing Despite a slowdown in the ingredients has continued, debt and household bills have needs and busy lifestyles.
housing market, there was with customers looking for had an impact on consumer Looking specifically at the generally strong growth in key ingredients to cook from confidence, which is at its clothing market, sales have homeware sales as customers scratch, or quality products lowest point since 1993 been the hardest hit by the updated their homes, rather that allow them to assemble GfK research.
The growing recent decline in customer than move house.
The increasing demand on disposable income confidence slowing through electronic goods continued profile of food sourcing and has also seen customers the last quarter of 2007 08 to sell well across the animal welfare issues, has prioritise essential bills at and now in decline on the industry, as price deflation also encouraged them to the expense of shopping year TNS market research.
of the latest must-haves trade-up to products that and leisure activities.
In a change to last year, made them more accessible are free range and organic.
Generally, customers customers have started to to more people.
In the year ahead, the trading continue to look for more spend more on individual The food market held up environment will be tough.
items of clothing, investing primarily through price Customers will feel ongoing As a result, the trend for in a few key pieces that inflation and customers pressure on their personal shopping online has offer versatility and can buying more premium finances.
In these challenging increased, partly due to be dressed-up or down.
Customers have conditions, they are expected greater customer confidence As a result, value growth become savvy in shopping to turn to trusted, wellin payment security and is marginally ahead of across different outlets to established brands that delivery.
The exception to make the most of their food provide reassurance they are out-of-town shopping centres this is in womenswear where budget carefully choosing spending their money wisely.
have also grown in popularity, customers continued to buy 12 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC In lingerie, the continual introduction of particular emphasis on building on the No limits innovative products in an extended range success of Autograph.
We dont aspire to be a of sizes, as well as better segmentation of brand where fast fashion We offer knitwear at prices from 9 to 49 our brands, helped us stay at number one is all that matters, but we and bras from 5 to 20, and will continue to with 24.8% value market share and 17.9% do want to cater for women do so.
However, we want our customers to of all ages.
Limited Collection volume market share.
recognise our reputation for offering incredible helps us do that answering An easier way to shop quality and excellent cuts across all of our our younger customers demands for affordable In 2007 08, as part of our Every Woman, price points.
Every Time commitment, we reviewed the segmentation of our sub-brands, so that we Its growing faster than any other part of our womenswear can help our customers quickly and easily business, with market share find what theyre looking for.
Although this up amongst women under-35.
will continue in 2008 09, improvements can Thats because our customers already be seen within Autograph see below now know that if they like and lingerie see page 13. something at M&S they should buy it now.
Competing on value and quality During the last year, we responded to market demand by becoming even more competitive at our opening price points.
While this increased both our sales volume and market share volume, we recognise the opportunity to drive our better and best ranges with Brand strength in Autograph Autograph stands for the best of modern and sophisticated M&S.
It grew strongly in 2007 08 by offering elegant and timely pieces, in luxury fabrics and cuts, which are flexible for all lifestyles.
In recent months, weve seen some of our customers become more interested in buying products of enduring style and quality, than in finding the lowest possible prices.
In response to this trend, we have improved our quality throughout our price architecture, which means our value credentials are stronger than ever.
For example in Autograph, our customers are willing to spend more on our luxury fabrics such as silks and cashmere.
By driving more product choice in these fabrics, we continue to grow our Autograph business.
Over the last year, we have expanded and strengthened the Autograph brand, introducing Autograph Exclusive, which offers a range of limited edition pieces such as coats and eveningwear, and Autograph Weekend, a new casual look with an American East Coast flavour.
Both play an important role in our segmentation strategy and have added incremental sales to the brand.
Kate Bostock: Executive Director of Clothing Kate joined M&S as Director of Womenswear in 2004, and was appointed to the Board as Executive Director of Clothing in March 2008.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 13 Clearer choices in lingerie Selling 50 million knickers a year thats nearly two pairs of knickers every second, and 25 million bras its estimated that one in three women wear M&S lingerie.
To meet the underwear needs and tastes of every woman, we have in the past introduced a wide range of different brands.
As part of our segmentation work, we reviewed our lingerie brands, matching them to our different customer profiles, before fine-tuning our offer cutting out duplication and filling in any gaps.
We now offer five brands Adored, Autograph, Body Solutions, Limited Collection and per una.
The move to fewer brands in lingerie has given women of all ages, sizes and budgets, a clearer choice.
Its also helped us to focus on good basics at our opening price points, as well as great value across the entire offer.
Faster, fresher fashions per una The journey from catwalk to high street is It was another strong year for per una.
The brand enjoyed its seventh faster than ever, with customers expecting successive year of growth with sales of 429m in womenswear and lingerie.
something new and different each time they Growth came from a number of key product areas, including cardigans, come into store.
Satisfying this increasing dresses, jeans, macs and coats.
Our capital expenditure programme demand poses a major challenge for any retailer.
positively impacted on per una sales, with the store modernisation and expansion programme increasing per una footage by 15% for the year.
In response, weve adopted a phased approach Online sales grew by 153%, and International sales by 40% for the year.
to introducing new stock, which means that 25% of our womenswear will be new every Per unas point of difference in todays retail climate, is in giving five to six weeks.
Within that, we have brands styles the per una twist.
From the that release new products into stores on lining, to the buttons, to the trims a three-week cycle.
To make this quicker the per una twist is the detail that turnaround possible, we are now buying makes its customers feel special.
collections in two of our major brands Limited This was seen in the reintroduction Collection and Autograph Weekend, from our of suiting, where the emphasis was on special details and quality fabrics suppliers in Turkey, just eight weeks ahead.
that are part of per unas distinct style.
Following the success of Looking ahead suiting, per una will introduce In 2007 08 we introduced great value at our Speziale Tailoring later in 2008. opening price points in both womenswear Another key moment in 2007 08 and lingerie and in doing so made good was the launch of a 25-piece progress in attracting customers in the capsule collection called GD25, under-35 age range.
inspired by George Davies 25-year career as a fashion innovator.
It will be more important than ever to continually improve our ranges across all our price points, and to ensure were responding to trends by quickly Left: George Davis, getting new products into store.
Were now Chairman of per una working closely with our suppliers to achieve even greater speed and flexibility, ensuring we continue to keep pace with customer demand.
In store it is still important to ensure that the distinctive offering of each of our sub-brands Cottoning on to Fairtrade makes the shopping experience an easy one We sell about 4.8 million Fairtrade cotton for our customers.
In the year ahead, we will garments annually thats about 92,000 a week.
push our brands even harder, for instance, As the first major retailer to introduce a by expanding Autograph gifts and introducing Fairtrade cotton clothing range, which includes Autograph essentials, and by further reducing the popular 5 Fairtrade t-shirt, we now work duplication and filling the gaps in our ranges.
with some 5,000 Fairtrade cotton farmers so Finally, well also be finding new and they not only get a fair price for their cotton, innovative ways to present womenswear but a Fairtrade premium that they can use to online see page 26. improve their working and living conditions.
