Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 15 Top of the class Kidswear for innovation At M&S, quality and In 2007 08 we made positive progress innovation go hand-in-hand.
towards our long-term goal of winning We believe its important to back market share in childrens clothing.
offer our customers things they simply cant get from a Achieving greater consistency across our supermarket.
For example: sub-brands, pricing structure and supply base has helped us increase our volume All of our school blazers are market share from 5.0% to end the year at now made from recycled polyester consistent with 5.2% and our value market share from 4.5% our Plan A credentials.
This is underpinned by our growing share of the newborn and toddler market, Weve introduced iPod and our continued position as the number blazers and coats, a mustone provider of schoolwear for UK families.
Strong online sales, up 54% on last year, Parents can text us their have also made an important contribution.
childs details and well send personalised name-tags In the year ahead, our challenge is to change ready to use.
perceptions, so that M&S kidswear is the first choice for style, as well as quality and price.
Everyday Competing on price casualwear As in womenswear and menswear, we Featuring all the junior believe there is increasing demand for wardrobe basics, greater choice within our better and best such as jeans, t-shirts, categories, whilst maintaining a strong sweats, and weekendwear.
In response, were segmenting our kidswear offer into three key areas: everyday casualwear, Autograph and Limited see across.
Our determination to compete on price and quality is clearly demonstrated by our plans to offer an entire school outfit polo shirt, jumper and trousers or skirt for just 6.50.
Well also be carrying this over to online, where customers can buy complete outfits in just one click.
Superheroes, super opportunities Autograph From Thomas the Tank Engine and Iron Man, to High School Musical, our character-wear Offering something a bit more special, in more luxurious fabrics, performed strongly for us in 2007 08.
In with key elements including party fact, we sell the widest range of character dresses and suits, high quality clothing and merchandise on the high street knitwear and daywear separates.
featuring more than 40 different characters.
In the year ahead, well be focusing on our best sellers, to ensure they are Limited represented across the entire department from babywear to socks to pyjamas.
Our most fashionable With the support of the marketing team, range, for all age groups from newborn to 14, our kidswear section will be themed to featuring a bold use of coincide with the launch of new movies colour and a fast response or programmes, when popularity will be to the latest trends.
