26 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Sales were up 60m in 2007 08 to 220m, with M&S Direct growing faster than the M&S Direct market, and putting us on course to achieve A new website and an extended range our target of 500m in sales through M&S of products are just two of the reasons Direct by the end of 2010 11. behind M&S Directs strong growth.
Visits to the website were also up by M&S Direct is an important part of our nearly 60%.
commitment to becoming a multi-channel A new site, a new experience retailer.
In addition to providing our Relaunched at the end of March 2007, our e-commerce website, it also includes our Blooming website was designed and developed in home catalogue, flower and wine delivery, good idea partnership with world leaders in e-commerce, Christmas hamper delivery, in-store food Amazon.
Our customers tell us they find the ordering service and Lunch to Go, which We continue to extend not new site much easier to use: a fact reflected just the breadth, but the delivers lunchtime platters.
quality of our online offer.
in an independent online shopper survey For instance, were now by Forsee ranking the Top 30 UK online bringing the luxurious quality retailers.
We came sixth overall and were the and style of the Autograph best performing high street retailer, ahead of brand to a bouquet, with the competitors like John Lewis, Tesco and Next.
launch of Autograph Flowers in-store and online.
Just like our Autograph fashion and home collections, this exclusive range of flowers will change seasonally, offering extra-long stems 60-80cm and larger blooms 63% in striking arrangements from 35 for a dozen and 45 for two dozen.
Sales increase Each flower is individually selected by M&S Flower Specialist Claire Broomhead, Spoilt for choice so they are as competitive as those youd buy in a florist.
Each year we move closer towards becoming a true multi-channel retailer, by offering our customers more ways to shop.
For instance, a customer might see a sofa they like in our home catalogue, and decide to try it out in-store.
They then have the choice of visiting our website, where they can see every sofa, in every fabric, size or colour combination as many as 10,000 variations.
The Autograph brand is about effortless style and luxury and the new range of Autograph Flowers reflects this perfectly, either as a gift, or as an amazing centrepiece in the home.
Claire Broomhead M&S Flower Specialist Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 27 But theres still plenty of room for improvement.
Greener living: In particular, we want to make the site more now easier online interactive.
Weve already added features In 2007 08 we introduced such as a behind-the-scenes video interview a Greener Living section with Lily Cole the face of Limited Collection.
to our website so that we Additionally, we publish beauty tips and lingerie could make it easier for our advice from the Your M&S magazine editor customers to find products Sarah Gowland.
In 2008 09, were planning that will help them to do their bit for the planet.
to add even more of these features, including From compost bins and areas for customers to post reviews and Hippo Water Savers to ratings of M&S products.
recycled fleeces and Fairtrade t-shirts, a more More reasons to visit eco-friendly lifestyle is just Our website offers a number of exclusive a couple of clicks away.
products, including a wider choice of electricals than in-store, an increased selection in clothing Extending our online cellar ranges such as per una, and our exclusive From around just 30 lines last year, the online range of affordable and contemporary range of wines available on our website furniture called Furniture to Go.
Fifty of these are exclusive to the web and cant be Our new Made to Measure shirts service, found in-store.
We sell over 20 varieties of which launched in November 2007, allows champagne with prices from approximately customers to design a tailor-made shirt from 100 to 240 per case.
Customer response just 30 for delivery within 21 days.
Customers to our improved online offering has been so positive that were planning to launch simply choose their fabric, collar, cuffs, a wine club in 2008 09. pocket, fit and monogramming, and type in their height, collar size and weight, and well tailor-make a shirt specifically for them.
A number of other popular features on our website include our Greener Living shop, improved wine cellar and Big and Tall range.
Big and Tall I usually have to look for specialists that cater for big fellas, and then end up choosing from a small range and paying a lot more.
When M&S approached me I was amazed at the offer available, with excellent quality at the same price as standard sized clothes.
Martin Johnson, England Rugby Team Manager It would be hard to find space in our stores for our exclusive Big and Tall offer, but its a perfect fit online.
As the name suggests, Big and Tall offers clothes to fit big fellas, like England Rugby Team Manager Martin Johnson who is the face of the brand.
Only available online, the collection includes more than 450 items ranging from tailoring to knitwear to casual shirts and trousers.
