10 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Our core UK business In the following pages we review our core UK business, which covers the individual business units of womenswear, menswear, kidswear, home and food, as well as our service including IT and logistics and store environments.
Building our brand One way weve responded to this challenge is by evolving our The challenge for M&S well-loved and successful food and womenswear advertising campaigns.
marketing is how we stay In food, weve retained the same broad approach, but weve ahead of the competition, started to respond to the issues we know our customers care by responding to the about.
Everyone knows that our food tastes good, so our new manifesto campaign now goes a step further by introducing things that matter the powerful messages on provenance and healthy eating.
For example, our mellow yellow ad showcased our commitment to most to our customers.
using only free range eggs in all of our food, and true colours told the story of how all our food is now 100% free of artificial colours and flavourings.
Our womenswear ads which feature the famous faces of Twiggy, Erin OConnor, Lizzie Jagger, Nomie Lenoir, Laura Bailey and Myleene Klass and at Christmas, special guest Antonio Banderas change with the seasons, featuring new soundtracks and locations.
As with the food ads, we survey shoppers each month, and were encouraged by the customer feedback weve received.
Figures from Adwatch who analyse the impact of company advertising, show more than half of our food ads rated within the top five, and our womenswear ads continue to lead at number one.
Our marketing evolved during the year, with changes made to refresh in-store dcor so that its consistent with the look and feel of our new and modernised stores.
We communicated our Plan A achievements to customers both in-store and through the relaunched Plan A section of our website at marksandspencer.
In both cases we provided details on how our customers can get involved in specific initiatives such as Wash at 30, the Oxfam Clothes Exchange and reusing carrier bags.
The effectiveness of our advertising and marketing campaigns is evidenced by our ability to hold brand momentum our brand impact and performance despite a slowdown on the high street.
In the year to come, our challenge is to maintain this momentum with Plan A playing an important role here and by ensuring we retain brand consistency as we expand internationally.
Steven Sharp: Executive Director of Marketing Steven joined M&S in 2004.
In addition to his marketing role, he is also responsible for store design and presentation as well as running the relationship with M&S Money.
