Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 35 Group Directors report Business review Profit and dividends The Companies Act 1985 requires the Company to set out in The profit for the financial year, after taxation, non-equity this report, a fair review of the business of the Group during the dividends and minority interests amounts to 821.7m last year financial year ended 29 March 2008, including an analysis of 659.9m.
The directors have declared dividends as follows: the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and m a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Ordinary shares Group known as a Business review.
Paid interim dividend of 8.3p per share 140.1 last year 6.3p per share The information that fulfils the Business review requirements Proposed final dividend of 14.2p per share 217.9 can be found in the following sections of this report.
All the last year 12p per share information detailed in these sections is incorporated by reference into this report and deemed to form part of this report: Total ordinary dividend, 22.5p per share 358.0 last year 18.3p per share Chairmans foreword on page 4: Chief Executives statement on pages 5 to 8: The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 11 July 2008 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members Group Finance and Operations Directors statement at the close of business on 30 May 2008. on page 9: Share capital and control Financial review on pages 33 and 34: i Structure The information in this section is given pursuant to section 992Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 44 and 45: of the Companies Act 2006 and is correct as at 29 March 2008.
Key performance indicators on pages 2 and 3: and The Companys authorised share capital was 800,000,000 Environmental, employee and social and community matters divided into 3,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 25p each on pages 30 and 31 and within the How we do business report and there were 1,586,478,423 ordinary shares in issue.
available on our website at The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
Pages 35 to 38 inclusive together with the sections of the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Annual report incorporated by reference consist of a Group ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders Directors report that has been drawn up and presented in by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, accordance with, and in reliance upon applicable English a copy of which can either be viewed on our website company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection marksandspencer.
com thecompany or obtained by writing with that report shall be subject to the limitations and to the Company Secretary, or from Companies House in the restrictions provided by such law.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at Principal activities general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to Marks and Spencer Group plc is the holding company of exercise voting rights.
the Marks & Spencer Group of companies the Group.
We are one of the UKs leading retailers, with over 21 million Changes to the Companys Articles must be approved by people visiting our stores each week.
We offer stylish, high special resolution of the Company.
New Articles are being quality, great value clothing and home products, as well as proposed at this years Annual General Meeting AGM which outstanding quality food, responsibly sourced from around include a number of changes, some of which may impact on 2,000 suppliers globally.
We employ over 75,000 people the rights, obligations, restrictions on transfer or voting rights in the UK and abroad, and have 622 UK stores, including attaching to those shares.
Explanatory notes relating to these Simply Food franchised stores, as well as an expanding changes are included in the appendix to the Notice of Meeting international business.
booklet which accompanies this report.
Interests in voting rights Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 6 May 2008, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: % of share Ordinary shares capital Nature of holding Brandes Investment Partners, L. P 21.03.07 111,595,173 6.57% Indirect Interest Capital Research and Management Company 11.04.08 86,833,000 5.47% Indirect Interest Legal & General Group plc 26.03.08 72,771,104 4.57% Direct Interest 36 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Group Directors report continued The Board is responsible for the management of the businessthe agreement between HSBC and the Company relating of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the to M&S Money dated 9 November 2004 as amended and Company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes and restated on 1 March 2005 contains a clause such that, upon the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
a change of control of the Company, any new owner would For example, the Articles contain specific provisions and be obliged to give undertakings to HSBC in respect of the restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money: continuation of the agreement, negotiate revised terms provisions relating to the appointment of directors, subject to or terminate the agreement.
subsequent shareholder approval: delegation of powers to a The Company does not have agreements with any director or director or secretary or committees of one or more persons: employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or and subject to certain exceptions, a director shall not vote employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of on or be counted in a quorum in relation to any resolution the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options of the Board in respect of any contract in which he she has and awards granted to employees under such schemes and an interest which he she knows is material.
There are no plans to vest on a takeover.
known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Shares to ii Issue of new ordinary shares be acquired through the Companys share plans rank equally During the period, 12,447,224 ordinary shares in the Company with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
As far as were issued as follows: the Company is aware, there are no persons with significant 114,556 shares under the terms of the 1997 Executive direct or indirect holdings of voting rights in the Company Share Option Scheme at prices between 358p and 557p: other than as set out in the paragraph entitled Interests in voting rights on page 35.66,030 shares under the terms of the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme at prices between 215p and 350p: Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements to which the Company 2,054,623 shares under the terms of the 2002 Executive is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Share Option Scheme at prices between 270p and 353p: and of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details 10,212,015 shares under the terms of the United Kingdom of the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at the 400m Medium Term Notes MTNs issued by the prices between 156p and 559p.
Company to various institutions on 28 March 2007 under the iii Purchase of ordinary shares Groups 3bn Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme The Company was authorised by shareholders, at the contain an option such that, upon a change of control July 2007 AGM, to purchase in the market up to 170 million event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share sub-investment level, any holder of an MTN may require capital, as permitted under the Companys Articles.
The the Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN: Company engages in share buy backs to create value for the 250m puttable callable reset notes issued by the the shareholders, when cash flow permits and there is not Company to various institutions on 11 December 2007 under an immediate alternative investment use for the funds.
The the Groups 3bn EMTN programme contain an option such Company announced on 6 November 2007 that it would that, upon a change of control event, combined with a credit begin a share buy back programme to purchase up to 10% ratings downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of the Companys issued share capital.
Since then and up of an MTN may require the Company to prepay the principal to 19 May 2008, the date of this report, 127,017,902 of the amount of that MTN: Companys ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 25p each, were bought back and cancelled, representing 7.5% of the the $500m US Notes issued by the Company to various Companys issued share capital at 10 July 2007, the date of institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the 2007 AGM.
An up-to-date summary of all transactions is the US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon available on our website.
This standard authority is renewable a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of the 2008 AGM to renew for another year.
It is the Companys such a US Note may require the Company to prepay the present intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather principal amount of that US Note: than hold them in treasury.
the $300m US Notes issued by the Company to various Board of directors institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of The membership of the Board and biographical details of the US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon the directors are given on page 32 and are incorporated a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings into this report by reference.
downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note may require the Company to prepay the Martha Lane Fox was appointed to the Board as a principal amount of that US Note: non-executive director on 1 June 2007.
Jack Keenan retired from the Board on 10 July 2007. the 1.2bn Credit Agreement between the Company and various banks dated 13 August 2004 contains a provision On 10 March 2008 the Company announced a number of such that, upon a change of control event, unless new terms Board and senior management changes.
Lord Burns will retire are agreed within 60 days, the facilities under that agreement as Chairman with effect from 1 June 2008.
Sir Stuart Rose will will be cancelled with all outstanding amounts becoming be appointed Executive Chairman from 1 June 2008. immediately payable with interest: and Key performance Shareholder About us indicators Business review Governance information Financial review Financial statements marksandspencer.
com annualreport08 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 37 Kate Bostock was appointed to the Board as an Executive b the management report contained in this report includes Director of Clothing and Steven Esom was appointed to a fair review of the development and performance of the the Board as Executive Director of Food on 10 March 2008. business and the position of the Company and the Group Details of these changes are set out on page 39 of the taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Corporate governance statement and are incorporated into risks and uncertainties that they face.
Audit information Directors indemnities Each director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, The Company maintains directors and officers liability there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to indemnities to each of its directors and the secretary to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third party indemnity and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act that information.
2006 were in force during the year ended 29 March 2008 Employee involvement and remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities We have maintained our commitment to employee involvement which the directors or secretary may incur to third parties in throughout the business.
the course of acting as directors or secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and objectives of the Group through personal briefings, Directors interests regular meetings, email and Chief Executive broadcasts The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors at key points in the year to all head office employees and connected persons in the shares of the Company are and store management.
These are supplemented by our shown on page 52.
Options granted under the Save As employee publications including Your M&S magazine and You Earn SAYE scheme and Executive Share Option DVD presentations.
More than 3,500 employees elected Schemes are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Further information onto Business Involvement Groups across every store and regarding employee share schemes is given in note 12 to the head office location represent their colleagues in two-way financial statements.
communication and consultation with the Company.
Related party transactions They have continued to play a key role in a wide variety Internal controls are in place to ensure that related party of business changes.
transactions involving directors, or their connected parties, are conducted on an arms length basis.
The thirteenth meeting of the European Council took place last July.
This Council provides an additional forum for Directors responsibilities informing, consulting and involving employee representatives The directors are obliged under company law to prepare financial from the countries in the European Community.
statements for each financial year and to present them annually to the Companys members in the Annual General Meeting.
Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss with employees matters of current interest The financial statements, of which the form and content and concern to the business.
is prescribed by the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards, must give a true and fair view of the Share schemes are a long-established part of our total state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end reward package, encouraging and supporting employee of the financial year, and of the profit for that period.
In particular, over 25,000 employees currently participate in Sharesave, the Companys all The directors are also responsible for the adoption of suitable employee Save As You Earn scheme.
Full details of all accounting policies and their consistent use in the financial schemes are given on pages 49 and 50. statements, supported where necessary by reasonable and prudent judgements.
We maintain contact with retired staff through communications from the Company and the Pension Trust.
Member-nominated The directors confirm that the above requirements have been trustees have been elected to the Pension Trust Board, complied with in the financial statements.
We continue to produce In addition, the directors are responsible for maintaining a regular Pensions Update newsletter for members of our final adequate accounting records and sufficient internal controls salary pension scheme and our M&S Retirement Plan.
to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and Equal opportunities detect fraud or any other irregularities, as described more The Group is committed to an active Equal Opportunities fully in the Corporate governance statement on page 46.
Policy from recruitment and selection, through training Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 and development, appraisal and promotion, to retirement.
The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: It is our policy to promote an environment free from a the Group and Company financial statements in this report, discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where which have been prepared in accordance with International everyone will receive equal treatment regardless of gender, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, marital IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions relating 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, give a to employment practices will be objective, free from bias true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and based solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and 38 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Group Directors report continued The Group is responsive to the needs of its employees, Political donations customers and the community at large and we are an It is our policy not to make donations for political purposes organisation that endeavours to use everyones talents in the UK, to EU political parties or to incur EU political and abilities to the full.
Accordingly, the Company and its subsidiaries did not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor Employees with disabilities did they make any donations to EU political organisations It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
and fair consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued to demonstrate our commitment to interviewing Under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and those people with disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, Referendums Act 2000, shareholder authority is required for and endeavouring to retain employees in the workforce if they political donations to be made or political expenditure to be become disabled during employment.
We will actively retrain incurred by the Company or any of its subsidiaries in the EU and adjust their environment where possible to allow them to and disclose any such payments in the Annual report.
legislation gives a wide definition of what constitutes political donations and political expenditure, including sponsorship, We continue to work with external organisations to provide subscriptions, payment of expenses, paid leave for employees workplace opportunities through our innovative Marks & Start fulfilling public duties and support for bodies representing the scheme and by working closely with jobCentrePlus.
business community in policy review or reform.
Creditor payment policy At the 2006 AGM shareholders gave a limited authority For all trade creditors, it is the Groups policy to: 100,000 to the Company and each of the six principal agree the terms of payment at the start of business with employing companies to make political donations or to incur that supplier: political expenditure in the EU which would not ordinarily be regarded as political donations as a precautionary measure, ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and to allow the Company to continue supporting the community pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal and such organisations without inadvertently breaching the obligations.
This authority will expire in 2010.
The main trading company, Marks and Spencer plc, has a Going concern policy concerning the payment of trade creditors as follows: After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group has adequate general merchandise payments are received between resources to continue in operational existence for the 16 and 23 days after the stock was delivered: foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the food payments are received between 18 and 25 days going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
after the stock was delivered: and Auditors distribution suppliers are paid monthly, for costs incurred Resolutions to reappoint  LLP in that month, based on estimates, and payments are as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit adjusted quarterly to reflect any variations to estimate.
Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
Trade creditor days for Marks and Spencer plc for the year ended 29 March 2008 were 15.3 days, or 10.2 working Annual general meeting days last year 14.7 days, or 9.8 working days, based on The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc will be held at the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year the Royal Festival Hall, London on 9 July 2008.
The Notice to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
Market value of properties The last formal valuation of the Groups properties was carried out in September 2006.
Taking into account movements in By order of the Board the Groups property portfolio since that date, the directors are Graham Oakley, Group Secretary of the opinion that the market value of the Groups properties, London at 29 March 2008 exceeded their net book value including 19 May 2008 prepayments in respect of leasehold land of the fixed asset and leasehold properties by approximately 1.0bn.
Charitable donations During the year, the Group made charitable donations to support the community of 15m last year 13.9m.
These principally consisted of cash donations of 5.4m last year 3.8m which includes our Marks & Start community programme, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Save The Children, World Wildlife Fund, and local community donations, 1.9m last year 3m of employee time, principally on Marks & Start and school work experience programmes, and stock donations of 7.5m last year 6.6m to a variety of charities including Shelter, FareShare and The Birth Defects Foundation.
