Overview Chairmans statement 3i Infrastructure provides its shareholders with a differentiated investment proposition.
The infrastructure market continues to offer attractive investment opportunities, as demonstrated by the new investments completed by the Company.
Richard Laing Chairman, 3i Infrastructure plc 11 May 2016 This is my first report to the shareholders of 3iInfrastructure Performance since succeeding Peter Sedgwick as Chairman on 1 January 2016.
The Company generated a total return of 166 million for the year to Since my appointment, Ihave had an opportunity to get to know 31 March 2016, or 14% of opening Net Asset Value NAV, adjusted the Board and the investment advisory team and to understand for the payment of the special dividend on 31 July 2015.
The NAV the Companys portfolio and the market in which it operates.
per share increased to 161.0 pence at 31 March 2016.
This was a I believe 3iInfrastructure is well positioned to continue to deliver very good result in the context of the Companys total return target its objectives and to provide its shareholders with a differentiated of 8% to 10% per annum, to be achieved over the medium term, and investment proposition, due to the quality of its portfolio and the was driven by the continued robust performance of the European advice it receives from theInvestment Adviser.
portfolio, including the positive impact of regulatory developments for Elenia.
In addition, the Company made good progress towards The results we achieved in FY16, as well as over the longer building portfolio income, with all new investments completed during term, confirm this.
In FY16, we delivered a total return of 14%.
the year yielding in line with our expectations.
This compares with the Companys target of delivering a total return of 8% to 10% over the medium term.
We redeployed a majority of the We delivered a Total Shareholder Return TSR of 12.6% in the proceeds from the sale of the Companys interest in Eversholt Rail year to 31 March 2016, improving further our performance record across our target markets and met our dividend target for the year since inception.
The TSR from the Companys IPO in March 2007 of 7.25 pence per share.
Consistent with our progressive dividend to 31 March 2016 was 164.3% or 11.3% on an annualised basis.
policy, we are announcing a total dividend target for FY17 This compares favourably with the returns in the broader market.
of 7.55 pence per share, implying a growth of over 4% compared Over the same period, the FTSE 250 generated a TSR of 93.4%, or to the total dividend we delivered in FY16.
Importantly, the Company continues to achieve this outperformance with low share price volatility.
Since the year end, we have committed to invest a further 75 million in Wireless Infrastructure Group WIG, 200 million in TCR and a further 5 million in the Hart van Zuid primary PPP project.
Our future investment pipeline is developing well and to ensure that we remain well funded to execute this future pipeline, we are launching an Open Offer, Placing and Intermediaries Offer with the intention of raising up to 350 million.
We have increased our Revolving Credit Facility by 200 million to provide additional funding flexibility in the meantime.
2 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Overview In order to ensure that the Company remains well funded to execute Dividend its new investments and future pipeline, we are launching an Open Last year, we announced a total dividend target for FY16 of Offer, Placing and Intermediaries Offer with the intention of raising 7.25 pence per share.
Following the payment of the interim up to 350 million from existing and new shareholders.
The proceeds dividend of 3.625 pence per share in January 2016, the Board from this offering will be used to fund completion of the investments has declared a final dividend for the year of 3.625 pence per share, in WIG and TCR, as well as to fund future investment opportunities.
meeting our target for the year.
We expect the final dividend to The Company may issue up to an additional 130 million of new be paid on 11 July 2016.
Consistent with our progressive dividend shares, representing up to 10% of the existing issued share capital, policy, we are announcing a total dividend target for FY17 of 7.55 on a non pre-emptive basis.
This additional issue will be dependent pence per share, representing a year-on-year increase of 4%.
on demand for the Offer and the Boards assessment of the near-term pipeline.
Strategy The increase in demand for infrastructure assets in the sustained Corporate governance low interest rate environment, combined with the availability of debt At the end of December 2015, Peter Sedgwick retired after nine finance for infrastructure investment on attractive terms, has driven years as Chairman.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Peter the price of some infrastructure assets higher.
This trend has been for his contribution to a period of outstanding growth and success most evident in the market for large Core infrastructure assets.
Against this backdrop, the Company shaped its investment strategy to focus on mid-market economic infrastructure and The Board aims to uphold the highest standard of corporate greenfield projects, where prospective returns are more attractive.
governance and, in the year under review, complied with all Our investment approach and execution are described applicable provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Companys Annual General Meeting and an Extraordinary General Meeting were held on 7 July 2015.
All resolutions were Investment and realisation activity approved by shareholders, including the election or re-election of all the Directors to the Board.
The special resolutions relating to the In competitive markets, we invested or committed to invest a total of share consolidation implemented in conjunction with the payment 193 million in four new investments across mid-market economic of the special dividend and the increase to the single investment infrastructure businesses and greenfield projects, redeploying a concentration limit from 20% to 25% of gross assets were also significant portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Companys approved with an overwhelming majority.
This years AGM will be interest in Eversholt Rail.
The new investments completed in the held on 7 July 2016. year are performing well and contributed to income generation in the second half of the year, in line with our expectations at the time of Outlook investment.
In addition, since the year end, we have announced that we are to invest approximately 75 million in WIG and 200 million The infrastructure market continues to offer attractive investment in TCR, in transactions expected to complete by the end of June and opportunities, as demonstrated by the new investments the the end of August 2016 respectively, subject to regulatory clearance, Company completed during the financial year and announced and a further 5 million in the Hart van Zuid primary PPP project.
These investments offer a stable return profile, sought These are complementary additions to the Companys investment after in a highly uncertain macroeconomic environment, which portfolio, providing further geographical and sector diversification.
continues to be characterised by low interest rates and low growth.
Looking ahead, we are confident in our business model and our The Investment Adviser continues to make progress with the ability to continue to deliver our objectives.
We have a high quality realisation of the assets in the India Fund.
Following the sale of portfolio which underpins future returns.
We also have a healthy approximately 54% of Adani Power in the last financial year, the pipeline of investment opportunities across our target markets, India Fund sold its holding in Ind-Barath Energy Utkal Limited and we have the funding and market access to continue to grow the Ind-Barath Energy in FY16 and the proceeds from that sale are Company over the years to come.
expected to be received in the first quarter of FY17.
Balance sheet and Open Offer, Placing and Intermediaries Offer The efficient management of the Companys liquidity continues to be a key area of focus for the Board.
Following the sale of the Companys investment in Eversholt Rail, the Company has continued to manage its liquidity position actively, ensuring that it maintains good liquidity to pursue new investment opportunities, while not diluting shareholder returns by holding excessive cash balances.
Consistent with this objective, the Company announced in May 2015 that it would pay a special dividend of 150 million to shareholders and that it had negotiated a new RCF, increasing the Facility from 200 million to 300 million on attractive terms.
Following the payment of the ordinary and special dividends, as well as investment and realisation flows, the Company ended the year with total liquidity of 327 million, including cash balances of 50 million and an undrawn RCF balance of 277 million.
In April 2016, the RCF was increased by 200 million on a temporary basis to provide additional flexibility to make new investment commitments.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2016 3
