Chairmans statement We have maintained tight control of costs throughout the year and are well advanced in our programme to achieve longer term efficiencies.
We had implemented 50 million of annualised savings by the year end and remain on track to achieve the full 70 million target by March 2017.
The balance sheet remains strong with healthy levels of cash generation which has enabled the Board to propose an unchanged dividend for the year.
The management team has been strengthened with a number Simon Troughton of highly regarded external appointments, including Campbell Chairman Fleming who joined the Group as Global Head of Distribution just before the year-end.
Hugh Young has taken on the role of Head I am pleased to present my first statement as Chairman, of Investment, with responsibility for the oversight of the entire following Roger Cornicks retirement on 30 September.
investment division across all asset classes.
The early part of 2016 saw the continuation of the volatile and Financial highlights challenging market conditions experienced in 2015.
In part, Net revenue for the year of 1,007.1 million was 14% lower than our exposure to developed market equities, fixed income and in 2015: recurring management fee income was also 14% lower, property assets cushioned us from some of this volatility.
By midwhile performance fees increased slightly to 15.8 million 2015: year, sentiment rallied strongly.
The benefits of improved markets, 13.5 million.
The blended average management fee rate was especially for our emerging market and Asian focused asset 33.6 basis points.
classes, and the depreciation of sterling supported assets under We have implemented the first 50 million of our cost efficiency management AuM and profit for the year.
programme during the year and, on a constant currency basis, the Recognising that markets and investor sentiment may continue phasing of these savings has reduced 2016 costs by 28 million, to fluctuate, we have remained resolute on the objectives thus negating the additional costs introduced by the FLAG, Arden, that we outlined last year: diversification of our business, cost Advance and Parmenion acquisitions.
However, the effect of management and cash management, and these will remain in sterling weakness has increased our overseas costs, such that, focus in 2017. overall, costs have increased by 1%.
We ended the year with AuM of 312.1 billion, an increase of Conversion of underlying operating profit to cash has remained 10% over September 2015.
"The acquisitions of FLAG Capital robust with core operating cash flow of 362.9 million 2015: Management ""FLAG"", Arden Asset Management ""Arden"", 531.7 million, representing a conversion rate of 111% 2015: Advance Emerging Capital Ltd ""Advance"" and Parmenion Capital 107%."
"The balance sheet remains strong with a year-end net cash Partners LLP ""Parmenion"" have brought wider capabilities and position of 548.8 million 2015: 567.7 million and, despite resource to our alternatives business, as well as the opportunity an increase in the requirement during the year, we retain healthy to develop our digital distribution capacity to meet the future headroom above our regulatory capital requirement."
Alongside alternatives, we have continued The blended fee rate has reduced from 36.1bps to 33.6bps.
This is to promote our multi asset capability with the launch of several principally due to product mix, given outflows from higher margin new funds.
equities, emerging market debt and high yield products and Our investment teams have remained dedicated to following inflows into money market funds.
Fee margins within individual our fundamental investment processes in pursuit of consistent investment capabilities remain constant year-on-year.
long term performance and we have seen a recovery in equity As a consequence of lower revenues, underlying earnings per share performance.
However, the US election is another in a series of were 20.7p, compared to 30.0p in 2015. political events which continue to impact markets.
Dividend Net outflows were 32.8 billion, which included 8 billion of The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.0p per share, multi asset and quantitative investment outflows from lower making a total payment for the year of 19.5p per share, which is margin insurance books, some of which are in long-term run-off.
The final dividend will be paid on The level of equities outflows declined steadily throughout the 9 February 2017 to qualifying shareholders on the register at year, although we do still expect some fluctuation from quarter 9 December 2016. to quarter.
We will have outflows in the first quarter of 2017 from two lower margin, but large blocks of AuM.
It has been pleasing to Acquisitions see more positive investor sentiment towards emerging markets During the year we completed the acquisitions of Arden, Advance as the year progressed and, while industry flows have initially and Parmenion adding 9.5 billion of assets under management.
"favoured passive and Exchange Traded Funds ""ETF"" strategies, Arden and Advance, together with FLAG which was completed we saw healthy net inflows to our emerging markets equities in in August 2015, have been integrated with Aberdeens wider the final quarter."
4 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Parmenion will continue to operate as a distinct business over some shorter time periods, longer term track records remain under our ownership, as part of our strategy to capitalise on healthy.
Assets under management increased to 89.1 billion advancements in financial technology systems and to become 2015: 80.1 billion.
a leader in using technology to provide investors with portfolios Fixed income performance continues to be solid, albeit the appropriate to their needs.
continuing low yield environment is a difficult one in which to Investment review excel with more traditional products.
The fixed income teams Whilst this has been another tough year for flows overall, the mix now manage AuM of 70.0 billion and we provide clients with effect of these outflows has varied within strategies and asset dedicated fixed income portfolios and a range of pooled funds, classes from 2015 when we saw significant outflows from as well as incorporating these investments into bespoke tailored equities mainly due to macroeconomic factors towards Asia and multi asset solutions.
Our strongest areas of performance are emerging markets.
credit and emerging market debt, but the latter suffered outflows as a result of sentiment.
Equity net outflows have reduced to 13.6 billion this year from 16.4 billion in 2015, with much of the improvement being in the Negative net flows of 0.8 billion from property were the result second half year.
Emerging market equities recorded a small net of a reduction in appetite for UK assets, especially after the inflow of 0.6 billion for the final quarter, albeit negative for the Brexit vote and the successful realisation for our clients of some year overall with net outflows for the year of 0.8 billion 2015: of the fixed-life Nordic funds.
Following the UK referendum, the 4.0 billion.
We have also been encouraged by new business Aberdeen UK Property Fund was one of only a few open end wins with growing traction from broader based asset classes into funds that did not close for an extended period.
Our focus was diversified growth strategies within multi asset and in equities from to treat all customers fairly by providing liquidity to those who North American and Australian small cap and Japanese equities.
requested to redeem, whilst protecting the interests of longterm investors and we suspended dealing for a few days, solely Gross new business of 39.0 billion was added during the year, to enable investors to consider and understand our proposals.
sourced from investors in EMEA ex UK 35%, the Americas 13%, More generally, we successfully increased our capabilities in the the UK 46% and Asia Pacific 6%.
Net outflows for the year were residential sector across UK and Europe, generating a strong 32.8 billion.
pipeline of committed investments of over 1 billion and continue Equity performance has improved during the year as a to see strong demand for European assets.
consequence of some of our long-term holdings recovering.
We made our multi asset capability a separate asset class, Whilst we set our objectives around longer term performance, reflecting the 89.9 billion managed for insurance, pension it is pleasing that Global Equities has performed well in 2016, and wealth clients.
We are developing our fund offerings where which is gradually feeding into the longer term performance we have a good performance track record in our diversified numbers.
Our consistent priority is to adhere to our investment growth strategy which has helped to receive a number of buy process and we believe that our longer term investment approach recommendations from consultants during the year.
This has of investing in higher quality companies, together with a strong not yet turned into significant inflows, albeit we have won a focus on engagement with the companies we own is fundamental.
significant pensions mandate funding after the year-end, and we Although some strategies remain slightly behind benchmark are optimistic about future growth.
Whilst the structural outflow Highlights 2016 2015 Net revenue 1,007.1m 1,169.0m Underlying results: before amortisation, restructuring and acquisition-related items Profit before tax 352.7m 491.6m Diluted earnings per share 20.7p 30.0p Statutory results Profit before tax 221.9m 353.7m Diluted earnings per share 12.6p 21.8p Total dividend per share 19.5p 19.5p Gross new business 39.0bn 42.5bn Net new business 32.8bn 33.9bn Assets under management at the year-end 312.1bn 283.7bn aberdeen-asset.
com 5 Chairmans statement continued from SWIP amounted to 8 billion, flows into this fund will be at As had been reported previously, Roger Cornick retired following considerably higher fee rates than the average.
close of business on 30 September 2016, having served on the Board for 12 years, the last seven years of which as Chairman.
Much of the 22.8 billion managed by the quantitative On behalf of myself and my fellow directors, I would like to investments team is for the benefit of larger multi asset mandates, thank and pay tribute to Roger for his leadership of the Board where the team is able to offer lower volatility and lower cost throughout his tenure and the invaluable advice and support he investment options.
The recently launched low volatility equity always provided.
I would also like to thank Anne Richards and and equity income strategies aim to outperform global equities Jim Pettigrew, who both stepped down from the Board this year, indices over the longer term, whilst only capturing 75% to 85% of for their contribution to Aberdeen over many years.
On behalf of the Board I would like to welcome all new colleagues The acquisitions that we have made in alternatives serve to round who have joined Aberdeen over the past year and to thank all our offerings by both investment capability and geographic of our staff for their dedication and commitment to the Groups coverage.
The integrations have gone very well and we are continuing success.
pleased to report good stability across the investment teams, and importantly retention of the focus and expertise that we Outlook have acquired in areas such as venture capital, real assets, Our primary objective remains unchanged to ensure that our lower mid-market private equity, liquid alternatives and managed clients achieve the long term outcomes that they expect and we account solutions.
remain fully focused on this goal.
We enter the new financial year with a healthy balance sheet and as a full-service asset manager A strategic priority for the Group has been to broaden out our with a strong distribution focus, and a broad range of capabilities solutions role within the wider business such that it now works which can adapt to changing investor appetites to enable us to across all of our investment departments to provide bespoke remain competitive in a rapidly adapting market.
solutions and portfolios to clients and strategic partners.
This central solutions team has leading skills in research and the The asset management sector is facing three head winds: design and build of client solutions across multiple asset classes fee pressure, increased investment in technology and regulatory for large and complex clients.
We will continue to seek further cost efficiencies, whilst also being prepared to make appropriate We are focused on our distribution capabilities where our strengths investment in innovation and otherwise supporting the future match market demand and develop new channels in order to growth of the business and motivating our diverse workforce.
We recognise that not only do we need to have best in class products but that we need to build strong We welcome the FCAs interim report on its review of the relationships across multiple channels.
This approach has led us competitiveness of the UK investment sector as it focuses to build out specialist distribution teams covering investment and attention on some key industry issues impacting customers.
client solutions across insurance, closed-end and wealth channels Asset managers play a vital role in helping investors achieve their as well as consultant driven opportunities together with more financial goals and the FCAs proposals will help deliver this for proactive client engagement.
the UK industry, making it more attractive on the global stage by leading the way in best practice.
There is a need for increased Brexit transparency in relation to the services provided, the costs of such Until the negotiation begins formally, expected by the end of services and also for ensuring value for money.
March 2017, the terms of the withdrawal and any impact will be largely unknown.
We do not expect either our non-UK or UK Future political and economic events, including the UKs businesses to be affected in a substantive way by the result of negotiations to exit the EU, the start of President-elect Trumps the referendum, although there may be regulatory and or legal term in office and European elections, will contribute to ongoing changes in the longer term.
volatility in global markets in the short term.
However, until there is greater clarity, it is difficult to predict the impact on Our principal cross-border fund range for European investors markets over the medium and longer term.
We will not allow outside the UK has been domiciled in Luxembourg for many any such volatility to distract us from our long term approach to years.
Beyond the fund range, the core issue is how we will be investing, and we remain well positioned to identify and grasp the able to provide our investment management skills from the UK opportunities that may arise to deliver further profitable growth.
into the EU market - whether through the benefit of passporting, acceptance that the UK forms an equivalent regime or through co-operation agreements with member states.
The Board I would like to thank my colleagues on the Board who have, Simon Troughton once again, made valuable contributions to its effective operation Chairman during the year.
We have added further strength during the year with the appointment of Gerhard Fusenig as an independent 27 November 2016 non-executive director.
6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Strategic report The strategic report brings together an overview of our business model and strategy, as well as looking at how we performed during the year.
It includes details of the Groups financial position and discusses our key risks and how we seek to mitigate them.
2016 in context The asset management sector is at a critical point.
We face an increasingly competitive market with the rise of passive and smart investing putting pressure on traditional business models.
This, combined with greater regulatory requirements, has resulted in downward pressure on margins and increasing complexity.
Throughout 2016, markets and investor sentiment were volatile.
The beginning of the year was extremely challenging in Asian and emerging markets but as the year progressed sentiment rallied strongly and our AuM and revenues benefited from market movements and currency fluctuations.
In a challenging year for flows, and therefore profits, we have continued to make progress in achieving our goal of becoming a leading global diversified asset manager.
To do so, we need to have a clear vision of our clients' needs, together with a focus on risk management and a disciplined approach to controlling costs.
In this section Business model 10 Market context 14 Strategic priorities 17 Our people 22 AuM overview 26 Asset class review 28 Financial review 32 Risk management 40 M J Gilbert W J Rattray Chief Executive Finance Director 27 November 2016 aberaberdeen-asset deen-asset.
