143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 2 Chairmans Statement Review of 2016 performance Last year proved difficult for small UK quoted companies when compared with the returns of larger companies.
The FTSE 100 Index gave a total return of 19.1%, while the return of the FTSE All-Share Index, which is heavily weighted towards large companies, was 16.8%.
By comparison, the Numis Smaller Companies Index excluding Investment Companies NSCI XIC, the Companys benchmark, generated a return of 11.1%.
The Companys net asset value total return was 5.8%, while the widening of the discount from 4.9% to 14.2% led to a share price total return of -4.2%.
The UK smaller company investment trust sector was negatively affected by the EU referendum as discounts widened to reflect the economic uncertainty stemming from the result.
The Managers Report expands in more detail on 2016s performance and puts it into the longer term context of the three year continuation vote period.
Dividends The positive dividend environment within the small UK quoted companies sector continues.
In this context, the Board is pleased to propose a final ordinary dividend of 18.75p.
This results in total ordinary dividends for the year of 27.35p, which represents an increase of 5.2% on 2015.
In 2016, the income account benefited from the receipt of five special dividends paid by investee companies.
As was the case last year, the Board is proposing the payment of a special dividend of 2.75p per share 2015: 2.75p in addition to the final ordinary dividend, thus ensuring the all-important retention test is passed to allow the Company to continue to operate as an investment trust in the eyes of HMRC.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy.
The Companys revenue reserves, after adjusting for payment of both the final ordinary and special dividends, amount to 52.3p per share up from 45.1p as at 31 December 2015 and provide a degree of flexibility for the future.
As in my statement last year, I would note that the base level for the Companys progressive dividend policy in 2016 is 27.35p, i. e. excluding the special dividend.
Both dividends are subject to Shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and will be paid on 3 March 2017 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 February 2017.
Their ex dividend date is 9 February 2017.
Continuation vote It is the Companys policy to hold a continuation vote every three years.
The Annual General Meeting on 1 March 2017 will see the eighth such vote in its history and the first since I assumed the chair.
The Board views the vote as a key shareholder right and we would encourage all Shareholders to exercise this right.
The 2017 vote occurs against a backdrop where the returns from the Company have been below those of the NSCI XIC since the last vote.
It is the role of the Board, in representing shareholders, to understand fully the factors that have affected performance over any given period.
The current Board benefits to the extent that third party information has become more readily available, particularly when it comes to analysing the size and style influences that are at work in the UK smaller quoted sector.
For the three year period to 31 December 2016, and indeed for much of the last decade, the value investing style has experienced consistent, and at times, severe headwinds, which have hampered the relative performance of the Company.
The Board, in recommending a vote in favour for the continuation of the Company, is acknowledging the impact of the value investing style on the three year numbers but also its positive role in the creation of the excellent long term record as illustrated on page 6.
Given the longer term evidence, the Board continues to be encouraged by the Managers adherence to their value discipline, particularly over the past decade, which has been so hostile to this investment style.
The Board, in monitoring performance, continues to believe that long term results give a much stronger indication of skill than short term figures.
Alongside the investment style analysis, which supports the Boards recommendation to vote in favour, is the Boards confidence in the Managers.
This reflects their single asset focus, their commitment to restrict the business in terms of assets managed, the experience of the team and their significant stake in the Company.
These factors, while by no means guaranteeing future outperformance, do, in the view of the Board, tilt the scales in the Companys favour while avoiding at least some of the pitfalls that have hampered the broader fund industry.
2 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 143471 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 143471 ASCOT Txt V9 27 01 2017 14:26 Page 3 Chairmans Statement Gearing It has been the Companys policy to use gearing in a tactical manner throughout its 26 year history.
The existing 125m facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland has a term expiring in June 2017.
As has been the case in the past, the facility term dovetails with the three yearly continuation vote cycle.
After the Annual General Meeting, and providing the continuation vote is duly passed, the Board and the Managers will seek to put in place a new facility which would continue to provide the Company with access to liquidity for investment purposes and to fund share buy-ins as and when appropriate.
In an illiquid, and at times volatile, asset class such as small UK quoted companies, having access to immediate funds through a credit facility provides the Managers with enhanced flexibility.
At the year end, gearing stood at 2.7% of Shareholders funds.
During the year, the level of gearing ranged from 0.3% to 4.2% with an average of 2.7%.
Share buy-in At the Annual General Meeting in March 2016, the authority to buy in up to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary Shares was approved.
During the year, 620,500 Ordinary Shares 0.7% of the issued share capital were bought in at a total cost of 6.28m million.
Consistent with the Boards stated policy: those Ordinary Shares have been cancelled rather than held in Treasury.
Once again, the Board will be seeking to renew the buy-in authority at the Annual General Meeting on 1 March 2017.
Outlook 2016 was a remarkable year as the UK voted to leave the EU and the United States embraced populism by electing Donald Trump.
Undoubtedly, Brexit has introduced an additional level of uncertainty for British business, which I suspect will continue to be a feature for some time.
Ironically, amidst all this apprehension, financial markets have started to move in a manner that should be more helpful for the Company.
As the year drew to a close, value investing, as a style, performed strongly around the globe, though less pronounced in the UK small quoted arena where Brexit uncertainty looms large.
Nevertheless, the Companys stronger second half, with a net asset value total return of 19.2% compared to the 17.7% return generated by the NSCI XIC, benefited from a slight style tailwind.
The interdependency of politics and economics currently appears elevated.
2017 will serve up further challenges and opportunities.
By this time next year we may indeed have a little more clarity on Brexit, perhaps greater clarity on what President Trumps America looks like and a series of elections will provide feedback on where European populism lies.
In financial markets, the struggle between inflation and deflation and to what extent fiscal stimulus returns to the economic stage are likely to be important factors.
The so called reflation trade could easily herald better times for the value investor, but stagflation against a backdrop of growing protectionism would undoubtedly be more challenging for equities in general.
However, with small UK quoted companies on their lowest rating since 2000 when compared with large companies and after a decade long bear market for the value style, it seems plausible that some of the headwinds of recent years could shift to become tailwinds for the Company over the coming years.
Finally, the Board welcomes the views of Shareholders and we are always available to talk to Shareholders directly.
I have very much enjoyed and gained huge benefit from the conversations I have had with those Shareholders who have been in touch.
My email address is noted below.
Paul Trickett Chairman 27 January 2017 paul.
co. uk Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 3
