chairMans stateMent During 2016 Acacia delivered against its primary objective of delivering free cash flow generation.
Dear shareholders, 2016 was a pleasing year for acacia as the Company delivered against our primary objective of generating free cash flow as the benefits of the changes at the operations flowed through the business.
It was a record year in several ways as Group production of 829,705 ounces was the highest that the business has ever achieved.
This, in turn, was driven by record production at North Mara of 378,443 ounces, aided by a full year of operations at the Gokona underground operation.
This is now the fourth consecutive year we have delivered an increase in production, from what was seen as a mature asset base, and we are guiding for a fifth year of growth in 2017.
On the cost front, we saw a downward step change, driven in part by increased production, but also by the major restructuring of the workforce in Q4 2015.
Over the past four years, we have taken over uS$600 per ounce out of our all-in sustaining cost through the transformation of each of our assets.
This has meant that the business has moved from a position of considerable cash outflow, to one that doubled its net cash position Kelvin dushnisKy to uS$218 million during 2016.
CHaIRMaN OF THE BOaRD The turnaround of the business, coupled with supporting tailwinds, meant that the share price performed extremely strongly during 2016, rising 108% over the year, with a peak at 598p in august.
Geopolitical events 2016 was a strong year for acacia through the year, including the result of the referendum on the uKs as we began to reap the benefits membership of the Eu, speculation over the timing of interest rate rises in the uS, and rising political tensions provided support for the gold price from the changes that we have over the first ten months of the year and meant that our net realised gold price averaged uS$1,240 per ounce for the year, was nearly 5% higher driven across the business.
However, following the united States Presidential election and a uS interest rate rise in December there was a correction in the gold price and it ended the year at uS$1,145 per ounce.
board composition There have been no significant changes to Board composition in 2016.
This year we revisited Board Committee composition to ensure that the membership of each Board Committee is best aligned to acacias needs.
as a result of this review, we have decided to alter the composition of our audit and EHS&S Committees, with composition changes applying from 2017.
Further details of these changes are provided as part of the Governance overview on page 60.
4 AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 strAtegic rePort relevant pages p60 Governance overview final dividend effective governance Our dividend policy is based on cash flow in order to ensure that it is closely Our Directors have considerable knowledge and aligned with the focus on cash generation from the business.
as a result experience of the mining industry and bring other we aim to pay a dividend of between 15-30% of our operational cash flow, relevant experience to the Board to assist acacia after sustaining capital and capitalised development, but before expansion in achieving its strategic goals.
In line with this policy, in July we declared an interim dividend of 2.0 cents Kelvin dushnisky Michael Kenyon per share, which was a 43% increase on 2015. as a result of strong Chairman of the Board Independent performance in the second half of the year, we are pleased to recommend Non-Executive Director a final dividend of 8.4 cents per share.
This represents a full year payout brad gordon rachel english of 10.4 cents per share, or uS$43 million, which is at the top of the payout Chief Executive Officer Independent range and 147% higher than 2015.
The decision to recommend a dividend Non-Executive Director at the top of the range reflects the confidence we have in the business, the peter tomsett steve lucas significant free cash flow the Company generated in 2016 and the fact that Senior Independent Independent we are able to fund out of free cash flow the organic projects currently in Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director our pipeline.
We believe the distribution of capital to our shareholders is a key differentiator for acacia and continues our track record of providing andre falzon stephen galbraith strong total returns to our shareholders across the cycle.
Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director outlook ambassador Juma v. Mwapachu The delivery from our business during 2016 is a result of the hard work Independent that has been undertaken across the Company.
This does not mean that Non-Executive Director we have completed the transformation and we continue to work to optimise our asset base and to overcome challenges inherent to this business.
Looking forward to 2017, we expect to see further improvements across the asset base, with an increase in production and further reduction in Board skills Board independence costs.
This improvement is being led by Buzwagi as a result of the 1 optimisation of the final year of mining in order to drive cash flow for the 2 3 business.
We will continue to develop the operational stability at Bulyanhulu 2 as we look to fully unlock the geological potential of the mine, and at North Mara, we believe the extensive drilling programmes currently underway 6 will demonstrate the quality and longevity of what is becoming a leading 4 asset in africa.
Non-independent Geology On behalf of the Board, I would like to acknowledge all acacia employees for Independent Engineering their hard work during the year.
I would also like to express my appreciation Financial to our shareholders for their continued support for the Company.
African and regional affairs Board diversity 1 kelvin dushnisky Chairman of the Board 8 Female p60 Male governance overview AcAciA Mining Plc AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2016 5
