Strategic Report: Chairmans statement Chairmans statement I have thoroughly enjoyed every year I have chaired Admiral.
It is a special business Alastair Lyons, CBE Chairman everyone matters regardless of their role: in Succession how we motivate their aiming for continuous As announced recently this will be my last improvement in everything they do: in our statement as Chairman as I shall be retiring use of teamwork and our openness to share at the forthcoming AGM.
Given Admirals and support others to do a great job, whether distinctive culture which underpins the or not they are in the same department, success the business has achieved I have business, or even country: in our use of wide considered it my responsibility to ensure 2000 share ownership, both actual and potential, the Board should have a choice of strong as a driver of common purpose.
To maintain a internal candidates as my successor.
I am culture requires it to be continually reinforced very grateful to Penny James for leading the 512k to be lived by our leaders in the way in selection process which confirmed that the customers which they interact with those they lead: Board already had within its ranks individuals just in the UK to be trained into our people as part of our with the skills and experience to lead the development plans: to be the basis on which Board through the challenges of the next we select those who should be promoted five to ten years.
I am delighted that as the to greater responsibility.
I consider one of outcome to that process the Board has our managements greatest achievements selected Annette Court as my successor to be that as we have broadened our base, and I wish her every success.
both geographically and by business-line, we have been able to establish that culture in If I may be excused a little nostalgia, when these new businesses.
Whichever of Admirals I became Chairman in June 2000 Admiral 2016 offices I visit, from Seville to Swansea, I know provided private car insurance in the UK to I am in Admiral because of the way in which 512k customers with a 3% market share and our people interact with our customers and 5.2m employed 1,270 people just in Cardiff and with each other: their quest to identify the Swansea.
Turnover and profitability in 2000 customers across small changes in what we do and how we do it were 262 million and 24 million respectively.
5 countries that, taken together, create a big competitive We now have 5.2 million customers across 5 difference: and their openness to discuss countries and employ almost 9,000 people problems and willingness to embrace the across 16 sites and 8 countries.
and profits achieved 2.6 billion and 284 million, or 390 million if we back out the Test and learn has always been core to impact of the Ogden rate change thats Admirals culture.
Rather than spending a almost a 10-fold increase in turnover and a lot of time analysing an opportunity from 16-fold increase in profitability in 16 years.
every perspective and then committing We are valued at over 5 billion and are ranked a large investment we would rather make 84 in the FTSE.
We have 5 motor insurance a small investment of time and or money businesses: 4 price comparison businesses: quickly and learn by doing.
Partnering test a household insurance business: 2 legal and learn is the willingness to acknowledge businesses: a start-up loans business and not openly when something hasnt worked to mention a price comparison incubator.
and either change or move on recognising these as opportunities to improve rather The essence of Admiral than mistakes for which blame should be On the one hand Admiral has changed attributed.
This approach of test and learn is enormously, on the other not very much central to our assessing which we will pursue at all.
Fundamental to our success remains seriously amongst the other business lines our culture Admiral is different in the way that could complement our core strengths in in which we engage and lead our people: in car insurance, either because our customers demonstrating in so many practical ways that 04 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information What we do How we do it Read more on Page 10 Read more on Page 12 would view the new products as relevant which has made strong progress again 2016 was broadly a year of growth across to their existing relationship with Admiral this year, increasing the number of insurer our insurance businesses outside the UK, or because the new line of business uses partners and, therefore, the number of taking advantage of the sound platforms experience and skills that we have developed quotes returned to customers, driving down that have now been created in Italy, the US, for car insurance.
Our current piloting of cost per sale, and raising its penetration of and Spain and the move in France last year to personal loans is a case in point here, whilst its target markets.
But changing the pattern in-source all our operations as the precursor our UK household insurance portfolio of of distribution in US auto insurance is a big of growth.
In the US we had 20% more 470,000 policies and already profitable three nut to crack and we may take others into customers at the end of 2016 than at the years after launch is a great example of a line partnership along this journey.
beginning, whilst our European operations of business that has passed successfully from grew by 31%.
The insurance business model 2016 in overview pilot into full production.
in the US is different to Europe with much This years performance is testament to higher new business acquisition costs, so Whilst we devote time and resource to our focussing successfully on our core UK growth requires investment.
In Europe, there exploring new opportunities outside of motor business, our book growing by 11% will also be periods when countries decide car insurance we also recognise fully that to 3.6 million cars, a 13% market share the market conditions are right to accelerate this remains our core focus with significant whilst UK motor generated profits of which may in turn justify further investment, potential for growth beyond our current 441 million before the impact of the as in Spain this year.
13% market share as and when it is the Ogden rate change, maintaining last years right point in the cycle to grow.
So the Our price comparison sector combines a level.
The UK motor profit after the impact capability required to develop our business highly competitive operation in a largely of the Ogden change is 336 million.
We must be, and is, incremental to, rather than mature market Confused : market-leading have continued to take advantage of firm dilutive of, our core.
We continue to invest players with large market shares but whose market conditions to move prices ahead as much thought and resource as we ever challenge is growth in markets where there a little more slowly than the average of have in improving the effectiveness of our is little incentive for customers to look to the market allowing us to grow our book motor insurance proposition, whether it be switch insurers Rastreator and LeLynx : whilst returning a good underwriting result in pricing analytics, claims management, and a business that is seeking to rewrite the for Admiral and its reinsurance partners.
However we rules of insurance customer engagement Effective pricing supported by data analysis also recognise that if we are to develop compare.
Across the piece our and predictive modelling, and really successfully new lines of business such as combined price comparison operations made insightful claims management underpin our personal loans we need to add new skills and a small profit, supported by encouraging success and we are always looking for new experience to our existing management progress by Confused as it seeks to establish ways to make risk analysis more reflective whilst at the same time assimilating this new a differentiated market positioning as No.
1 of the characteristics of the individual talent within our distinctive culture.
In this vein we believe we are now the largest deployer of telematics in the UK.
We are also strong believers in the potential of partnership to combine the skills, A great customer experience experience and resources of others with those that Admiral has developed and to share both risk and reward when entering The agent who set up my policy, Kath, was excellent.
She was new markets, particularly those that require extremely efficient and was able to quickly sort out a quote for me material levels of investment.
Our long term partnership with Munich Re has lasted for based on two vehicles and a household on a multi-product policy.
17 years and is committed through to at She was also able to cancel the previous two policies.
I dont know least 2020 in the UK: we are partnering with what youre feeding these folks, but these arent just normal agents, Mapfre in Spanish and US price comparison theyre some kind of super-agents and in Preminen, our price comparison UK New Business incubator: White Mountains, the US insurance venture capital specialist, is also invested alongside Admiral in compare.
com Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 05 Strategic Report: Chairmans statement Chairmans statement continued For the last couple of months the resetting The team Thank you of the Ogden rate by the Ministry of May last year marked the retirement I have thoroughly enjoyed every year I have Justice has represented a significant area of Henry Engelhardt after 25 years as chaired Admiral.
It is a special business of uncertainty outside of our control.
The Chief Executive albeit I am delighted he because of the way in which it does business, announcement on 27 February 2017 by the is continuing to give us some of his time its absolute focus on delivering what the Lord Chancellor of the new rate of minus working in the UK and overseas.
That the customer wants, and its beliefs that if people 0.75% has allowed this to be reflected transition from Henry to David Stevens enjoy what they are doing and own part of within our 2016 accounts and represents a has been seamless is itself testament to the business that employs them they will very material reduction from the previous Admirals culture of teamwork and open do a better job.
In the same way as Admiral 2.5% rate, increasing claims reserves by management.
Henry always said that he seeks to assess the right price for each more than we would want to absorb within would time his retirement when he judged driver as an individual so it respects the the, albeit significant, margin that we hold the business had the required depth of contribution of each individual who works over best estimate.
We have, therefore, management and over the years the Board with us, caring about their well-being and reduced our second half reported results has focussed on understanding the talent giving them the opportunity to develop and by 105 million, and to a much lesser emerging within the business and how it progress to fulfil their individual potential.
It extent the profits of subsequent years has been, and is planned to be, developed.
is a company with which I am very proud to will also be reduced as the affected claims It is, therefore, very gratifying to see David have been associated and I thank everyone settle.
Given, however, our strong capital now ably supported by Cristina Nestares in Admiral with whom I have worked for a position, this has not impacted our ability leading the UK Insurance business, with great experience.
to maintain our 2016 final dividend at the Alistair Hargreaves working alongside her, level we declared in 2015.
We anticipate With a core business in such good form, a and by Milena Mondini leading the European that if market pricing adjusts future nursery of other businesses at varying stages insurance businesses.
Cristina and Milena premiums to reflect the lower discount of maturity, and a hothouse of opportunities have both been with Admiral for 11 years rate, there will be no significant impact on which may or may not take root and get having founded, and successfully developed, future business and its profitability after planted out, but most of all with the people our Spanish and Italian insurance businesses the change.
We strongly support the ABIs we have in the business, I am confident that and then broadened their management call for a fundamental review of the basis Admiral will continue to develop and prosper responsibilities leading to their current on which the Ogden rate is set in order to over the next 16 years as it has over the last.
Alistair has been with Admiral eight ensure that the relevant compensation years, having begun his career in finance awards are set appropriately and welcome and investor relations and then taken the intent of the Lord Chancellor and the increasingly significant management roles Chancellor of the Exchequer to implement within the UK motor business.
and recruitment of management talent is a Alastair Lyons, CBE core enabler of Admirals continued growth A proposed final dividend of 51.5 pence per Chairman and development and I am very encouraged share brings dividends for the year to 114.4 7 March 2017 by the quality and potential of those I meet pence per share, a yield of 6.3% on the 18.18 in middle and senior management positions share price at the 2016 year end.
as I spend time across our various businesses.
06 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our year in pictures 1.
ConTe winning 2nd best large work place 2016 in Great Place to Work in Italy 2016 2.
Henry and Dianes gift of 1,000 to each member of staff 3.
coms new advertising campaign 1 2 with James Corden 4.
Elephant starts selling in two new US states 6.
Admiral Seguros 10th birthday 3 5 4 6 7 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 07
