STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CHANGE FOR A STRONGER FUTURE Over the course of the last 12 months the business has Whilst we have continued to invest in the long-term delivered substantial change designed to support the health of the business, we have also maintained strong long-term delivery of shareholder value.
We exit the year with a strong balance a robust financial performance across the Group despite sheet, providing us with the flexibility to exploit growth challenging consumer market conditions and the scale opportunities as they arise and to maintain our and complexity of our change activity.
Overall in the period we maintained our market share DIVIDEND and, importantly, we have continued to invest in The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend of developing our brands for the long-term.
9.97p per share to give a total dividend for the full year of 13.33p per share, a full year increase of 10.0% on the During the year we made further progress in the prior year.
I am pleased to report that the Funkin business acquired in 2015 continued its PEOPLE expected growth momentum under our ownership and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the whole we plan to further develop the Funkin brand to ensure team across the Group for their hard work and diligence it continues to meet our acquisition expectations.
in what has been a demanding year.
Our relationships with our key partners, Rockstar and I was pleased to welcome David Ritchie to our Board in Dr Pepper Snapple Group, with the Snapple brand, April 2015.
David has made a very positive impact and continued to progress with further growth and the brings a wealth of experience and insight which will development of new brand flavours and formats.
In support the business going forward.
addition we have made significant progress in our ambition to extend our international footprint, building We expect to further strengthen our Board across the a growing and differentiated portfolio of brands to next year as we strive to develop an even more balanced compete in our selected markets.
At the core of our development activity is our drive to PROSPECTS reformulate and realign our portfolio to meet rapidly The business is in good shape to navigate through the changing consumer preferences.
I am pleased with challenges that exist across the market.
The combination our progress in this area, further details of which will of strong foundations and a motivated and experienced be covered within this report.
management team, capable of both adapting and then successfully executing our strategy, ensures we are well positioned to further grow and develop our business across 2016 and beyond.
JOHN NICOLSON CHAIRMAN A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 O VERALL IN THE PERIOD WE MAINTAINED OUR MARKET SHARE AND, IMPORTANTLY, WE HAVE CONTINUED TO INVEST IN DEVELOPING OUR BRANDS FOR THE LONG-TERM.
JOHN NICOLSON, CHAIRMAN 05 A. G. BARR P. L. C. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 20 01 16 6
