70 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction OVERVIEW 2016 has been another challenging year for Aggreko.
We have had to deal with continuing low oil prices, commodity weaknesses and re-pricing of several legacy contracts.
All ofthese factors have caused downward pressure on the Groups financial performance.
It takes time to adjust to these pressures, but the Board and I are in agreement that our strategic priorities ofcustomer, technology, efficiency and people will position Aggreko for a strong financial performance in the future.
HOW GOVERNANCE SUPPORTS OUR STRATEGICPRIORITIES Delivering on our strategic priorities is crucial to our success.
The Board has focused on supporting our strategy by ensuring we have the right governance framework in place to monitor the execution of our strategic priorities.
During the year, the Board received regular updates from the Programme Management officer on each strategic priority and took time out fromthe usual Board calendar to spend a day focusing on strategy, identifying key actions to ensure we deliver on those priorities.
We also agreed ona new set of strategic KPIs, designedto measure success KEN HANNA CHAIRMAN against each ofour priorities of customer, technology, efficiency and people.
You can read moreabout ournew KPIs on page 34.
THE BOARD IS PLEASED WITH THE INITIATIVES LAUNCHED IN 2016 THAT ARE DELIVERING This year the Board has focused on AGAINST OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES.
supporting our strategy and ensuring wehavethe right governance framework READ MORE ABOUT THESE INITIATIVES inplace tosuccessfully executethat strategy PAGES 27 TO 31 BOARD CHANGES In March 2017, we were delighted to announce the appointments of Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts as Non-executive Directors.
Barbara is currently a Non-executive Director of two North American based companies, Russel Metals and Allegheny Technologies, having recently retired as Chairwoman of Boart Longyear, aUS based company in the minerals drilling sector.
Barbara brings extensive international non-executive experience largely in the US and Australia together with an executive career inthe mining, exploration and energy industries.
Barbara will jointhe Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Miles brings substantial international business experience as a Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Miles is currently ChiefExecutive officer of DS Smith Plc, a FTSE international packaging group with operations in nearly 40 countries.
Prior tothis, Mileswas Group Chief Executive of McBride plc, having served as the Group Finance Director before that.
An engineer by background and also a chartered accountant, Miles will jointhe Audit and Nomination Committees.
In April 2016, after almost nine years of service, Robert MacLeod Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code stepped down from the Board.
During his time with Aggreko, Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards Robert performed a vital role as Audit Committee Chairman, ofcorporate governance: it is the way we do business and overseeing our external audit tender process and making a itisat the core of everything we do.
Summarised on the valuable contribution to the Board as Non-executive Director.
pageopposite andexplained in detail throughout this I would like to thank Robert for his service and contribution report, we have described the key elements which we believe toAggreko and wish him well for the future.
are essential forgood corporate governance.
We follow the UKCorporate Governance Code the Code, as published bythe Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and arepleased to report that Aggreko has complied in full with allrelevant provisions of the Code throughout the year.
We are also in compliance with the 2016 version of the Code, which will apply to Aggrekos financial year ending December 2017.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 71 FORMATION OF A GROUP RISK COMMITTEE though further work was required around succession and talent management.
We anticipate that the work to refresh our culture This year the Board agreed to establish a Group Risk Committee will make an impact following the launch of our refreshed culture under the chairmanship of our Chief Financial officer and made in Q2 2017 and we agreed some further actions which we will up of the Executive Committee members.
Although the Board report on next year.
The review alsofound that Board meetings retains overall responsibility for our risk framework, the Group Risk were effective and well run, withgood relationships between Committee performs an important role, focusing on embedding members and open debate.
We did identify some administrative the risk framework within the management teams and ensuring areas for efficiency improvements and agreed actions for 2017. key controls are in place for each of our principal risks.
I am You canreadmore about the Board evaluation on page 81. pleased with the work of the Group Risk Committee todate: youcan readmore about their roleand interaction with the DIVIDEND BoardandAudit Committee during2016 on page 82.
The Board is pleased to recommend a final dividend for the THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE PERFORMS year ended 31 December 2016 of 17.74 pence 2015: 17.74 pence.
ANIMPORTANT ROLE IN EMBEDDING OWNERSHIP When added to the interim dividend of 9.38 pence this results OFTHE RISKS WITH OUR MANAGERS.
inafull year dividend of 27.12 pence 2015: 27.12 pence.
BOARD EVALUATION LOOKING AHEAD TO 2017 I personally conducted the Board evaluation this year, through The Board will continue to closely monitor progress against our individual meetingswith each Board Member, the Rental strategic priorities of customer, technology, efficiency and people, Solutions President, Managing Director for Power Solutions and ensuring that they are supported by appropriate governance Company Secretary.
We focused on the issues raised last year structures.
These priorities are an investment in our future and will by the externally facilitated review in relation tocompetitors, protect Aggrekos position as the leading global provider of power, market landscape, risk, succession and talent management.
heatingand cooling that is efficient, modular and mobile.
We also looked at Board meeting effectiveness.
The review Finally, I would like to thank our employees for the unwavering concluded that we have made good progress against the commitment and hard work during a challenging year.
actions in relation to competitors, market landscape and risk, LEADERSHIP ACCOUNTABILITY Your Board rigorously challenges strategy, performance, All of our decisions are discussed within the context responsibility and accountability to ensure that every ofthe risksinvolved.
Effective risk management decisionwemake is of the highest quality.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR LEADERSHIP READ MORE ABOUT OUR ACCOUNTABILITY PAGE 75 PAGE 82 EFFECTIVENESS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Your Board continuously evaluates the balance of Maintaining strong relationships with our Shareholders, skills, experience, knowledge and independence of bothprivate and institutional, is crucial to achieving the Directors.
We ensure that all new Directors receive ouraims.
We hold events throughout the year atailored induction programme and wescrutinise  with our investors.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR EFFECTIVENESS READ MORE ABOUT SHAREHOLDERS RELATIONS PAGE 80 PAGE 84 REMUNERATION Having a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on remuneration  is crucial.
Our remuneration policy aimstoattract,  to performance.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR REMUNERATION PAGE 94 72 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Our Board KEN HANNA CHRIS WESTON CAROLE CRAN Chairman Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Non-executive Director in October 2010 and January 2015.
Experience Experience Experience Ken has international experience, bringing Chris has experience at a senior level in the Carole has corporate finance and accounting financial and leadership expertise to Aggreko.
energy industry, proven leadership skills in a experience acquired over a number of years in He possesses knowledge of many different large international business and has consistently senior financial roles with considerable exposure business sectors and is an experienced senior succeeded in driving performance and growth to emerging markets.
Carole was appointed to executive and leader, promoting robust debate in his career.
the Board as Chief Financial officer on 1 June 2014. and a culture of openness in the Boardroom.
Having joined Aggreko in 2004, her previous Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive roles include Group Financial Controller and Ken is also currently Chairman of Inchcape Plc officer in January 2015, Chris was Managing Director of Finance.
A key member of the senior and Chairman of Shooting Star CHASE Charity.
Director, International Downstream at management team, Carole has worked to align Until 2009, Ken spent five years as ChiefFinancial Centricaplc, where he was the Executive Director financial strategies with the strategic direction officer of Cadbury Plc.
He has also held responsible for theGroups largest division.
Carole was also appointed positions as Operating Partner for Compass In this role Chris was operationally responsible as a Non-executive Director of Halma plc on Partners, Group Chief Executive atDalgety Plc, for both British Gas in the UK and Direct Energy 1 January 2016.
Group Finance Director of UnitedDistillers Plc in the USA.
He joined Centrica in 2001 after and GroupFinance Director of AvisEurope a successfulcareer in the telecoms industry, Prior to joining Aggreko, Carole spent seven years Plc.
He is also a fellow of the Institute of working forboth Cable & Wireless and One.
at BAE Systems, inarange of senior financial Chartered Accountants.
Before that, Chris served in theRoyal Artillery.
positions, including four years in Australia.
He has a BSc in Applied Science, as well as an Carole is also a chartered accountant, having MBAandPhD from Imperial College London.
trained at KPMG whilst working in their audit Chris was also appointed as a Non-executive divisions in the UK and Australia.
Director of the Royal Navy in January 2017.
RUSSELL KING DAME NICOLA BREWER UWE KRUEGER Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Non-executive Director in February 2009 and February 2016.
Senior Independent Director in April 2014.
Experience Experience Experience Russell brings international experience, Nicola Brewer brings extensive geo-political Uwe brings expertise of the engineering, services acquiredacross a number of sectors including and diplomatic experience to Aggreko, and renewable energy sectors.
He is a physicist mining and chemicals, together with strong havingworked in many of the developing with a PhD and an honorary professorship experience in strategy.
fromthe University of Frankfurt and an honorary PhDfrom Heriot-Watt University.
Most of his An experienced Non-executive Director, Nicola is currently Vice Provost at University career has been spent leading engineering Russellcurrently sits onthe boards of College London, responsible for international andconsulting organisations.
Spectris Plc as Senior Independent Director strategy.
She is a trustee of Prince Harrys andRemuneration Committee Chairman and southern African charity, Sentebale.
In her Uwe is currently Chief Executive officer of Interserve plc asSeniorIndependent Director.
previous diplomatic career, she worked in WSAtkins plc.
He also sitsonthe boards of He is also Chairman of HummingbirdResources Mexico, India and France, was a member of SUSIPartners AG and Ontex S. A. and lectures plc.
Prior to this, Russell spent eight years at theForeign and Commonwealth Ofce Board atthe University of Frankfurt on renewable Anglo American Plc, latterly asChief Strategy from 2004 to 2007, and was High Commissioner energy.
Before joining WSAtkins plc, Uwe was officer and spent 20years in senior roles at ICI.
to South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland from Chief Executive officer of Oerlikon, Senior Advisor 2009 to 2013.
As a member of the board of the at Texas Pacic Group, President of Cleantech Department for International Development, Switzerland, andheld various senior leadership shesupervised all UK bilateral aid programmes positions at Hochtief AG.
inAfrica, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 73 KEY TO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit Remuneration Nomination Ethics DIANA LAYFIELD IAN MARCHANT Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: Appointed: PETER KENNERLEY May 2012.
Peter is our Group Legal Director & Experience Experience Company Secretary.
Diana brings extensive international experience Ian brings knowledge of the domestic and and detailed understanding of how to operate international energy markets, along with Further details appear on page 74. successfully across emerging markets, particularly a substantial understanding of associated in Africa and Asia.
She also brings experience in strategic, financial and regulatory issues.
Until hisretirement inJune2013, Ian spent 21years at SSE Plc, most recently Other Directors who served during 2016: Diana is Vice President, Next Billion Users at as ChiefExecutive, and prior to that as Google Inc, developing products and services ROBERT MACLEOD Finance Director.
for users in emerging markets, and in Fintech.
Non-executive Director and Before joining Google, she was Chief Executive, Ian is an experienced Non-executive Director, Chairman ofthe Audit Committee Africa Region for Standard Chartered Plc currently serving as Chairman of John Wood until28 April 2016. and held a number of senior leadership roles Group Plc and former Chairman of Innis Energy over 11 years at Standard Chartered.
He is also Chairman of Maggies Cancer Standard Chartered, Diana was Chief Executive Charity, aMemberof the Princes Council of the officer of Finexia Ltd, a technology rm, and a Duchy of Cornwall, HonoraryPresident of RZSS, BOARD ATTENDANCE consultant with McKinsey & Co, an international Chairman of the advisory board of theCentre strategy consulting rm.
Diana has a BA of Energy Policy at Strathclyde University IN 2016 from the University of Oxford and a Masters and formerChairman of Scotlands 2020 Board % degree in International Economics and Public Climate Group.
Name of Director meetings attended Administration from Harvard University.
AB Ken Hanna 66 100% Chris Weston 66 100% Carole Cran 66 100% Nicola Brewer 66 100% Russell King 66 100% Uwe Krueger 66 100% Diana Layeld 66 100% 1 Robert MacLeod 22 100% Ian Marchant 66 100% A maximum number of meetings Director BARBARA JEREMIAH MILES ROBERTS couldhave attended.
Non-executive Director Non-executive Director B actual number of meetings Director attended.
1 Robert MacLeod retired from the Board on Appointed: Appointed: 28 April 2016.
Experience Experience Barbara brings extensive international Miles brings extensive international business Non-executive experience largely in the USA experience both as a Chief Executive and andAustralia together with an executive career Finance Director.
inthe mining, exploration and energy industries.
Miles is currently Chief Executive officer of An experienced Non-executive Director, Barbara DSSmith Plc, a FTSE international packaging currently sits on the Board of Russel Metals and group with operations in nearly 40 countries.
Allegheny Technologies having recently retired Prior to joining DS Smith Plc in 2010, Miles was as Chairwoman of Boart Longyear, a US based Group Chief Executive of McBride plc having company in the minerals drilling sector.
Until her previously been Group Finance Director.
retirement in 2009, Barbara spent over 30 years Prior tothis, Miles worked for Costain Group in a number of roles in AlcoaInc.
now demerged plc and Vivendi UK.
He also has non-executive into Alcoa and Arconic Inc., the world leader experience, having served on the boards of in the production of aluminium and related Poundland Group plc as Senior Independent products.
Her roles in Alcoa included Assistant Director and Care UK plc as a Non-executive General Counsel, VP Corporate Development Director.
Miles has a degree in Engineering and Executive VP in charge of strategy and andisalso a chartered accountant.
Barbara is an American citizen with a BAinpolitical science and is a qualied lawyer.
74 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Our Executive Committee The Executive Committee operates under the direction and authority oftheChief Executive officer: itis responsible for supporting him in all aspects ofhisrole.
Each member has been assigned individual responsibility for the principal risks and uncertainties outlined in the Strategic Report.
They also sponsor and have overall accountability fordelivering against the initiatives designed to underpin our strategic priorities of customer, technology, efciencyand people toenhance our existing competitive advantages.
1 4 6 8 CHRIS WESTON TOM ARMSTRONG BRUCE POOL VOLKER SCHULTE Chief Executive officer Group Chief Information officer President, Group Manufacturing and & Programme Director Rental Solutions Technology Director Appointed: January 2015.
Full biography appears on page 72.
Tom has responsibility for Bruce has responsibility for the Volker is responsible for building the implementation of our leadership of the Rental Solutions on our current engineering 2 strategic priorities Customer, business and Group Sales & capability in Dumbarton and CAROLE CRAN Technology, efficiency and Marketing.
He is also responsible focusing on enhancing our People programme designed for overseeing the delivery of our product strategy, product Chief Financial officer to enhance our competitive strategic priorities in relation to development and product Appointed: June 2014. advantage and deliver sustainable Customer and efficiency within management with the objective Tenure with Aggreko: 12 years.
Tom is also responsible Rental Solutions.
of delivering market leading for theProgramme Management products to our customers.
Full biography appears on Ofce PMO.
9 PETER KENNERLEY 5 Group Human DAN IBBETSON 3 NICOLAS FOURNIER Group Legal Director & Resources Director Group Business Company Secretary Managing Director, Appointed: April 2016.
Development Director Power Solutions Tenure with Aggreko: Appointed: October 2008.
Anna has responsibility for Peter has overall responsibility Dan has responsibility for human resources and internal forthe management of legal and Nicolas has responsibility global business development, communications, focusing ethical risk and for supporting forthe leadership of the M&A coordination and Group on talent and leadership the Board in settingand Power Solutions business and strategy.
This new position on the development, employee maintaining standards overseeing the delivery of our Executive Committee will provide engagement and culture.
strategic priorities Customer, a critical focus on securing growth She isresponsible for overseeing efficiency and Technology and maximising opportunities the delivery of the strategic withinPower Solutions.
priority in relation to People.
6 4 3 8 7 2 9 1 5 Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 75 Leadership DIVERSITY METRICS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 Executive Independent Non-executive composition of Board Gender of senior management No.
% 1 1 Executive 2 29% Male 56 81% Non-executive 5 71% Female 13 19% 2 As required by Code provision B.
1.2, this We have selected the composition of our calculation excludes the Chairman when SeniorLeadership Team as we believe 2 lookingat the Independent Non-executive this tobeabetter reection of our senior composition of the Board.
management structure than the composition ofour subsidiary companies, which is made up of96 males and 11females.
The Senior Leadership Team is madeup of direct reports ofthe Executive Committee and otherkey roles.
Gender of Board Gender of permanent employees No.
% 1 1 Male 5 62% Male 5,207 84% 2 Female 3 38% Female 974 16% 2 Tenure of Non-executive Directors Nationality diversity of permanent employees No.
% % 1 7 1 0-3 years 2 40% 6 European inc. Russia 28% 5 3-6 years 2 40% North American 20% 3 6-9 years 1 20% Latin American 19% 2 Asian 17% 4 African 10% 2 3 Australian 5% Middle Eastern 1% There are 106 nationalities across Aggrekos permanent employees.
Sector experience of Board Customer Energy Operational 88% 75% 63% Finance Geo-politics diplomacy Technology 50% 25% 13% How we divide up our responsibilities Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance.
Setting the agenda to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Directors and ensuring the links between the Shareholders, Board and management are strong.
Chief Executive officer Responsible for the day-to-day leadership, management and control of the Group, forrecommending theGroup strategy to the Board and ensuring that the strategy anddecisions oftheBoard are implemented via the Executive Committee.
Chief Financial officer Responsible for the day-to-day management of the financial risk of the Group and providing general support to the Chief Executive officer including the operational performance of the business and chairingthe Group Risk Committee.
Senior Independent Director Provides a sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary and is available to meet with Shareholders.
Independent Non-executive Directors Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of theGroupstrategy within the riskandcontrol environment set by the Board.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive officer and is available to all Directors foradvice and support.
Informs the Board and Committees on governance matters andresponsible for development  policies.
76 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Leadership continued ROLE OF THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
To retain control of key decisions, the Board has a schedule It sets our strategy and oversees its implementation, ensuring ofmatters reserved for the Board that only it can approve, decisions made reect our risk appetite.
It provides leadership and withother matters, responsibilities and authorities delegated direction and has responsibility for corporate governance and the toits Committees.
overall financial performance ofthe Group.
The Board is supported in thisrole by its principal committees, outlined in the table below.
READ OUR SCHEDULE OF MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD: IR.
COM INVESTORS Board AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION ETHICS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Monitors and reviews Determines the Monitors and reviews Monitors compliance and the integrity of Aggrekos remuneration for the the composition and oversees the effectiveness financial statements, Chairman, Executive balance of the Board of our ethical policies and the relationship with the Directors and the Executive and its Committees to procedures to ensure external auditor, internal Committee members ensure Aggreko has the that Aggreko conducts auditor and oversight of our and oversees Aggrekos right structure, skills and itsbusiness with integrity systems for internal control overall remuneration experience in place for and honesty and in and risk management.
policy, strategy theeffective management accordance with the law.
COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE REPORT COMMITTEE REPORT PAGE 86 PAGE 94 PAGE 92 PAGE 90 CEO DISCLOSURE FINANCE ALLOTMENT EXECUTIVE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for Operates under Responsible for the compliance with funding and decisions regarding the direction and implementation of Market Abuse treasury decisions.
the allotment authority of the CEO.
our risk framework, Regulation and of shares.
It is responsible for and processes for risk supports the Board supporting the CEO reporting, including in approving the in all aspects of his reporting the Groups final form of any role.
The Executive register of principal announcement or Committee also risks to the Board.
statement relating sponsors and has tothe performance overall accountability ofthe Group.
for delivering against the initiatives designed to underpin the new business priorities KEY TO COMMITTEES and enhance our existing competitive advantages.
Non-Board Board Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 77 BOARD MEETINGS IN 2016 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 BOARD MEETINGS In 2016, the Board held six scheduled meetings and one The CEO on strategic, operational and business developments adhoc meeting.
The ad hoc meeting was held by telephone and health and safety: inSeptember toensure the Board was kept up to speed The CFO on the performance of the business, capital structure, on material developments.
At each scheduled meeting eet, budget, treasury and investor relations: and theBoardreceived reports from: Each of the Board Committees on matters discussed attheir meetings.
The Board also received reports on our ethics compliance framework and new technology and product updates.
In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress Strategy Monitor progress One day strategy Identied and agreed areas of focus within Rental Solutions, against our review session.
PowerSolutions, distributed energy and technology to assist in strategicpriorities.
Added people to our strategic priorities.
Received regular Customer: approved and launched a new CRM system and online updates from web presence.
the Programme Technology: approved customer eld trials of next generation Management Ofce gasandHFO products.
Developing prospects for our solar-diesel on progress against hybrid product.
the strategic priorities and initiatives efficiency: approved and rolled out new site performance underpinning them.
management tool, allowing us to move towards condition basedmaintenance in 2017.
New set of strategic KPIs approved to monitor progress against ourstrategic priorities.
Monitor Refreshed and agreed Bolt-on acquisition of DRYCO, a specialist in moisture control, drying, opportunities our M&Astrategy.
heating and cooling applications within the shipping, manufacturing, foracquisitions.
food processing, construction and industrial painting industries.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES PAGE 27 AND OUR KPIS PAGE 34 Risk Review the Group Following the Approved the establishment of a Group Risk Committee, chaired management risk register, risk detailed review by our CFO and made up of the Executive Committee members and internal appetite and in 2015, continue toassist with oversight of our risk management processand to control effectiveness of the to monitor best furtherembed risk management within our management teams.
risk management practice and rene Ensured that our principal risks are aligned to key controls and process to ensure the riskmanagement formpart of the assurance and internal audit programme.
we have a robust framework risk management asappropriate.
Reviewed our principal risk register in June and December.
framework which delivers an effective and efficient approach to risk management and positively contributes to effective decision making.
78 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Leadership continued In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: Topic Activity Discussion Actions arising Progress Risk Monitoring legacy Regular updates Detailed analysis undertaken on the macroeconomic background, management contracts.
from Power Solutions power market and power strategy in countries such as Argentina, and internal Managing Director.
Close monitoring of tenders control andsuccesseswith modelling of different scenarios for our continued currentcontracts.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR RISKS PAGE 52 Leadership Succession planning.
Review succession Executive off-site meeting held with focus on team development.
and plans in placefor New succession plans approved.
employees Executive Committee, Senior Leadership Team and direct reports.
Employee Review culture and Reviewed Executive Committee work onemployee purpose, values engagement agree plan to refresh.
Launchofculture refresh plannedfor early 2017. andculture.
Review all Approved all employee share save offer.
Ongoing training Encourage interaction Board visit to Houston head ofce and Pearland inJune2016.
and development between Board Board workshop at Manufacturing and Technology site in Dumbarton forBoard members.
members and in April 2016 on the design and launch plan for the new medium employees across speed HFO engine.
READ MORE ABOUT READ MORE ABOUT OUR NICOLABREWERS INDUCTION VISIT TO NORTH AMERICA PAGE 80 PAGE 79 Governance Discussed format Agreed format for Completed implementation of the action points identied as part of forBoard evaluation Chairmans review with the 2015 review.
in 2016. one to one sessions with Agreed 2017 action plan for the Board.
Impact of new Reviewed existing Adopted new policies and procedures for monitoring and handling Market Abuse policies and processes of inside information.
Provided training to Directors and employees Regulation.
to assess abilityto affected by the new regulation.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BOARD EVALUATION PAGE 81 Shareholders Strong engagement Actively support Reviewed the outcome of the investor audit, which gathered with stakeholders engagement detailed feedback from our Shareholders.
opportunities Technology teach in at Manufacturing and Technology facility in andunderstand Dumbarton in September 2016.
This gave investors and analysts an investor views.
overview of our technology agenda and current progress against it.
Sought views from our main Shareholders on a new remuneration policy.
The new policy will be put to Shareholders for approval at theAGM in 2017.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMME PAGE 84 Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 79 In June 2016, the Board met in Houston, the head ofce location for our Rental Solutions business.
During their visit, the Directors Governance in action: received presentations from the Rental Solutions President andmanagement team in North America and a detailed update Board meeting in North America, on progress against our strategic initiatives in the Rental Solutions business.
There were also presentations from the management June 2016 team for temperature control and Aggreko Process Services: anengineering team within temperature control whose purpose Site visits give the Board key insights is to resolve process bottlenecks associated with temperature intothe business: at least one meeting issues.
The Board also hosted a dinner with the Rental Solutions management team to give the Board an opportunity to engage each year is held at a location outside with the presenters informally.
London or Glasgow to give the Directors The Board also visited our Pearland facility for a management an opportunity to review operations walk to learn about safety at the site.
They also met with some ofthe local employees based there, to hear their views about andmeet local employees.
working for Aggreko and answer questions.
Aggrekos Pearland facility is a 13 acre site, housing our largest service centre in the North American business, as well as national temperature control repair and support centre, Aggreko Process Services and a training facility.
Pearland has the largest temperature control testing capacity in the Americas with four test stands totalling 2,500 tons of capacity and the service centre generates the largest revenue in the North America business.
There are over 100 employees working at this site and it was one of Aggrekos first locations in North America.
Pearlands business sectors include Petrochemical Reneries, Building Services andConstruction and Events hosted in or around Houston.
As part of Nicola Brewers induction process, Nicola also visited our ofces at New Iberia with Ken Hanna.
During discussion groups with employees, Ken explained his role as Chairman and answered questions, whilst Nicola gave her thoughts on joining Aggreko.
The visit included a tour of the major repair facility and an introduction to some of the new products being developed for the North American business, including the first Tier 4 diesel oil-free air compressor.
Ken and Nicola also visited the local service centre, discussed some of the challenges facing this business with employees and toured the Rental Centre, learning about the initiatives underway at the Rental Centre to improve administrative efficiencies.
Finally they visited the RemoteOperations Centre.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2017 Continue to closely monitor the work of the Programme Aggrekos Pearland facility Management Ofce to ensure the initiatives underpinning inTexas, North America thestrategic priorities deliver the expected benets within theagreed timescales.
Monitor the roll out of the re-branded culture around the organisation to ensure all employees are aware of the launch and understand their role in embedding the culture into the organisation.
Receive regular updates from the Group Risk Committee toensure this Committee provides the intended level of supporton risk management and integrated assurance.
Plan a board visit to Southern Africa to provide key insights into the Power Solutions business in Africa for the Board, engage with local employees and visit a local site.
Implement the actions identied in the 2016 board evaluation.
Ensure thorough induction programmes for Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts.
80 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Effectiveness GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: Induction, development NICOLA BREWERS INDUCTION and support Our induction programme aims to give new Non-executive We make sure that all new Directors Directors a thorough grounding in Aggrekos business, onaGroupand business unit basis, areas of significant risk receivea full, formal and tailored induction andaclear understanding of their role and responsibilities.
Wealsoplan our Key elements include meeting the Executive Directors, senior Board calendar to ensure that Directors management in the Group and senior management within the business units and spending time with the Company Secretary areable tovisit different business locations toensure an understanding of directors duties, conicts of and arebriefed on a wide range of topics interest, corporate governance, Board procedures, Group policiesand the use of our electronic Board packs.
These topics range Visiting our main sites for briengs on Group strategy and the from those with particular relevance business units forms an important part of the induction process.
forourbusiness, such as world energy During Nicola Brewers induction to Aggreko, Nicola visited anumber of locations around the Group.
demand, to more general matters such asdevelopments in corporate governance.
We recognise that our Directors have adiverse range of experience, and soweencourage them to attend externalseminars and briengs thatwillassist them individually.
My induction programme was extremely comprehensive.
It helped me to learn about the different aspects of the business China Shanghai Scotland Dumbarton Nicola met with the North As part of a Board visit to the and absorb its culture.
This enabled me Asia management team, Manufacturing and Technology to start contributing to Board discussions receiving an overview of their site, Nicola attended a morequickly and condently.
business, visiting the Shanghai workshop on the design Depot andmeeting with an and launch plan for the new equipment supplier.
DAME NICOLA BREWER Non-executive Director UAE Dubai North America Houston, Pearland and New Iberia Nicola met with the Middle East management team for See page 79 for information onthe Boards visit to Houston anoverview of the business andwent on a site tour of the and Pearland and Nicolas visit to NewIberia.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 81 THIS YEARS BOARD EVALUATION EXERCISE In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, we undertake We operate a three-year cycle of Chairmans review, aformal and rigorous annual evaluation of our own performance CompanySecretarys review and externally facilitated review.
and that of our Committees and individual Directors each year.
Aggrekos lastexternally facilitated evaluation took place in 2015, sothis yearthe review was carried out by the Chairman.
Board evaluation framework Step one Brieng and preparation The Chairman presented a paper to the Board outlining Key areas of focus for the 2016 theproposed evaluation process for 2016. evaluation included: Our response to the three main topics raised last year strategic issues, risk and control, succession and talent management.
Step two One to one discussions The Chairman conducted one to one discussions with each member of the Board, the Company Secretary, Managing Director for Power Solutions and President for Rental Solutions.
Both the Managing Director for Power Solutions and President for Rental Solutions regularly attend Board meetings.
Step three Presentation The Chairman prepared a draft discussion document on the The Board discussed the findings of findings key areas discussed.
as a group, noted progress made anddiscussion against the actions for 2016 and agreed actions for 2017.
Step four Insights, conclusions Good progress has been made against the three main topics The evaluation also examined the andactions for 2017 raised last year.
current workings of the Board to identify potential improvements.
Strategic issues including competitiveness and Board and Meeting Effectiveness marketlandscape Well run meetings allowed We have reviewed the market landscape, our competitors and time for discussion of the implications for our strategy.
issues, debate was respectful We received regular updates on technology in 2016, including and the Board was balanced.
updates on the progress of HFO and solar diesel, with further Good relationship between items scheduled for 2017.
Board members and the New strategic KPIs were approved in 2016, further information attendance at meetings of the can be found on page 34.
Power Solutions Managing Director and Rental Solutions Risk and control President was valuable.
Some constructive points Risk register reviewed in June and December.
were raised in relation to Succession and talent management Board meeting administration, Although some progress had been made and the actions were agreed to improve appointmentof a new Group HR Director had made a good efficiency for 2017. impact, actions remained ongoing in relation to succession and talent management and further actions were agreed for 2017.
Successful Board visits to Dumbarton, Houston and Pearlandin 2016.
82 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Accountability Following an extensive update in 2015, the Board has focused on embedding the improved risk management process into Risk management and the Group.
This year the Board has spent some time challenging internalcontrol the alignment of key controls to our principal risks and ensuring the effectiveness of those controls by reviewing them as part of The Board is responsible for the Groups our assurance and internal audit programme.
For example, the Internal Audit team has undertaken audit reviews around the riskmanagement framework and internal change management relating to our strategic priorities, providing control systems.
The Group operates challenge over the effectiveness of controls and identifying opportunities for improvement.
dened internal control systems across The objective of our risk framework is to provide the Board, finance, operations and compliance, with AuditCommittee and Executive Committee with a useful key controls identied and assessed across management tool to capture, assess and proactively manage therisks we face.
Our risk management process also ensures that the year.
Group Risk, Group Internal Audit we take account of our business model and strategy to ensure and internal control teams operate within alignment with our risk appetite, framework and controls.
In turn, this enables us to fully comply with the UK Corporate Governance the business to monitor and assess the Code requirement for a viability statement.
effective operation of these controls.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE: TheBoard, via the AuditCommittee To ensure sufficient oversight of our risk management process and andournew Group RiskCommittee, to further embed it within our management teams, we formed monitors the internal controlsystems on the Group Risk Committee in 2016.
This Committee is chaired by our CFO, Carole Cran, and is attended by our Executive Committee anongoing basis.
The Group Risk Committee met twice in 2016. tomanage rather than eliminate risk, The Group Risk Committees primary role is the implementation andcan only provide reasonable and of our risk framework.
This includes review of the Group Register of Principal Risks, with challenge given to the prioritisation and notabsolute assurance against material management of individual risks as appropriate.
In future, the misstatement orloss.
Group Risk Committee will also oversee efforts to align assurance activity across the Group.
Following each meeting, reports are made to the Audit Committee and Board.
The reports to the Audit Committee focus on the effectiveness of the control environment for our risks.
The reports to the Board focus on agreeing the register of principal risks and any changes to the risk management framework, including proposals for amendments tothe risk appetite.
RISK APPETITE: Our approach to risk appetite has been developed in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
By articulating the type and level of risk we are willing to take in order to achieve our strategic objectives, we aim to support consistent, risk-informed decision making across the Group.
We have dened our risk appetite for each of the categories of risk as shown on page 53 of this report.
Our risk appetite has been incorporated into our risk management framework and the Group Risk Committee and Board monitor whether we are operating within our appetite through review of a series of agreed metrics and a review of the register of principal risks.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK: A full review of the Group register of principal risks was completed during June and July 2016 for our interim reporting.
This exercise was undertaken again at the year end.
Details of the process the Board has in place to identify, evaluate and manage principal risks can be found in the risk section of the Strategic Report.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, we monitor the effectiveness of the risk management framework and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
No significant failings or weaknesses have been identied.
Further detail on the process for monitoring the effectiveness ofour risk management framework and control environment canbe found inthe Audit Committee Report.
Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 83 GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: FAIR, BALANCED AND  The Board recognises its responsibility to present a fair, For the 2016 Annual Report, this process included: balancedand understandable assessment of Aggreko in Comprehensive management and statutory accounts allofour reporting obligations.
This responsibility covers the processes, with written conrmations provided by the AnnualReport and extends to the interim report and other regionalsenior management teams on the health regulatory announcements.
ofthenancial control environment: The Directors consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to Detailed reviews of the Annual Report and Accounts be fair, balanced and understandable, providing the information undertaken at different levels of the Group and by the senior necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys position management team that aim to ensure consistency and and performance, business model and strategy.
In arriving at overall balance: this position, the Board asked the Audit Committee to review A verication process, involving our internal audit team, and confirm the process we have in place to support this dealingwith the factual content of the Annual Report: assessment.
The Audit Committee confirmed that we have A key accounting judgements paper covering contract and a robust approach in place to support thefair, balanced and tax provisions, along with a summary of any changes in our understandable assessment.
accounting policies for 2016: and Both the Audit Committee and Board received an early draft ofthe Annual Report to enable time for review and comment.
The Directors consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, tobefair, balanced and understandable.
READ MORE IN OUR AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT PAGE 86 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal control Approves the risk management framework Approves the risk appetite and monitors compliance Approves the Group register of principal risks Approves the viability statement Ultimate Responsibility Board Responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups  risk management Oversight Reviews and challenges the risk management framework Audit Committee Reviews the effectiveness of the control environment Reviews the effectiveness of and approves the approach makes recommendations fortheviability statement tothe Board Responsible for implementing and embedding risk management and internal controls Management &Monitoring defines the risk management process to be followed by the business includingrisk appetite Group Risk Committee Reviews and challenges the Group register of principal risks ensuring makes recommendations controls identied are operating and tracks closure of items to the Audit Committee and Board Facilitates risk process, collating risk registers and consolidating theGroupriskregister Aligns assurance activity Responsible for identication, prioritisation, assessment  arise in the business Ownership Risks and associated controls are owned and operated Business Units, Senior Leadership Team by management and Group Functions Risk registers are maintained and form the basis of the Group risk register supported by Group Risk READ ABOUT OUR RISKSANDVIABILITY STATEMENT PAGE 52 84 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Relations with Shareholders SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2016 MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE Roadshows in the UK Roadshows on the Bank of America Technology following the preliminary east coast of the Merrill Lynch Business CapitalMarketsDay results announcement USA&Canada Services Conference in Dumbarton Citi Business AGM Conference calls and Services Conference meetings with investors following the first quarter trading update WHAT OUR SHAREHOLDERS HAVE ASKED US ABOUT THIS YEAR Power Solutions Utility pipeline and prospects Legacy contracts and key extensions inPowerSolutions Utility Exposure to Oil & Gas and emerging markets Strategic priorities Performance outlook Organisational changes and morale Cash ow, capital expenditure, debt and dividend cover Shareholder returns Overview Business strategy Performance review Governance Accounts & other information AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 85 KEY TO COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES Interim results Full year results Trading update Investor meetings AGM Site visit SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2016 AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Interim year Roadshows in the Roadshow on the Conference calls Credit Suisse financial results UK and France west coast and meetings with European following the of the USA investors following Business Services Conference calls interim results the third quarter and Transport and meetings with trading update Conference investors following Rental Solutions the interim results investor visit withBarclays Roadshows on the east coast of the USA & Canada following the interim results During the year, the Investor Relations team and senior Understanding what analysts and investors think about us, andin turn, helping these audiences understand our business, management conducted almost 460 meetings, met or spoke to over 400 institutions and participated in seven conferences.
is a key part of driving our business forward and we actively seek dialogue with the market.
We do so via investor roadshows, Meetings are conducted by at least one of the Chairman, ChiefExecutive officer, Chief Financial officer or a member attending investor conferences, hosting capital markets days and our regular reporting.
The Board receives regular of the Investor Relations team and these meetings occurred in a number of key locations around the world: during the updates on the views of Shareholders through briengs and reports from InvestorRelations, the Chief Executive officer, year we met investors in the UK, USA, Canada and France.
Chief Financial officer and theCompany brokers.
In addition, In future we aim toinclude broader management in investor our Senior Independent Director, Russell King, is available to meetings throughoutthe year, to allow investors to gain meetShareholders if they wishto raise any issues separately.
abroaderperspective of management and the business.
Results and other news releases such as contract wins and During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee changes to our strategy are published via the London Stock held a number of consultations with Shareholders around Exchanges Regulatory News Service RNS.
Any announcement the development of the new remuneration policy, Long Term published via RNS is also available on the Groups Investor IncentivePlans and general performance of the business.
com investors: a subscription Read more about our new remuneration policy and Long-Term service is available for interested parties to receive these updates Incentive Plans on page 94. by email.
We continually seek to enhance our communications and alongside the publication of this report we have refreshed We also enjoy meeting and engaging in discussion with ourprivate ourcorporate and investor relations websites.
Shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
The 2017 AGM will be held in Glasgow on Thursday, 27 April 2017.
The Group has an ofce in London, where the Investor Relations team is based, and maintains ongoing relations with analysts and investors through telephone calls and meetings.
Throughout 2016, we have continued to maintain open and transparent communication with analysts and investors throughmeetings, presentations, conferences and site visits.
In June 2016, we hosted a capital markets day on our technologystrategic priority, at our Manufacturing and Technologyfacility in Dumbarton, Scotland.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR STRATEGY PAGE 27
