6 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Chairmans statement Another year of substantial progress During the year the Group has continued executing on its strategy to deliver banking as it should be to more customers and generating strong, sustainable returns for shareholders.
Earnings per share have increased by 11% to 25.2p, generating an As your Interim Chairman, I am underlying return on average equity honoured to be presenting our 2016 of 18%.
These are excellent results in competitive markets and a testament Annual Report, which highlights to the dedication of colleagues across the Group.
another year of excellent progress Resilience in an uncertain against our strategic objectives.
operating environment As well as being a year of considerable progress for Aldermore, 2016 has been a year of change and uncertainty for the banking industry as a whole, with evolving regulation, political developments and their corresponding impacts on the global economy.
In particular, the UKs referendum on EU membership and vote to leave introduced considerable volatility to financial markets, which impacted the share price of many companies, including Aldermore and other specialist lenders, as shown in the chart opposite.
Following the vote, Aldermores business model has remained resilient, demonstrated by our financial results and partly reflected in the share price performance Danuta Gray, during the second half of the year.
Interim Chairman There remains much uncertainty regarding the precise nature and timing of Britains exit from the EU.
However, the Board remains confident that the business can continue to respond to the opportunities and threats this presents and continue to successfully deliver against our strategic objectives.
7 Strategic report Corporate governance Risk management Financial statements Appendices We are progressing in our search Commitment to strong Outlook for a successor for Glyn and are Governance The Board is committed to supporting confident we will secure a strong The Boards responsibility to provide the substantial progress Aldermore replacement to oversee Aldermores strong and effective governance is making in operational development continuing progress.
Throughout 2016 and financial performance, as well we were fully compliant with the Our communities as managing the challenges that Corporate Governance Code 2014 We remain committed to investing in this presents.
and having overseen the Board our communities, whether that is within The EU referendum introduced greater effectiveness review in my capacity Aldermore through development of the uncertainty.
However, the UK economy as Senior Independent Director, I have team: our local communities through has remained resilient to date.
every confidence in the continued volunteering and fundraising: or the strength and cumulative experience broader UK economy through lending to Your Board remains confident that of the Board.
Aldermore can continue to grow within We are also committed to strong existing risk appetite generating strong, I would like to take this opportunity to corporate citizenship.
welcome Chris Patrick to the Board and to thank Peter Cartwright and Neil We support the drive to create greater Cochrane for their services as Nonaccountability and transparency Executive Directors.
Both Peter and throughout the banking sector and Neil made valuable contributions to the have worked to ensure compliance Aldermore Board, as representatives with the FCAs Senior Management of our Principal Shareholders, AnaCap Regime from March 2016, as well as Financial Partners LLP.
joining the Banking Standards Board in the year.
We are also proud signatories On behalf of the Board I would also like of the Women in Finance Charter and to extend particular gratitude to Glyn Danuta Gray, are committed to both developing Jones, who has served as Chairman Interim Chairman greater female representation in of the Aldermore Board since March senior positions across the Group and 2014.
Glyn played an instrumental promoting the advantages of diversity role in Aldermores significant growth more broadly across the business.
and transition to a listed company and More on our role in our communities can leaves behind a strong, experienced and be found in our Corporate Responsibility dedicated Board.
