Strategic Report Chairmans Statement During 2016 the Board spent a great deal of time consulting with shareholders on the future of Alliance Trust and what investors really We care about wanted from their investment in the Trust.
We evaluated a broad range of options to decide on the best way to improve the Trusts performance and to position the Trust as a core holding for investors.
the long-term As I have commented before, it was clear that the appetite for a global equity investment trust remained strong, but that change was required to better differentiate Alliance Trusts investment proposition and to improve performance.
interests of Looking ahead, the Board and the new investment manager will now focus on delivering real returns for shareholders through a combination of capital growth and a rising dividend.
all of our Strategic Review With the aim of building on the progress achieved following last years shareholders AGM, the Board announced in May 2016 that it would conduct a Strategic Review of the Trust.
As part of this, we assessed the potential courses of further action open to the Trust and the best way forward.
On 15 December 2016, the Board announced the outcome of its review and set out a proposed new approach to managing the Trusts equity portfolio.
This will see the adoption of a high conviction, multi-manager approach overseen by Willis Towers Watson WTW, a leading investment group, targeting outperformance of the MSCI All Country World Index by 2% per annum, net of costs, over rolling three-year periods.
WTW will be the overall investment manager of the Trusts equity portfolio, providing access to and selecting and managing the sub-managers who in turn will create concentrated portfolios for the Trust.
By leveraging the scale of Alliance Trust and WTW, total annual costs will also be targeted to be below 0.65%.
This is highly competitive for an investment trust targeting such outperformance.
The aim of the new approach is to: deliver consistently the outperformance target, which has been doubled: maintain our long track record of growing dividends: and maintain the Trusts competitive cost ratio.
Whilst it was not required, the Board wanted to provide shareholders with the opportunity to vote on the new approach to investment.
We were delighted with the strong support at the General Meeting in February 2017 when over 96% of the votes cast by shareholders favoured the change.
The transition to the new portfolio is well underway and I look forward to telling you more about this at our AGM in April, when WTW will also make a presentation.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 6 I Strategic Report II III During 2016 Alliance Trust Investments ATI made good progress.
Significant Event An independent Board was established, third-party funds under During the year the Board received an unsolicited approach from RIT management increased, costs were reduced and the business recorded Capital Partners plc RIT with an informal proposal for a merger of a profit for the year.
As part of the Strategic Review, the Board reached the two companies.
No detailed terms were provided by RIT with agreement to sell ATI to Liontrust Asset Management PLC, a specialist regard to the proposal.
The Board of Alliance Trust announced that independent fund management group.
This transaction is expected to it would incorporate any formal merger proposal received from RIT complete in April.
As a result, Alliance Trusts structure will be simplified into its Strategic Review, alongside the other options being considered.
and ATI will be provided with an exciting opportunity to continue to RIT subsequently withdrew their interest.
develop its third party fund management business.
Board Changes Alliance Trust Savings also made significant progress during the Since my appointment as Chairman last year there have been three last year and remains part of the Group, headquartered in Dundee.
Following the conclusion of the AGM held in Assets under administration have grown by 60%, reflecting the 2016, John Hylands retired as a Director of the Company.
I would like benefit of the Stocktrade acquisition.
In the year ended December to thank John for his contribution and consistent support to the 2016 ATS achieved a profit before tax of 1.2m, compared to a Company over nine years.
loss of 5.2m in the prior year.
In May, we welcomed Clare Dobie to the Board.
Clare, who has had a When we announced the outcome of the Strategic Review, we successful career in marketing and client service in asset management introduced a more active approach to share buybacks, reflecting companies, has made an excellent contribution to our Strategic Review.
our determination to narrow the Trusts discount to Net Asset Value NAV.
This has helped to narrow the discount to 4.4% as at the end Finally, and very sadly, Rory Macnamara passed away on 17 December of December 2016.
We also announced in January 2017 that the 2016 after a period of illness.
Rory, who joined the Board in June 2015, Board had reached agreement with Elliott, the Companys largest played a significant role during the Strategic Review.
shareholder, to repurchase the shares in which it had a disclosable interest approximately 20% of the issued share capital as at The last two years have seen considerable change for Alliance Trust December 2016.
Given the size of its shareholding Elliott was unable and we are very appreciative of the high level of support shareholders to participate in the share buyback programme without obtaining have shown.
I am also extremely grateful for the commitment and the approval of other, independent shareholders.
This approval was diligence with which all of my fellow Directors have set about the task granted at the General Meeting in February and the repurchase to establish a compelling and refreshed strategy for the Trust.
With a of Elliotts shares has now been completed.
The impact of this clear course of direction and a settled shareholder register, we believe repurchase has been an uplift in the NAV for other shareholders that Alliance Trust is well placed for the future.
of around 1%, as well as the removal of a share overhang, allowing the Trust to move forward with a more stable shareholder register.
Performance in 2016 Over 2016 the Trust delivered a Total Shareholder Return of 26.4% Lord Smith of Kelvin and a NAV Total Return of 21.5%.
The Trusts share price rose 23% to Chairman 638p, while the NAV increased 19% to 667.5p, resulting in a discount at the year-end of 4.4%.
The Equity portfolio underperformed the benchmark, which returned 29.4%, primarily through stock selection.
The Board is delighted that the Trust has achieved 50 years of consecutive dividend growth, with a total declared dividend for the year of 12.774p per ordinary share.
As regards our objective to reduce costs, we fulfilled our commitment to reduce the OCR, which stood at 0.43% at the end of the year, below our target of 0.45%.
This reflects the level of cost we expected under the old investment management approach.
Going forward we will see this increasing to just under 0.65% which we believe provides excellent value for the targeted level of outperformance.
Alliance Trust PLC | Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2016 7
