Chairmans statement Your Companys performance John Connolly The Company delivered a resilient trading performance Chairman in the face of tough market conditions, especially in oil and 1 gas and mining.
Our trading profit in 2016 was 318m, down 15% from the 374m we achieved in 2015, but in line with our expectations for the year.
In August, the board declared an interim dividend of 7.4p per share, which was paid in January 2017.
This was half the 14.8p per share paid for the same period in 2015, which is in line with the boards guidance from the end of 2015.
As indicated above, the board has not recommended a final dividend in respect 2016 was a year of considerable change for Amec Foster of 2016.
Wheeler and we made very good progress in developing our Offer from John Wood Group plans to position the Company for the future.
We have also In March 2017, the board recommended an all-share offer for made an encouraging start to implementing these changes.
the entire issued and to be issued share capital of the Company The year began with Samir Brikhos departure as Chief Executive from John Wood Group.
Whilst Amec Foster Wheeler, under the Officer on 17 January, as I described in my statement in the leadership of Jon Lewis, has developed a comprehensive 2015 annual report.
Ian McHoul stepped in to be interim strategy and transformation programme to deliver the Chief Executive Officer and the board began the search for a appropriate balance sheet to support its standalone prospects, permanent replacement.
After a thorough selection process, the board believes that a combination with John Wood Group we were delighted to appoint Dr Jonathan Jon Lewis, who joined will accelerate the delivery of the future value inherent in the us on 1 June.
Jon has 30 years experience in the oil and gas Company and help to realise the full potential of both companies.
industry, including 20 years as a senior executive at Halliburton.
The offer will allow our shareholders to benefit from the He has a track record of safe and ethical operations, market significant synergies and other strategic benefits which are insight, strong leadership as well as commercial discipline.
These expected to be realised from the enlarged group.
qualities are already proving highly valuable to your Company.
Your board Jon started with a review of the Companys strategy, Following Jon Lewis appointment as Chief Executive Officer, organisation and cost base, after which he launched a Ian McHoul ceased to be interim Chief Executive Officer and comprehensive transformation programme to fundamentally remained as Chief Financial Officer.
improve the performance and growth of the Company.
More details on this programme can be found in his statement on Neil Carson retired from the board on 31 December 2016, after the following pages.
The board believed that a greater focus six years as a non-executive director.
In addition, Kent Masters, on operational performance, cost and delivering excellence for who was appointed as non-executive director on 13 February customers was a necessary first step to putting Amec Foster 2015, will step down following the conclusion of the AGM.
I want Wheeler back on the path to growth.
to thank both Neil and Kent for their considerable contribution during their time on the board.
Colin Day replaced Neil as your A critical part of securing the Companys future was to ensure Senior Independent Director.
Roy Franklin was appointed as it has the financial strength and flexibility it needs.
At the time Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and also joined the of acquiring Foster Wheeler in 2014, the Company believed Audit Committee.
Bob Card was appointed a non-executive it would generate sufficient cash to significantly reduce its net director on 1 March 2017 for an initial term of three years, debt.
The downturn in the oil price and the general decline in the which will end at the 2020 AGM.
sector however contributed to a combination of lower cash and profit generation that resulted in gearing calculated as the ratio Conclusion of net debt to EBITDA of 3.3 at 31 December 2016.
Jon Lewis and his senior team have made substantial progress towards the transformation of the business and I want to thank In order to provide the Company with financial and operational them and all of our employees for their hard work during a flexibility to implement its new strategy and to strengthen challenging year.
The board believes that combining with John the balance sheet, the board was preparing to launch a rights Wood Group will accelerate the delivery of the results from the issue of approximately 500m on 21 March 2017, as well as transformation programme and allow shareholders to benefit continuing the programme of disposals and has decided to from the synergies which are expected of the enlarged group.
suspend dividend payments including the final dividend for 2016 until the Company is generating sustainable free cash flow.
In light of the offer from John Wood Group referred to below, the preparations for the rights issue were suspended.
The Company has increased its leverage ratio covenant within its debt facilities to provide additional headroom.
Good progress John Connolly Chairman has been made on the non-core asset disposal programme and 25 April 2017 the board launched a process to sell the Companys nuclear operations in December 2016 which is expected to conclude in Q3, 2017.
1 Non-IFRS measure see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190 Amec Foster Wheeler 08 Annual report and accounts 2016
