STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT RESPONSIVE THROUGH THE DOWNTURN, AND IN SHAPE FOR THE FUTURE Although we maintained a high level of liquidity, with cash Sir John Parker and undrawn facilities of around $16 billion, the imperative to restore the balance sheet meant, regrettably, that dividends remained suspended.
With the company now in a much healthier state than a year ago, however, and prospects for prices a little more positive, the Board is targeting reinstatement of the dividend for the end of 2017 payable in 2018.
When the dividend resumes, we will move to a payout ratio-based policy, the details of which we will define at that time.
During a year of continued slow global economic recovery and low commodity prices on average, ASSET FOCUS AND OPTIONALITY Anglo American executed significant cost and In February 2016, when, as it turned out, prices for mining productivity improvements, and in the second products were around their lowest point in the current commodities downturn, we announced that we would be half benefited from sharply increasing prices concentrating our capital on our portfolio of diamond, platinum group metals PGMs and copper interests, and for several of its products.
This combination that we intended to explore the sale of many of our coal enabled a remarkable sector-leading recovery and iron ore assets.
As the benefits of our own cost and productivity improvements started to come through, and as we successfully divested a number of coal and platinum assets, in addition to the niobium FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE and phosphates business, with prices also firming for a majority of our products during the second half all of those Since the start of the mining commodities crisis some factors served to accelerate the repair of our financial position.
three years ago, Anglo American has reduced its number The pressures on us to divest further major assets have of operating assets by 26.
Crucially though, we were therefore diminished considerably.
determined not to sell assets below their inherent value not even during the dark days of late 2015 and early 2016, Although we still believe that the top-tier asset positions we after the slump in mining stocks had accelerated, abetted hold in fide Beers, PGMs and Copper form the bedrock of a by the aggressive shorting actions of certain hedge financially stronger and more competitive Anglo American, funds, which at one stage accounted for about 20% we continue to benefit from the much improved operational of our share register.
performance of a number of other high quality iron ore, coal and nickel assets.
As a result, we now have a much greater Accordingly, in the first six months of the year, the only major degree of optionality with regard to asset retentions, and to asset we agreed to sell was our niobium and phosphates our geographic balance.
business in Brazil, for which we received $1.5billion well above market expectations.
SAFETY AND HEALTH Later in the second half, however, market sentiment improved on the back of substantially strengthening prices Throughout Anglo American, safety is our paramount for iron ore and both metallurgical and thermal coal.
In 2016, we experienced a better total disposed of a number of minor assets as we continued to recordable injuries performance, with a 24% reduction tidy up our portfolio so that total proceeds for disposals inrecordable injury rates compared with 2015.
It is 1 amounted to $1.8 billion for the year.
distressing, however, to record a steep rise in fatal injuries, with 11 lives lost at the Groups operations, including We delivered a profit for the financial year attributable to seven in deep mines, of which four were in mines we have equity shareholders of $1.6 billion and underlying EBITDA subsequently sold.
This was clearly against the trend of $6.1 billion.
At the same time, continued capital discipline 2 of recent years, and all the more surprising given the resulted in capital expenditure declining from $4.0 billion heightened focus on safety throughout the Group, including to $2.5 billion, while no new major projects were approved.
an increasing emphasis on critical controls and more 1 The performance was bolstered by an across-the-business Proceeds from thoroughgoing safety initiatives such as our Global Safety disposals of improvement in productivity of 18% as we progressively $1.8 billion were Day campaign.
Any loss of life in the workplace is a tragic rolled out our Operating Model and sold a number of less received in 2016. event and is quite unacceptable and a deeply productive assets, with copper equivalent unit costs Total nominal cash saddening aspect is that several of the fatal incidents declining by 9% in dollar terms.
inflows are expected were eminently preventable, arising, as they did, from to reach $2.0 billion Net debt was reduced by $4.4 billion, from $12.9 billion over time, subject front-line operational practice not being aligned with to prices.
to $8.5 billion, considerably below our year-end target our stringent safety policies.
We must reverse this 2 of $10billion, with net debt to EBITDA of 1.4 times.
We Excluding capitalised performance, and the Board, and particularly its operating cash flows.
continue to plan for somewhat lower debt levels, given Sustainability Committee under the chairmanship the continued volatility in the mining industry.
of Jack Thompson, an experienced miner, has been engaging closely with chief executive Mark Cutifani and his management team to address this challenge.
04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Our Sustainability Committee is heavily involved in Board composition searching inquiry into all major accidents and fatal incidents, During the year, sadly, we saw the departure of nonand in assessing operational risks across the business.
This executives Ray ORourke and Judy Dlamini.
Ray joined the includes significant attention to all our 90 tailings storage Board in 2009 and stepped down to concentrate on his facilities.
Although we have confidence in the integrity business commitments as chairman and chief executive of the dams, and our tailings dam monitoring exceeds of Laing ORourke.
His wise counsel and experience of legal-compliance requirements, we have nonetheless complex projects, safety and innovation were of great value increased our degree of surveillance, inspection monitoring to us.
Judy joined us in January 2014 and left to devote and risk assurance.
more time to her business commitments as chair of Mbekani Group in South Africa: her contributions to the Board and I am pleased that a landmark step has been taken on its Committees, drawing on her experiences across a range resolving the silicosis issue in South Africa.
In March 2016, of geographies and sectors, including mining, were greatly Anglo American South Africa and AngloGold Ashanti appreciated by her colleagues.
We are now nearing the concluded an agreement which resolves fully and finally end of the process to recruit replacement non-executive 4,400 stand-alone silicosis claims.
We believe that the directors with similar skills and experience, and will agreement to settle this litigation is in the best interests announce one or more appointments in the near future.
of the plaintiffs, their families, our company and its wider stakeholders.
After an exhaustive international search, we appointed Stephen Pearce as our new finance director following Ren Mdoris decision to retire.
Ren has rendered great CLIMATE CHANGE professional service to the Group for 12 years, for which We continue to work in partnership and consultation with we thank him, and we wish him all success in the future.
all of our stakeholders, including our shareholders, to help Stephen, who comes to us from Fortescue Metals Group address the causes and impacts of climate change.
As part in Australia, joined us at the end of January and will succeed of this outreach, we have been consulting with the Aiming Ren at the conclusion of the AGM in April.
Ren will remain for A coalition, which was established in 2012 by a group with us until the end of the year to provide continuity in the of investors, including some of our largest shareholders, to transition and focus on specific projects.
enhance extractive companies reporting commitment to Chairman succession address climate change, including how they manage its In February 2017, I informed the Nomination Committee impacts on their business.
that I believed the time was right for the Board to seek a successor.
I will have served some eight years and have OUR CULTURE AND VALUES seen Anglo American emerge in a strong position following the mining commodities crisis.
I am honoured to have At Anglo American, each one of us, in our daily lives, makes served as chairman of such a great company and I will leave a contribution as we seek to earn the trust that gives us our behind not only a highly competent Board but a world class licence to operate.
Trust is integral to our deep-seated reputation for doing the right thing, including acting with integrity and displaying care MY THANKS and respect for the rights and livelihoods of our colleagues, communities and the natural environments in which we I am grateful to my fellow directors for their wise counsel work.
To assist us in this, we have recently revised, and are and support during a most challenging few years, and I continuing to roll out to all employees in the Group, our Code particularly wish to acknowledge the substantial additional of Conduct an initiative in which the Board was directly time and effort they spent on building the companys involved.
Intended to be a single point of reference, the Code resilience in the face of the crisis in the mining industry.
makes very clear what standards of behaviour the company On behalf of the Board, I also wish to thank Mark Cutifani expects.
It has at its core our shared values which describe and his executive team, who are delivering value in so what we should be doing to protect Anglo Americans good many ways.
I also would like to express my gratitude in name, and to make a positive difference.
this, our centenary year, to everyone who is working for Anglo American during this turbulent period, which has meant considerable restructuring in our business.
GOVERNANCE The role of the board in leading an organisation, and in OUR STRATEGIC REPORT leading by example, is especially important in times of corporate stress and difficulty.
As I mention in my Statement Our 2016 strategic report, from pages 2 to 64, was reviewed on page 65 of this Report, the non-executive directors and approved by the Board on 20 February 2017. worked closely with management through the deepening commodity crisis in the latter months of 2015 and early 2016 to help steer the company through this period.
Executive remuneration Sir John Parker As you know, at the AGM held in April 2016, we received a Chairman substantially lower percentage of support from shareholders than that achieved in previous years.
Although there is no perfect remuneration system, the Board believes that at Anglo American there is a relatively good correlation between profitability and levels of variable remuneration, and that our remuneration system is fair, performance-based and peer-comparable.
Following further consultation with shareholders, we will be presenting a revised remuneration policy at the forthcoming AGM, which we hope you will support, and which you can read on pages 84 to 109 in this Annual Report.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 05
