LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN POSITIONING FOR THE FUTURE copper production has grown to If managed properly, copper will Company and our management Dear shareholders, almost 710,000 tonnes.
While we have a long-term role to play in have been well prepared to meet anticipate prices will be stronger Chiles development.
The country the challenges ahead.
I look forward Over the course of 2016 we saw in 2017 than in 2016, we must still has 30% of global copper to his continued support, not copper prices begin to stage a continue to implement our strategy reserves.
With the right incentives only of the Group, but also in the recovery from the lows at the of reducing costs sustainably in place and working with all the development of the mining industry beginning of the year and this has and producing only profitable stakeholders involved employees, in Chile in his new role as President continued into 2017.
While this tonnes in a way that benefits all of communities, companies, of Sonami.
is undoubtedly good news, we our stakeholders.
shareholders and local and regional must be careful as an industry government we can develop these A RESPONSIBLE to guard against falling back reserves safely and to the benefit of AN IMPORTANT PARTNER IN THE into complacency.
PILLAR IN CHILES COMMUNITY Despite considerable efforts the DEVELOPMENT As we work to reduce our cost industry still has further to go WELCOMING OUR Despite the fall in prices over the base we must do so in a way in order to put costs back on a NEW CEO last few years, the copper industry that reflects our responsibilities sustainable footing.
In April 2016 we welcomed in Chile still has a vital role to play to the communities and the At Antofagasta, our response to Ivn Arriagada as CEO of the both in the countrys development environment in which we operate.
these challenges has been to renew Antofagasta Group.
He has over and in the global markets.
While I am delighted therefore with our focus on producing profitable 25 years of operating and financial I believe that Chile needs to continue the demonstrable progress that tonnes.
This is an essential strand in experience in the mining and oil and to diversify its economy as the Antofagasta has made to strengthen our strategy to ensure our business gas industries, including leading the country raises living standards for its community relations during will generate positive free cash flow Groups mining division since early all, we must not lose sight of the 2016.
Chief among these is the through the cycle and generate in 2015.
Ivn is the right person very important role that the copper agreement we reached in April with decent returns on the capital we to succeed Diego Hernndez, industry has to play.
the Caimanes community which led invest.
Our employees have worked having worked closely with him to the resolution of two court cases I believe that copper remains a hard over the last 12 months to in the preceding year.
His focus relating to the Mauro tailings dam.
central pillar in Chiles development.
improve the Companys operating on cost discipline and operating Los Pelambres and the Antofagasta The industry contributed some 8% performance and reliability, performance has proven very Group now move into a new era of of Chiles gross domestic product achieving some notable milestones.
effective in navigating the current community engagement.
Approximately 50% of The Antucoya mine successfully challenge of low copper prices.
His this is reinvested back in to Chiles reached full production capacity strong commitment and leadership economy, securing jobs, supporting during 2016 and the Zaldvar of our expansion initiatives has local businesses and helping to mine, in which we acquired a 50% enhanced our ability to grow create the prosperity which drives interest in December 2015, was profitable production in the future.
The fully integrated into our operations On behalf of the Board, I would like industry contributed $3 billion in during the year.
to take this opportunity to thank taxes during 2015, allowing the As a result of these efforts, over the Diego for his commitment and government to invest in education, course of 2016 costs have come dedication over these past four social housing, roads, rail and other down, productivity improved and years.
Under his leadership the vital infrastructure.
OUR CORE VALUES RESPECT INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY SAFETY AND HEALTH EXCELLENCE FORWARD THINKING 4 ANTOFAGASTA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS one reason we remain committed to NEW LEASE OF LIFE BOARD CHANGES OUTLOOK our strategy of reducing costs and FOR MICHILLA During the year Hugo Dryland We made good progress in 2016, putting them on a sustainably lower retired from his position as Nonreducing costs and increasing Last year we announced the closure footing, producing profitable tonnes Executive Director of the Company, production as the full impact from of Antofagastas first mine, Michilla.
and delivering positive free cash a position he has held since 2011. the new assets in our portfolio As I said at the time, this was an flow through the cycle.
With this I would like to thank Hugo for his flowed through.
This led to a important moment both for the approach we will maintain healthy valuable insights and guidance on strong end to the year, which was Company and for me personally margins during periods of lower a wide range of matters and for the boosted by a marked strengthening Michilla was the mine where prices and safeguard our financial significant contribution he made in copper prices on higher than I completed my first internship strength to the benefit of all of our to the Company during his time expected Chinese demand.
stakeholders our employees, on the Board.
Hugo was replaced As we look ahead into 2017 we see I am delighted that during 2016 we communities, shareholders and the by Francisca Castro, who brings a market which is more driven by found a new owner for the mine, government.
This in turn sets us up with her extensive experience in supply considerations than demand another Chilean mining company, well to take full advantage of any mining, energy and finance, in factors, some of them short term.
which will be able to continue its upturn in the market.
Chile where she has worked This may result in more supply operations and help secure jobs in for the government and Codelco As a final note I would like to thank disruptions than originally expected the region.
I know her all of our employees and managers and the year ending in balance, knowledge and expertise will be of for their continued hard work.
In any event SAFETY great benefit to Antofagasta.
I look forward to 2017 and beyond the market should be in balance in with a greater degree of optimism The safety of our employees and In August we announced that Ollie 2018 and in 2019 we expect to see than Ihave had for some years.
the communities in which we work Oliveira, a Non-Executive Director of supply constraints come through in is our number one priority.
Our Antofagasta, was appointed Senior the market as the impact of project target is to achieve zero fatalities Independent Director.
Ollie took over deferrals is felt in the global market.
JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC at our operations.
Therefore from Bill Hayes who remains on the So, although prices and sentiment CHAIRMAN I regret to report that during 2016 Board.
We also made several other are improving, some of the Antofagasta had two fatalities.
On changes to the Board committees challenges we have seen in the behalf of the Board and myself with Ollie taking over as Chairman market over the last two or three Iwould like to express our sincere of the Audit and Risk Committee, years are expected to continue over condolences to the families of our and Vivianne Blanlot as Chairman of the next 12 months.
We are now departed colleagues.
the Sustainability and Stakeholder seeing the return of inflationary Management Committee.
pressures on input prices and this is ANTOFAGASTA.
CO. UK 5 STRATEGY Statement from the CEO 8 Question and answer 9 Investment case 10 Our new operating model 11 Our position in the market 14 Our strategy 16 Key performance indicators 18 Risk management 20 Principal risks 23 ZALDVAR Dynamic-heap leaching pad.
