Chairmans Statement As Chairman, it is my pleasure to report full-year results which demonstrate a strong performance for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The hallmark of this past year has been rapid, assured and continual progress against all of our priority goals.
The IPO served as a catalyst for the seamless evolution of our focused portfolio of events and information services brands into a more integrated and customer-centric group.
Our larger, market-leading and scalable brands continued to lead the way with the development of new products and delivered strong organic growth.
We augmented our capabilities with enhanced, data-driven forecasting and digital tools that enable more engagement with our customer communities.
The acquisition of One Click Retail in August 2016 strengthened our e-commerce analytics offering across the fashion and consumer product industries and our most recent announcement the transaction with Cannes Lions long-time partner MediaLink announced in February 2017 reinforces our digital advisory expertise to sectors not limited to the branded communication industry.
Both of these high-growth acquisitions improve the diversification of Ascentials footprint outside of the UK.
The Company continues to refine its portfolio and, after year end, announced the planned disposal of 13 publishing-led Heritage Brands, the first of which, Health Service Journal, was sold in January 2017.
Our History 2008-2012 2013 Acquired by funds Mandy Gradden advised by Apax appointed CFO Scott Forbes Partners Guardian Acquired Educar, Mindset Chairman Media Group and Stylesight Duncan Painter appointed Disposal of Infrastructure as CEO Journal and AME Info Transform programme 37m invested 04 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Credit for this years performance is squarely placed with our Dividend talented and energetic management team who have been open Ascential plc was incorporated in January 2016 and, as to advice from a newly formed plc Board.
Our Board was fully indicated at the time of the IPO, the Board targets a dividend code-compliant shortly after the IPO with a broad range of payout ratio of 30% of Adjusted profit after tax.
Consequently, relevant capabilities and a gender diversity that was recognised the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.2p per share to be the best amongst the 350 most valuable FTSE companies to be paid on 15 June 2017 to shareholders on the register on with 57% female representation a profile that is reflective of 19 May 2017 which, together with the Companys maiden our broader employee base.
interim dividend of 1.5p paid in November 2016, makes a total dividend for the 2016 financial year of 4.7p.
Our former principal shareholders participated in an orderly disposal of the majority of their shares, resulting in a diversified Outlook share register of quality institutional investors.
We are grateful While still early in 2017, we are encouraged by the current to have been the beneficiaries of sound guidance received level of forward bookings and solid performances at events from former Chairman Tom Hall of Apax, and Non-Executive that have already taken place.
The market is very dynamic and Director David Pemsel of Guardian Media Group, both of the Board is confident about our prospects for continued whom stepped down from the Board in September 2016 with success in 2017. our thanks for their contributions.
Continual customer engagement and a commitment to improve Scott Forbes our proposition by our 1,600 talented employees have led to Chairman admirable accomplishments in 2016.
On behalf of the Board, 24 February 2017 I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees and customers for what has been a very successful year.
Group performance The 2016 financial year was another successful one.
Reported revenues from continuing operations grew by 16.8%, including the beneficial impacts of both acquisitions and currency.
Revenue from continuing operations grew 9.5% on an Organic basis, Adjusted EBITDA was up 11.5% to 95.9m, margins expanded from 29.9% to 32.0% and free cash flow conversion was 85%.
As these results show, we place a premium on organic growth.
We are also committed to enhancing our proposition and capabilities through selective acquisitions.
2014 2015 2016 2017 Business welcomed Business welcomed IPO on London Heritage Brands Money 20 20 RetailNet Group Stock Exchange held for sale Disposal of Media Business welcomed Disposal of Health Business Insight One Click Retail Service Journal Rebranded to Ascential Disposal of Naidex Business announced acquisition of MediaLink 05 Ascential plc Annual Report 2016
