4 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHRIS COLE Chairman CONTINUED GROWTH AND A STABLE OUTLOOK 22.5p THE BOARD RECOMMENDS A FINAL DIVIDEND OF 18.5P PER SHARE, MAKING 22.5P FOR THE YEAR On behalf of the Board I also extend my usual debt of gratitude to I am pleased to report that the Group delivered our employees.
Ashtead would not be the enormously successful strong growth again last year with excellent results business nor the great place to work that it is without their in both North America and the UK.
Both Sunbelt and continued dedication.
Their attention to providing the very best A-Plant continue to set records in terms of revenue, customer service supports our year-on-year growth.
Our dividend policy remains a progressive one while always taking into account our aim to make dividends sustainable whatever stage We continue to operate in good markets and we are seeing the we are at in our business cycle.
In line with that objective and our benefit from growth in demand for our services and our expansion excellent performance, the Board is recommending a final dividend into new territories.
Full-year revenue was 2,546m compared of 18.5p per share making 22.5p for the year compared to 15.25p to 2,039m the previous year.
Underlying pre-tax profit rose 24% in 2015, an increase of 48%.
Assuming the final dividend is approved year-on-year to 645m at constant exchange rates and our EBITDA at the Annual General Meeting, it will be paid on 9 September 2016 margin rose to 46% 2015: 45%.
Top-line growth continues to to shareholders on the register on 12 August 2016. be the main driver of our profitability, and total rental revenue increased by 17% at constant exchange rates.
Total rental revenue Reflecting the strength and cash generating potential of the grew 18% at Sunbelt and 9% at A-Plant.
business, we are now in a position to consider additional returns to shareholders while balancing capital efficiency with financial We have continued to invest responsibly in both the fleet and bolt-on flexibility in a cyclical business and their impact on shareholder acquisitions and are mindful of the flexibility that a young fleet age value.
Accordingly, taking account of these factors, we intend to and low leverage provides.
Group RoI for the year was a healthy commence a share buyback of up to 200m in 2016 17.
19% and despite continued significant investment in our fleet, our leverage reduced to 1.7 times EBITDA.
This is towards the middle Looking forward, we continue to see encouraging growth of the one and a half to two times leverage range, within which we opportunities and expect further growth in 2016 17.
Our end markets believe the Group can operate comfortably.
Our continued success remain strong, the structural drivers are still in place and we have demonstrates the strength of our strategy of organic growth, a strong balance sheet which allows us to execute our plans greenfield openings and bolt-on acquisitions, combined with responsibly.
As a consequence, the Board looks forward to the geographic and sector diversity in generally good markets.
Maintaining a balanced and diverse board that reflects the breadth of our business remains our priority and I believe we continue to achieve this which provides good governance.
We recently welcomed Lucinda Riches to the Board.
I look forward to her contribution to the Groups continued growth and development.
I would like to extend the Boards good wishes and thanks to Michael Burrow CHRIS COLE and Bruce Edwards who retire at the Annual General Meeting.
Chairman They have witnessed significant growth in the business and 13 June 2016 supported us well over the last nine years.
