Chairmans statement Ashmore has a collaborative culture focusedon creating value for clients and shareholders My first year as Chairman has confirmed the of shareholder value, including for employee BOARD CHANGES impressions I had of Ashmore, initially from shareholders, the overarching factors for Peter Gibbs succeeded Michael the perspective of an asset management success.
Even after three years of difficult Benson as Chairman when he retired industry participant and then while serving market conditions, the commitment of from the Board in October 2015 after onthe Board as a Non-executive Director.
Ashmores employees and the resilience serving for nine years.
Theopportunity presented by the increasing ofits business model continue to deliver Clive Adamson was appointed to wealth of Emerging Markets is a substantial a high level of profitability.
theBoard as a Non-executive Director one, and Ashmores strategy and business Internal and independent external reviews in October 2015 and joined the Audit model position it well to capture this value have confirmed the effectiveness and and Risk Committee ARC in onbehalf of clients and shareholders.
efficiency of the Board and its committees, December 2015.
Markets are cyclical, but there is virtue and I intend that my leadership will provide Dame Anne Pringle was appointed infollowing a consistent and well-defined aconsistent basis for this to continue.
The totheARCand David Bennett was investment philosophy.
The strong Boards composition has an appropriate bias appointed Chairman of this committee performance of Ashmores funds is towards individuals with financial services in October 2015. testament to the ability of the Groups experience, but also provides a wide variety committee-based investment processes of skills and opinions that are relevant to an Simon Fraser was appointed Senior todeliver value to clients through market active, specialist asset manager investing Independent Director in October 2015. cycles.
This successful investment track inEmerging Markets andoperating in an Nick Land will retire from the Board record derives from a deep and specialist increasingly complex industry.
In that regard, atthe AGM in October 2016. knowledge of Emerging Markets that has I was pleased to welcome Clive Adamson More information been built up over more than two decades, tothe Board in October, with hiswide A detailed report on corporate governance and which is delivered to clients across a experience of the financial services is providedon pages 46 to 48. broad range of investment themes and .
I believe Ashmore has a highly talented group Despite the impact of market conditions of employees that through market cycles onprofits, taking into account the Groups have proven their commitment to delivering financial position and prospects, the Board 12.1p per share performance for clients.
With a backdrop of believes it is appropriate to recommend a improving conditions for Emerging Markets, final dividend of 12.1 pence per share for Recommended final dividend this positions the Group well to continue theyear ending 30 June 2016.
Subject to todeliver value for shareholders.
shareholders approval, the final dividend Similarly, the Groups business model is willbe paid on 2 December 2016 to those designed to cope with market fluctuations shareholders on the register on 4 November and to align interests between clients, Peter Gibbs 2016.
This makes a total dividend of 16.65 shareholders and employees.
This is primarily Chairman pence per share for the year.
achieved by enforcing strict cost discipline 5 September 2016 and through the Groups distinctive and After serving on the Board for 10 years, uniformly applied remuneration principles, NickLand will retire at the AGM in October.
that place an emphasis on variable and On behalf of the Board and all Ashmore performance-related pay, with a bias employees, I would like to thank Nick for towardslong-term equity ownership.
The hiscommitment and valuable contribution Groups culture is therefore a collaborative over the past decade.
one, with clients interests and the creation 12 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016
