Corporate Governance Chairmans Statement AstraZenecas Directors take very seriously their responsibility to have a robust governance structure in place.
In 2016, your Board of D D Di ir re ec c c ct t t to o o or r r rs s c co o ontinued to focus the cycle of innovation.
We need to work hard to continue to improve R&D on imp pl lementing the st t t tr ra at te eg g g gy y y y u u u up po o on which we productivity by carefully selecting those embar rked in 2013, as w w w we el ll l a a a as s s s e e e en ns s suring that our therapy areas and projects in which we invest, as well as controlling costs.
progr re ess was underpin n nn ne e e ed d d d b b b b by y y y g g good governance.
Returns to shareholders and outlook In 2016, Reported earnings per share EPS of $2.77 for the year represented an Strategic progress An uncertain world increase of 9%, including a gain of $0.76 As reported by Pascal Soriot, our Chief Our performance in 2016 and in the year on the revaluation of acquisition-related Executive officer, we made good progress ahead takes place in an uncertain world.
Core EPS in the year declined by in delivering our strategic priorities in 2016.
The economic recovery following the global 5% to $4.31, driven by the decline in Total During the year, we brought a sharper financial crisis is still precarious and is Revenue.
Both Reported and Core EPS for focus to our three main therapy areas fuelling calls for restrictions on trade and the year included a non-recurring benefit of and boosted pipeline productivity further.
In the UK, following the vote $0.36, following agreements between the As is to be expected, we encountered for Brexit, we expect increased uncertainty Canadian tax authority and the UK and some setbacks on the way but our both in the UK and the Eurozone.
underlying business is growing and a new the US, we expect the increased focus AstraZeneca is emerging, driven by our on pharmaceutical prices and their impact Given this performance, the Board was able competitive franchises and our businesses on healthcare costs to continue, while to declare a second interim dividend of in Emerging Markets.
there remains uncertainty over the future $1.90 per share 150.2 pence, 16.57 SEK of the Affordable Care Act and what might bringing the dividend per share for the full As Marc Dunoyer, our Chief Financial replace it.
officer, outlines, our financial results for At the same time, the Board reafrmed its 2016 were in line with expectations and On the other hand, and against this commitment to the Companys progressive reected the ongoing transition of our uncertain background, we believe the dividend policy.
The fall in Product Sales revenue demand for healthcare will continue to was primarily due to the entry of generic increase with a growing and ageing world Sound governance competition to Crestor in the US.
Access to our range of AstraZenecas Directors take very seriously look ahead to the impact of our recent innovative medicines also continues to their responsibility to have a robust launches as well as the future launches that improve.
Of course, challenges will always governance structure in place to ensure are to come from our late-stage pipeline.
remain in what is a very competitive that we are able properly to discharge marketplace.
These include the continuing, our responsibilities in setting our strategy, Each year the Board reviews our strategy.
and planned for, cycle of expiring patents as well as monitoring and reviewing Our review in 2016 confirmed our belief that that lie at the heart of our business model, progress as it is implemented, and ensuring 2017 has the potential to be a dening year as well as competition from and the that we manage our risks and carry out for AstraZeneca as we bring new medicines growing use of generic medicines.
to patients across the globe.
We have the need to obtain regulatory approval for new opportunity to launch several life-changing medicines, secure reimbursement for those We are also very conscious that, as medicines for cancer, respiratory and medicines, and achieve pricing and sales Directors, we are accountable to our metabolic diseases.
sufficient to generate revenue and sustain shareholders and must have regard to 82 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 Corporate Governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code We have prepared this Annual Report We have complied throughout the with reference to the UK Corporate accounting period with the provisions Governance Code published by the of the UK Corporate Governance Code, UK Financial Reporting Council FRC which is available on the FRCs website.
uk This Corporate Governance Report together with other sections of this Annual Report describes how we apply the main principles of good governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
other stakeholders such as employees, During the year we said farewell to two In the annual Dow Jones Sustainability customers, suppliers, the communities in members of the Board.
Jean-Philippe Index, we improved our score compared which we do business and the environment.
Courtois stood down from the Board with 2015 and came second in the We welcome the opportunity at our Annual on 1December.
He was approaching Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology and Life General Meeting to meet and answer nine years tenure and had recently taken Sciences industry group.
We also achieved shareholders questions.
We also maintain on new responsibilities at Microsoft.
an A-list ranking for climate change, supplier an active dialogue with shareholders We will miss his business acumen, climate change and water stewardship by throughout the year and listen to views of extensive experience of the global investor benchmarking organisation CDP.
representatives of investors and financial technology industry, common sense institutions.
The views of other stakeholders and collegiality.
We wish him all the best In the biennial Access to Medicine Index, are also important.
our efforts to improve access to our innovative medicines and to healthcare We maintain an active dialogue with Earlier in the year, Dr Cornelia Cori more generally was recognised in shareholders about executive remuneration.
Bargmann, also stood down from the AstraZeneca being the biggest riser in the Our pay structure is intended to be sufficient Board after accepting a new position as Index since the last survey.
We moved to to attract and retain high-calibre individuals President of Chan Zuckerberg Science, 7th place in 2016 from 15th in 2014 and in order to deliver the Companys strategy.
part of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
were recognised for multiple best practices In setting individual pay levels, we consider We congratulate Cori on her new andinnovations.
the individuals skills and experience, internal appointment and thank her for her relativities and conditions in the local contribution to AstraZeneca.
Over the course of 2016, In 2016, we made good progress pushing we have reviewed our Remuneration Searches for new Non-Executive Directors the boundaries of science to deliver Policy and in his introduction to this years are continuing and succession plans will be medicines to patients.
Your Board of Directors Remuneration Report on page announced during 2017.
Directors remains focused on ensuring 103, Graham Chipchase, Chairman of the that more patients are able to benefit Remuneration Committee, gives more A sustainable business from our expanding portfolio of innovative details about the changes we are proposing As we look ahead and plan for the medicines that meet unmet medical and why.
We are grateful to those who sustainable growth of AstraZeneca, how need and change lives.
contributed to the review and the Board weoperate is as important as what we do.
commends the revised Remuneration Policy Itis therefore particularly gratifying to see to shareholders for approval.
increasing external recognition of our efforts to operate in a sustainable way and in a Board changes waythat recognises the interconnection I am grateful to Graham and all the between business growth, the needs of Leif Johansson Directors for their contribution during 2016, society, and the limitations of our planet.
Chairman especially those of my other colleagues This means delivering our business who have the added responsibility of strategyso that access to our medicines is chairing Board Committees: Rudy broadened, the environmental footprint of Markham, our Senior independent our products and processes is minimised, Non-Executive Director, who chairs the and ethics and transparency underpin Audit Committee and Bruce Burlington everything we do.
who chairs the Science Committee.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2016 83
