Moving to full CHARLES SINCLAIR, CHAIRMAN ownership of Illovo, at a time when increasing populations and rising incomes are driving growth in the African sugar market, is expected to accelerate its performance improvement and commercial development.
We have also announced the sale of our south China cane sugar operations with completion expected later in this calendar year.
We first entered the Chinese sugar market in1995 and since then have substantially improved agricultural productivity, factory extraction and sugar yields.
However, further improvements are likely to be driven by industry consolidation and webelieve that other parties are better placed to take the business forward.
Ourbeet sugar business in north eastChina is at an earlier stage in its development and we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of theopportunities this presents.
Cost reduction was a driver of the continued recovery of the yeast and bakery ingredients business which wasthe major contributor to the 22% growth in adjusted operating profit fromIngredients this year.
Grocery andAgriculture both achieved further margin improvement despite the challenges for revenue growth presentedby commodity price deflation.
Since the year end we have announced the sale of ACHs herbs and spices This has been a year of progress for One of our groups great virtues is business in North America with the group with revenues 5% higher theway that it embraces change so completion expected shortly.
Whilst than last year, adjusted operating positively and this year has provided thishas been a good investment over profit ahead by 3% and earnings plenty of opportunity for our businesses theyears, it is a complex operation which pershare up by 5% to 106.2p.
Whether responding occupies a niche position in its market investment was significant this year to challenging financial markets: and we believe its further development at just over 1bn which included integrating acquired businesses: disposing will best be achieved through consolidation capital expenditure increases both of businesses: dealing with the effects with another party.
forPrimark and the food businesses ofunusual weather on our supply chains and the 247m consideration to or retail demand: advancing technology Primarks development continued acquire the minority shareholdings or changing legislation, our people apacewith a further 1.2 million sq ft inIllovo Sugar Limited.
This was haveresponded with enthusiasm.
ofselling space opened during the year.
funded byanother strong cash flow Ten years ago Primark opened its first and was the fifth consecutive year of The sugar industry has seen much store in Spain the first time that it operating cash generated in excess change, not least in Europe as it has hadventured outside the UK and of 1bn.
Although net debt at the prepared for regime reform in 2017.
Since then it has expanded year end was higher than last year, However, 2016 will be seen as intoafurthereight countries and has this wasafter the buyout of the something of a turning point for achieved a fivefold increase in retail Illovominorities and a 53m ABSugar.
The profit decline of recent selling space.
This pace of development increaseattributable to the effect years has been arrested as EU and world is set to continue with an extensive oftranslating foreign currency sugarprices turned upwards and our schedule of new store openings planned denominated net debt at weaker performance improvement programme, for 2016 17.
That new store openings sterlingexchange rates.
which had already yielded substantial arestill greeted with enthusiasm by our benefits, delivered further cost customers says much for the capability reductionand efficiency gains which ofour buyers and merchandisers who have underpinned our credentials as ensure that Primark remains at the Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 5 forefront of fashion, but isalso the result Remuneration Dividends of our store designers making Primark As noted in the Remuneration report I am pleased to report that a final anattractive and fun place to shop.
lastyear, we have undertaken a dividend of 26.45p is proposed, to be complete review of the groups incentive paid on 13 January 2017 to shareholders Corporate responsibility arrangements during the course of this on the register on 16 December 2016.
Having provided an update on corporate year and a number of changes are Together with the interim dividend responsibility in each of the last two proposed to improve alignment with of10.3p paid on 1 July 2016, this will years we have, today, published a full shareholder interests.
makea total of 36.75p for the year, report for this year.
The priorities of our anincrease of 5%.
businesses remain largely unchanged The board with a continued challenge to reduce the Tim Clarke and Javier Ferrn have Outlook environmental footprint of our operations eachcompleted more than nine years We expect the expansion of Primarks and improve the safety of our sites.
service as directors of the Company and, selling space to continue inall of its Weremain committed to being a in accordance with the UK Corporate major markets.
AB Sugar will benefit goodneighbour and supporting the Governance Code, the rest of the board substantially from this years increase communities where we operate.
For must now confirm their independence insugar prices and from reductions thefirst time, we have sought to quantify annually.
This having been done, we initscost base.
Grocery, Ingredients our social impact in order toshow the aredelighted that both Tim and Javier andAgriculture are expectedto make benefits of our collective endeavour haveagreed to continue as members furtherprogress.
onthe lives of our people, suppliers, ofthe board and Tim will continue as neighbours and customers.
Acopy of theSenior Independent Director.
Assuming a continuation of current the report is available fordownload at exchange rates, and following the www.
Peter Smith retired as a non-executive significant devaluation of sterling, director of the Company in April having weexpect group earnings to benefit served nine years as a member of the from the translation of overseas profits.
I would like to thank Peter for the However, as Primark buys much of its significant contribution he made during merchandise in US dollars and sells his tenure as a director and chairman inthe UK in sterling, there will be an The fifth consecutive ofthe Audit committee.
adverse effect, intheyear, on its year of operating UKmargins.
In April we welcomed Richard Reid to cash generated in the board as a non-executive director Taking all of these factors into account, and chairman of the Audit committee.
at this early stage, we expect progress excess of 1bn.
Richard was formerly a partner at inadjusted operating profit and adjusted KPMGLLP, having joined the firm in earnings for the group for the coming year.
From 2008 he served as London Chairman until he retired from the firm inSeptember 2015.
Charles Sinclair Employees Chairman Whenever I visit our operations around the world I am regularly reminded of the enthusiasm with which our employees undertake their responsibilities, their commitment to improving performance and their willingness to embrace change.
I would like to thank them for their achievements this year which contributed greatly to the groups continuing success.
co. uk responsibility Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
