"04 Chairmans statement ""Our strategic focus has put us in a strong position to benefit from longer-term growth. """
Allan Cook CBE Chairman In the context of the forthcoming EU Performance Strategy referendum, the availability of talent in I am pleased to report a strong set of We look for long-term relationships to Europe as well as our European client base, results despite an increasingly challenging understand clients needs, develop insight are important factors for Atkins success.
During the to inform our value propositions and While we believe it is in Atkins best interest year, we also delivered on the strategic choose the right opportunities to maximise that the UK remains in the European Union, objective we set out in 2011 with the the benefits of our expertise.
we do not believe that leaving Europe achievement of our 8% underlying would constitute a material risk to the In this financial year, our new UK operating operating margin goal.
Group from an operational or financial model was implemented successfully.
formation in 2016 of a new infrastructure Macroeconomic environment division, a single team with the collective While short-term market uncertainty, In North America, the current political expertise of our water, ground and particularly around the reduced global climate, along with economic and market environment, and design and engineering oil price, exists in some of our segments, conditions, have caused federal spending businesses, enables us to pursue large our strategic focus has put us in a strong delays and long-term visibility around and complex projects more efficiently position to benefit from longer-term infrastructure investment remains uncertain and effectively.
It is improving our ability growth.
As urbanisation increases, ahead of the presidential election.
The to collaborate, respond and leverage our international infrastructure spending is agreement reached on the five-year Fixing technical capabilities for the benefit of our predicted to grow significantly in the Americas Surface Transportation FAST clients and creating more opportunities for medium term and we are well placed Act legislation is encouraging and should employee mobility and variety in careers.
to benefit from this investment.
We will provide greater pipeline visibility.
do this through a clear focus on clients, In the Middle East, we brought together collaboration and technology.
The reduction in the global oil price our rail and infrastructure capabilities into continues to have a negative effect on the one market-facing division in April2016.
In the UK, the infrastructure market economic climate in the Middle East with Activity is now underway to establish the in roads, rail and water remains well lower levels of investment in infrastructure combined transport and infrastructure funded and investment continues to enjoy and transport.
It also presents significant strategy and structure in order to fully Government support.
The March budget trading challenges to our oil and gas respond to the needs of clients.
The confirmed our expectations that capital business, particularly in the UK and North primary focus will be on our core Middle investment for infrastructure projects America.
By contrast, our oil and gas East markets: United Arab Emirates UAE, will remain strong.
At the same time, the business in the Middle East continues to see Qatar and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA.
economic environment and social policy, investment and growth.
We will also explore further opportunities such as development of the Northern in Africa.
Powerhouse and ongoing development In Asia Pacific, Chinas growth rate of major cities, offer significant continued to decline.
While welcome, We announced two strategic acquisitions opportunities.
the programme of anti-corruption initiatives during the year.
In November 2015, introduced by the Government during late EnergySolutions projects, products 2014 has had the knock on effect and technology PP&T business, which of deferrals in the award of projects and completed in April 2016 and complements a slowdown in payments.
We are pleased our acquisition in 2014 of Nuclear Safety that the political situation in Hong Kong Associates.
In March 2016, we announced is stabilising following last years an agreement to acquire Howard pro-democracy demonstrations, but delays Humphreys in East Africa, an important in project approvals continued.
catalyst for our combined operations to Discover more online at: www.
com investors WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Chairman's statement 05 develop our presence across East Africas Board.
They joined as non-executive Outlook rapidly growing infrastructure markets.
directors and members of the Nomination Markets continue to change and our Committee.
Catherine is a member of the business is evolving to address these People Audit Committee and Gretchen joined the changes.
With substantial completion Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2016.
We continue to work to attract more of the journey started in 2011, we are young people into pursuing a career in the now setting out the next phase in our Catherine brings significant corporate engineering sector.
During the year, we strategy.
We will focus on revenue growth finance and acquisition experience obtained welcomed over 400 new graduates across and selectively increase our geographic in the UK, Asia, the US and Europe.
She is the Group and accelerated our apprentice footprint and capabilities through targeted a non-executive director of the Financial programme by recruiting 81 apprentices international expansion organically and Conduct Authority, the UKs financial within our UK business.
Our main focus will be on regulator, and PSA Peugeot-Citron.
Gretchen has significant experience gained A more diverse and inclusive workforce will As detailed in the CEO's business review, over her 25-year career as an energy help to address the critical skills shortage in our new international strategic advisory industry executive having held senior our industry and our commitment to build business Atkins Acuity sits at the heart positions with Amoco Corporation, BP a more diverse organisation continues to of these focus sectors.
plc, Marathon Oil Corporation and most gain momentum.
We have increased the recently Maersk Oil, where she is chief number of womens professional networks We will measure our success in generating operating officer.
She holds a mechanical around the world and continue to roll shareholder value through growth in engineering degree.
out our flexible working practices across underlying fully diluted earnings per share.
More details can be found under strategic In June 2016 Fiona Clutterbuck temporarily growth drivers page12.
became acting chairman of the At Atkins, we believe that our people are Remuneration Committee.
Raj Rajagopal our competitive edge and I would like Three areas of differentiation form the basis will remain a member of the Committee to thank them all for their outstanding of our evolved strategy: putting our clients but has recently stepped down as chairman contribution.
We trust them to go above at the centre of what we do, working more due to ill health.
and beyond for the Group and our clients.
collaboratively and exploiting technology Individual talent and collective expertise wherever we can to secure future profitable Dividend around the world help us to win and deliver growth.
With the hard work and support vital and complex projects while meeting The Board is recommending a final of a more diverse and inclusive workforce our strategic objectives.
dividend of 27.8p per ordinary share in around the world we believe that we can respect of the year ended 31 March 2016, make a difference to the world we live in.
Board of directors governance making the total dividend for the year We remain confident for the year ahead 39.5p 2015:36.5p, an increase of 8.2%.
We strive for a diversified Board with a despite continued uncertainties in some of If approved at the Companys annual wide range of experience, thought and our markets.
general meeting, the dividend will be perspective.
We are pleased to have paid on 19 August 2016 to ordinary appointed two female non-executive shareholders on the register on 8 July 2016. directors this financial year and to now Allan Cook CBE Further details regarding dividend payments have 30% female representation on the Chairman can be found in Investor Information Board, close to our aspiration of one third.
15 June 2016 During the year, we welcomed Catherine Bradley and Gretchen Watkins to the WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTOR INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
