Chairmans statement The last 12 months have been ones of considerable success for Auto Trader.
These results are our strongest yet.
We grew revenue by 10% year-on-year to 281.6 million.
Ed Williams Chairman 281.6m Revenue up 10% 2015: 255.9m 171.3m Underlying operating profit up 19% 2015: 144.1m Strategic report Governance Financial statements The year Chip Perry, Independent Non-Executive Governance The last 12 months have been ones of Director, resigned from the Board in March considerable success for Auto Trader.
Chip has returned to a full-time At 27 March 2016 and to the These results are our strongest yet.
CEO role at TrueCar Inc. Regrettably, date of this report, the Board We grew revenue by 10% year-on-year to he felt that the responsibilities of a CEO 281.6 million.
Underlying operating profit of a public company based in California composition is fully compliant was 171.3 million, representing an increase were incompatible with the obligations of with the UK Corporate of 19% over the previous year.
From the consistently attending Board meetings in Governance Code: growth in value we have provided to both the UK.
However, he has kindly agreed to retailers and manufacturers, to the increase give us access to his unparalleled industry Ed Williams in our consumer engagement and audience knowledge by continuing to help us in an Chairman metrics, Auto Trader continues to lead the advisory capacity.
way in the digital automotive classified sector.
Trevor Mather The composition of the Board is now Chief Executive Life as a public company fully compliant with the UK Corporate Sean Glithero This was AutoTraders first year as a Governance Code.
Finance Director and public company.
The transition has been Company Secretary relatively smooth and is, in effect, complete.
Capital structure Fortunately, as the results indicate, it has As indicated at the time of our stock market David Keens not distracted the business from its focus flotation, we commenced paying a dividend Senior Independent Non-Executive on driving value for our customers.
in the year, with surplus cash being used to Director and Audit Committee Chairman pay down debt towards a two times debt Jill Easterbrook Our Board leverage target.
Most of the cash generated Independent Non-Executive Director and Since our stock market flotation in March this year has been used to pursue that goal, Remuneration Committee Chairman 2015, we have appointed three Independent which we have achieved following the end Non-Executive Directors to our Board.
Jeni Mundy We welcome them all and appreciate the Independent Non-Executive Director contribution they have already made.
David Shareholders can anticipate a significant Keens, formerly Group Finance Director of increase in the dividend during the coming Board composition NEXT plc, has taken on the roles of Senior financial year in line with our prior guidance As at 27 March 2016 Independent Director and Audit Committee and the Board aims promptly to return to Chairman.
Jill Easterbrook, until recently shareholders the majority of the surplus 3 a senior executive at Tesco plc, has taken cash generated by way of a share buyback on the role of Remuneration Committee programme, with some surplus cash being Chairman.
Jeni Mundy, a senior executive used to further reduce indebtedness.
2 at Vodafone Group plc, completes our new Board, bringing a huge depth of knowledge Employee contribution 1 of the fast changing mobile data environment.
I would like to take this opportunity to express All three serve on our Audit, Remuneration my thanks to all the employees of AutoTrader and Nomination committees.
for what has been an extremely busy, as well Chairman as successful, year.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Tom Hall and Nick Hartman resigned from Executive Directors the Board in March 2016 under the terms of the relationship agreement with our previous Ed Williams Read more on page 44 major shareholder.
The Board would like to Chairman acknowledge the major contribution they 9 June 2016 have made to the AutoTrader business, not least in migrating Auto Trader from a primarily print based business to an entirely digital business.
At a personal level, Tom and Nick have been outstanding Board members and will be missed.
05 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
