AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Chairmans statement THE FULL YEAR RESULTS REFLECT THE RESILIENCE OFTHEBUSINESS MODEL, OUR LONG-STANDING CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS AND THE QUALITY OF THEBUSINESS-CRITICAL SOLUTIONS WE PROVIDE The Board is confident thatour strategy is both focused and achievable.
Philip Aiken Chairman Overview Adjusted profit before tax was 51.2 During the year, the Group completed the I am pleased to report that AVEVA million 2015 62.1 million representing acquisition of FabTrol Systems Inc. a North continued to deliver a solid performance a margin of 25.4% 2015 29.8%.
American business providing fabrication throughout the course of 2015 16.
Reported profit before tax was 29.4 management software, for 3.6 million.
million 2015 54.9 million which reflects The full year results reflect the resilience lower revenue and one-off exceptional Strategy update of the business model, our long-standing costs of 15.2 million, principally arising The Board has recently reaffirmed customer relationships and the quality of from restructuring initiatives and from the Groups strategy, which has at its the business-critical solutions we provide.
professional services fees relating to the foundation a commitment to generating aborted Schneider Electric transaction.
strong cash flows that can be reinvested Group revenue was 201.5 million 2015 in the business in order to drive long- 208.7 million which was broadly Acquisitions term profitable growth and deliver in line with our expectations against In July 2015, we announced that headline consistent returns for our shareholders.
terms had been agreed to acquire The Board has approved a three year Schneider Electrics software business.
strategic plan, comprising a number of Revenue was impacted by foreign A very intense period of due diligence key priorities which are covered in more currency headwinds during the year continued from that point to December detail in the CEOs strategic review.
We with sterling strengthening against 2015 when discussions were terminated.
are very excited by the opportunities most major currencies.
After adjusting I am pleased to report that, despite that lie ahead.
Innovation remains at the for currency effects, organic constant the obvious potential distractions heart of our success as a Company and currency revenue declined by 2% of this transaction, the employees the investment that we have made in compared to 2014 15, a respectable and management remained focused recent years is now bringing measurable performance given the market conditions.
on ensuring that AVEVA delivered a benefits, clearly seen in the strong solid operating result in the year.
momentum behind AVEVA E3D andour newest solution, AVEVA Engage.
04 s s e n e v i t c e f f E R i s k p i h s r e d a e L S t r a STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 201.5m 30 pence SUMMARY OF GOVERNANCE Group revenue Final dividend up 20% THE GROUP HAS A ROBUST GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE, WITH AN AGREED DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES BETWEEN THE CHAIRMAN AND THE BOARD.
THE KEY FEATURES Hence, with this in mind, we are pleased The Board ARE SHOWN BELOW.
The composition of the Board has to announce the increase of the ordinary dividend alongside these results, which remained very stable for several years but there will be some change during illustrates our confidence in the long term prospects for the business and its the year ahead with two of our nonexecutives due to retire from the Board, underlying strength.
The final dividend will be increased to 30.0 pence per share each having reached the nine year limit under the Corporate Governance code.
2015 25.0 pence which represents an increase of 20% over the prior Jonathan Brooks nine year tenure as year and takes the full year dividend to 36.0 pence 2015 30.5 pence, a Non-Executive Director ends in July 2016 and I would like to thank him on an increase of 18% over last year.
behalf of the Board for his contribution to AVEVA.
Jonathan joined us in 2007 and Summary Despite 2015 16 having been a challenging has overseen a period of strong growth and success for AVEVA.
The process to year for the Group on a number of fronts, Leadership the business has shown great resilience find his replacement as Audit Committee The Board provides strong leadership, chair is underway and we expect to and delivered a highly respectable broad sector knowledge and extensive performance, demonstrating the strength appoint a successor shortly.
Jonathan experience and tenure at AVEVA.
has agreed to stay on until November of our business model as well as the Theprocess is underway to identify benefits that our technology delivers to 2016 to ensure an orderly handover.
successors for two of our NEDs customers.
This performance would not whowill step-down in this coming have been possible without the hard work Philip Dayer will also reach his ninth yearafter nine years on the Board.
anniversary with AVEVA in January 2017 and dedication of all of our employees and the Board would like to express its sincere and a replacement will be sought in Effectiveness duecourse.
thanks for their considerable efforts.
The Groups performance reflects thequality of its leadership and Capital allocation I believe that AVEVA is well-positioned governance.
An internal Board to capitalise on a number of exciting AVEVA has remained cash generative evaluation confirmed that the Board during the year and at 30 April 2016 our opportunities over the long-term, and isstrong and functions effectively, as a Board we are confident that our cash balance was 123.5 million, with no building on the Boards first external debt.
The Board believes it is important strategy is both focused and achievable.
evaluation in 2014. to maintain a strong balance sheet in order to provide additional confidence Philip Aiken Strategy in the strength of our business to our The Board reviewed and approved Chairman customers and also to have at hand ournew strategic objectives, which 24 May 2016 sufficient resources to invest in the future webelieve will drive substantial growth growth of the business.
Our strong and create value for shareholders over cash flows also continue to support our the period to 2019. ability to grow via acquisition and our progressive dividend policy.
At the same Risk time the Board recognises the need We look to continuously improve our to strike the correct balance between risk management.
During the year, investing in the business and providing weformed a new Risk Committee, returns to shareholders over the long chaired by our Executive Vice term.
Following an in-depth review of President of Regional Operations.
our capital allocation and discussions with our shareholders and our advisers, Shareholders the Board has concluded to maintain its AVEVA has a strong shareholder sustainable progressive dividend policy, register.
We maintain strong balanced against an active focus on communication with key M&A, with excess capital being returned shareholders.
to shareholders from time to time.
