Chairmans statement 02 By continuing to serve our customers well we can grow earnings, cash and dividends HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2016 We have tremendous advantages as a Company: a clear strategy, a wellrespected brand, strong values and outstanding technical skills.
And more than that, we have the energy and drive to make the most of them.
Our people I would like to thank our 29,500 people in 16 markets around the world for their contribution in delivering on our purpose.
They strive to live our values - Care More, Kill Complexity, Never Rest and Create Legacy.
We are building an innovative, energetic, supportive culture which is anchored in these strong values and focused on our customers needs, enabling us to make the most of our strategic advantages now and in the future.
I am delighted that our overall colleague engagement score in 2016 has increased by four percentage points to 74%.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report chairmans statement 03 thank Scott for his significant contribution to the Group over this time.
In March 2017 we announced a number of Board changes.
Further details on this and our approach to succession planning are set out in the Chairmans Governance letter.
We remain conscious of the need to sIR ADRIAn mOnTAgUE cBE enhance Board diversity, our progress on which is also set out in the Chairmans Governance letter.
chairman chAllEngEs DURIng 2016 The Board and its committees of course faced some challenges during the year, including increased market uncertainty and volatility.
In addition, the Governance Committee examined the customer and net asset value per share Aviva has had a good year and there is conduct implications following suspension more to come.
We have a clear of dealings in the Aviva Property Trust purpose to help our customers Defy Funds.
The Board also reviewed the steps 414p Uncertainty.
We are embracing digital taken following the fine issued by the 1 Financial Conduct Authority FCA in to deliver more effectively and our 2015: 390 pence financial performance sets us well for October 2016 in response to the breaches of FCA client money rules.
profit after tax including the did not lead to any loss for our customers or impact of the change in the have any material impact on our Ogden rate BREXIT The European Union EU referendum performance, as set out later in this report.
introduced considerable volatility to UK 859m markets however Brexit does not have a pERFORmAncE 1 Net asset value increased 6% to 414 pence significant operational impact for Aviva.
2015: 1,097 million 1 The vast majority of our businesses are per share 2015: 390 pence per share.
locally incorporated and regulated, and we Profit after tax was down 22% to 859 Total dividend 1 have limited reliance on passporting, which million 2015: 1,097 million which allows some companies to serve customers includes the adverse impact of the change across the EU.
We are of course developing in the Ogden discount rate announced by 23.30p contingency plans to cover any potential the Lord Chancellor on 27 February 2017.
2015: 20.80 pence adverse consequences that might arise for Excluding Ogden, profit after tax increased our business.
We have considered this change an exceptional item which is not reflected in OUR cOmmUnITy AnD cUsTOmERs Avivas operating profit and will not result in We believe in acting sustainably and a change in dividend policy.
responsibly, which supports our strategy and aligns with our values.
We aim to DIvIDEnD reduce our impact on the environment, The Board proposes a final dividend of and increase our support to our 15.88 pence per share 2015: 14.05 pence communities and charity partners.
This is a 13% increase and In 2016 we launched our three year reflects the Boards confidence in the partnership with the British Red Cross to Groups prospects.
help communities across the world prepare for, and respond to, disasters, through lOOkIng FORWARD skills-sharing, innovation and fundraising.
During 2017, we will continue to focus on The Aviva Community Fund continued to increasing customer advocacy, becoming a make a difference to the causes that are digital disruptor, capital optimisation, important to our people, customers and managing our risk environment and stakeholders.
Your Board 1 Prior period comparatives have The Board recognises our responsibility remains confident in Avivas ability to been restated.
Refer to Note 1 on to our 33 million customers, to help deliver on our commitment to increase the page 154 for further information.
protect what is important to them and to dividend payout ratio to 50% of operating help save for a comfortable future.
Further earnings per share in 2017. details can be found on pages 14-15 of the report.
BOARD cOmpOsITIOn AnD gOvERnAncE During the year Claudia Arney and Keith Read more about the net asset value and Williams joined the Board as Non-Executive profit after tax in the Directors, and Scott Wheway stepped sir Adrian montague cBE CFO review on down on 31 December 2016 after nine Chairman pages64-67 years service on the Board.
I would like to 8 March 2017 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 kEy hIghlIghTs 04 Living our values Our values are edgy, challenging and thought-provoking.
We Care More, Kill Complexity, Never Rest and Create Legacy.
We want our values to guide everything we do and the decisions we take D O I NG T H E R IG H T T H I NG F OR OU R P E O PL E We want our people to be able to enjoy a decent standard of living thats why were proud to be a real Living Wage Employer in the UK.
And that doesnt apply just to our people, but also to contractors and suppliers who work on our sites people like Lynne right, who do a great job helping to keep our ofces in Norwich clean and safe.
Because its the right thing to do.
Scan to see Lynnes story Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 05 I N C LUS I V E DIV E RSI T Y Inclusive diversity is at the heart of how we do business.
If people can be themselves, theyll be happier and perform better.
Our Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender LGBT network, Aviva Pride, launched its Allies Programme in 2016, so that everyone can show how important LGBT colleagues are to our success.
Our photo shows our people celebrating diversity at Dublin Pride in June 2016.
Diversity is something we can all celebrate.
LI VIN G L E G E N D S A W AR D S 5,000 Visible LGBT Allies across six locations, showing that its Each year we look to all corners of Aviva to nd the important to spend energy being yourself, not hiding true values legends.
Those people who live by and it.
We also recently launched our Aviva Pride and Allies group in Toronto, Canada champion our values every day.
We celebrate these colleagues at our annual CEO Forum where we share their stories, and recognise their contribution by donating 5,000 to a charity of their choice.
Alongside individual values legends, we recognise one individual as our Global Living Legend.
A 87% colleague who epitomises all our values.
This year we celebrated Hugh Hessing as our Global Living Legend.
Hugh is passionate about the customer and Of our people believe Aviva is a place where tireless in living our values every day.
Thats why he people from diverse backgrounds can succeed is our new UK customer operations director.
up 11 percentage points from 2015 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2016
