25.8 23.6 21.4 19.0 16.4 Chairmans review Strategy delivers goodresults Our performance reaffirms the Boards confidence in the effectiveness of our strategy and business model as we continue to grow the business in the UKand further develop our international presence, building on our existing footprint in both established markets and in newer territories to which our Mission Critical Services business has given us access.
This year we created an International Committee to ensure thatwe are able to identify and capture opportunities where our unique capabilities, track record of delivery and focus on the customer are ideally suited to meet the increasing demand for skilled and reliable outsourcing partners.
The Group achieved 8% growth in total underlying revenue to 4,842.1 million, equivalent to an 8% growth in organic revenue.
Total underlying operating profitincluding acquisitions increased Mike Turner CBE by 4% to 539.7 million or 6%organically Chairman at constant exchange rates.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 10%.
This resulted in an increase in underlying 2016 was another good year for Babcock.
basic earnings per share of 8% to 74.2 Wehave delivered solid growth in revenue, pence 2015: 68.5 pence.
operating profit and earnings per share, and Our order book has been maintained continue to provide consistent and sustainable at20 billion and our bidding pipeline has beenreplenished to remainat value for our shareholders.
Combined with the Groups with how the business has continued to perform robust financial results and consistent focus on cash, the Board continues to in a year which saw some uncertainties: a general believe in the long-term future of our election in the UK, the much-anticipated business.
We are delighted therefore to publication of a new five-year Strategic Defence recommend a 9% increase in the final dividend for 2016 of 19.75 pence per and Security Review, a global downturn in share 2015: 18.1 pence per share.
commodity markets and currency headwinds.
This will give a total dividend for the year of 25.8 pence per share 2015: 23.6 pence per share, an increase of 9%.
The final Full year dividend dividend will be paid on12 August 2016 to shareholders on the register at1 July 2016.
25.8p In this Babcocks125th anniversary year, our focus remains on using our deep technical and engineering skills, expertise in complex programme management and partnership approach to meet and exceed 9% the expectations of our customers.
Our long history of being trusted to deliver makes us an attractive partner as 2016 we seek to expand our footprint, whilst our record of careful evaluation of risk and reward allows us to protect shareholder value.
Our strategy has been central to 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 our long-term success, and the Board Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 4 5 Strategic report 2 Directors report 76 Financials 136 regularly reviews and develops the and will maintain his relationship with Our people Groups strategic approach to ensure all Babcock through his roles on the Parent It gives me great pleasure each year to options for sustainable growth, including Body Organisation boards of our nuclear take this opportunity to thank all those acquisitions, are properly considered.
joint ventures at Dounreay and Magnox.
who work for Babcock for their continued We were pleased to confirm that his hard work and dedication.
Without their Governance and the Board position was taken overby John Davies, efforts we would not have achieved Last year saw a number of significant formerly Chief Executive of our Defence somuch.
Most significantly and Security division, from 1 November Peter Rogers, who has been an Our commitment to talent management 2015 and that, in turn, John was outstanding Chief Executive of the Group is visible throughout the business.
succeeded by Roger Hardy, formerly for the past 13 years, announced that he We continue to safeguard our future by Managing Director of our wholly-owned would be retiring at the end of August taking on young people as apprentices, subsidiary, Cavendish Nuclear.
Since he took up the role in 2003, trainees and graduates, and train them It is a measure of the importance the Babcock has grown from a small cap in vital engineering and business skills.
Board places on effective succession business to a FTSE 100 company, and has Not only are we encouraging the management, and on supporting career delivered an increase of1,204 per cent in development of engineering skills progression, that we were able to fill all total shareholder return over the period within our business, we continue to lend of these key positions from a field of very of his tenure.
active support to a variety of initiatives to strong internal candidates.
Continuing promote Science, Technology, Engineering I am delighted to say that Archie and sustainable growth is dependent on and Maths STEM careers to young people, Bethel, formerly Chief Executive of the a number of elements, not least of which with a particular focus on encouraging Marineand Technology division, will be is the commitment of the leadership of women to enter into the field.
Our aim is taking over from Peter on 1 September a company to develop its people.
to encourage more people into STEM 2016.
To ensure a smooth handover, careers so that we are able to recruit We believe that this is particularly Archie is spending the first five months from the broadest possible talent pool.
important for Babcock which provides of the financial year working alongside We also launched a Group Higher complex and critical services which Peter in the interim role of Chief Level Apprenticeship in Management depend not only on technical knowledge Operating Officer.
John Howie, formerly programme to offer an alternative but on a deep understanding of the needs Managing Director of Naval Marine, was route to employment for graduate of the customer.
The Board will continue appointed to take over as Chief Executive calibre individuals who choose not to regularly review and discuss succession of the Marine and Technology division.
The new programme management plans, so that we will Archie is exceptionally well-qualified to is another method of enabling the continue to be able to draw on a pool lead the business.
He has overseen the recruitment of a diverse mix of of highly experienced, able people successful growth of the Groups largest talentedindividuals into our business.
to progress through the business in division, taking it from a 273 million future years.
Looking forward business in 2004 to a 1,696 million There was also a change to our Throughout this year the Board has business today.
His performance since Non-Executive Directors.
After four years overseen the continuing growth and joining the business in 2003 has on the Board, Kate Swannretired as an development of the Group and has reinforced our reputation of being independent Non-Executive at the end ensured an orderly transition process trusted to deliver complex and critical of 2015.
I would like to thank Kate for at Chief Executive level.
We remain engineering programmes and has her valuable contribution to Babcock confident in the long-term prospects strengthened relationships with our key over her years of service.
of the Group based on the strength customers.
The Board looks forward to of our businesses, our excellent visibility working with him in his new role.
I am delightedthat Professor of future revenues and our view ofthe VictoiredeMargerie joined the As Chairman, I conducted a thorough continuing opportunities for growth Board inFebruary2016.
Victoire process to find a newChief Executive both in the UK and internationally.
has extensive experience as a NonOfficer which considered both internal Executive Director ina number of UK We therefore believe the outlook remains and external candidates, but confirmed andEuropean publiclyquoted companies positive and we look forward to making that Archie was the right person, with and, in her earlier executive career, held further good progress in the 2016 17 the right skills and experience to lead senior management positions in several financial year.
the Group as it continues to develop and leading industrial businesses in France, achieve its strategy over the coming years.
Her background, Earlier in the year Kevin Thomas, experience and outlook will prove Chief Executive of the Support Services invaluable in our continued development, division, also announced his retirement.
Kevin made asignificant contribution to Mike Turner CBE Babcocks success over the last 13 years, Chairman Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2016Babcock International Group PLC 4 5
