BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 10 Chairmans letter Another year of solid performance.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman Against this background, governments in The strength of our maritime business was 2016 proved to be a turbulent ourmajor markets primarily the UK, US, complemented in military air by long-term year across the globe with theKingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia support contracts for the UK Typhoon and continue to prioritise national security Hawk fleets, growth in production volumes for unexpected changes occurring andremain resolute in their commitment the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and the selection politically, economically and todefence expenditure.
of our UK and Australian businesses to provide avionics and components maintenance and socially, and growing evidence In a period of uncertainty, the Companys support for the growing F-35 global fleet.
consistently strong operational performance of regional instability, terrorism and success in growing our order backlog to Our US land business continues to perform and military aggression.
42.0bn were both reassuring and welcome.
well in the export market and rolled out thefirst prototype vehicles for two major In the UK, we secured our long-term landprogrammes Armored Multi-Purpose positionon a number of major programmes Vehicles for the US Army and Amphibious during 2016.
Manufacturing of the Royal Combat Vehicles for the US Marines.
Navys Dreadnought submarines at our Barrow-in-Furness facilities commenced in Our investment in a major new dry dock September.
We secured a contract for two facility at our San Diego shipyard, delivered Dividend pence further Offshore Patrol Vessels and agreed inDecember, will underpin our continued heads of terms reflecting the governments position as a major supplier of ship repair intention to build eight Type 26 complex andsupport services for the US Navy.
3p warships at our shipyards on the Clyde The market for electronic warfare and inScotland from the summer of 2017. products from our Electronic Systems These important commitments will provide sectorremained buoyant.
Our cyber, 2% theRoyal Navy with state-of-the-art capabilities intelligence and security capabilities remain and reinforce our reputation as a world leader inhigh demand in a very competitive market.
Over the next Our US-based Intelligence & Security business 2015 20.9 three decades, the programmes will secure secured a number of multi-year contracts and, 2014 20.5 high-quality employment, not only in Barrow in Applied Intelligence, whilst investment in 2013 20.1 and on the Clyde, but in the supply chain future growth inhibited current profitability, 2012 19.5 throughout the UK.
another year of double-digit sales growth across government and commercial divisions was encouraging.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2016 | 11 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements The management team is aware that, as In February 2017, we announced that Ian will In both areas we have been pleased that our theorder book grows, flawless execution retirefrom the Company on 30 June 2017, record in the year has demonstrated how deeply remains the priority of the day.
In meeting this after a long and distinguished career of some these principles are embedded in the corporate objective and delivering customer satisfaction, 40 years in the defence industry.
Ian will retire culture as the hallmarks of good business we will continue to respect the growing need leaving a legacy of disciplined operational practice.
Performance-driven, but values-led for high-quality local employment and andfinancial performance, ethical behaviour, remains at the heart of our business model.
supportfor national industry, together with a burgeoning order book, a track record of In keeping with many organisations, the akeen focus on providing leading capabilities delivering shareholder value and a strong changing dynamics of financial markets at a competitive cost.
Our experience in the leadership team.
When the time comes later haveimpacted our pension fund deficit Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and India in particular this year, he will leave with our thanks and duringthe year.
The mathematical impact has provided the Company with strong and best wishes for the future.
ofreduced bond yields and low interest rates, proven credentials in this area which we partially offset by strong asset performance, The Board also announced that Charles believe will be increasingly important in has increased the reported total deficit by Woodburn, Chief Operating Officer, will securing further orders in the coming years.
Whilst succeed Ian as Chief Executive with effect the position willfluctuate in keeping with Building local capability will require the from 1 July 2017.
Since joining the Company international financial markets, our large order commitment of many of our people in in May 2016, Charles has made an important book, long-term programmes and strong supporting the workforce in the region and contribution, bringing impeccable engineering franchise positions give confidence inour theevidence of our skill in training others is credentials, broad international experience long-term ability to fund our pension schemes, visible wherever I visit our teaching centres.
and fresh perspectives to build on our existing capital requirements and shareholder returns.
In his new role, he will build on In order to ensure a consistent flow of skilled anenviable inheritance to create an exciting In view of the Groups good performance and people to meet the demand, we have continued future for the Group.
future prospects, theBoard has recommended to invest in the training of both apprentices a final dividend of 12.7p per share for a total and graduates.
This year, we are training over During the course of the year, we aimed of 21.3p per share for the full year, an increase 2,000 apprentices in the UK more than tobuild ever stronger relationships with our of 2% compared to 2015.
customers, recognising that, in the defence shareholder approval at the May 2017 Annual sector, we are partners working together In December, we celebrated the opening of General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on toprotect national interests and security.
anew 16m Academy for Skills & Knowledge 1 June 2017 to holders of ordinary shares Inthe US, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia adjacent to our military aircraft manufacturing registered on 21April 2017. andAustralia, engagement with political facility at Samlesbury as further evidence of andmilitary leaders has been consistently We were pleased to welcome Elizabeth Corley our commitment to building and sustaining constructive and positive.
We continue as a non-executive director on 1 February the skills pipeline.
towork closely with the UK government 2016.
Her appointment has further In addition, together with other leading andhave benefited from their unstinting strengthened and deepened the expertise engineering companies in the UK, we support in our export activities.
We have had andexperience of our board of directors.
contributed to developing a National considerable success in our export activities In summary, we have been pleased to Productivity Improvement Plan with the and in securing future opportunities as seen deliveranother year of solid performance creation of a formal educational productivity most recently in India and Turkey.
1 withsales training programme at Lancaster University of 19.0bn, underlying earnings The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia remains 1 and sharing best practice with supply per share of 40.3p underpinned by an order animportant market for the Group, where 1 chainpartners.
Our cash generation wework as prime contractor to the UK hascontinued to facilitate growth in our We believe that, as an international leader in government to fulfil its obligations under dividend to 21.3p whilst supporting our engineering, advanced manufacturing and  agreements on commitment to our pension fund and technology, we have a responsibility to ensure defence and security co-operation.
our Company and the nations we serve are Review proceedings into the process followed equipped with the skills and competitive by the UK government in granting defence Looking forward, our efforts will be focused strength to succeed in global export markets.
export licences to the Kingdom of Saudi on the successful execution of the orders Arabia are under way, with a judgment wehave achieved whilst seeking to harvest Ensuring we have a continued supply of talent expected in the near future.
theinternational export opportunities which is an essential element of long-term business lie ahead.
planning as is the need to manage organised We are aware of the privileged position we succession at all levels of the business.
In this enjoy in all our markets and recognise our It is against this background that we look respect, since becoming Chairman, it has been responsibility in driving down costs whilst forward to delivering continued strong necessary to plan for the retirement of Ian maintaining the highest quality standards.
King who became Chief Executive over eight Inparallel with our determination to build years ago.
competitive strength, we have continued tofocus our people on the importance of safety in what we do and the ethics of howwe do it.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman P0607 Alternative performance measuredefinitions 1.
We monitor the underlying financial performance of theGroup using alternative performance measures.
