02 Chairmans introduction Restoring Balfour Beatty to strength The 2016 results demonstrate that the Build to Last transformation programme is delivering positive change and we now have a solid foundation for future profitable growth.
By focusing on our selected markets, we have been winning new business on improved terms, the legacy issues which have held back the Group are being steadily worked through and we have maintained one of the strongest balance sheets in the sector.
Importantly, for many shareholders, we reinstated payment of a dividend.
The UK and US Governments have both stated their commitment to significant additional improvements to core infrastructure: our clients are supportive of our transformation and we have a talented and dedicated workforce.
We also have the confidence that our strengths are now underpinned by the improved governance and controls which have been put in place during the first phase of Build to Last.
Performance Balfour Beatty has maintained its disciplined approach to bidding for, and winning, new business.
This involves ensuring that work we take on is of the type we want to do, in the geographies that we have chosen to concentrate.
In short, this is about bidding for long-term profitable work rather than chasing Philip Aiken AM revenue growth.
Chairman As a result underlying revenue for 2016 is up 4% in absolute terms, at constant exchange rates CER there is a 3% reduction.
Nevertheless, the year-end order book stands at 12.7 billion a rise of 15% 4% at CER over the course of the year.
The year also saw the business return to profit after two years of heavy losses.
Underlying profit from operations was 67 million statutory profit from operations 15 million.
Whilst the UK construction business made a loss for the full year, the division made a modest profit in the second half, demonstrating the positive trend required as we enter 2017.
Once again, our Investments portfolio continued to perform strongly, delivering both cash and profit to the Group, whilst maintaining the value of the asset portfolio.
The benefits of the Build to Last transformation programme are visible in the financial performance of the Group.
As the benefits of the simplified structure, upgraded management and improved systems and controls continue to work through, I am confident that the performance of the Group will continue on this trajectory.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 03 On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all Markets of our employees for the commitment they The strengthening of Balfour Beattys have again shown this year.
operational processes coincides with the By focusing on our selected governments in our core markets, the UK and Much of the work that Balfour Beatty markets, we have been winning US, laying out plans for wide-scale investment undertakes is inherently dangerous.
So it in improved infrastructure.
new business on improved is crucial that at every level in our business The UK Government has reaffirmed its we look to understand and mitigate the terms, the legacy issues which commitment to HS2 and new nuclear power risks.
Our objective is to reduce accidents stations in addition to a general increase in to zero.
Where incidents occur they are have held back the Group are infrastructure spending announced in the fully investigated and steps are taken to being steadily worked through Autumn Statement.
The Group is working avoid repetition.
We understand our safety constructively with industry bodies and the responsibilities to everyone that Balfour and we have maintained one UK Government to identify and manage any Beatty comes into contact with workers, of the strongest balance sheets direct challenges caused by the UKs exit from subcontractors, suppliers, clients and the European Union.
At this stage we have members of the public.
We do all we can to in the sector.
not seen an impact on the building market: ensure that everyone is kept safe.
Philip Aiken AM however we remain vigilant to respond to any During the year, five people were killed whilst Chairman changes in market conditions.
working on Balfour Beattys projects: one In the US, the new administration has highlighted in each of the UK and US and three in the infrastructure repairs and improvements as one Far East.
I use this letter to formally send of its priorities, building on the US$305bn of condolences to their families on behalf of the spending authorised by the Fixing Americas Board.
However, I recognise that words are Surface Transportation FAST Act.
inadequate to express our regret that five families are living with the consequences In both the UK and the US, we continue to of bereavements.
Each of these deaths is a see growing opportunities for our Investments reminder as to why we must never cease to business to finance and deliver projects both in make our industry safer.
the private and public sectors.
Dividend The Board This year has demonstrated continued It is with great sadness that I report, Graham progress in restoring Balfour Beatty to financial Roberts, who had served on the Board since strength.
The Build to Last Phase One targets 2009, passed away in July.
Graham was a of 200 million cash in and 100 million highly valued colleague and I would like to cost out have been comfortably exceeded.
place on record my thanks to him and our In addition we have a growing order book.
As a result the Board were able to reinstate Maureen Kempston Darkes will be retiring a dividend at the half year and commit to from the Board at the AGM.
Maureen has a progressive dividend policy.
We have served since July 2012 and chairs our Safety recommended a final dividend of 1.8p, and Sustainability Committee and I thank her bringingthe total dividend for the year to 2.7p.
Conclusion We are in the middle of our Board renewal As you read this Annual Report, you will be phase and are looking in the coming months able to see evidence of the positive change to the appointment of up to three new nonwhich is happening across the Group.
I consider the balance of Whilst there remains much to be done in order the disciplines and diversity on the Board to be to get Balfour Beatty to its full potential and to most important and believe a well-structured finally put all the legacy challenges behind us, Board is essential in setting the agenda for the your company enters 2017 better positioned Groups future.
than has been the case for many years.
Our people As we have seen from the progress that has been made by Balfour Beatty during 2016, this is a period of immense change within the business.
This can only be achieved due to the Philip Aiken AM hard work and dedication of so many of our Chairman colleagues.
As I visit sites in the UK and US, I am continually delighted to see the enthusiasm and dedication of our team as they strive to deliver amazing projects for our clients.
