Chairmans letter While much is yet to be done, business restructuring will largely be completed in 2017... 2016 was pivotal for Barclays, which is engaged in one of the largest restructurings in history.
Jes Staley has had an impressive first year.
Initially, he set out a new strategic agenda for the Group as a leading UK and transatlantic bank, with the customer at its heart, placing it at the forefront of our industry, and re-embracing banking as a profession.
Under his leadership, the Core business was redefined and reorganised in preparation for structural reform, together with plans to bring its returns above hurdle rates.
It was decided to exit Africa and accelerate the reduction in Non-Core.
The senior management team was strengthened with key internal and external appointments, and plans put in place to achieve successful structural reform in the UK and the US, as well as a major medium-term initiative to embrace digital technology, to upgrade our systems architecture, to become fully cyber ready and improve our control effectiveness.
While much is yet to be done, including the full transfer of business to the UK ring-fenced bank during the first half of 2018, business Summary restructuring will largely be completed in 2017, and subject to the future impact of a number of legacy conduct issues, this should allow the Today the Group is smaller, safer, more Group to return to a good and more stable financial performance in 2018, and possibly in the late months of 2017. focused, less leveraged, better capitalised and The year itself saw external surprises, including the decision by the UK to highly liquid, with the customer at the centre exit the EU, a consequent decline in Sterling, as well as a new political of the business.
The sale of Africa, the climate emerging in the UK and the US.
We also faced regulatory pressure to increase capital levels, and the need to improve further our settlement of legacy conduct matters and the control effectiveness and corporate culture.
exit of Non-Core will improve this significantly Notwithstanding such pressures, Im pleased with the progress that we going forward.
The Group implemented its geographic refocus around the UK and North America, while retaining international coverage for our clients.
The business was reorganised into Barclays International For further information, see home.
barclays annualreport corporate investment banking and international consumer and Barclays UK local consumer, small business, UK wealth and credit cards in preparation for structural reform and to leverage the core competitive advantages of the Group.
New senior management joined in Risk, Corporate and Investment Banking and Operations and Technology, and a new Group Executive Committee was constituted, with Jes investing heavily in its cohesion and effectiveness.
Overall, the Group returned to bottom-line profitability in the year, with attributable profits up 2.0bn and with basic earnings per share of 10.4p.
Capital was strengthened, and the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio improved by 100bps to 12.4%.
The Cost: Income ratio improved from 84% to 76%.
The Core business had a good year with attributable profit doubling to 3.4bn, together with an equivalent improvement in Return on Tangible Equity to 8.4% and basic earnings per share of 20.5p.
This was offset significantly by the 1.9bn loss 11.3p per share associated with the run down of Non-Core, which saw its risk weighted assets reduce by 41% to 32bn with transactions announced in France, Italy, Spain, Portugal and in Asia.
Given this progress, we now expect the run down of Non-Core to be completed six months earlier than planned, at the end of the first half of 2017.
This will leave an anticipated residual 25bn of RWAs that will be re-absorbed by the Core businesses.
02 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Corporate governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information A major decision was made to sell down our 62% shareholding in Barclays Africa Group Ltd BAGL and the process began with a reduction to just over 50%.
This investment became non-viable 12.4% economically under current regulatory capital rules, and the UK bank levy.
BAGL had a reasonable year in 2016, although profits were slightly down on 2015.
Our shareholding benefitted from an improvement in the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio exchange rate and an increase in its stock price.
2016 CET1 ratio up 100bps vs 2015 From these statistics, we can see the merits of improving further the 2015: 11.4% Core return, the elimination of the drag from Non-Core, the sale of Africa, and further progressing the resolution of historical conduct matters.
It is worth stepping back to remind shareholders of the enormous changes that are taking place at Barclays.
At our peak in 2008 we had: 58.4bn 2.1trn in assets against 1.2trn today, down over 40% and declining shareholders equity was 36.6bn, and is now 58.4bn, up 60% Shareholders equity balance sheet leverage total assets to ordinary shareholders funds was a stretched 56 times, and has been reduced to 21 times 2016 shareholders equity up 7% vs 2015 shareholders capital as a percentage of risk weighted assets was 2015: 54.5bn 8.5% and is now almost double at 16%.
Today therefore, the Group is smaller, safer, more focused, less leveraged, better capitalised and highly liquid, with the customer at the centre of the business.
The sale of Africa, the settlement of legacy conduct matters and the exit of Non-Core will improve this significantly going forward.
Despite this progress, significant challenges remain.
The interest rate This foundation gives us a new beginning and subject to the resolution and growth environment remains subdued in our core markets.
Our Core of legacy conduct matters and the satisfactory execution of the business overall is still operating below our cost of equity.
In the near near-term agenda.
I genuinely believe we can see the light at the end of term, we need to exit Non-Core and complete the sale of Africa at the the tunnel.
Restructuring will largely be completed in 2017, and subject best financial outcome possible.
UK and US structural reform also needs to legacy matters, this should allow the Group to return to a good and to be implemented, with a major event involving the transfer of business more stable financial performance in 2018, and possibly in the late from Barclays Bank PLC to the ring-fenced bank.
A number of potentially months of 2017.
This augurs well for completion of the turnaround at material legacy conduct matters need to be resolved at acceptable cost.
Barclays, for future value creation, and at the appropriate time, a A way forward to capture the opportunity and mitigate the risk of the reconsideration of the dividend.
UKs exit from the EU needs to be found, depending on the final international agreement.
Finally, we need to reach our required I would like to take this opportunity to thank our Board for their regulatory capital and desired control levels.
I am confident we have the contribution to our company.
I am also grateful for the enormous capacity to work our way through these.
progress made by our senior management team, and thank our staff across the organisation for coming every day to serve our customers, Looking forward therefore, a great deal has changed at Barclays and without whom we would not have an enterprise.
Finally, I would pay much will change going forward.
We are a major full-service player in the respect to our shareholders for their ongoing patience and support.
UK, have leadership in several important segments and are the digital banking leader.
We also have a major corporate, investment banking and cards presence in the US.
For example, our cards and consumer and payments businesses there, now produce more revenues than our equivalent UK business.
We also retain a focused international presence to serve our customers internationally and bring overseas customers to our core markets.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2016 03
