Strategic Report Chairmans Statement We announced at the end of 2015 that Nick Land would be leaving the Board at the 2016 AGM and that, from January 2016, Peter Edwards Chairmans and Peter Ventress would join the Board as non-executive directors.
I would like to again thank Nick for his contribution to BBA Aviation and thank each of our non-executive directors for their counsel Statement during the year.
On 1 March 2017 we announced that Mike Powell was standing down from the Board on 31 May 2017.
I would like to thank Mike BBA Aviation delivered a strong overall for his significant contribution to BBA Aviation and I am very pleased with the appointment of David Crook as his successor as Group performance in 2016 and has made Finance Director.
With the Safety completion of the acquisition of Landmark The Board values the skills, commitment and enthusiasm of all of Aviation, the sale at the beginning of 2017 our employees in what has been an exceptionally busy year for BBA Aviation.
Our dedicated teams around the world are at the heart of of ASIG and continued investment in Ontics our success.
This year we have been especially pleased with progress portfolio, the Group has transformed and is in the vital area of safety where we have delivered a significantly improved performance versus last year.
positioned strongly for the future.
Outlook Results The integration of Landmark Aviation has delivered more cost In Flight Support we saw excellent organic underlying operating profit synergies than anticipated, with annualised cost savings now expected progression of 7% despite modest market growth.
The integration to be $39 million.
Signature now comprises the majority of the Group of the new Landmark FBOs has been successfully completed.
During and has a global network of over 200 FBOs that can meet more of the the year we also further extended the Signature network around the needs of our customers at most of the locations they want to fly to, TM world through acquisition and our Signature Select licensing model enhancing our opportunity for continued market outperformance.
and completed the transaction to form Gama Aviation Signature Ontic continues to see significant growth opportunities and has a Aircraft Management.
strong pipeline and a good order book.
Although ERO will continue to be impacted by reduced legacy mid-cabin fixed wing flying, our In Aftermarket Services, Ontic delivered another solid operating footprint reduction programme remains on track and should lead to performance with incremental contributions from new licences and further improved financial performance at lower levels of activity.
we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of legacy avionics products from GE Aviation.
We saw a weak overall performance in Engine The Group is now focused on higher value-added, better IP-protected, Repair & Overhaul as trading conditions remained challenging, high ROIC and strongly cash generative businesses and the Board is but continued progress on our footprint reduction programme, confident of good growth in 2017. which supported an improved second half performance.
Net cash flow from operating activities was strong at $374.9 million with ROIC at 10.1%.
Dividend At the time of the interim results the Board declared an increased interim dividend of 3.63c per share 2015: 3.47c per share when adjusted for the new capital base.
The Board is now proposing a final dividend of 9.12c per share 2015 adjusted: 8.68c per share, up 5% on an underlying basis, reflecting the Boards progressive dividend policy and its continued confidence in the Groups future growth prospects.
Corporate Governance and the Board In this Annual Report we have created a new Corporate Governance section pages 42-78 which sets out our approach to governance, how we comply with our governance obligations and how governance works Sir Nigel Rudd, Chairman in practice at BBA Aviation.
