Chairmans statement Dennis Holt Chairman The board is pleased that Beazleys execution of its strategy continues to help us deliver strong shareholder value.
environment, we expect our capital fallentoreflectthis, mostsharplyin Against a background of requirements to increase.
However, it is in the continued sharply falling our capital requirements grew by 11%, nature of large risk, catastrophe exposed premium rates for most large thus reducing the level of excess capital business that rates can fall a long way compared to 2014 and 2015. and insurers can still make money if riskbusiness, Beazley delivered claims are subdued.
avery strong performance in The markets within which Beazley operates 2016, generating a return on faced major economic and political Beazley has weathered multiple uncertainties in 2016 uncertainties underwriting cycles in three decades average shareholders equity that had not diminished by the year end.
and, at this juncture, our focus is on of18% 2015: 19% and premium It is now clear that the hardship and maintaining underwriting discipline growth of 6%.
psychological shocks caused by the across the business classes that have  seen rates continue to fall.
We have Through skilled underwriting and careful recession have, several years later, accordingly further trimmed our  had major political repercussions that exposures to energy risks, large scale portfolio, Beazley once again achieved few expected.
In both Britain and the US commercial property, and reinsurance.
a combined ratio below 90%, recording support for open markets and free trade 89% in 2016 2015: 87%.
Earnings per is more challenged and the economic cost Nevertheless, amid the challenges our share were 48.6c 2015: 48.8c and net may ultimately be high.
The direction of industry faces, there are many areas of tangible assets per share grew to 268.2c  opportunity for Beazley.
volatile environment is hard to predict.
the companys largest division, continues to grow strongly, generating gross The board is pleased to announce Reflectingthistrend, Brexithasbeen premiums of $1,159.8m in 2016 2015: a second interim dividend of 7.0p per a source of concern and considerable $1,015.2m, 14% up on the previous year.
ordinary share plus a special dividend uncertainty to many businesses in the City This business was buoyed by the relatively of 10.0p per ordinary share.
For Beazley the concern is less attractive premium rates for small scale  acute, in part because less than 5% of our risks that our mature US operations are this takes the total dividends declared business is generated within mainland now well equipped to handle.
We have for 2016 to 20.5p per ordinary share Europe, but also because we had already been building a strong platform in the 2015:, planned to develop our presence in Dublin US for more than a decade now and it second interim dividend of 6.6p plus a to access more business in continental has served us well.
InNovember2016, wefiledan application with the Central Bank of Ireland For a specialist insurer such as Beazley, one Beazley targets dividend growth excluding to obtain approval for Beazley Re dac to  special dividends of between 5% and 10%, become a European insurance company, new product ideas and a commitment to a record which we have maintained since enabling us to broaden our underwriting invest in them an area in which Beazley flotation.
  to partner with other insurers or reinsurers exceeds the opportunity to invest in For many insurers, the ripple effects of to exploit attractive growth opportunities profitablegrowth, plusaprudentbuffer.
political uncertainty and weak investment that might not be accessible to a single  returns on performance have been company.
The partnership we forged in to grow, and as we continue to reduce masked by a low incidence of catastrophe 2016 with Munich Re to underwrite large our peak natural catastrophe exposure, claims that has continued largely unbroken scale cyber risks is an example of the latter.
in part due to the competitive rating since 2011.
Premium rates have naturally 14 Beazley Annual report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements The cyber market continues to grow and We were delighted to welcome three new Dividend policy and evolve rapidly, but in other areas patience board members during the course of the capitalrequirements can be a virtue.
Beazley celebrated year, each of whom brings experience Our capital management strategy is to 10 year anniversaries in Paris and in relevant to particular opportunities and carry some surplus capital to enable us Singapore in 2016, hard on the heels challenges the company faces.
to take advantage of growth opportunities of our tenth anniversary as a local insurer that may arise: this is further supported in the United States.
In each market, John Sauerland joined us in May as a by our fully undrawn banking facility.
We we have grown largely or exclusively non-executive director and member of continue to manage our capital actively, organically, making only small scale the remuneration committee.
Based in and to the extent that we have surplus acquisitions, if any.
This is not the fastest Ohio,  capital outside of this range the board way to grow, but in insurance it can prove , having will consider means to return this capital .
served in a number of roles across that to shareholders, as demonstrated once .
AstheUS more through the announcement of  continues to be a strategic focus for a special dividend for 2016. has always been to scrutinise the key the group, Johns experience and skills  will prove very valuable to us.
Beazleys success over Outlook time has depended heavily on being Further reinforcing the boards US   experience, particularly in the broking many insurers in 2016 and we do not  arena, we welcomed Christine LaSala expect it to be any easier to achieve in one geography or line of business as a non-executive director and a the coming year.
For Beazley, however, while keeping our powder dry in another.
member of the audit and risk committee  In addition, the duration of risks matters: in July.
Based in New York, Christine to grow in the US and, on a smaller scale, in recent years we have seen short tail recently retired as chair of Willis Towers in other markets outside London.
catastrophe exposed business shed  Demand for our specialist products, margin far faster than the medium tail distinguished career in insurance broking particularly among small and mid sized casualty business that is the focus of our that included leadership roles at Johnson businesses, remains strong.
In all these areas & Higgins and Marsh.
product, geography and duration The London market faces a more the board continuously challenges the FinallyinAugust, theboardappointed .
Theinflux companys strategy and the assumptions Bob Stuchbery as a non-executive of capital into this market in recent years, that underpin it.
director and member of the audit and and the resulting rating pressure, has risk committee.
Bob had previously been contributed to tighter margins across  appointed as a non-executive director many lines of business.
If the relatively from the diverse experience and skillset to the board of Beazley Furlonge Ltd, the benign claims environment we have grown of board members, including Vincent groups Lloyds managing agency, where Sheridan, who has been a Beazley plc used to in recent years were to deteriorate, he chairs the risk committee.
He brings non-executive director since 2009, and the consequences of writing risk at these extensive Lloyds experience, having been who resigned from the board and audit rates would become even clearer.
CEO of Chaucer until 2015 and his deep and risk committee at the end of the year.
knowledge of the Lloyds market and He will remain a director of Beazley Re That is not Beazleys approach.
Our vision distribution and operational strategies dac, the groups Irish subsidiary.
I am is to become, and be recognised as, the will be an asset to the board.
very grateful to Vincent for his valued highest performing specialist insurer.
contribution to the board during his seven  year tenure.
ideas to help clients address their most pressing risks while attracting skilled underwriters who can price their products sustainably, we will continue to make progress towards achieving our vision.
Dennis Holt Chairman 2 February 2017 www.
