STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE Berkeley has delivered adjusted pre-tax earnings of 479.9 million 479.9 million for the year, an increase of 5.6% on last year.
This is from the sale Adjusted profit before tax for the year of 3,776 homes 2015: 3,355 at an average selling price of 515,000 2015: 575,000, reflecting the mix of properties sold in the year.
Together with a further 51.0 million of profit from the sale of ground 602.0 million rent assets, this represents total pre-tax earnings of 530.9 million.
Net investment in inventories Student accommodation After tax, the profit for the year was While sales are down 4% for the year as 404.1 million, from which 259.5 million whole, the market for Berkeley has slowed was distributed to shareholders with the some 20% in the five months to May 2016 dividend covered 1.6 times.
The remaining as the EU Referendum approaches, with profit generated, along with the Groups no new London launches in this period.
existing cash balances, funded the This has had a more distinct impact on the 602.0 million net investment in inventories higher end of the market which has also and 99.9 million net investment in joint been affected by increased transaction ventures, ahead of the enhanced profit taxes and the policy shift against buy-to-let delivery anticipated over the next two investors.
We continue to achieve sales years, resulting in year-end net cash of prices ahead of our business plan with 107.4 million 2015: 430.9 million.
price ination remaining for properties of less than 1.25 million where demand We remain on target to deliver pre-tax Goodmans Fields, Aldgate Wetlands at Woodberry Down is most robust, with Berkeley already profits in the region of 2.0 billion over the absorbing the increased cost of transaction three year period ending 30 April 2018, taxes above this level in its pricing.
New underpinned by our 3.25 billion of forward STRATEGIC DELIVERY sales activity is now focused on the periods sales.
The scale of the key regeneration beyond 2017 18 with a number of new schemes from which we expect to During the year the Board of Berkeley This has enhanced, and gives visibility of, launches planned for later in the year, once generate these earnings makes the delivery reviewed the quantum and prole of returns to shareholders within the proven the EU Referendum uncertainty has passed.
of profit in specic annual periods sensitive the Companys dividend programme framework which allows Berkeley to to timing and we always prioritise quality that was put in place in 2011 to deliver operate at its natural size and to optimise We have made great strides with our ahead of individual period financial targets.
13.00 per share to shareholders by 2021. returns to shareholders while managing land holdings in the last 12 months, This review took into account a number the risks of a cyclical market.
The first 1.00 acquiring 12 new sites encompassing some of factors, including: the Companys per share of this enhanced dividend return 8,600 plots, securing nine new planning financial strength and its visibility over was paid to shareholders in January of consents and 21 revised planning consents.
future earnings and cash generation: the this year and the next 1.00 per share will This investment has seen our land holdings prevailing market conditions and stable be paid in September.
The changes to the rise to 42,858 plots with an estimated operating environment: and the investment dividend prole necessitated consequential future gross margin of 6.1 billion, up from opportunities that continue to present changes to the 2011 LTIP to ensure ongoing 37,473 plots and 5.3 billion a year ago.
Following the review, the alignment.
These were approved by 94% Board determined that it intended to of shareholders who voted at the General enhance the dividend programme by Meeting on 16 February 2016.
0.5 billion, increasing it from 13.00 per share to 16.34 per share.
Original Enhanced We remain on target to deliver Returns Returns pre-tax profits in the region of Paid to date 4.34 5.34 By September 2016 1.44 1.00 2.0 billion over the three years By September 2017 1.44 2.00 ending April 2018.
By September 2018 1.45 2.00 By September 2019 - 2.00 ROB PERRINS CHIEF EXECUTIVE By September 2020 - 2.00 By September 2021 4.33 2.00 To come 8.66 11.00 Total 13.00 16.34 8 9 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued Computer generated image of Goodmans Fields, Aldgate Holborough Lakes, Kent Berkeley Urban House Fitzroy Gate, Isleworth The Nine Elms Tavern, Riverlight Brewery Wharf, Twickenham HOUSING MARKET CUSTOMERS HOMES PLACES Over the course of the year, the housing In terms of the Groups available sales The customer experience is central to During the final quarter of this year, On every site, our goal is to create a In Bath, Berkeley recently completed 307 market for Berkeley has remained stable, prole, having acquired a number of Berkeleys reputation and our ability Berkeley launched a new design concept strong community and a place where purpose-built student rooms for Bath with forward sales increasing by 10%, from London developments in the period from to secure sales.
Our performance is called the Urban House.
This enables people enjoy a fantastic quality of life.
This scheme won a 2015 2.95 billion to 3.25 billion.
This reects a 2009 to 2013, Berkeley forward sold these independently assessed using the Net twice as many homes to be built on a site two developments are the same: each is Royal Town Planning Institute Award for greater value of new properties exchanged into the particularly strong market that Promoter Score NPS.
This takes compared to traditional terraced housing.
To enable this we Planning Excellence on the basis of a in the period compared to those taken began in 2013 and continued through 2014. the percentage of customers who are At a time when the demand for family apply our social sustainability framework partnership with the local council.
Taking the year as a As a consequence, there have been fewer promoters of the company and subtracts homes in London outstrips supply by 13 to all developments above 100 homes to work together transformed a derelict whole, the value of new reservations is 4% launches of such schemes during the last the percentage who are detractors, leaving to 1, the Urban House offers an intelligent, set an approach to creating communities eyesore in a World Heritage site into a lower than in 2014 15 but this is from a 12 months and no new schemes launched a score in a possible range of -100 to 100. traditional three storey solution, which on our developments.
building that the city can be proud of.
marginally higher number of transactions.
in London over the last five months to May is full of light, economical to run and We designed a Georgian style building Berkeleys NPS of 71.2 2015: 69.8 illustrates As part of the estate regeneration This reects a change in mix due to the 2016.
The Group continues to sell across works equally well as private or affordable with a traditional Bath stone frontage, our permanent focus on customer service programme at Woodberry Down, we underlying market dynamics, coupled all its developments at all price points housing.
The efficiencies are achieved by while using modern methods of on each of our sites.
At Goodmans Fields have worked with the London Wildlife with the sales prole of Berkeleys London but the rate of sale and time taken to replacing the back garden with a private construction and over 600 pods in Aldgate, for example, Berkeley is creating Trust to restore an 11 hectare wetland.
It should be recognised complete transactions is adjusting to the roof garden, while retaining space at the manufactured off-site.
1,038 homes as well as a hotel, student This is now a free, beautiful, public amenity.
that the Groups forward sales have now current market conditions.
At around 10%, front for a car and bicycles.
We In the first five days after the opening by There remains an ongoing high prole peaked as we enter a period of enhanced reservation cancellation rates remain at the have recently completed the latest block of The first 22 homes of this prototype have Sir David Attenborough on 21 April, 4,500 debate about the role of tall buildings delivery over the next two years, over low end of historical norms.
179 apartments and achieved an average been built on two streets at Kidbrooke people visited.
At One Tower Bridge, we in solving the housing crisis.
We believe which time both forward sales and It is of some concern that, after such NPS of 82.6.
Village while others are under construction have invested in building a 900-seat they have an important part to play.
Tall customer deposits on the balance sheet strong market conditions for our industry, at Green Park Village in Reading.
It theatre, designed by Stirling Prize winners buildings can make efficient use of land are likely to reduce accordingly, with These efforts were publicly acknowledged transaction levels in both the secondhand represents the first time a large-scale Haworth Tompkins.
This is due to open in and locate many homes close to public customers buying later in the development in March when Berkeley won the Best and new homes market have not increased developer has designed and delivered its September 2016. transport.
With good design, they create cycle as market conditions normalise.
Customer Focus Large Enterprise Award to the levels we all would hope for at this own housing typology.
Berkeley believes a fantastic sense of place and the tax and at the Institute of Customer Services Global macro uncertainty and the stage in the cycle.
Government policy the Urban House will offer local authorities levies paid make a major contribution to UK Customer Satisfaction Awards.
This impending EU Referendum have had a has sought to increase the level of home a new way of providing high density family local infrastructure.
is significant because the awards assess dampening effect on investment levels ownership but has focused primarily on homes, while the increase in density will companies across all sectors not solely The key challenge lies in how you create a across all businesses and this is likely to the demand side, creating unintended make smaller sites viable for residential in property or housing.
Berkeley was community in high rise buildings.
Berkeley continue immediately after the result consequences for supply.
The real challenge development which would not otherwise commended for its comprehensive is pioneering new solutions to this issue at of the Referendum.
This, along with is to build more homes for all sectors of the be possible.
commitment to customer service, the South Quay Plaza, one of Britains tallest the market adjusting to higher levels of market: home ownership, private rent PRS, level of employee engagement and It also illustrates the value of a exible residential developments.
We have also property transaction taxes, has affected shared ownership, affordable rent and a well-communicated strategy.
approach to housing standards, focused now committed to develop community the upper end of the housing market in social rent.
To meet the numbers required, on delivering affordability and additionality.
plans for every new major site.
London, although underlying interest and all these ownership models need to thrive.
During 2016, we have continued to market demand remain good.
As a consequence We look forward to working with both all our homes in line with our UK First of these converging headwinds, Central Government and the new London Policy.
This policy has been in place since reservations for the first five months of Mayor to make this happen.
2014 and is in line with the London Mayoral the calendar year are 20% down on Concordat which invites developers to the same period last year.
At more sell to the UK and international markets On every site, our goal is to create mainstream price points, the market simultaneously.
We recognise the remains inationary due to the embedded importance of giving domestic customers a strong community and a place under-supply and the ripple effect of the a level playing eld and every chance to increased transaction costs at the upper compete in the new build market.
where people enjoy a fantastic end of the market.
Only 96 of the Groups reservations in the year utilised the quality of life.
Governments Help to Buy scheme.
