CHAIRMANS STATEMENT NEIL JANIN CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholders, addressing structural improvements in the We continue to view BGEO as a vehicle whose economy through its four-pillar reform goal is to maximise the value of its assets for its The business and political mood is upbeat in programme, Georgia is well positioned to shareholders.
This means that we will continue Georgia, and my coverage of the four topics become a significant regional hub economy.
to pursue our buy low, sell high asset strategy.
of this letter reflects these positive conditions.
GHG is a very good example of how we want I will start with the economic and political In fact, we expect GDP to grow 4.3% in 2017 to execute this strategy.
Importantly, we dont overview, followed by a discussion on our compared to 2.7% in 2016.
The number of consider any of our activities core anymore Group strategy, talent development, and then visitors to Georgia increased at a 22.1% CAGR including the Bank.
This is why we call board development.
The CEO letter that follows over 2007-2016 and tourism inflows stood at ourselves: a Georgia Focused Investment will go into more specific details on each of US$ 2.2 billion 15.1% of GDP in 2016.
Government plans to enhance Georgias positioning as a four season tourism location Let me give you a review of our main strategic Economics and Politics: A few months ago, through improving the connectivity of different priorities, while Irakli, our CEO, will talk in more Georgia once again demonstrated its regions with an aim to enhance their untapped detail about the strategic goals for each of our commitment to European standards and norms potential.
Despite the fact that many countries businesses in his letter.
by ensuring the successful delivery of 2016s faced reduced capital inflows during the recent democratic parliamentary elections.
As economic turbulence, FDI into Georgia has The Bank has become an excellent expected, the Georgian people overwhelmingly remained relatively secure thanks to the institution both in terms of innovation and supported the incumbent government.
The business-friendly environment as well as cost management.
We aim to become the elections turned out to be open, clean, and strategic infrastructure projects.
In 2016 FDI best in class when the transformation of transparent with a very clear mandate for the inflow to Georgia was up 5.2% y-o-y and our retail bank is completed.
Most of the population totalled US$1.6 billion 11.5% of GDP.
we believe that regional wealth management believe that economic development is the way holds a potential that we have not yet to prosperity and progress and this national International relations are on the right track.
We believe Galt and Taggart and consensus is the key to political stability.
Georgias accession to the visa free programme the corporate bank have the best with the EU was a concrete benefit for all to investment banking capabilities in the After the elections, Georgias ruling Georgian see.
Moreover, the Government continues to country.
These capabilities should translate Dream party introduced a package of legislative constructively manage its relation with Russia.
into a more dynamic and profitable changes to support the implementation of Tourists from, and exports to, Russia have corporate banking segment.
Today, the the Governments four-pillar reform programme increased 12.0% to 1.0 million persons and banking market is a two-player market introduced in February 2016 to boost growth 26.6% to US$ 206.2 million last year, a market we share with a good competitor.
and enhance the economys resilience to respectively, while the share in Georgias total GHG has three main strategic priorities: external shocks.
The programme includes still remains low at 16.3% for tourists and 9.8% launch new services at hospitals to grow new tax benefits, infrastructure schemes, for exports.
On the regional front, Turkeys revenue from planned treatments, grow governance reforms and the modernisation situation has had some effect on Georgian market share in outpatient clinics a market of the education system.
In contrast, recovery in other regional which is highly fragmented, and digitalise was enacted and effective as of January 2017, economies, particularly in Russia through its healthcare system to accomplish further undistributed profits are tax free, ensuring positive spillovers on Georgias major trading efficiency and more importantly, better a significant potential boost to Georgias partners, is strengthening Georgias growth quality of care.
We are leading the investments and economic growth.
To summarise the situation: Georgia improvement of healthcare in the country, is boringly tranquil, in a neighborhood in turmoil.
by establishing new standards and The country continues to be very business This bodes well for Georgias strategy to become developing new operating models and friendly.
The World Bank ranks Georgia 16th a regional business hub.
procedures which dont exist in Georgia yet.
out 189 economies in terms of ease of doing Additionally, we have an open dialogue with business, up from 23rd position a year ago.
Group strategy: Last year, we informed you the regulatory authorities to establish rules With its business-friendly environment, of our new two-pronged strategy.
Firstly, we and regulations to reach significantly stable Government, developed infrastructure, would continue to make Bank of Georgia an improved health care practice for the stable energy supply, flexible labour legislation, excellent institution, and secondly, we would population of Georgia.
Finally, we believe stable and profitable banking sector, strategic buy assets in Georgia cheaply, grow them, and that our presence in hospitals, policlinics, geography and a Government committed to then sell them to investors at a higher price.
pharmacies, and insurance holds enormous 06 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC synergetic potential to serve our clients Incentive systems are important but dont The Board.
Our board is constituted of capable profitably, especially using digital technologies.
Until now, we have brought back individuals who are T shaped.
They all were GHG does not have the same market value talent who had trained abroad and developed chosen for the quality of their analysis and their as our Bank yet, but it holds much promise.
Today, we want our talent judgment, the horizontal T, and for their deep In the utility and energy arena, we bought, strategy to provide a supply of leader managers specialty, the vertical of the T. I described their at a good price, a water utility with many to newly created positions.
In effect, we need talent in my letter to shareholders last year.
This year and to build a pipeline of talent.
We have named our businesses diversify across the industries next, we will be on the lookout for more a new Chief Talent Officer, whose background in the Georgian economy, the talent pool to acquisition opportunities in the areas of is not personnel management, and given him supervise them must adapt.
In the case of energy and utilities.
Additionally, we aim this mission.
He will ensure that BGEO further GHG, we have built a separate board with the to develop hydro, solar and wind energy strengthens its culture of meritocracy, requisite talent and continue to enrich it.
Georgia could become a clean teamwork, and that it continues to develop energy producer, and should become an a strong pipeline of capable managers ready We will also be adding two new board and or electricity trading hub.
We intend to be a to take the available positions.
committee members with IFRS experience major player in this emergent market.
Again, one to each of the BGEO and GHG boards.
we will follow our usual investment strategy, The essence of a meritocracy is having As we continue to refresh our Board, increasing and seek to realise the value created employees feeling free to share their ideas female Board representation remains a priority.
through an IPO in a few years time.
and being evaluated and rewarded for their We were not successful in advancing that performance.
This requires dialogue which priority in 2016, but aim to make good on It should be clear that we are continuing to we will promote by the spreading of the habit our promise this year and next.
pursue and expand a strategy announced of coaching up and down the hierarchy.
We believe Georgia is too small We would like to see constructive feedback Attracting talent to our boards remains key.
to attract private equity investment.
This is and frequent developmental discussions We must build the capacity of the board to where we can play a significant role, providing between managers and their direct reports.
guide and supervise all our business entities.
capital and management talent, our two This is not an idle talk.
Most of our top It is not economical at this stage to build traditional strengths.
At BGEO, our new managers have chosen to be coached by full-fledged boards for the smaller ones, but slogan, Georgia Focused Investment Platform, external coaches in the past years.
We believe in the fullness of time, we will need to do so.
that a coaching culture starts at the top.
Our As Chairman, I am keenly aware that the top managers are urged to coach their direct Boards responsibilities and capabilities must Talent development: For many years, we have reports, and to encourage such behaviour to evolve to adapt and support our strategy.
defined our key assets as access to capital and cascade down through the organisation.
We have built the credibility I would like to thank investors who have given to tap capital markets, having raised over US$ This effort is reinforced by the development us their confidence and money from early on.
Now we must make an of a teamwork culture.
This is a culture that is I speak on the boards and managements even more concerted effort to develop talent.
characterised within and across functions for behalf when I assure you that we are committed We need that talent to develop the cheap the greater good of the institution.
Our incentive aiming to offer you a good return on your assets that we are acquiring.
Our CEOs at system encourages that and we have started investment.
I would like to also underline that 2 GHG, m and GGU, as well as many other top to implement a leadership development your investment continues to develop BGEO executives at the Group, came out of the programme whose aim is to foster trust across Group, the country of Georgia and its population Banks management pool, but we need to horizontal managers.
through better healthcare, housing, utilities, accelerate the growth of this talent pool if we banking services, and economic development want to continue to grow and develop staff We already see the results of these efforts in in general.
It is also providing strong support properly.
We need to continue to align our a few of our business units, namely, Bank of to the people employed by all our companies.
2 talent strategy with our business objectives.
Our next step is to align our HR systems and integrate One of the key components of our talent or such habits throughout the organisation.
We Neil Janin human resource development strategy has would like our leadership programmes to initially Chairman been our incentive system.
Its intent is to cover 60 of our top managers, followed by the 13 April 2017 incentivise management to create value on next 400.
We believe that no other private a long term basis: c. 85% of managements institution is as large or as professional in compensation is in shares that vest over Georgia as BGEO.
We must become the talent 3-5 year period discouraging quick earnings development engine of the country.
The unvested shares are normally institutions and corporates need managerial clawed-back if a manager is fired for cause talent.
If we dont lead, then who will?
which includes a broad range of misconduct and this fully aligns shareholders and managements interests in the long-term.
This system also encourages teamwork.
Shareholders interests are perfectly aligned with those of top management.
Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC 07 Additional Financial Governance Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report information statements Performance Strategy Overview
