Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report that Booker Group has delivered another good performance.
I am pleased to report that Booker performance and cash flow of the Outlook Group has delivered another good business the Board recommends the The Groups trading in the first seven performance.
In the 52 weeks to 25 payment of a final dividend of 4.03 weeks of the current financial year March 2016 sales rose by 5.0% to pence per share 2015: 3.14 pence per is ahead of last year.
However, we 5.0bn and operating profit before share which, together with the interim anticipate that the challenging consumer exceptional items of 155.1m was up dividend, makes a total dividend for the and market environment will persist 11%.
year of 4.60 pence per share 2015: 3.66 through the coming year and the UKs The financial performance was good pence per share.
The final dividend is food market remains very competitive.
and the Group ended the financial payable on 8 July 2016 to shareholders year with net cash of 127.4m.
Our on the register on 10 June 2016.
Whilst there is increasing price Drive plans are working well with competition in the UK grocery and progress on the catering and retail In addition to the final dividend, the Board discount sectors, we will continue to sides of the business.
Our like-for-like is recommending a capital return to deliver our plans to offer our customers sales to caterers were 0.6% including shareholders of 3.20 pence per ordinary even better choice, prices and service Classic our on-trade supply business share at a cost of approximately 57m, supported by the continued delivery and 1.9% excluding Classic.
Our based on the current issued share of our efficiency programmes.
We like-for-like sales to retailers declined capital of the Group.
This follows the are on track to deliver an outcome for by 2.2% primarily due to the effects capital return of 3.50 pence per share to the new financial year in line with our of the ban on small stores displaying shareholders in each of July 2014 and July plans and to make progress in this tobacco products.
We currently anticipate returning challenging environment.
a similar amount to shareholders in The plans to Broaden the business July 2017.
Annual General Meeting are going well.
In the 52 weeks to Our Annual General Meeting will be held 25 March 2016 Booker distributed During the year, Richard Rose stepped on 6 July 2016.
The notice of Annual down as Chairman.
I would like to thank 1.8bn of product to our customers General Meeting and a circular setting premises versus 1.4bn last year as him for the contribution he made to the out further details of the proposed Group in his nine years as Chairman.
we continue to expand our delivered return of capital, which itself requires service.
Digital sales were 979m Bryn Satherley also stepped down from shareholder approval, will be issued to the Board.
In the past ten years Bryn compared to 874m in the previous year shareholders in due course.
and Booker India is making progress.
has been responsible for Property, IT, Supply Chain and Distribution and has On 14 September 2015, Budgens and made a great contribution to Booker.
In December Gary Hughes joined the Londis joined the Group.
They have Stewart Gilliland fitted in well and will help us improve Board and will succeed Andrew Cripps Chairman as Chairman of the Audit Committee choice, prices and service to all our retail customers.
after this years Interim Results in October 2016.
Basic earnings per share were 7.24 I should like to thank all our colleagues pence, up from 6.73 pence last year.
Given the strong operational for their contribution to the success of the Group in the year just ended.
