Chairmans statement The housing market The Board closely monitors UK housing market conditions as we progress through the cycle.
We believe that the key factors which supported the positive market conditions in 2016 remain in place for 2017.
The fundamental lack of supply in the UK housing market and the current strong demand from customers together provide a robust footing for the business.
The positive Government support for house building was reconfirmed in the recent Housing White Paper.
In particular the residential planning regime is ensuring that land supply to the market is ahead of production rates and the Help to Buy scheme provides Ian Tyler confidence for our customers to invest in new homes.
Chairman We paused our land investment around the time of the EU referendum vote but have subsequently continued to 2016 was a difficult year for Bovis Homes with operational invest in land in a disciplined manner to take advantage of challenges following a period of ambitious growth.
Whilst the continued strength in demand in our core regional we achieved strong growth in the first half of 2016, we were markets combined with a continuing flow of good land unable to deliver our anticipated unit sales and customer acquisition opportunities.
service performance in the second half.
As a result, we saw The current shortage of skilled construction labour in the earnings fall year on year.
industry remains a major short term operational challenge This shortfall in performance had two underlying causes which for the industry as a whole.
This constraint has continued to inevitably have their origins in preceding periods.
Firstly, our impact our business during 2016.
We are working hard to production processes have not been sufficiently robust to bring new people into the sector and we continue to invest cope with the twin pressures of our growth strategy and the in developing our own construction teams and support our resource shortages across the industry.
Secondly, we have not subcontractors through apprenticeship schemes.
designed and resourced our customer service proposition and Dividends and earnings per share processes appropriately to deliver a customer first culture.
The Group has retained the strength of its balance sheet In order to address both of these we have embarked on a during 2016 with an improved net cash position at year end.
programme to deliver significant and urgent improvement We delivered earnings per share of 90.1p with full year profits in underlying processes across the business, focused on the impacted by the shortfall in completions and increased costs delivery of the highest quality of product and service to including a one-off 7 million customer care provision.
In taking these actions we will slow the Groups the strength of our balance sheet and our confidence in the rate of production for 2017 and are targeting completions future prospects of the business, a final dividend for 2016 of volumes for the year to be c. 10% to 15% below prior years 30.0 pence per share will be recommended.
When combined level, before a return to normal industry production levels.
with the interim dividend this provides a total dividend of The fundamentals of the business remain strong with our 45.0 pence for the year, an increase of 13% on 2015. market positioning reflected in our high quality southern The final dividend will be payable on 19 May 2017 to biased land bank.
The land additions executed in 2016 have shareholders on the register on 24 March 2017. further enhanced our land bank and ensured we hold over Whilst there will inevitably be an impact on our earnings and four years of owned consented land supply together with cash flow from the actions we are taking in 2017, the Board substantial further opportunity in our strategic land interests.
intends to recommend maintaining the dividend for 2017 at Given the clear need to ensure we optimise the return achieved the declared level for this year confirming its confidence in the on the Groups high quality land assets, we are undertaking a future potential of the business.
fundamental review of our structure and strategy during 2017, to include our geographic coverage, our organisation design, the basis of capital allocation to our land bank and other assets, and our medium term aspirations for growth.
4 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Business overview | Strategic report Business overview Our targeted land investment remains concentrated on family housing sites in our Southern based operating area Brookfields Inkberrow Earl Sibley, the Group Finance Director, has taken on the role of People Interim Chief Executive and the search for a permanent Chief We continue to invest in our people, and our training and Executive Officer is underway.
development programmes will be extended further in 2017, supported by the launch of the national Bovis Homes The future Training Centre.
Despite the difficulties of 2016, the Board remains confident in The commitment and skill shown by the Groups employees the Groups abilities to deliver improved returns to shareholders.
despite the difficulties faced during 2016 continues to impress me The process of transformation is already underway under and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them all for their Earl Sibleys interim leadership and I am confident the plans in dedication and hard work.
I would also like to extend my thanks to place will address the operational weaknesses we have seen in our subcontractors and suppliers who are such a key component of our business, and focus us once again on delivering high quality our business.
product and service to our customers.
Further, we will undertake a strategic and structural review of the business to ensure we meet The Board our commitment to delivering the highest possible returns from our I would like to thank my colleagues for another year of support valuable land assets.
Nigel Keen joined the Board during the year and we have already benefitted substantially from his insight and experience.
I would also like to express my thanks Ian Tyler to David Ritchie, our previous Chief Executive, who stepped Chairman down in January 2017 after eighteen years of valued service.
