Chairmans letter Dear fellow shareholder, 2016 was a year of change on many fronts.
The global community witnessed further challenges raised by economic, political and social forces, and many nations experienced internal stresses and tensions, which remain present.
In the energy world, our world, it has been a period of transition.
From a 12-year low in oil prices, to digital technologies that are transforming how we work, and the drive to a lower carbon economy, our team has had to manage through a period of uncertainty, complexity and volatility.
Against this backdrop, we have shown great resilience and character: we returned to profit and maintained our dividend.
We had a good year in a tough environment.
We have set a new strategic direction for BP and we have a great team carrying it out.
The record since 2010 BPs performance in 2016 was based on the foundations rebuilt following the 2010 Deepwater Horizon accident an event that could have put the very existence of our company at risk.
Over the past six years, Bob Dudley and his team have steered the business through the recovery from the crisis of 2010 and then through the response to lower oil and gas prices.
During that period, safety has improved significantly.
The portfolio has been strengthened.
Operating cash flow We have shown great resilience and character: we has remained strong.
The dividend has been restored returned to profit and maintained our dividend.
Investment for growth has continued, while capital and costs have been controlled.
The good year in a tough environment.
We have set a new relationships on which we depend have been deepened.
strategic direction for BP and we have a great team And all of this has been done while managing a charge of $63 billion for the 2010 accident, for which the major carrying it out.
liabilities have now been clarified and for which we have a plan to manage the remaining payments and residual litigation.
All of this sets a firm base for the future, which is bound to have its own challenges.
2016 performance and shareholder distributions In 2016 the team has again focused on the careful stewardship of shareholders investments.
We continued making progress in safety performance, with serious incidents and injury rates falling.
We delivered strong cash flow, disciplined capital spending and lower costs.
We met our cost reduction target a year early.
New major projects took shape.
And we have continued to invest in opportunities for future growth, securing a set of innovative portfolio additions as well as divesting non-strategic assets.
This performance enabled us to maintain the dividend at 10 cents per ordinary share through 2016 and the boards policy remains to grow sustainable free cash flow and distributions to shareholders.
Looking ahead We can now look forward and outward, and the board and executive team have set out BPs strategic priorities for the future.
Caption: Members of the board examine BP operations at Baku in Azerbaijan.
4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 Strategic report overview Our refreshed strategy is designed to ensure BP is good for all seasons in an uncertain environment.
It enables $7.5bn us to compete in a world of volatile oil and gas prices, total dividends distributed changing customer preferences and of course, the to BP shareholders transition to a lower carbon future.
As our BP Energy Outlook 2035 predicts, the growth in consumption of oil will gradually slow and likely peak.
This is a result of slowing demand growth, not limited 6.0% supply, as was once thought.
In a world of longer-term abundance, oil prices are likely to remain under pressure.
ordinary shareholders Focus will shift to greater efficiency and low-cost annual dividend yield production.
Gas will grow as a cleaner alternative to coal.
Advanced fuels and lubricants will help motorists reduce emissions.
Renewable energy will grow rapidly to become commercial at scale.
energy, shipping and consumer goods industries.
He 6.4% has led major companies, including as chief executive of As a global business, we plan to play our part in this A. P. Mller-Mrsk A S and Carlsberg A S. energy transition.
Our strategy provides BP with greater ADS shareholders agility combining lower cost oil production, increasing Cynthia Carroll and Andrew Shilston are standing down annual dividend yield gas supply, greater market-led downstream activities, as directors at the forthcoming AGM.
On behalf of the and growing renewables and venturing businesses.
board I thank them for the substantial contributions they have made to our work both in the board and its We are also proud to be playing a leading role among committees over the years in some difficult times.
our peers through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, The board is proposing that Melody Meyer is elected where Bobs chairmanship has seen an unprecedented as a director at the AGM.
Melody has had an extensive convergence of national and international energy career in the global oil and gas industry with Chevron and companies to act on this issue.
will bring experience of safe and efficient operations and world class projects.
We continue to work to increase Remuneration the diversity of the board as this enhances independent At the 2016 AGM, we heard a clear message from thinking and healthy challenge.
During the past year we have sought to address these concerns, recognizing they Conclusion reflect the concerns of society more broadly.
BP is a global business operating in over 70 countries.
To The decisions we have taken, and for which we seek do this effectively over the long term, we need the trust shareholder approval, mark a significant break from past of our shareholders that we will deliver value, but also the policy.
The total pay for executive directors in 2016 is trust of the societies where we work both at home and much reduced compared to 2015. across the world.
The policy we propose for 2017 and beyond is a simpler I believe this report, along with our Sustainability approach to executive remuneration and reduces the Report, demonstrates BPs progress in working for total amount executive directors can earn compared with all stakeholders, shareholders, customers, partners, the previous policy.
Executive reward will be driven even governments, employees and communities.
more closely than before by the companys performance and shareholder returns.
I particularly want to emphasize Bob and his team have guided BP from a time of crisis that the future remuneration of senior management will in 2010 to a position where we have sound prospects be directly linked to the delivery of our new strategic for greater value creation and growth in the years ahead.
priorities, including BPs contribution to the longer-term Please join me in thanking Bob and his team for their transition in supplying lower carbon energy to drive the exceptional stewardship of BP.
Thank you to the board global economy.
and to all our employees and thank you all for your continued support.
This new approach aims to take account of shareholder concerns on the level of executive pay while recognizing We are now beginning a new journey.
the clear need for a global business like BP to attract and retain the best talent.
With those two primary considerations in mind, my fellow board members and I believe the new policy to be appropriate, balanced and responsive to all those we serve as a business.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman Governance and the board 6 April 2017 Todays world presents a range of risks operational, commercial, geopolitical, environmental and financial.
On the board, we aim to maintain the breadth and depth of Caption: Meeting employees experience needed to fulfil our critical role of monitoring in Brazil.
and managing those risks, working with the executive team.
More information In 2016 Nils Andersen joined us as a non-executive Corporate governance Page 51 director, bringing considerable insight gained in the See Glossary.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2016 5
