Chairmans Statement These impressions are confi rmed by the fi findings of our annual client survey, where we have had outstanding feedback with clients rating their satisfaction across all categories at 8.4 10, well Shaping above the 2015 industry benchmark.
Such a strong endorsement of our employees, delivered by the people whose opinions countthe most, bodes well for the Groups future.
Board and executive team the future During 2016, the Board continued to have the right balance ofskills and experience to support the Groupin the pursuit ofitsstrategy and to support and challenge the executive management team.
Angela Knight will retire following the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM on 3 February 2017.
She was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2007, since when she has served theGroup with great distinction.
She became Senior Independent Director in 2014, and she will be particularly missed Dear Shareholder, in that capacity.
I am happy to say, however, that she has agreed 2016 was another year of achievement for Brewin Dolphin.
to continue her association with theGroup by staying on as Wecontinued to implementour client-focused strategy, which Chairman of Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, our subsidiary aimsto increase shareholder value by growing revenue and in the Republic of Ireland.
Kath Cates, a Non-Executive Director of the Company The wealth management sector continues to develop rapidly, since2014, has agreed to replace Angela as Senior in terms of both the regulatory and the market environment.
More stringent regulation and growing demand for an increasingly The Executive Committee, chaired by David Nicol, was diverse offering form the backdrop to our strategic objectives.
Charged by the Board with We have concluded that Brewin Dolphin must offer a range of responsibility for the day-to-day running of the business, this investment services across the board, serving both clients with Committee now consists of 10 executives who between them signifi cant wealth and those with smaller sums to invest.
represent all theGroups key business areas.
Four members are senior wealth management executives, which has brought the Clients and employees voice of the client closer to the leaders of the business.
Clients are at the heart of Brewin Dolphins business.
Altogether, we serve around 55,000clients, including Financial strength individuals, charities and corporate organisations, providing During 2016, the Groups balance sheet continued to strengthen.
themwith advice and investment management.
We also deliver At year end, we held 170.8 million in cash on the balance investment management services to clients of more than 1,300 sheetand had shareholder equity of 242.8 million, of which intermediaries, including IFAs and professional services fi rms.
This strong position The most important role of every Brewin Dolphin team is to has provided the Board with considerable comfort during times earnand preserve the trust of their clients.
This was the case during the run up to and the relationships that they create and sustain are the foundation aftermath of the Brexit referendum.
It also gives us the fl exibility stones of our business.
we need to consider any emerging corporate opportunities from aposition of strength.
Overall, the Board is confi dent that our During the course of the year, I met many clients and employees.
results for 2016 confi rm the signifi cant potential for generating Inever cease to be impressed by the complimentary feedback long-term shareholder value forwealth management companies from clients or by the dedication of our employees who are which have the right strategy and business model.
committed to protecting and enhancing their clients wealth.
20 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Shareholders In order to ensure shareholders benefi t from the growth of theCompany the Board has approved a dividend policy which seeksto pay out between 60% to 80% of earnings.
The Board isproposing a fi final dividend of 9.15p per share, to be paid on 10 March 2017 to those shareholders who were on the register on 17 February 2017.
This represents 77% of earnings compared to 70% last year and is anincrease of 11% over 2015, in line with our strategic objective of growing our dividend.
This year, the Companys AGM will be held on 3 February 2017at11.30am in the Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfi eld, London EC9A 1HQ, a few minutes walk from our own head offi ce.
Light refreshments will be served after the meeting.
I do hope that you will be able to attend.
If you are not able to do so, please write to me with any questions or comments you may have, and I will ensure that you receive a timely response.
We endeavour to maintain a regular dialogue with our shareholders, large and small, and your views are always most welcome.
Simon Miller Chairman 29 November 2016 brewin.
