Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Overview Chairmans introduction A vintage year, driven by a successful strategy and winning culture Richard Burrows Chairman Among the notable achievements in 2016, A vintage year Board changes we launched our Sustainable Agriculture and Welcome to our Annual Report for 2016.
I am delighted to welcome Dr Marion Farmer Livelihoods SAFL programme to I am very pleased to report that the Group Helmes, who joined our Board as a Nonall Group-owned and strategic third-party delivered particularly strong earnings, volume Executive Director in August 2016 and serves suppliers, as well as strengthening our human and market share growth in 2016. as a member of the Audit Committee and the rights due diligence processes for all types of Nominations Committee.
Despite challenging trading conditions suppliers worldwide.
persisting across a number of our Key Dr Helmes brings a wealth of international Further details of developments in this Markets, including an ever-growing business skills and experience that area can be found on pages 1516, as well illicit segment, 2016 has been a vintage includes recent senior executive roles at as online in our Sustainability Report at year, driven by a successful strategy and Celesio AG, the German healthcare and www.
Outlook This success is reflected in an increase of I would like to thank Dr Gerry Murphy who adjusted diluted earnings per share to 247.5p, will be standing down as a Non-Executive While challenging trading conditions are likely an increase of 18.8% on last year, or 10.4% Director of the Company at the conclusion to continue for some time to come, I am on a constant currency basis.
of the Annual General Meeting on 26 April confident that the Group is well placed for 2017, having served eight years on the Board, the future.
When combined with increases in overall and Christine Morin-Postel who retired on market share in our Key Markets, cigarette The Board has full confidence in its strategy 6 December 2016, having served on the volume growth, higher revenue and profit, and in the high calibre of its executive Board since 2007 and as Senior Independent it is clear that your Company is well leadership and management team, and the Director since 2013. positioned for the long term.
long-term prospects of the Group will be Following Christines retirement, Kieran strengthened by the proposed acquisition of Delivering for shareholders Poynter became Senior Independent Director the remaining 57.8% of Reynolds American.
Reflecting the strong confidence in our with effect from October 2016 and has On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank business and future prospects, the Board has taken over Christines role as Chair of the Nicandro Durante, his team and colleagues recommended a final dividend of 118.1p Audit Committee.
around the world for their substantial per share for 2016, which will be paid on The current memberships of the Companys achievements during 2016 and for their work 4 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at Board committees can be found on pages4256.
in ensuring that the business should continue 17 March 2017.
This takes the total dividend to generate growth for shareholders in the for 2016 to 169.4p, an increase of 10% On behalf of the Board, I would also like to years ahead.
on 2015. thank our Company Secretary, Nicky Snook, who will retire in July 2017 following ten Richard Burrows Agreement to acquire years in the role.
Replacing Nicky will be Paul Chairman ReynoldsAmerican McCrory who was appointed as Company Secretary Designate with effect from We are very pleased to have reached 1 February 2017 and will become Company agreement with the Board of Reynolds Download our Sustainability Report at Secretary with effect from 1 May 2017.
American in January 2017 to acquire the www.
com sustainability remaining 57.8% of Reynolds American Our approach to sustainability that we do not already own, subject to Sustainability has long been a key pillar of our obtaining the relevant shareholder and Group strategy and is crucial to the growth of regulatory approvals.
Our approach to sustainability is The Group has consistently delivered on its shaped by our Sustainability Agenda, which strategy of delivering growth today while focuses on the three most important issues investing for the future.
This deal will create for our business and our stakeholders: harm a stronger, truly global tobacco and Next reduction, sustainable agriculture and farmer Generation Products business that will be livelihoods, and corporate behaviour.
positioned to drive continued sustainable I was therefore proud that the Group was profit growth and returns for shareholders included in RobecoSAMs 2017 Sustainability long into the future.
Yearbook, with a Silver Class distinction for excellent sustainability performance.
04 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2016
