06 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This report covers the period from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016.
As in previous years, we have elected to include the Chairmans Statement in the Strategic Report in order to minimise duplication.
Investment Performance I reported last year that Joe Bauernfreund became the portfolio manager of British Empire on the first day of the accounting year under review.
Joe is also the Chief Executive of our Investment Manager, AVI.
I am pleased to say that, having achieved a return of 5.6% at the half year, the performance in the second half has again been encouraging.
British Empire outperformed its benchmark by 6.2%, the peer group by 7.2% and the World Index by 6% over the second half of the year.
The NAV increased over the full year by 29.1%, resulting in a NAV total return of 31.0% for the year, some 3% better than the benchmark index.
The Investment Managers report sets out in detail the reasons for this encouraging performance.
Following Joes appointment, there have been some important changes in emphasis in the portfolio, but there has been no change in British Empires fundamental value investing philosophy and no style drift.
Strone Macpherson Chairman Stock selection was a major contributor to outperformance.
With a significant proportion of its portfolio exposed to non-Sterling assets, British Empire has also benefited from Sterlings weakness following the Referendum vote to leave the EU.
The portfolio has become more concentrated with 10 core holdings accounting for 50% of the portfolio and includes some 30 higher conviction positions.
In addition, the deployment of the fixed-rate borrowings drawn down in January this year has been beneficial.
Income and Dividend Your Companys total revenue per share this year was higher than last year, but the difference was due to a one-off receipt of a series of withholding tax rebates, which we have been pursuing with tax advisers for some time.
Underlying earnings were marginally lower.
The Board has therefore elected to pay an unchanged final dividend of 9.7 pence per share and a special dividend of 2.8 pence per share.
On the assumption that this is approved by shareholders at the AGM, the total dividend for the year will then be 14.5 pence per share, or 11.7 pence per share excluding the special dividend.
As I have noted in previous years, the Investment Managers primary focus remains on total investment returns rather than targeting a particular level of income.
1 Source: Morningstar, 30 September 2002 to 30 September 2015.
07 British Empire Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report 02 14 Investment Review 15 33 Governance 34 47 Financial Statements 48 79 Shareholder Information 80 IBC For more information visit: www.
co. uk Discount Annual General Meeting The discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares trade I look forward to seeing shareholders at our AGM, which this year has improved and at the year end was 9.6%.
will be held on Tuesday, 20 December at 11.00am at 11 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0AN.
We have continued to buy back shares to limit volatility in the discount and during the year bought back a total of 8.4m shares, enhancing Your attention is drawn to page 72 dealing with the proposed change NAV per share by 0.82%.
We have also encouraged the managers at AVI to visit a considerable In line with increasingly common practice and in order to save costs, number of institutions and wealth managers to continue the process the Board has decided that in future, the half-yearly results will be of explaining how British Empires investment process and philosophy published on the Companys website and no longer in printed form.
is differentiated our programme will be maintained for the foreseeable future.
The Board continues to welcome Copies of the recently published booklet describing the history of communication with shareholders.
British Empire, covering over 125 years from 1889 to 2016, are available online at www.
A limited number of Board printed copies are available.
If you would like a copy please contact Your Board carries out an annual formal review of its effectiveness.
Asset Value Investors whose address is on the inside back cover.
This year, the review was carried out using the Boards own internal resources.
The review concluded that the Directors qualifications, effectiveness, performance and contribution to the Board are of a high The Strategic Report has been approved and signed on the standard.
In compliance with best practice, all Directors are required Boards behalf.
to stand for re-election each year and this years review concluded that each should stand again.
Strone Macpherson Chairman As part of our review, it was agreed that we would continue to refresh 10 November 2016 the Board and we have retained recruitment consultants to facilitate this process.
Outlook There are an unusually large number of risks for investors at the time of writing.
On the geopolitical front, the consequences of the outcome of the US election, the Brexit arrangements to be negotiated, the German, French and other European elections in the year ahead, and the turmoil in the Middle East, are all major uncertainties.
The risk of significant policy errors by Central Banks also remains high.
However, despite all these difficulties, and the volatility that they bring to the investment markets, such volatility often produces pricing anomalies for value investors such as British Empire.
This years results have been encouraging and it is important to recognise that we have a portfolio of investments which contains a large store of unrealised value reflected in the considerable seethrough discount.
Your Board believes that shareholders will continue to be well served over time by maintaining the current value investment approach.
