Strategic report Chairmans introduction The announcement of a proposed sugar Performance review The UKs decision to leave tax in the UK was disappointing.
Whilst we Simon Litherland has now been Chief the EU and the proposed recognise the need to tackle obesity, given Executive Officer for three years and in the choice that the soft drinks category sugar tax on soft drinks that time has overseen the delivery of offers compared to other categories, the record profits each year.
His team have were momentous external focus is frustrating.
No other company has continued to make good progress on done as much work to remove calories events for Britvic in an delivering the strategic priorities he set out from its products reducing calories by in 2013.
Mathew Dunn has now been in already challenged market 19 billion annually since 2012.
We are well place as Chief Financial Officer for a year, positioned to respond and are working place with price deflation.
he brings a new energy and has been constructively with Government to ensure relentless in his pursuit of improving Despite this Britvic has, the best outcome for the business.
once again, delivered a Outside of Europe our team in the US has Trading conditions in our European record pre-exceptional launched the Fruit Shoot multi-pack, building markets have not improved over the last on the success of our single serve business.
EBITA of 186.1m, up 12 months with structural challenges in The focus now for the team is to build brand the GB market and the consolidation of 8.4%.
Profit after tax of awareness and encourage consumers to buying groups in France.
The scale of the opportunity 114.5m has translated performance during the year was is huge but we are under no illusions of the disappointing but was compensated for into adjusted earnings challenges and levels of investment that we by the performance of our carbonates face to succeed in this market.
In Brazil, we per share of 49.3p.
In Ireland performance has been are now one year on from our acquisition of particularly encouraging with both the board is declaring a final Ebba, and the early signs are promising.
branded and Counterpoint business Joo Caetano has joined the PLC Executive dividend of 17.5p, bringing performing well.
The investment in our team we are all impressed by the contribution supply chain in GB is now entering its the full year dividend to the local management team have made second year and tangible progress in 24.5p, a 6.5% increase over this first year as part of Britvic.
efficiency and flexibility is being made across the network which should provide on 2015.
These results a solid platform for future profitability.
reflect the resilience of our brands and the strength of the company.
2 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
indd 2 13 12 2016 18:57 Strategic report Chairmans introduction continued The board Capital allocation As announced, Bob Ivell has now stepped The board remains committed to its down from the board.
I would like to take this progressive dividend policy with a target of opportunity to thank him for the significant paying out 50% of earnings in dividends.
contribution he made over the last 9 years Since flotation in 2005 the dividend has risen as our Senior Independent Director and from 10p per share to 24.5p this year and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
has returned over 448m to shareholders.
We wish him well for the future.
Our adjusted earnings per share has more than doubled from 18.4p to 49.3p.
This year we have welcomed two new non-executive directors onto the board.
A strong balance sheet is a key part of Firstly, Euan Sutherland, CEO of Supergroup, any companys success and the board is joined us in February.
He has over 23 years confident that the structure we have in of experience in both retail and FMCG having place puts Britvic in a strong position to held leadership roles with Kingfisher, B&Q, overcome any short term headwinds that AS Watson and more recently as CEO of may prevail and remain agile and flexible to The Co-operative Group.
Sue Clark also take advantage of any opportunities that joined us in February.
Sue, until recently, may come our way.
was Managing Director of SAB Miller in The board continues to be supportive of Europe and sat on their executive committee the management teams ambition to grow until the merger with Anheuser-Busch.
internationally through selective M&A and Both Sue and Euan bring with them to invest in the fabric of the business, with extensive multinational experience and I the three-year supply chain investment am delighted to have them on the board.
and the acquisition in Brazil evidence of The new board has settled in well, the its support.
results are good and the Company is in good shape, notwithstanding the AGM challenges we face.
I have been Chairman The AGM will be held at 11am on 31 January now for 11 years and I have indicated to at RSA House, Durham House Street, off the board my intention to step down.
the Strand, London WC2N 6HG and I look Chairing Britvic has been a privilege, the forward to seeing you there.
business has changed significantly and I am continually impressed by the quality and commitment of all colleagues in the business in the many countries in which we now operate.
The Nomination Committee chaired by John Daly, our Senior Independent Director will identify my successor.
I will Gerald Corbett seek re-election at the AGM in January Chairman 2017 to ensure a smooth handover.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2016 3 177534 BRITVIC TEXT-p001-037.
