CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Looking back on a year of transformational progress Our transformation continues apace, with PROGRESS MADE IN 2016 progress made during the year.
Looking Continued progress from directmail led to digital-first, with online forward, we are approaching a crucial period penetration of 65%, up 6ppts.
for the Group, with the implementation of our new systems platform.
Active customer accounts 2.2% to 4.14m: within this Power Brands active customer accounts 2.00m, up 6.9%.
Further improvements to product quality, style credentials and Introduction This coming year will be a very important promotional efficiency.
This year was an important one for the one for the Group.
Our new IT platform Group, with material changes made to Fit 4 the Future will be implemented, Strong USA performance, with the way we operate our business and bringing necessary and significant revenue up 29% and the first communicate with our customers.
improvements to all areas of our business.
profit delivered in the second half.
Against this backdrop of significant However experience suggests that a ongoing transformation within the programme of this scale will bring some business, the Board is satisfied with unexpected bumps in the road.
A huge Our major warehouse extension the FY16 results.
amount of effort has gone into planning was completed, on time and and preparing to mitigate these risks.
This new facility will It is hard to overestimate the amount of enable us to further improve change that has occurred in the business our already strong delivery over the past few years.
teams of colleagues, new skill sets and capabilities, new outsourcing partners and a focused and consolidated portfolio of brands.
We are also in the process of gaining our Of course, such a busy change agenda full FCA authorisation, following the FCA inevitably makes forecasting business taking over regulation of the consumer performance harder and disruption more credit industry from the OFT previously.
likely, and it therefore hasnt been as We are well on with the process and it is smooth a journey as we would have progressing in line with expectations.
We are confident, however, that the right actions are being taken Our Group is strong, with loyal customers to enable us to deliver sustainable and good margins.
Once delivered, Fit 4 long-term growth as we transition the Future will give us the robust platform from a direct mail to a digital business.
we need for growth in the future.
Dividend Whilst continuing to invest in the business, particularly on our systems programme Fit 4 the Future and our new warehouse, we also continue to recognise the importance of cash returns to our shareholders.
We intend to pay a final dividend of 8.56p this year, taking the total dividend to 14.23p, unchanged from FY15.
N Brown Group plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report 866.2m Revenue 96.4m Operating profit, before exceptional items Board composition As I reported in last years annual report, Corporate Governance we had a number of changes to the Board, The Board is committed to developing and applying high and I am pleased to report that the new standards of corporate governance both in the management team is working well together.
This year of its business and in its accountability to stakeholders as there is just one change to announce, a whole.
namely that Simon Patterson stepped down in April 2016 to take up the same Angela Spindler Ron McMillan Chief Executive Non-executive Director position at a much larger retailer.
We wish him well and thank him for his time and Andrew Higginson Fiona Laird Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director advice.
We are currently in the process of recruiting a replacement for Simon.
Craig Lovelace Simon Patterson Group Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Outlook Ivan Fallon Lesley Jones Consumer shopping habits are changing Non-executive Director Non-executive Director at an unprecedented rate.
Online Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE Theresa Casey shopping continues to take share from Non-executive Director Company Secretary both catalogues and physical stores at a pace, and those retailers who prosper will be those who can stay ahead of this ever-changing backdrop.
BOARD DIVERSITY BOARD COMPOSITION As well as the traditional retail skills 2 of buying, merchandising and offering 3 great value to our customers, we also need to have exceptional data analysis skills, digital marketing capabilities 6 and a continuously improving delivery 7 proposition.
Given our home shopping heritage we already have some significant in-house experience, and Male Non-executive Directors with almost two-thirds of our sales now Female Executive Directors coming online we are in a much stronger position than many of our competitors but we cannot become complacent, we must continuously strive to improve.
More detail p48 The Board is confident in the long-term outlook for the business and excited about our future growth potential.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to all stakeholders in the business, and in particular our fantastic colleagues, for all their dedication, hard work and enthusiasm throughout the year.
Andrew Higginson Chairman N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 15
