06 Chairmans statement Strategic Report BTG has continued to perform well, delivering a strong financial performance and achieving significant milestones during the year.
We have the strategy, talent and resource to achieve our long-term goals.
Garry Watts Chairman I am pleased to report a strong financial We have completed the integration of Our risk management process performance for the year, with doublePneumRx, Inc. the Interventional continues to evolve.
More details digit growth in revenue and profitability.
Pulmonology business we acquired last on our approach can be found in The continued delivery of our financial year.
The successful completion of two the Risk Report on pages 27 to 32. targets underpins the investments clinical studies during the year supports we are making now to deliver on our our expansion plans in the EU and US.
The FDA approval of Vistogard added The success of BTG stems from the We have made significant progress during a fourth product to our Specialty hard work and significant contributions the year in implementing our growth Pharmaceuticals business, highlighting of our people.
I thank all our employees strategy.
We commenced direct sales our commitment to, and leadership in, for their professionalism and of DC Bead in Europe and received important antidote therapies.
dedication, and my Board colleagues approval in the US for LC Bead LUMI, for their advice and oversight.
I am also Further details of operational progress which is a significant innovation in the grateful to our shareholders for their during the year can be found throughout locoregional treatment of liver cancer.
this Strategic Report, and a summary After year-end, we announced the of performance against our corporate acquisition of Galil Medical and its objectives is provided on pages 10 to 11.
Outlook portfolio of cryoablation products, There is real momentum in our expanding our Interventional Oncology Governance business.
We have the right strategy, offering into kidney and other cancers, the talent and the resources to enable The Board is guided by the principles and bringing further potential growth us to achieve our long-term goals.
of good corporate governance and opportunities.
Most importantly, we are in a privileged we operate a robust framework of Market adoption of the varicose veins position to help our customers improve systems and controls to maintain treatment, Varithena, has been the treatment of their patients and, high standards throughout the slower than we had anticipated in ultimately, that is what drives everyone Group.
As a growing business, we pay the US.
However, feedback from at BTG.
particular attention to country-specific customers on the products clinical risks and associated relationships with performance continues to be positive, partners, suppliers and customers.
Garry Watts and reimbursement coverage is Chairman gradually expanding.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
