Strategic Report Introduction Chairmans Letter The Burberry brand remains strong.
in a 53% pay-out ratio based on adjusted earnings per share, in line with our plan.
Having reached our dividend pay-out target, we are now moving to a progressive dividend policy and, as such, plan to hold the 2016 17 dividend per share at least in line with 2015 16.
This reflects the Boards confidence in the future growth of the business.
Over the past five years, Burberry has returned around 640m to shareholders.
Our capital allocation framework prioritises the investment needs of the business and regular dividend payments and then considers additional returns to shareholders, balancing capital efficiency with financial flexibility in what is a cyclical sector.
Balancing these factors, we are commencing a share buyback programme of up to 150m starting in 2016 17.
Future returns will Sir John Peace be kept under regular review reflecting these factors.
Chairman This underlines our commitment to increasing shareholder returns over time, which remains a key priority for 2015 16 has been a watershed year for the luxury the Board.
sector marked by a challenging global environment with the slowdown of the Chinese economy, increased Future strategy geopolitical concerns in the Middle East and Russia, The Burberry brand has never been stronger.
We have uncertainty in theEurozone, currency volatility and a authentic, distinctive products with enormous future significant fall in commodity prices.
All of these combined potential.
Burberry remainsa growth business, but together to have anegative impact on the performance following many years of out performance and investment of the luxury sector as a whole, as demand slowed in the brand and in the business, we are experiencing sharply in many of our key markets such as Hong Kong fundamental change in our industry and our consumer.
These factors have also weighed heavily on investor sentiment and recentshare price performance.
To stay ahead of these changes, we have been accelerating our productivity and efficiency agenda, particularly looking The luxury sector will continue to be affected by these at our ways of working.
We have also been addressing how factors in the short term, but the Board remains confident to optimise future organic revenue growth opportunities of the Groups compelling opportunities in the longer term.
and have identified significant growth opportunities across our existing channels, products and regions.
The Board Financial performance firmly believes that these initiatives will also create future Set against this challenging environment, Burberry value for ourshareholders.
has delivered 2015 16 revenues of 2.5bn and adjusted profit before tax of 421m down 8% and 10% underlying A great deal has been achieved over the past 12 months respectively, in part impacted by a 19m decrease under Christopher Baileys leadership in very challenging in licensing profit due to the planned expiry of our market conditions.
This includes strengthening the senior Japaneselicences.
management team by bringing in people with different experience and backgrounds throughout the year.
The Group ended the year with a strong cash balance of 660m, and consequently the Board has recommended This report sets out further detail on the progress made a 5% increase in the full year dividend to 37.0p, resulting during the year across all our core strategies and the Groups future plans.
10 Strategic Report Introduction People and pay Evolving away from the past practice of all non-executive The successful execution of our strategy over the directors sitting on all Committees, membership in the comingyears will rely on the commitment and dedication future will be changed to comprise different non-executives ofour staff, many of whom are highly sought after by on each Committee.
It is therefore important that we pay competitively while maintaining the discipline of only Governance and diversity rewarding performance.
As Chairman, I am committed to Burberry seeking to operate to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Our overall approach to incentive structures for all staff, The work of the Board and its Committees during the year including senior management, is based on performance along with the assessment of its performance is set out so when the business does not perform as well, this has inthe Corporate Governance Report on pages 68 to 82. an impact on what we pay to our staff.
And when the share This work included considering, with management, price falls as it has inthe past year, this has a substantial Burberrys plans for thefuture, which will be an important impact onhistorical share awards.
area of continuing focusfor the Board in the coming year as we execute onour strategic and operational initiatives.
Therefore: no pay rises this year for executive directors or Burberry continues to support diversity in all its forms seniormanagement: across the organisation including the Board.
While all Boardappointments are made on merit, the Board no annual bonus will be paid to executive directors continues to believe in the importance of a diverse Board inview of the stretching nature of performance targets and has always had strong gender diversity amongst set at the beginning of the financial year: and its membership, including at executive level.
The Board previous awards granted under the Co-Investment will continue to monitor diversity and take such steps Planand Restricted Share Plan awarded in 2013 will as it considers appropriate to maintain its position as notnow vest.
Further information is set out in the Directors Looking ahead Remuneration Report on pages 83 to 105.
Looking ahead to 2016 17, we are planning on the basis thatthe challenging macro-economic environment will Board and Committee changes continue to impact the luxurysector.
The composition of the Board has evolved significantly overthe past three years with the appointment of four Against this background, we are accelerating our new non-executive directors and further changes planned productivity and efficiency initiatives to mitigate over the coming year.
the impactof these challenges and will focus even more intensely on optimising our future revenue David Tyler stepped down from the Board on 31 December growth opportunities.
2015, and I would like to thank David for his immense contribution to Burberry since its IPO in 2002.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our people and the Boardfor their hard work and commitment to Burberry, The Board also keeps under review the composition andto thank you, our shareholders, for your support of its Committees and tenure of the Committee Chairs.
Following a review during the year, the Board has appointed Jeremy Darroch as Chair of the Audit Committee and Fabiola Arredondo as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, witheffect from 1 August 2016.
I would like to thank Philip Bowman and Ian Carter for their commitment as previous Chairs of these important Committees over a number of years.
