Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Chairmans statement Return on average operating capital Results increased to 55.9% from 55.5% in 2015, Chairmans I am pleased to report another good set of driven by an improvement in the operating results against the background of mixed capital in the underlying business, partly macroeconomic and market conditions offset by an adverse impact from exchange statement across the countries in which we operate.
rate movements, a slightly lower underlying Overall currency translation movements operating margin and the impact of the due to the weakening of sterling had lower return on operating capital from a significant positive impact on the acquisitions.
Return on invested capital of reported Group growth rates at actual By continuing 16.7% was down from 17.1% in 2015 exchange rates.
principally due to the effect of acquisitions to focus on our and limited organic growth.
Group revenue increased 14% to 7,429.1 million 2015: 6,489.7 million and adjusted strengths and Dividend operating profit before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition consolidate the The Board is recommending a final dividend related costs was up 15% to 525.0 million of 29.0p.
This brings the total dividend for markets in which 2015: 455.0 million.
Adjusted earnings the year to 42.0p, up 11% compared to 2015. per share were 106.1p 2015: 91.0p, an Shareholders will again have the we compete, we increase of 17%.
opportunity to participate in our dividend reinvestment plan.
have achieved At constant exchange rates, revenue increased by 4% and adjusted operating Strategy another year of profit rose by 5%.
The Group operating Our consistent and proven strategy of margin improved from 7.0% to 7.1% with growth in earnings developing the business through organic adjusted earnings per share up 6% at growth, consolidating our markets through constant exchange rates.
focused acquisitions and continuously improving our operations has delivered another successful year of growth for the Group.
We look to achieve organic growth by applying our resources and expertise to Philip Rogerson enable our customers to reduce or Chairman eliminate the hidden costs of sourcing and distributing a broad range of goods not for resale.
By outsourcing these activities to Bunzl they are able to focus on their core business and run their operations more cost-effectively by achieving purchasing efficiencies and savings, while at the same time freeing up working capital, improving their distribution capabilities, reducing carbon emissions and simplifying their internal administration.
04 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Acquisition activity continued throughout also adopt corporate responsibility CR Following his appointment as Chief 2016.
Including Saebe Compagniet and policies similar to our own, while the quality Executive of Brammer plc, Meinie Oldersma Prorisk and GM Equipement, which we assurance quality control team in Shanghai resigned as a non-executive director in agreed to acquire in November 2016 and undertakes audits of our key Asian August 2016. completed in January 2017, we made 14 suppliers to assist them in meeting our acquisitions with a total committed spend of stringent standards.
In addition, we David Sleath, who has served as a non- 184 million, thereby adding annualised continually look to add to our full range of executive director since September 2007, revenue of 201 million.
These acquisitions environmentally friendly products.
Integrity will be retiring after the Companys Annual have helped to strengthen our position in is at the heart of Bunzls standards and we General Meeting in April 2017.
During his many of the markets that we serve.
In ensure that all relevant employees time he has also served as Chairman of the addition, the acquisition of Packaging Film undertake CR training and that our Audit Committee and Senior Independent Sales in the US was announced and whistleblowing programme is Director.
His independent advice and completed at the beginning of 2017 and we communicated throughout the Group.
significant contribution to our success have are today announcing the purchase of LSH been greatly appreciated and he leaves the in Singapore.
We now have operations in Board with our thanks and best wishes.
Bunzls decentralised business model Today we are announcing the appointment drives local empowerment and fast decision of Lloyd Pitchford as non-executive director Investment making, thereby allowing us to demonstrate with effect from 1 March 2017.
Lloyd is Investment in the business to support our repeatedly our understanding of our currently Chief Financial Officer of Experian growth strategy and enhance our asset base customers needs and deliver great service.
plc and has extensive international business is an ongoing process.
We have continued to Throughout our operations around the experience which will be of great value to improve our facilities and open new ones, world, it is the enthusiasm with which our Bunzl as we continue to expand and develop.
both as a result of acquisitions and by employees undertake their responsibilities, Upon David Sleaths retirement at the consolidating our warehouse footprint in their commitment to improve our Annual General Meeting, Lloyd will assume order to make it more efficient.
Systems are performance and their willingness to go the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee critical to our ability to serve our customers the extra mile that allows us continually to and Vanda Murray will become the Senior in the most effective way.
We continuously delight our customers.
I would like to thank Independent Director.
upgrade our IT systems as we integrate new them all for their achievements this year businesses into the Groups operations and which have contributed greatly to the Philip Rogerson increase the functionality of our existing Groups continued success.
By doing so we are able to 27 February 2017 enhance our customer offering and retain a Board competitive advantage, thereby maintaining After more than a decade in the role, Read our Corporate governance our leading position in the marketplace.
report on page 50 Michael Roney retired as Chief Executive and stood down from the Board at the Corporate responsibility conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in We continue to focus on sustainable April 2016.
He was succeeded by Frank van operating processes throughout our Zanten who for the previous 10 years was businesses while at the same time, through Managing Director of the Continental our one-stop-shop offering to our Europe business area.
The management customers, also actively contribute to the transition has gone well with Franks sustainable footprint of our customers appointment providing continuity for businesses by consolidating their product the business as well as its customers deliveries.
We work closely with our and employees.
