Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonias Directors The Remuneration Committee ensures remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2016. that remuneration arrangements The report reproduces the principal elements of the remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting support the strategic aims of the and which provides the current framework within which we incentivise business and enable the recruitment, and reward our senior executive team and pay fees to our non-executive board members.
No changes to this policy are proposed at this years motivation and retention of senior annual general meeting, although the policy is due for renewal in 2017 and therefore one of the key tasks for the Remuneration Committee for executives of the calibre needed the year ahead will be to review Caledonias current remuneration policies to manage and grow the company and practices to ensure that they remain fully aligned with the companys strategy and that they reinforce and contribute to our overall objective successfully.
of creating sustained value for shareholders over the long term.
In this introductory statement, I have set out a summary of the implementation of the remuneration policy in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016 and how we intend to approach remuneration for the 2017 financial year.
Detailed disclosure and explanations of the remuneration paid to directors in the year ended 31 March 2016 are included in the Annual report on directors remuneration, which will be put to an advisory vote of shareholders at the annual general meeting Membership and attendance on 21 July 2016.
The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2016 during the year was as follows: Against a background of volatile markets in which the FTSE All-Share Total Meetings Return index FTSE index fell by 3.9%, Caledonias net asset value per Meetings eligible share total return NAVTR was 2.6%, slightly below the minimum 3% attended to attend threshold set by the Remuneration Committee for bonus purposes.
C H Gregson Chairman 4 4 1 Accordingly, none of the executive directors received any bonus on the S C R Jemmett-Page 1 1 basis of the companys performance.
The Funds pool, led by Jamie D C Stewart 4 4 2 Cayzer-Colvin, achieved a total return of 5.9%, but again this was below R B Woods 4 4 the minimum threshold of 6% set for this pool and therefore he received 1.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed a member of the committee on 1 July 2015. no bonus for pool performance.
The Funds pool has however continued 2.
Mr Woods retired as a member of the committee on 31 March 2016. to make significant progress in identifying, and gaining access to, high quality funds in Asia and the US and in building a pipeline of potential future fund commitments.
The Remuneration Committee therefore felt it appropriate to award Mr Cayzer-Colvin a bonus of 48.25% of basic salary in relation to his pool and personal objectives.
The Remuneration Committee also determined to award Will Wyatt and Stephen King 45% The Companies Act 2006 requires the companys auditor to report to the of basic salary in respect of the achievement of individual objectives shareholders on certain parts of the directors remuneration report and set for them at the beginning of the year.
to state whether, in its opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized The year to 31 March 2016 also represented the end of the three year Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations performance measurement period for all of the matching share awards 2013.
The parts of the Annual report on directors remuneration that granted in 2013 under the companys deferred bonus plan and half of have been audited are indicated in that report.
The Annual statement the awards granted in that year under its performance share scheme.
by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration For the deferred bonus plan matching awards, the performance targets policy are not subject to audit.
were that, for two-thirds of the shares comprised in an award, Caledonias NAVTR had to outperform the FTSE index and, for the other third, the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all-stocks Total Return index Gilts index over the three year measurement period, in each case with shares vesting on a graduated basis between 0.5% and 3.5% outperformance.
Both of these targets were comfortably met, with Caledonias NAVTR outperforming the FTSE index by 24.5% and the Gilts index by 14.9% over the three year period, and accordingly these awards have vested in full.
For the awards granted under the performance share scheme, half were to be measured against the Gilts index over three years and half against the FTSE index over five years, with the same graduated vesting scale applying as described for the deferred bonus plan matching awards above.
The half of the awards measured against the Gilts index have accordingly vested in full and those to be measured against the FTSE index will be tested in two years time.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 35 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2017 In September 2014, a revised UK Corporate Governance Code Code Looking ahead to the 2017 financial year, basic salaries of executive was issued, which included a provision that all performance related directors, other than Mr Wyatt, have been increased with effect from incentive schemes for executive directors operated by UK listed 1 April 2016 by 1.0%, broadly in line with inflation, which was the same as companies should include not only malus provisions, but also the standard increase given to all of the companys staff.
Mr Wyatts basic arrangements to recover amounts of variable remuneration after it has salary has not been increased and therefore remains the same as in 2015. been paid known as clawback.
The Code is not specific as to the period The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees are reviewed on of time over which clawback should operate, nor the circumstances in a triennial basis and, since these were last increased in April 2014, they which it should be applied, and the Remuneration Committee has been have not been changed.
advised that, since only malus provisions were included in the current remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014, it would be We plan to make performance share scheme and deferred bonus plan necessary to seek formal shareholder approval to amend the policy awards following the release of our 2016 full year results announcement should clawback provisions be introduced.
As a consequence, the in line with our normal grant cycle.
These will be subject to the same Remuneration Committee decided last year to see how market practice in performance measures used for the 2015 award grants, which are relation to clawback developed before making a decision as to whether to summarised in the remuneration policy table on pages 39 and 40. introduce it to Caledonias performance related incentive schemes.
Malus and clawback Twelve months on, it is clear that increasingly listed companies are In 2014, provisions were introduced into Caledonias performance adopting, or committing to adopt, both malus and clawback provisions share scheme and deferred bonus plan which give the Remuneration and accordingly our Remuneration Committee has resolved to introduce Committee the right to cancel or reduce unvested awards in the clawback into Caledonias performance related incentive schemes.
event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, However, in view of the need for shareholders approval, it proposes to a miscalculation of a participants entitlement, misconduct on the part do so as part of the next scheduled remuneration policy renewal in 2017, of the participant or an event resulting in material loss or reputational in line with the GC100 guidance.
damage to the company or a member of the group.
These are known as malus provisions.
Charles Gregson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 May 2016 36 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
