Chairmans statement Ian Durant, Chairman DRIVING LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION WITH RESPONSIBLE OVERSIGHT OVERVIEW Total return Dividend 2016 was a year of notable political and economic dislocation which has affected the London property market.
London remains a very attractive investment market, a desirable retail destination and residential location.
Looking through short-term market -6% 1.5p movements Capcos long-term strategy for its two unique estates remains unchanged.
During 2016, Capco achieved good progress at both Covent Garden and Earls Court and, although it was a challenging year in the residential market, I am confident that Total shareholder return Capco will deliver value creation for our shareholders over the pence coming years.
450 PERFORMANCE 400 Despite strong rental growth at Covent Garden and significant 350 progress on site at Earls Court, Capcos total shareholder return for the year, which comprises share price performance plus the 300 dividends paid during the year, was -32.3 per cent.
Total return 250 for the year was -5.5 per cent, which represents the change in net 200 assets plus the dividends paid during the year.
The total value of Capcos property portfolio fell by 4.4 per cent on a like-for-like 150 basis to 3.7 billion.
100 Covent Garden delivered ERV growth of 7.9 per cent during the 50 10 May 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec year resulting in a valuation increase of 6.4 per cent on a like-for- 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 like basis.
The excellent performance of Covent Garden was not Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index sufficient to offset the decline in land values at Earls Court which fell by 20.4 per cent like-for-like due to adverse conditions in the 6 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements London residential market following stamp duty changes and the The Board is committed to encouraging diversity and the outcome of the EU Referendum.
development of our people across the business.
You can read more on the Boards succession planning in the Nomination Committee The Covent Garden team continues to focus on achieving rental report on page 68. growth through creative asset management, strategic investment and place-making.
Covent Garden is an internationally renowned During the year Gerry Murphy has led a review of our destination successfully attracting global brands and visitors.
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and the Following a record year of leasing activity, new Zone A rental levels Remuneration Committee is proposing a revised remuneration were achieved across the estate and management has released a package that will simplify our existing arrangements whilst new ERV target of 125 million to be achieved by December 2020. seeking to incentivise management and align their interests Work on the Floral Court development continues on schedule and with those of our shareholders.
The proposals will be put to will create high quality retail, restaurant and residential space on shareholders for approval at our forthcoming AGM.
You can read more about the proposals in the Directors Remuneration Report on It has been another year of progress on the ground at Earls Court.
The demolition to ground level of the former Exhibition Centres BOARD OVERSIGHT was completed during the year and land enablement works are The Board and individual Directors regularly take opportunities now underway preparing the site for future development.
The first to visit Capcos assets and see for ourselves the transformations residential completions at Lillie Square took place at the end of that are taking place.
This and the regular briefings we receive 2016 with the first units being handed over in time for Christmas.
from operational management help us gain a real understanding The strategy remains focused on value creation by exploring of the business challenges and opportunities.
opportunities to evolve and enhance the Earls Court Masterplan.
In taking its decisions the Board assesses and balances the The Venues business continues to strengthen with a reliable and interests of the different stakeholders who have involvement with growing income stream reflecting its excellent prospects as a Capco, its properties and the surrounding communities.
As well as central London venue.
our shareholders, this includes our employees, partners, tenants, The Board and I would like to thank Capcos employees for their lenders, government and the communities where we operate.
In work during the year and the achievements made in delivering developing and delivering our plans we undertake significant Capcos business plans at Covent Garden, Earls Court and Venues.
stakeholder engagement and the Board is kept fully informed of feedback received.
FINANCIAL POSITION AND DIVIDENDS Capcos financial position is strong with low leverage, high The delivery of Capcos strategy is underpinned by comprehensive liquidity and modest capital commitments.
Responsible policies designed to ensure that the business plan is delivered in management of capital and prudent financing from a variety line with the Boards expectations.
These policies are promoted of sources is a key feature of Capcos strategy to ensure the across the Company to create a culture of accountability and Company maintains a strong balance sheet.
During the year, responsibility and to ensure that all of our employees understand Capcos liquidity was significantly strengthened by the completion their role within the business and the standards to which they of a 100 million financing of the Olympia business, a US Private must operate.
Reflecting this, I am pleased to report that the Placement totalling 175 million and the 150 million 95 million Groups revised risk management structure which was implemented Capco share HCA facility at Earls Court to fund infrastructure in 2016 is operating effectively and efficiently and the Board is works on site.
The business is well positioned to support its pleased with the health and safety record achieved at the Groups future activities and withstand periods of uncertainty.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share, LOOKING AHEAD which brings the total dividend for 2016 to 1.5 pence per share.
Despite macro-economic uncertainty and challenging market conditions, Capcos strategy remains clear and focused.
London DIRECTORS is an outstanding global city and we have two of its best estates.
There were a number of changes to the Board in 2016.
In March we Capcos strong balance sheet and unique assets are well-placed for welcomed Anthony Steains as a new independent Non-executive management to create and deliver long-term value for shareholders.
He brings a diverse perspective to the Board, being resident in Asia and experienced in corporate finance activity.
Following the retirement of Ian Henderson at the AGM, Gerry Murphy became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Henry Staunton became Senior Independent Director.
Situl Jobanputra was appointed as Chief Financial Officer with Ian Durant effect from 1 January 2017, following Soumen Das departure at Chairman the end of the year.
Soumen had been with the Company since its listing in 2010 and we are grateful for his substantial contribution.
21 February 2017 Situls appointment reflects Capcos commitment to developing the talent of our employees and promoting from within the Company where possible.
I am delighted to welcome him to the Board.
