04 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Capita had a challenging 2016.
After many years of strong profit growth, the Group underperformed against its targets.
We have made a number of key changes to seek to return the Group to acceptable levels of performance.
Sir Ian Powell, Non-Executive Chairman I joined the Board last September, becoming Chairman on 1 January 2017, and have spent my first few weeks understanding the Group, meeting with its people, clients and investors.
It is apparent that, despite the difficult year the Group experienced in 2016, the fundamentals of the Group are compelling.
It is systemically important to the UK economy and its core proposition has not changed, Capita exists to improve the efficiency and productivity of its clients so that they can provide superior services to their own customers and end-users.
2016 performance The Groups performance in 2016 was disappointing but I have seen the Board and Executive team work with openness and commitment to begin the process of returning Capita to acceptable levels of profitability, growth and financial strength to pursue its strategic goals and build on its market-leading position in many key business areas.
The Boards reaction to the Groups issues was swift and decisive, leadership changes have been effected, operational changes made, the divisional structure has been simplied and the Group refocused on its core markets and products.
We have announced the decision to sell the majority of our Asset Services division and our specialist recruitment businesses.
It is intended that these transactions will complete in 2017.
The disposals bring more clarity to the Group and help reposition the balance sheet.
05 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CONTINUED We are pleased to welcome Matthew On behalf of the Board I wish to thank Dividend Lester to our Board on 1 March 2017 the management team for their hard The Group maintained its full year and to the role of Chair of the Audit work in what has been a difficult year.
dividend of 31.7p per share in 2016 in line and Risk Committee with effect from with 2015.
The payment date for the 1 June.
Matthew is currently the Chief Outlook final dividend will be 3 July 2017.
Financial officer of Royal Mail plc and 2017 will be a transitional year for a Non-Executive Director at Man Group Capita: it will be a period of Culture and values PLC.
He brings a wealth of financial stabilisation in order to strengthen It is apparent from my early weeks with experience and we look forward to the Companys position.
The Board has the Group that it has a strong culture his contribution.
tasked the management team with and its people are committed to the a number of strategic challenges, which values of the organisation but as with Chris Sellers also joins the Board, they will report on regularly.
any organisation, the culture and values replacing Maggi Bell, who has chosen to need to evolve to ensure a long-term retire after 17 years at Capita and eight We need a period of consistent delivery.
sustainable business that always exhibits years as a Board member.
Maggi made We need to build on existing the right behaviours.
There are real a significant contribution to the Groups relationships and develop new opportunities to focus on Capitas growth over the years and built a strong relationships with clients, we must strategic people agenda, engagement and experienced business development continue to increase our efficiency, and diversity to ensure everyone has team who are well placed to continue reduce our costs and innovate in how equal opportunity to full their potential to support the Groups market we deploy market-leading technology and to ensure we recruit, retain and strategies.
Dawn Marriott-Sims stepped to help our clients achieve their goals.
This will be a key down from the Board and left the The market for outsourcing in the UK area for the Board in 2017.
In addition, Group in November after 16 years of and Europe remains attractive and by there is significant opportunity to service while Paul Bowtell will stand bringing more of our wide range of improve the service satisfaction of our down and leave the Company at the services to more of our existing and clients and to further develop long-term, end of May 2017 after seven years as new clients, with focus, we can improve value-based partnerships with our clients Audit Committee chair.
We wish them organic growth.
by always bringing the best of Capita.
all well and thank them for their important contribution to the Group.
Like any service company, our people are The Board central to everything we do.
I want to The constitution of the Board, 2016 and early 2017 has been a period thank them for their continued hard particularly in respect of the diversity of significant Board change.
of the Board, will be kept under constant On behalf of all the Board members, review and development.
I strongly believe that we are starting I would like to thank Martin Bolland, to make the changes required to ensure Although 2016 has been a difficult year, who served as Chairman for six years we are in a good position to get back to the Board remained committed to the and as a Non-Executive Director for an acceptable level of profitability and highest standards of corporate eight years.
Martin has overseen growth by continuing to deliver the best governance.
Governance must work enormous changes in Capita, a company services our industry has to offer.
within the structure of the whole which has more than doubled in size organisation and while the tone from in that time and gained leadership the top is key to the organisations positions in many of its markets.
culture and to the governance of the organisation, the behaviour of its people is crucial.
Overall in my short time with Capita I have seen a transparent culture which seeks to enable the Group to identify and address issues as they arise.
