Chairmans Statement there remains a significant opportunity to further grow our market share Geoff Cooper Chairman I am delighted to report that Card Factory has had Hayes as CEO of Card Factory in mid-April.
Richard has another very strong year and continued to deliver on all been with the Group since 2003, serving as Managing aspects of its successful four pillar strategy: Director and CEO since 2008.
He had recently made the Board aware of his wish to step down once a growing like-for-like sales in existing stores: suitable successor had been identified.
He will retire rolling out profitable new stores: from the Board and leave the Group at the end of focusing on delivering business efficiencies: and June 2016, having ensured a smooth transition over a four-month period.
increasing penetration of the complementary online market.
Richard has led Card Factory with enormous success.
Since he joined the senior management team in 2003 Card Factory continues to build on its position as the the Group has grown from a 40 store discount chain to UKs market-leading specialist retailer of greeting cards, a vertically integrated high margin value retailer with dressings and gifts and there remains a significant over 800 stores and two transactional websites.
Having opportunity to further grow our market share.
led the business through an MBO, the 2014 IPO and its first two years as a listed company, it is fully The Group continues to generate best-in-class margins understandable that he now wants to retire.
We are and excellent free cash flow, benefiting significantly extremely grateful for all he has done and, when he from its unique vertically integrated business model.
steps down, it will be with our very best wishes.
This continuing strong performance has enabled the Board to recommend an increase of 33.3% in the final Karen, who has previously held senior positions in B&M, dividend to 6.0p per share FY15: 4.5p per share.
Asda and BP, has a huge amount of relevant experience Subject to approval by shareholders at our forthcoming in value retailing, both through store estates and AGM, this would result in an increase of 25.0% in the multi-channel.
She has a great deal of energy and total ordinary dividend for the year to 8.5p per share ambition for the business.
The Board is confident that FY15: 6.8p per share, giving a dividend cover of 2.25 Karen is the right person to take on the mantle from times earnings.
This is in addition to the 15.0p per share Richard to deliver the significant growth potential of special dividend paid in November 2015. the Group.
As a public company we have an opportunity to widen In summary, the Group has continued to deliver the share ownership across our employee base.
This is an strategy which the Board set out at the time of IPO important aspect of stakeholder engagement and we almost two years ago.
I am confident that this track were delighted that over 17% of all eligible employees record of success will continue in the years ahead.
chose to join the SAYE share scheme which was launched during the year.
Geoff Cooper In January we announced the appointment of Karen Chairman Hubbard to the Board as CEO Designate, with effect 4 April 2016 from 22 February 2016.
Karen will succeed Richard 10 10 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s over 17% of all eligible employees chose to join the SAYE share scheme Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11 11
