STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Chairmans Statement suppliers, partners and communities.
2016 was an extremely challenging year in which Centrica And, the most important stakeholder of met or beat its targets whilst, importantly, underpinning them all, our customers for whom our clear, discipline throughout the organisation on key matters resurrected purpose is unequivocally in ofsafety, ethics and compliance.
service: a purpose that seeks to bring a contemporary relevance to a set of values rooted in our 205-year history.
And, in that purpose, we are making progress.
The impact has been broad with financial Our growth plans are clearly shaped with Great companies are places where people delivery, organisational transformation, the shift in investment intensity from the worry more about what is not working process efficiency, cash flow and strategic resource businesses towards the customer, thanwhat is.
implementation all showing distinct progress.
supporting a focus on building our growth Customer complaints are down.
But your The business re-orientation has been very businesses such as Distributed Energy Board and executive leadership regard any radical with a particular emphasis on finding &Power, Connected Home, and Energy complaint as one too many.
Efficiency has ways to enable our people and technology Marketing &Trading.
We are committed to improved.
But we have suffered a decline tobetter understand and serve the changing investing inthese businesses, positioning inemployee engagement.
Affordability has energy needs of our customers on both ourselves to compete successfully in improved.
But our customers live in a world sides of the Atlantic.
afast-moving, attractive and aggressive where incomes continue to be squeezed.
Wecontinuously ask ourselves This process of reshaping Centrica has not And so, we are more consumed by how the question What will it take to be a winner?
been easy or comfortable for our own people farwe still have to travel than by the distance in this new world, and always seek to act and I would like to pay tribute to and thank travelled thus far.
toimprove our probability of success by everyone for their hard work and resilience adapting our capabilities, technologies Great companies are places where people during the year.
Throughout this process, andgovernance as required.
think like owners and entrepreneurs, staying Iain Conn has shown firm, imaginative and viscerally and intellectually connected with decisive leadership.
He has chosen his senior We made strides in 2016, but we are far the dynamics of their businesses and the team wisely and led them intelligently.
Our objective is not simply forces that shape the operating context of too deserve credit for their performance.
areturn to profitable growth for the benefit those businesses.
And that context, today, of our investors, important though that is.
Despite the improvement in our financial is not easy.
Business and wealth creation Rather we are driven by an over-arching position, we took the decision not to resume are terms of disparagement.
Many reputations aspiration to become a truly great company.
a progressive dividend policy at this stage.
have been damaged by the actions of a few.
This was a finely weighted judgement.
But, in What does that require, in our view?
And the positive impacts of globalisation, these uncertain times, we would rather err on new technologies and creative investment Great companies meet a need that is valued the side of prudence as further work still needs have been drowned out by the concomitant by customers and society.
And, in doing so, to be done on strengthening the balance growth of social inequality.
they benefit their shareholders as well as sheet and returning the business to growth.
wider stakeholders, including employees, Reshaping Centrica has not beeneasy or comfortable for ourown people and I would liketopay tribute to and thank everyone for their hard work andresilience during the year.
Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman 4 This poor opinion of business is bad for us, Theanswer to any breakdowns inUK for the UK economy and for prosperity in governance lies not in further embellishment In the end though, it is general.
So, we are acutely aware that we not of that framework but in promoting better only need to reconnect with our customers.
compliance and a collective commitment businesses, through We also need to forge a new partnership with toresolve some of the more intractable everyday contact with their government and our other stakeholders, andsensitive issues over time.
customers, which can make based on mutual understanding and a Foremost amongst those issues is executive the biggest and most willingness to work together.
remuneration, often the lightning rod for immediate impact.
That is why we welcome the Green Papers criticism of boards.
We are making progress on Industrial Strategy and Governance over time.
Long term executive pay trends recently published by the UK Government.
are shifting towards more simplicity, lower Government has the power to create a differentials and internal succession in In addition, he brings a broad understanding constructive context in which businesses preference to expensive star signings from of financial services, together with a deep can make the investments which the outside.
The responsibility lies with chairs and knowledge of operating within highly nationneeds.
boards of directors to manage the balance regulated businesses.
I would like to thank between addressing this perniciously divisive Ian for the great contribution he has made In the end though, it is businesses, through problem and avoiding the unintended inhis six years service on the Board.
everyday contact with their customers, consequences that precipitous change, which can make the biggest and most Scott Wheway joined the Board in May.
though perhaps politically popular in the immediate impact.
The source of real Scott has a wealth of experience as a short-term, may carry in terms of weakened economic and social change is at a local,  business leader capabilities and competitiveness.
And that is where witha mix of deep retail and consumer regulation is unlikely to provide the answer.
companies can be very valuable facilitators expertise.
He is also a seasoned ofchange for the better in peoples lives.
In respect of compliance, your Board is remuneration committee chair and will continuously seeking ways in which we might assume that role for Centrica following the Our engineers and technicians visit thousands better comply with and apply the Code.
Joan Gillman wasappointed of customers every week.
They are trusted on must always start with recruiting the best asa Non-Executive Director inOctober.
an individual level to enter peoples homes possible directors whose track record speaks Joan is former executive vice president of and meet an immediate need, as well as to their credentials, wisdom and professional Time Warner Cable, the second largest assessing their overall energy requirements.
The quality of a board ultimately cable company in the United States, Our Hattersley call centre on the outskirts of flows from the sum of these attributes: perhaps andhas wide experience in media, Manchester specialises in helping hundreds the setting and policing of standards in this communications and the shaping of of indebted customers every day to manage key determinant of good governance holds network technology strategies.
Last year the proportion of the key to improving global standards rather andJoan are both valuable additions our customers in debt fell and, among them, than further embellishment of the Code.
totheBoard and are already making the proportion on an agreed repayment plan theircontributions felt.
We have worked to enhance our governance is well above the industry average.
structures and processes throughout the During 2016, the Centrica leadership did These are just two examples of how we as year.
Full details of this activity is set out agreat deal to put in place the diverse abusiness connect with communities and inthe Governance section onpages teams, structure and technology required individuals to effect change on the ground.
65to82, but it is the ongoing, deliberate tounderpin our growth and give us a We are close to the real issues and we can refreshing of your Centrica Boardthat competitive advantage in our chosen make a difference.
And we know that we holdsthe key.
Centrica has moved a long way should do more.
We may have What doesit During the year, we reviewed the succession take to be great?
as a constant challenge It is in these relationships that trust is born, plans in place for the Board and the Executive.
but equally we never lose sight ofthe nurtured and thrives.
We identified digital, retail, North America question What do we have to do tomake and financial services as areas of business And great businesses must be built on a adifference now and make this future experience and expertise where the foundation of trust, a quality that is in short possible?
Itis thanks to this healthy recruitment of new Board members could supply today.
combination of aspiration and practical complement the strengths of our existing application amongst our executive team We are very intent on rebuilding trust in Board.
We also paid heed to the public thatyour Board looks tothe future with ourcompany and sector.
concerns about the extent to which the growing confidence.
voices of customers and employees were This requires not only an emotional and being heard in the boardroom, bolstering our physical investment in our relationship with agendas and approaches were necessary.
our customers and society but also the Rick Haythornthwaite addressing of the prevalent impression There were several changes to composition Chairman thatUK governance in general is failing, of the Board.
In June, Stephen Hester was 23 February 2017 animpression that will render any such appointed as a Director of the company investment worthless if untreated.
and, in October, he succeeded Ian Meakins as Senior Independent Director.
Stephen In fact, there is a strong case to be has wide-ranging commercial experience, madethat the UK has the best corporate particularly in customer-facing businesses.
governance framework in the world.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
