10 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We remain focused on delivering peer-leading returns, through our value-driven growth strategy and a commitment to return excess cash to our shareholders.
During 2016 Centamins flagship The board of directors approved an Sukari Gold Mine continued to deliver interim 2016 payment of 2.00 US cents substantial free cash flows, driven per share versus a 2015 interim by a seventh successive year of payment of 0.97 US cents per share.
production growth and by substantial I am now pleased to announce that, reductions in operating costs.
This with the strong performance of our performance has allowed Centamin flagship asset and solid cash flows to maintain its strategic focus on carrying through into the second half, a generating shareholder returns and final dividend for 2016 of 13.5 US cents value-accretive growth.
per share has been proposed for approval at the forthcoming AGM on A significant milestone was achieved 21 March 2017.
This represents a full during the year, as the capital year pay-out of US$178 million, which investment in the Sukari operation by is equivalent to approximately 70% Centamins wholly owned subsidiary of our net free cash flow in 2016 and Pharaoh Gold Mines PGM was follows the update to our dividend recovered from cash flows to the extent Josef ElRaghy policy which was announced on Chairman that profit share commenced with 9 January 2017, as follows: the Egyptian government during the third quarter.
The Companys dividend policy sets a minimum payout level relative Centamin ended the year with to cash flow while considering the US$428 million in cash, bullion on financial condition of, and outlook hand, gold sales receivables and for, the Company.
When determining available-for-sale financial assets.
the amount to be paid the board will The increase of US$197 million during take into consideration the underlying the twelve-month period highlights profitability of the Company and the continued potential of the business significant known or expected funding to self-fund its next stages of growth commitments.
Specifically, the board from cash flows, whilst at the same time will aim to approve an annual dividend sustaining industry-leading dividend of at least 30% of the Companys net returns to shareholders.
cash flow after sustaining capital costs and following the payment of profit share due to the government of Egypt.
11 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Ore stockpile and conveyor belt at Sukari This dividend policy and the proposed The cash cost of production improved We expect the strong levels of full year payment for 2016 reflects our significantly to US$513 per ounce productivity to be maintained in 2017, commitment to maintain strong fiscal from US$713 per ounce in 2015, with forecast production of 540,000 discipline in managing our existing below our revised forecast of between ounces at a cash cost of production portfolio of assets, and to return US$530 and US$550 per ounce, due of US$580 per ounce and an all-in to shareholders any cash reserves to the above-forecast gold production sustaining cost of US$790 per ounce.
above those required to sustain our and an 8% reduction in mine Ongoing optimisation of the Sukari value driven growth strategy.
The main positive operation, in particular within the remain committed to our policy of impact on costs was from reductions processing and underground mining being 100% exposed to the gold price in the price set by the government for functions, continues to offer scope through an unhedged position and fuel, which remained below originally for further production growth and with a zero-debt balance sheet.
forecast levels throughout the year in reductions in cash costs and AISC.
line with lower international oil prices.
During the year both the processing 2016 revenues of US$687.4 million In addition, during the fourth quarter and underground mining operations at were up 35% year-on-year, with an 8% local costs in Egypt were reduced in Sukari achieved levels of productivity increase in realised gold prices and a US dollar terms following a devaluation that were above our base case 25% increase in gold sales.
EBITDA of the Egyptian pound.
In line with annualised forecasts.
As a result, increased by 145% to US$372.9 million, the reduction in operating costs, the full-year production of 551,036 ounces with an increase of gross operating AISC of US$694 per ounce marked an was above the revised guidance range margin resulting from the higher improvement on US$885 per ounce of 520,000 to 540,000 ounces.
revenue and decreased mine in 2015, and was below our revised production costs, discussed above.
forecast of between US$720 and US$750 per ounce.
12 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued We continue to evaluate opportunities to grow through the acquisition of projects which offer the potential for the Company to deliver on its strategic objectives.
Whilst disciplined and sustainable Also in line with this increased margin, Centamin remains in a strong position growth on our existing projects remains profit before tax of US$266.8 million to continue investing in its long term a key focus, we continue to evaluate was up 357% on 2015 and earnings growth throughout the cycle.
Beyond opportunities to grow through the per share before profit share for Sukari we remain focused on our extensive licence holdings in West acquisition of projects that offer the 2016 was 23.05 US cents, compared Africa.
Momentum continues to build in potential for the Company to deliver with 4.51 US cents in 2015.
Profit for Cte dIvoire, with further prospective on its strategic objectives.
the year following deduction of profit licence holdings added to our portfolio share was US$214.8 million, equating Developments in the two litigation and a new discovery at the Doropo to 18.61 US cents basic earnings per actions, Diesel Fuel Oil and Concession project in the north-east of the country, share compared with 4.51 US cents Agreement, are described in further where drilling to date has led to a in 2015. detail in note 21 to the financial maiden resource estimate of 0.3Moz statements.
In respect of the latter, the The underground operation at Sukari indicated and 1.0Moz inferred.
Further Company continues to believe that is an important value-driver for our work in 2017 will aim to upgrade and it has a strong legal position and, in business and we expect further growth expand on this positive start towards addition, that it will ultimately benefit of the reserve over the coming years project development.
In Burkina Faso, from Law no.
32 of 2014, which came as development and exploration we continue to evaluate data from into force in April 2014 and which continues.
In August, we commenced the extensive drilling programmes restricts the capacity for third parties to development of a new exploration carried out to date and further work challenge any contractual agreement decline within the north-eastern is being planned for the year ahead.
between the Egyptian government Cleopatra zone of Sukari Hill.
Whilst the I look forward to updating you further and an investor.
This law, whilst in force infrastructure is being developed with in due course with our progress and ratified by the new parliament, is the capacity to support mining rates of towards unlocking the Companys currently under review by the Supreme up to 1 million tonnes per annum from next stage of growth from these Constitutional Court of Egypt.
After this area, ultimate production rates highly prospective regions.
a series of delays and adjournments, will depend on future results from the the Concession Agreement appeal has drilling programme and development.
now been stayed until the Supreme Constitutional Court has ruled on the validity of Law no.
13 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Samples from Sukari underground mine I would like to close by thanking all This strategic review, progress on those at Sukari, in Alexandria, Burkina strategy, key performance indicators Faso, Cte dIvoire, Jersey and Perth and business model together form for their efforts in 2016 as Centamin the strategic report, which has been continued on its path to becoming approved by the board of directors.
an established, cash-generative and By order of the board for and on growing gold producer.
Your Company remains well positioned to deliver outstanding shareholder Josef ElRaghy returns in the coming years.
I look Chairman forward to updating you further over the course of 2017, and would 1 February 2017 welcome you to join us at our AGM, which this year will be held in Jersey on 21 March 2017.
