S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Chairmans Statement Anthony Bloom Chairman right Moshe Mooky Greidinger Chief Executive Officer left Overview together with the gratifying operating performance of the I am pleased to report that 2016 was another record year Group enabled the Board to declare an increased full year for the Cineworld Group the Group and its shareholders.
dividend of 19.0p per share, which represents 8.6% growth.
We achieved an important milestone over 100 million The Group has increased its dividend in seven out of the people came through our doors to watch a movie.
I would 10 years since it was listed, an achievement of which I am have found this inconceivable when we started the particularly proud.
Company with one multiplex in Stevenage in 1996!
In 2016 we successfully completed the acquisition of five Group EBITDA for the year increased by 13.2% to 175.8m Empire cinemas, including the iconic Empire Leicester 2015: 155.3m, on revenue which improved by 13.0% to Square.
Pleasingly we were able to fulfil our long-held 797.8m 2015: 705.8m.
Statutory profit after tax objective of obtaining a prestigious West End site.
the five Empire sites added 64 additional screens to our circuit.
Along with expansion, renovation and modernisation We achieved this strong growth in EBITDA as a result of the of the existing circuit is of equal importance to us, ensuring full impact of our new cinemas which opened in 2015, the that we have high quality, well-designed, modern cinemas completed refurbishments of a number of our important across the whole estate.
During 2016 we completed nine cinemas, the acquisition of five Empire cinemas and the major refurbishments and the improvement in operating ongoing operating efficiencies which are constantly sought performance at those sites is already evident.
and implemented across the Group.
All of these factors resulted in increased admissions, particularly in the ROW Shareholders will be pleased to know that we lead the way territories.
Operating in nine different countries provides in offering the latest technology.
We are the only operators geographic diversification and a range of opportunities in of 4DX in the UK, a format proving increasingly popular both mature and growth markets.
The first one opened in London at our Wandsworth site in December, and as part of the planned The Groups Balance Sheet remains strong.
Although there refurbishment of the Empire Leicester Square we intend to was a slight rise in net debt to 282.3m due to the Empire introduce 4DX.
At the end of 2016 we had 27 4DX screens, acquisition and impact of foreign exchange movements on 33 IMAX screens and six of our own Superscreen formats.
the Euro Term loans, the EBITDA to net debt ratio at the year end remained at 1.6 times.
This Balance Sheet strength, | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 4 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Martina for the energy and rigour that she brought to the Board during a period which has seen the Group expand considerably, both in the UK and internationally.
Martina made a significant contribution to our affairs, and I wish herevery success in her other ventures.
In 2016, over 100 million Nisan Cohen was appointed as CFO and joined the Board as people came through an Executive Director.
Nisan is a member of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants in Israel and has been part of our doors to watch a the Cineworld Group, and formerly the Cinema City Group for 16 years.
As Vice President of Finance, he led the movie a fantastic integration of the finance teams in the Group across nine territories after the combination between Cineworld and milestone forthe Cinema City International N. V. Lately, he served as Deputy Group.
CFO, working closely with the then interim CFO, Dean Moore.
I have had the pleasure of working with Nisan since the combination with Cinema City in 2014 and have no Anthony Bloom doubt that his extensive experience, both commercial and Chairman financial, will continue to be an asset to the Group.
Dean Moore, the previous interim CFO, was appointed to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director, Chairof the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
Dean brings over 20 years of experience as a plc executive Director.
The Board is satisfied that Deanmeets the requisite criteria to be considered as independent, notwithstanding his brief ten month interim employment with the Group, during which his mandate was to focus primarily on the CFO succession planning process.
I look forward to continuing to work with Nisan and Dean in their new roles.
As a Board we take corporate governance standards extremely seriously and we always strive to attain the highest standards possible.
We periodically review areas The wellbeing of our staff is fundamental to the efficient such as gender, diversity, health and safety and the operation of the business.
Without them we would not be environment and where appropriate improve our practices able operate 2,115 screens in 226 sites, as we did at the end in those areas.
This is not a trivial task we show over 10,000 movies every day, every week across nine different On behalf of myself and the Board I would like to express territories.
The logistics involved are formidable and rely on my sincere appreciation to the Groups executive highly motivated and dedicated staff.
Accordingly, internal management and all its employees for their continued hard promotion and succession planning is a key part of our work, competence, professionalism and their gratifying people strategy.
We are currently scheduled to open a further 441 screens Outlook over the next four years 264 of which are in the ROW As we go into 2017, I look forward with confidence.
There is territories and 177 in the UK.
This expansion will be financed a strong film release programme planned for the year.
We from internally generated funds and will provide excellent have an excellent estate which will continue to grow with a growth potential in the future.
further 13 cinemas due to open this year, and number of major refurbishments planned.
We have a strong Balance In summary, we went from strength to strength in 2016 and Sheet and can undertake our strategic objectives without I believe we will continue to do so in 2017 and provide financial strain.
We are at the forefront of providing the significant value to our shareholders.
latest technology to our customers and most importantly of all we have an excellent management team with extensive Board experience which is focused on ensuring Cineworld is There were no changes to the Board during 2016: however always The Best Place to Watch a Movie.
on 11 January 2017, after the year end three changes tookplace.
Martina King, Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Anthony Bloom Committee, stepped down following six years of service to Chairman focus on her other business interests.
I would like to thank 9 March 2017 | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 5
