Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Chairmans review Looking beyond the horizon Integration of the Platou business is now complete, with anticipated synergies realised and the complementary expertise of the combined businesses proven.
The acquisition has broadened our service offering to clients and puts us in a strong position for when markets recover.
Our ability to continue to grow and gain share in more difficult markets has given us considerable confidence in the business.
Clarksons is significantly more diverse in terms of product offering, reach and balance sheet strength than we were before the last upturn in the sector: we are well placed to continue the solid performance delivered in 2016 and are leveraged to benefit strongly from growth when the shipping cycle turns.
James Hughes-Hallett Results Chairman Underlying profit before taxation was 44.8m 2015: 50.5m.
Reported profit before taxation was 47.3m 2015: 31.8m.
Underlying earnings per share was 105.2p 2015: 121.9p.
Reported earnings per share was 119.7p 2015: 68.2p.
In these difficult market conditions, we are Dividend pleased Clarksons has delivered a strong Clarksons continues to maintain its remarkable dividend record, having increased the dividend paid every year since 2002.
In line performance and once again delivered with this progressive dividend policy, Clarksons again intends to significant value for our shareholders.
raise the dividend paid to its shareholders.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 43p 2015: 40p.
The interim dividend was 22p 2015: 22p, resulting in a 5% increase in the total dividend for the year to 65p 2015: 62p.
The dividend will be payable on 2 June 2017 to shareholders on the register at 19 May 2017, subject toshareholder approval.
Overview 2016 has been another challenging year for shipping markets, People characterised by continued difficult trading conditions and tonnage Our people are the heart of our business and are the key to our oversupply.
Freight rates have seen historic lows in some sectors success.
This year we have continued to hire and invest across during the year whilst in the second half volatility has been added, our business divisions to ensure we always have the best people on the upside, by the strengthening of the US dollar the currency delivering the best advice and the best transactional execution.
of the great majority of our revenues and, less positively, by the We have a position to protect as the leading employer and operator weakness of the pound sterling against several of the currencies in the sector and remain determined to do so.
in which our overhead costs are incurred.
Against this uncertain backdrop, we are pleased Clarksons has delivered a robust Board performance and, once again, value for our shareholders.
We have As previously announced, James Morley will be retiring from the remained focused on our core strategy of delivering continuous Board following the AGM on 12 May 2017.
I would like to thank service enhancement, thus offering Clarksons clients the unique James for the always wise guidance he has given Clarksons over breadth of product and global reach that has enabled us to the last nine years as a Board member and Chair of the audit maintain, and in many cases extend, our leading position in our committee.
One significant and virtuous outcome of this has been I am delighted to have welcomed Marie-Louise Clayton to the the actual growth of our broking transaction volumes in 2016, as Board at the beginning of 2017.
Marie-Louise brings a wealth of has the healthy cash generation underlying our profit performance.
board experience to the role and welook forward to her taking We have continued to invest in the technology to drive innovation over as Chair of the auditcommittee.
across our business and we regard our focus in this area to be a Outlook key differentiator and source of even greater competitive advantage for the future: our research capability already underpins In the short-term at least, shipping markets seem most likely to our full client service offering, and in 2017 we intend to offer further remain challenging whilst current difficult market conditions and an knowledge and data based initiatives to our clients.
Our position at unusually opaque global macro-economic environment persist, but the heart of the shipping and offshore markets has ensured that in there are now a number of indicators of improvement in the industry these difficult times, clients have turned to Clarksons for our deep via measurable, if as yet relatively modest, demand growth and a sector knowledge and tailored ability to service their requirements: slowing in the new capacity reaching the market.
our capacity to offer both broking and a range of financial market James Hughes-Hallett solutions creates synergies and outcomes that are not Chairman availableelsewhere.
