Chairmans Statement It has been a deeply disappointing year for Cobham It has been a deeply disappointing year for Cobham.
Our financial performance fell short of our earlier expectations and the prior year.
The business has faced exceptional market, execution and development programme challenges.
With higher gearing entering 2016, combined with the challenges above and a weakening of sterling, we launched a rights issue which completed in June.
Towards the end of the year we also saw the departure of our Chief Executive Office CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and Chairman.
We welcomed David Lockwood as CEO in December 2016 and David Mellors as CFO at the start of January 2017.
In addition, I took over as Chairman on 1 January 2017.
Despite such an adverse year, Cobham remains a fundamentally sound Group and it has tremendous potential, with excellent people and technology, and many leading market positions.
We need to stabilise the Group during 2017 and ensure that it is strongly set for a full recovery over time.
The June 2016 rights issue generated proceeds of 491m after expenses, which we used to pay down debt.
However, the Groups trading performance through the remainder of the year remained below our expectations, and there was disappointing free cash flow generation.
The combination of higher debt and lower profits have been the primary factors which have resulted in our principal financial gearing ratio, net debt EBITDA, being higher than anticipated at the year-end, at 3.0x.
It has, however, remained within the covenant upper threshold, which is not to exceed 3.5x.
Since my appointment as Chairman was announced, I have met and spoken with a significant number Cobham remains of Cobhams shareholders, and some consistent themes have emerged.
Overall, shareholders want a fundamentally the Board to take actions which will create the underlying conditions from which we can generate sound Group, with shareholder value over the longer term, even if these tremendous potential mean making some difficult decisions.
Many of our shareholders and indeed many of our customers and other stakeholders would like us to have a reduced level of gearing.
After considering this matter carefully, the Board is targeting a net debt EBITDA gearing ratio of around 1.5x.
com Cobham plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 C STR ORA PTE ORG A ITE C R G EO PV OR ER TNANCE As a necessary part of our plans to strengthen Leading this effort is our new CEO, David Lockwood, We have entered 2017 still facing a number of the balance sheet, the Board has decided not who joined us from Laird PLC, a FTSE 250 technology challenges and uncertainties, but I believe that the to recommend a final dividend in respect of company.
He brings to Cobham a background key ingredients of our future success are already financial year 2016.
Furthermore, the Board will not in defence and communications technology, an present, and Cobham has tremendous potential.
recommend a dividend in respect of financial year entrepreneurial and customer driven mindset and This is a Group with differentiated technology 2017 and we expect to resume dividend payments a proven ability to grow businesses.
Our new CFO, and know-how and strong market positions, and when it is prudent to do so.
This will take into David Mellors, has joined us from QinetiQ Group plc, it has a committed and skilful workforce.
There account a number of factors, including the Groups a FTSE 250 science and engineering company, which is a need to deliver a sustainable improvement in underlying earnings, cash flow and gearing, its has operations primarily in defence and aerospace a number of areas, including in our operational investment needs and the requirement to maintain markets.
During his time at that company he played and financial execution.
Not all this can be done an appropriate level of dividend cover.
a leading role in strengthening the balance sheet, immediately but under our new Executive Directors refocusing the portfolio and delivering improved we will deliver, over time, the performance that our Despite this action, we still need the balance performance, with an enhanced positioning for customers, shareholders and other stakeholders sheet to be stronger to properly support our growth.
We are confident they have the right skills deserve and expect from Cobham.
operations, including the required investment in and capabilities to drive a sustainable improvement our development programmes.
Therefore, the in the long term performance of the business.
Board has concluded that it is in the Groups best interests to raise new equity finance by way of a The Board is very pleased to welcome our new 500m rights issue.
In requesting further funding Executive Directors.
However, the performance Michael Wareing from shareholders, we recognise the imperative for of Cobham over the last twelve months has been Chairman the Group to review its portfolio of businesses and deeply disappointing and it must take responsibility 2 March 2017 optimise its internal cash generation, and this will lie for that performance.
While it has already undergone at the heart of management actions in 2017. significant change over recent months, going forward, the Board believes it is important that a Undertaking a structural deleveraging of the balance number of new and experienced Non-executive sheet is only part of the answer.
We must also strive Directors are appointed.
At the same time, it is to grow through cycles with a renewed focus on our important that Cobham can benefit from a period of customers and a thorough understanding of their stability and continuity.
As a result, it is my intention needs, and the opportunities this affords.
From this to effect a rolling programme of material Board insight we can ensure our significant technology changes over the next two years.
investment is spent effectively, by focusing it on the most promising opportunities.
This will drive our We are also setting up a Risk Committee as a formal order pipeline and future revenue streams.
sub-committee of the Board, chaired by David Lockwood.
The Committee will also include Allied to this, we need to improve our financial in its membership Jonathan Flint, our Senior discipline and consistently deliver to expectations.
This means focusing on how we track future customer orders and revenue: it means looking Of course, we must also consider the future, so the hard at our cost base: and taking the necessary Board will therefore endeavour to strengthen the actions to return Cobham to improved levels of quality and depth of Cobhams management below cash generation.
Board level by reinvigorating our succession planning.
This will help us identify, develop and promote We can create the right conditions in the the senior managers of the future from within the businesses by reducing the number of change business.
However, done diligently, this is not a quick programmes driven from the centre.
Removal of task and it will take time to develop a robust and these distractions will enable our businesses to comprehensive plan.
focus on the critical tasks of execution and delivery, whether it is engineering, production or I would like to thank our employees.
They have progressing specific contracts.
consistently shown great commitment, fortitude and hard work through a challenging year.
These attributes, when combined with Cobhams specialist capabilities, and our leading positions in attractive markets lies at the core of what Cobham offers.
I know I can rely on our employees to give David Lockwood and David Mellors the same unstinting support.
com Cobham plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
