CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2016 has been another year of consistent performance for Compass, delivering sustainable organic revenue growth and returns for shareholders.
CONSISTENT PERFORMANCE Im delighted to report another excellent year for POSITION IN FTSE 100 INDEX AS Compass.
We continue to pursue our clear and focused AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2016 2015: 25 strategy, which has again delivered a strong performance for shareholders, and we remain positive about the future opportunities we see.
24 Id like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who COMPASS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE V FTSE 100 works for Compass for their hard work and dedication, OVER LAST 3 YEARS % which are fundamental to our ongoing success.
28% PERFORMANCE Last 12 months Our commitment to generating sustainable organic growth by winning new contracts and retaining existing 46% business remains.
We have achieved excellent levels of Last 24 months organic growth in North America and we have continued 59% to make good progress in Europe, following the return to Last 36 months growth last year.
The economic environment in parts of our Rest of World region, particularly in the Offshore & Remote sector, is challenging but the non-commodity COMPASS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE V FTSE 100 INDEX related business is performing well.
Our focus on embedding the Management and 2015 2016 16 Performance MAP framework deeper into the organisation and generating efficiencies remains as 15 strong as ever.
This has enabled us to reinvest in the business to support growth and maintain the underlying 14 margin in line with last year.
13 Richard talks more about the drivers of our performance 12 on pages 10 and 11 of this Report.
11 SHAREHOLDER RETURNS As a result of this strong performance, Im pleased 10 to announce that the Board has recommended a final 9 dividend of 21.1 pence per share, which brings the total Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept dividend for the year to 31.7 pence per share, an increase Compass FTSE 100 rebased of 7.8% over the prior year.
The final dividend will be paid to shareholders on 20 February 2017.
During the year, 6 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT we have also bought back 8.7 million shares for a total of LEADERSHIP AND BOARD CHANGES 100 million.
As I wrote in my letter last year, Andy Martin stood down from the Board on 1 December 2015 after 11 years Creating shareholder value is a key priority for the with the Group, initially as Group Finance Director and Group and, going forward, our priorities for how we use then as Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe & Japan.
We will continue to invest As a result of Andys departure, Dominic Blakemore in the business to support organic growth, grow the moved from his role as Group Finance Director to dividend in line with constant currency earnings become Group Chief Operating Officer, Europe from per share and pursue small to medium sized infill 1 December 2015.
Johnny Thomson succeeded Dominic acquisitions.
We remain committed to maintaining as Group Finance Director from his position as Regional strong investment grade credit ratings and will therefore Managing Director of our business in Latin America and continue to return any surplus cash to shareholders to joined the Board on 1 December 2015. target net debt EBITDA of around 1.5x.
After nine years service, Sir Ian Robinson retired COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Corporate responsibility CR underpins our business, Meeting on 4 February 2016 and was succeeded by Don enabling us to achieve our strategic goals in a responsible Robert as Senior Independent Director.
On 5 May 2016, and sustainable way.
This year, we have refreshed our Stefan Bomhard was appointed as a non-executive director.
CR strategy to ensure that we are continuing to address Susan Murray will step down from the Board at the the issues that are important to our stakeholders.
In September 2015, the United Nations introduced their conclusion of the Companys AGM on 2 February 2017, having served on the Board for just over nine years.
Sustainable Development Goals and we have identified six where we believe we can make the most positive Nelson Silva will succeed Susan as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on the same day.
On behalf of the Board, Id like to thank Andy, Sir Ian and Our teams around the world continue to enhance the Susan for their contribution and welcome Johnny and contributions we make.
Our focus includes developing Stefan to the Board.
our people, the health and wellbeing of our consumers, the responsible use of resources and improving the SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK integrity of our supply chain.
This year, we were Compass has had another strong year.
Performance delighted to be included in Fortune Magazines list of in North America continues to be excellent, and we 50 Companies that Change the World, which recognises are pleased with our progress in Europe.
In the Rest companies that make a positive social impact through of World, the performance is mixed, with the impact their core business strategy.
Our recent commitment of the cyclical downturn in our commodity related to source 100% cage free eggs globally by 2025 is a good business offsetting reasonable progress elsewhere.
example of this in practice.
Our expectations for 2017 are positive, with growth There is more information on our CR performance weighted to the second half of the year.
The pipeline of during the year in the CR section of this Report, which new contracts is good and our focus on organic growth, starts on page 30. efficiencies and cash gives us confidence in another year of delivery.
OUR VALUES In the longer term, we remain excited about the OPENNESS, TRUST AND INTEGRITY significant structural growth opportunities globally and the potential for further revenue growth, margin PASSION FOR QUALITY improvement, and continued returns.
WIN THROUGH TEAMWORK RESPONSIBILITY CAN DO SAFELY Paul Walsh Chairman 22 November 2016 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 7
