Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder In the year ConvaTec became a In the year that ConvaTec became a publicly listed company we have made publicly listed company we have significant progress.
We operate in large and structurally growing chronic care markets, which provide a robust platform for future growth.
Our trusted products and technologies are well differentiated and we have a long track record of industry leading innovation and proven clinical performance.
Our strategy is focused on driving sales and earnings momentum by building on our strong portfolio of market-leading brands.
Following our listing on the main market of the London Stock Exchange Listing in October 2016, we are well placed to deliver significant value for our shareholders.
Key to our success to date are the values that drive our culture, which are described in greater detail on pages 2 to 9.
Improving the lives of the people who use our products and services is at the heart of everything we do.
As we enter the next phase of our development, continuing to focus on this clear purpose in order to find solutions that anticipate and best address our customers needs will be critical to the continuing success of your business.
How we conduct ourselves earning trust, behaving responsibly and with integrity and doing what we say we will do is essential to delivering long-term sustainable returns for shareholders.
We have established a Board committee to focus on this key area and, after the yearend, it approved our first high-level Corporate Responsibility CR strategy, which will be implemented on a phased basis over the next three years.
Information about our CR Committee and how we approach CR is set out on pages 62 and 44 respectively.
We will aim to provide a far more detailed account of our performance in this area in future years.
10ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 The Board Our people We have established a strong Board, with The significant progress we made in Further information varying geographical focus and a wide 2016 was due to the hard work of all our range of relevant skills and experience in employees.
I would like to thank the Further information about our global markets, which will help to drive management for their stewardship of the governance framework, including the growth of the business.
I would like in business and our employees for their details about the Board and its particular to mention our two Executive passion and dedication and their committees, can be found in the Directors, Paul Moraviec and Nigel relentless focus on delivering quality Governance section.
Information Clerkin who, together with their products and services that improve about how we operate responsibly management team, have contributed peoples lives.
is set out in the Corporate significantly to ConvaTecs development responsibility section.
The Board is This is our first Annual Report as a public strongly supportive of their endeavours.
Over time our reporting will evolve to encompass a broader range of Dialogue with shareholders issues related to your Company.
In the Chairmans governance letter I would like to thank all our shareholders meantime if you have any comments on Page 53 for their support during and following this document we would be delighted to Board of Directors our Listing.
We look forward to hear your feedback.
Page 54 maintaining an active dialogue and we Corporate governance report Page 56 will keep you informed of significant Corporate responsibility developments by providing regular Page 44 updates on our performance and proactively engaging when appropriate.
I will ensure that I am available should Sir Christopher Gent shareholders wish to raise concerns Chairman with me.
17 March 2017 Dividend policy We are targeting a payout ratio of between 35% and 45% of Adjusted Net 1 Income over time and it is our intention to pay an interim and a final dividend in respect of each financial year in the approximate proportions of one-third and two-thirds, respectively, of the annual total dividend.
We may periodically reassess this policy to reflect, among other things, our growth prospects, capital efficiency and the profitability of the Company, whilst also maintaining appropriate levels of dividend cover.
As indicated at the time of our Listing, it is our current intention that the Companys first dividend payment will be an interim dividend in respect of the six months ended 30 June 2017, based on a target payout ratio of 35% of the first six months of Adjusted Net Income annualised for a full year.
The net loss profit for the period and or year adjusted to exclude acquisition-related amortisation, including asset impairments, restructuring and other costs primarily related to our Margin Improvement Programme and costs incurred in connection with the Groups refinancing and initial public offering.
Certain financial measures in this Annual Report, including Adjusted Net Income, are not prepared in accordance with IFRS.
All adjusted measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 90 to 93.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc11
