STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANTPROGRESS We are delighted with the performance of the Group in 2016, delivering solid growth and astrengthened balance sheet and marking our return to the London Stock Exchange.
We enter the 2017 financial year in a strong position with an industry-leading land bank and record private forward order book.
Our strategy remains to deliver growth, increasing returns and capital efficiency from our balanced business models of Housebuilding and Partnerships.
We see significant growth opportunities in Partnerships with increased estate regeneration inLondon and geographic expansion into the WestMidlands, whileour increased scale and operational efficiency in Housebuilding continues toimprove operatingmargins.
ontrack to deliver our medium term targets of 2016 PERFORMANCE over 3,600 completions per year, an adjusted 2016 has been another year of significant progress operating margin of over 17 per cent and for the Group.
It marked increased activity for both improvement inreturn on capital employed our Partnerships and Housebuilding divisions and ROCE to over28per cent.
the return of the business to the London Stock Exchange in February 2016.
I am delighted to report RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS strong results for the year, with a 12 per cent Our share price has held up well since our flotation, increase in completions to 2,657 homes and a despite the turbulence in the market.
From our 34per cent increase in adjusted operating profit IPO date of 17 February 2016 to the end of our to 122.5m.
financial year on 30September 2016 we delivered At 30 September 2016 we had 43 sales outlets, a total shareholder return of 7.9 per cent.
14 more than the year before.
We have a further We have recommended our first dividend of 29 sites under construction, which, when combined 3.4penceper share.
Subject to approval at the with a strong sales rate and record private forward AGM on 26 January 2017, the dividend will be order book, gives us excellent visibility over our paid on 3 February 2017 to shareholders growth plans for the coming year.
More detailed information on our financial We have set a target dividend pay-out ratio of performance can be found on pages 26 to 29.
30per cent of adjusted earnings as we look to use the remaining profits to reinvest in growth, STRONG BALANCE SHEET while maintaining a broadly debt-neutral strategy.
We have significantly strengthened our balance sheet during 2016.
We raised 114m of net primary CORPORATE GOVERNANCE proceeds in new share capital when we listed on During the year we continued to strengthen our the London Stock Exchange in February.
Then in corporate governance ensuring that the financial, May 2016 we successfully refinanced our debt operational and qualitative measures required facilities, securing a new 300m revolving credit tooperate our business and manage the risks facility together with a further 100m accordion arein place.
facility at a lower interest cost.
Our financial strength positions us well to deliver the growth More information can be found within our strategy set out at our Initial Public Offering IPO.
Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 46.
At the year end we had net cash of 12.0m.
OUR PEOPLE WELL POSITIONED FOR GROWTH Our people are essential to delivering our We welcome the Governments commitment strategy.
At 30 September 2016 we had 1,087 tohousing and particularly to urban regeneration, employees across the business, an increase of which is a key differentiator of our business.
Our 25per cent overthe prior year.
70 per cent of track record in delivering regeneration projects ouremployees subscribed to our Save As You across London and the North West of England Earn scheme andwill therefore participate in over the last 30 years positions us well to help ourgrowth.
local authorities meet their housing needs.
We I would like to thank each and every one continue to work in partnership with both private ofouremployees for their hard work during and public sector landowners to develop new thecourse of the year.
communities and undertake urban regeneration.
While we are mindful of the medium-term David Howell uncertainty over the United Kingdoms exit from Chairman the European Union, our targets, as outlined at 28 November 2016 our IPO, remain unchanged.
