STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The focus of the business remains unchanged.
THE PAST YEAR HAS BEEN Working closely with the Companys customer base Cranswicks target is to deliver quality food at affordable prices for todays consumer.
ONE OF STRONG COMMERCIAL This has enabled sales, which exceeded 1 billion for the first time a year ago, GROWTH AND CONTINUED to progress further.
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT Allied to this business focus is the Boards strategy to broaden the protein base and FOR CRANSWICK customer profile of the business.
The acquisition in October 2014 of Benson Park, a leading producer of premium British cooked poultry products serving the fast growing food to go sector, was complemented by the acquisition last month of CCL Holdings Crown and its subsidiary Crown Chicken.
Crown is a leading integrated poultry producer supplying a broad customer base across grocery retail, food service, wholesale and manufacturing channels.
The Board considers that Cranswick now has a base from which to move forward and develop a strong presence in the poultry sector over the longer term.
RESULTS Full year sales volumes were 12 per cent higher than the previous year.
Sales revenues were 7 per cent ahead at 1.07 billion as the Groups customers and UK consumers continued to benefit from lower pork prices.
Strong sales growth was seen across most categories including poultry from Benson Park, which is now fully integrated into the Group.
Export volumes grew strongly particularly those for non-European markets.
Adjusted operating profit rose 12.8 per cent to 66.2 million reflecting the additional volumes, a full year contribution from Benson Park compared to five months previously and operational efficiencies generated by previous investments.
Reported profit before taxation was 58.7 million and earnings per share were 91.5 pence.
Adjusted profit before tax was 65.7 million, an increase of 13.7 per cent on the previous year.
Adjusted earnings per share also rose 13.7 per cent to 104.7 pence.
Details of trading are covered more fully in the Operating Review on page 24.
INVESTMENTS Cranswick invested 34 million in its asset base during the year.
This provided for additional capacity, the upgrading of equipment, improved operational efficiencies and increased resource in product innovation.
Principal areas of investment were in fresh pork and cooked meats, including Benson Park.
In addition, there are a number of projects either underway or planned in the near term 6 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 s s e n e v i t c R e e f f m E u n e r a t i p o i Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information as the Board seeks to increase capacity and COLLEAGUES OUTLOOK enhance the quality and efficiency of the Cranswick operates on a decentralised basis The business has made significant progress Groups production facilities.
across product categories supported by both commercially and strategically over the group-wide collaboration in key areas.
The strategy for the development of Cranswick to date has been to complement organic The Human Resource function is especially There are strong customer relationships, growth with appropriate acquisitions.
The important when operating such a format a broadening product portfolio and growing acquisition of Crown fits with this model and and its strategy has been enhanced in recent export channels.
Aligned with well-invested we welcome Nigel Armes and Matthew Ward, years and incorporated into the overall and efficient production facilities, skilled Mill and Agriculture Directors respectively, strategic plan.
All colleagues are viewed management teams and a strong balance and their colleagues to Cranswick.
We look as critical stakeholders in the business and sheet this gives the Board confidence that forward to working with them to develop the there is commitment to implementing a Cranswick is well positioned to meet the business further.
training and development strategy that challenges that may arise and to continue delivers workforce capabilities, skills and its successful long-term development.
CASH FLOW competencies through the Companys Cranswicks borrowings are conservatively apprenticeship scheme, development structured.
The Companys 120 million programmes and training courses.
unsecured banking facility provides generous Martin Davey headroom and is in place through to July 2018.
The Board appreciates the progress that Chairman Strong cash generation from operating is being made and acknowledges that the 24 May 2016 activities resulted in a net funds position at the Companys continued success would not end of the year of 17.8 million compared to be possible without talented and motivated borrowings of 17.3 million a year earlier.
management teams supported by skilful Subsequent to the year end the Company and enthusiastic colleagues at each site.
On INCREASE IN DIVIDEND moved from a net funds position into net debt behalf of the Board I thank all our colleagues PER SHARE with the acquisition of Crown.
Further details are for their commitment and contribution.
provided in the Financial Review on page 26. DIVIDEND The Board is proposing to increase the final 10.3 dividend by 10.7 per cent to 25.9 pence per share.
Together with the interim dividend, which was raised by 9.4 per cent to 11.6 pence per share, this makes a total dividend for the year of 37.5 pence per share.
This is an GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS increase of 10.3 per cent on the 34.0 pence per share paid last year.
LEADERSHIP ACCOUNTABILITY The Board directs, develops and oversees The Board has overall responsibility for the The final dividend, if approved by implementation of the Groups strategy Groups system of internal control which Shareholders, will be paid on 2 September and monitors its operating performance.
It safeguards the Shareholders investment 2016 to Shareholders on the register at the is collectively responsible to Shareholders and the Groups assets, and for reviewing close of business on 1 July 2016.
Shares will for the long-term success of the Company.
Shareholders will again have the option to receive the EFFECTIVENESS REMUNERATION dividend by way of scrip issue.
The Board maintains a twelve-month Executive remuneration policy is rolling programme of agenda items to monitored to ensure it is correctly CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ensure that all matters reserved for the aligned with the Groups strategy, The Board is mindful of the UK Corporate Board and other key issues are considered targets and performance.
Governance Code and embraces this as part of at the appropriate time.
A statement relating to compliance SHAREHOLDERS with the Code is included within the Corporate The Board attaches great importance Governance Statement on page 48. to maintaining relationships with all Shareholders who are kept informed ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES of significant Company developments.
Managing and reducing the impact that the business has on the environment is an integral For more information on part of the Companys activities and has been governance see pages 45 to 75 the focus of attention for some years under a dedicated project team.
Areas covered include waste, water, energy, packaging and carbon footprint.
The Group has been the recipient of the industrys Environmental Initiative of The Year award.
Read more about corporate social responsibility on pages 36 to 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 7 h n s r e d a A e c L c o u n t a b s i r l i e t d y l o h e r a h S STRATEGIC REPORT COMMITTED TO TASTE FROM THE FARM TO THE FACTORY TO THE SUPERMARKET SHELF, OUR PEOPLE ARE COMMITTED TO DELIVERING OUTSTANDING FOOD EXPERIENCES EVERY TIME COLIN WOODALL IS AN EIGHTH COLIN WOODALL CURER AND CHARCUTERIE GENERATION CURER AND CHARCUTERIE EXPERT AT CRANSWICK EXPERT WHO WORKS WITH CRANSWICK TO GUIDE AND OVERSEE THE PRODUCT RANGE THAT BEARS HIS FAMILY NAME, WOODALLS.
M y family business, Woodalls, was established in 1828 in Waberthwaite, Cumbria by Hannah Woodall, my five times great grandmother.
I have now been working with Cranswick for nearly eight years and we are building a brand that represents the best in traditional, British charcuterie.
We continue to use recipes which have been passed through eight generations of my family, including Cumberland Sausage, Air-Dried Bacon, Salami and Fully Air-Dried Hams.
The products continue to be prepared in the traditional artisan way, delivering the same great British taste as they have done for nearly two centuries.
WOODALLS PREMIUM BRITISH During the year we completed a purpose built, CHARCUTERIE PLATTER state-of-the-art facility at our Manchester site to expand our Woodalls British charcuterie range.
Cumbrian Royale and Black Combe Hams, Smoked Pancetta and Cumberland Salami 8 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information GREAT TASTE AWARDS NEW PRODUCTS WON BY WOODALLS LAUNCHED DURING BRITISH CHARCUTERIE THE YEAR AIR-DRIED HAMS IN 2015 1,790 03 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 9
