Strategic Report Chairmans Statement A year of strong progress Overview Our strategic focus As I reflect on Crodas achievements at the We have a clear and differentiated strategy end of my first full year as Chairman, Iam todeliver growth across our sectors and pleased to report record sales and profit geographies.
Croda is successful in finding performance, strong cash generation and fast growing market niches, staying ahead enhanced returns to shareholders.
of the competition by identifying and developing products to satisfy unmet Our focus on growth market sectors, customer needs, and creating new supported by continued innovation, differentiation in competitive markets.
capitalinvestment and a commitment to Wefind new applications: for example, the highest standards of health and safety taking sun care from the beach touse in and sustainability are important thousands of every day skin care products.
contributors to these strong results.
We find new international markets: for I have also been hugely impressed by example, in Asia, where we are getting thecontribution and commitment of all closer to the hundreds of smaller ofour employees, many of whom I meet customers who are creating new trends.
during my regular programme of site visits.
We find new technologies, such as the Croda has a unique culture Crodahas a unique culture which blends encapsulation business we acquired in which blends commercial commercial realism and customer intimacy 2016, supporting a record level of homewith excellent technical, financial and realism and customer grown innovation.
And in a world which operational skills.
There is a strong sense isincreasingly recognising the fragile planet intimacy with excellent ofshared values, matched by individual on which we live, Croda is at the forefront technical, financial and accountability and a willingness to do the of delivering sustainable ingredients for right thing for all our stakeholders.
culture of we, not I and this isa significant Anita Frew contributor to our continued success.
Our talent, culture and values Chairman Onbehalf of the Board, I would like to Ensuring that we have the right people thankall of our hard working employees.
andtalent for the future needs of our Business is critical to our continuing Strong sales and pre-tax success.
As a Board and Executive team, profitperformance we spend considerable time on succession Sales for the year increased by 15% to planning and talent development across 1,243.6m 2015: 1,087.1m and adjusted our Businesses.
profit before tax grew by 13.2% to 288.3m In addition, recognising the importance 2015: 254.7m, a strong performance and value of our culture to our continued inadifficult global trading environment.
strong performance, this year the Board Sales and profit increased inall three has worked on the development of our CoreBusiness sectors.
I was particularly Croda culture plan, which links the encouraged by the progress we achieved Company culture, our values, behaviours in our high value actives business in and practices to our Business strategy, Personal Care, in integrating Incotec into both of which work equally to deliver the Life Sciences business and in the business success.
progressive strengthening of sales and margin in Performance Technologies.
We now have the ability to assess how Coupled with excellent cash generation, effective our culture and values are across this has positioned Croda for further our global businesses and regions and to growth in 2017. ensure alignment between our culture and the key people processes of reward, performance management, succession planning and recruitment.
Croda International Plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Board composition, engagement They regularly meet with senior and performance management and spend time increasing their understanding of the Business Dr. Keith Layden, Chief Technology Officer through site visits, business presentations, and President, Life Sciences, has decided leadership development meetings, informal to retire from the Company after 32 years briefings and Board dinners.
I am delighted that Keith has Directors Report, we set out more details accepted the Boards invitation to continue of the full programme of activities as a Non-Executive Director and help throughout the year, including our site visits guide Crodas highly successful innovation across our fast growing Asia region.
I would like to thank Keith for his long service and Dividend and returns toshareholders exceptional contribution to Croda.
Dr. Nick Your Board seeks to deliver high quality Challoner, President, Asia, will also become profits, measured through a superior return President of Life Sciences and lead on invested capital, earnings growth and Crodas Global Research and Technology strong cash returns.
We have a clear policy function.
These changes will take effect Board site visits in place to ensure that we reinvest profits for from 1 May 2017. growth: provide regular returns to investors: During the year all of our Non-Executive To be effective in its role, the Board requires Directors undertook manufacturing supplement growth by selected acquisition, a balance of skills, experience and diversity.
sitevisits outside of the normal Board site where appropriate: and maintain an We regularly undertake an assessment of visits.
Anita Frew and Alan Ferguson visited appropriate balance sheet, returning excess the skills matrix of the Board and appraise our manufacturing operations in China.
Following our strong their effectiveness.
Further details on this They met with employees across all performance in 2016 and reflecting our functions, including the sales and marketing process and our priorities are discussed confidence for the future, the Board is teams, gaining insight into theexclusive more fully in the section on governance recommending an 8.6% increase in the final customer projects and innovation pipelines onp36 to 46. dividend for 2016.
This is in addition to the for each of our market sectors.
Both Alan The Boards needs in this regard will evolve increased interim dividend already paid and and Anita were impressed with the close over time to match the business and strategic the 100 pence per share special dividend collaboration between the sales, marketing requirements and we have clearly defined and R&D teams an essential ingredient to that we made inJune 2016. providing our customers with solutions to succession plans for both Executive and their unmetneeds.
Outlook Our priorities in 2017 are to drive profitability Anita visited our manufacturing site in Shiga We meet the current Board requirement in Japan, an important site for our Personal through a greater focus on premium, terms of gender diversity and we have well Care and Health Care businesses and where fastergrowth market niches, improve our developed plans to enhance our progress we manufacture a number of our high purity performance in less differentiated markets throughout the organisation and embrace ingredients and other NPP products.
She and continue to grow profitability in lower the business case for diversity in all its forms.
had the opportunity to spend time with the margin businesses.
We have seen some sites quality team and discuss the important As I reflect on the performance of my Board encouraging signs of improving sales work they do in achieving the required level colleagues over the last year, Ihave been trends and are confident of delivering of Good Manufacturing Practice GMP impressed by the quality of debate, by the continued progress in 2017. certification to ensure compliance with our diversity of thought and the willingness customers rigorous quality standards.
tochallenge constructively, by their Anita also met with the Korean management commitment, the level of engagement and team and explored the accelerating level of involvement in the businesses and by their growth in Asia and the high level of innovative strong sense of belief in the Croda culture.
products being developed in Korea.
Our Non-Executive Directors see Our Directors spent time in a more relaxed Anita Frew attendance at Board and Committee environment meeting informally with Chairman meetings as only one part of their role.
employees at all levels across the Business and enabling local teams to gain insights from a Board member.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 03
