Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Chairmans Introduction It gives me pleasure to report on a year which has seen steady progress throughout the Group with an overall increase in shareholders funds of 10% to 1,480.0 million.
The net revaluation gain at 117.9 million was, as anticipated, significantly lower than the previous year 2015 229.7 million.
This reflects a general slowdown in the rate of growth of property values in both the UK and USA and an absence of the positive non-recurring items which benefited the prior year.
Our property values in the UK rose by an overall 5.5% 2015 15.5% whilst those in the USA rose, in dollar terms, by 9.8% 2015 13.4%.
In recent years we have experienced significant rates of growth in property values in central London and central New York.
This year we have seen the growth rates in both city centres slow somewhat whilst the rates of growth outside central areas have increased.
Our rental and related income from investment property grew by 7.1% in the year with increases spread widely throughout the portfolio.
Outlook The immediate future will be dominated by the political and economic uncertainty generated by the recent decision for the UK to leave the European Union EU.
The Bank of England has indicated that the UK economy faces a sharp slowdown in the rate of growth and has recently highlighted that valuations in some segments of the UK commercial property market, notably the prime London market, may have become stretched.
We know from experience that these conditions will not be good for our UK business with adverse impacts on rental income, capital values, vacancy rates and bad debts.
There have already been market reports of downward pressure on commercial property values with a number of property investment funds closing to redemptions.
Development projects will be re-evaluated and investment decisions postponed.
Those who advocated leaving the EU asserted that economic benefits would arise after an initial period of upheaval but at present it is difficult to see through the fog of uncertainty which confronts us.
Our property portfolio in the USA should continue to benefit from growth in rental and capital values in that market.
Continued weakness in the sterling dollar rate of exchange will increase the sterling value of our USA assets and profits.
As a Group we have always pursued a long term, low risk approach to generating growth in net asset value.
This strategy is particularly appropriate in uncertain times.
We have the financial facilities in place to enable us to take appropriate opportunities which may arise.
Whilst it is extremely difficult to see with any clarity what the immediate future holds, the fundamentals of the Group are strong and our gearing is low.
This gives me confidence that once the UK economy emerges from this difficult period the Group will be well placed for continued growth.
Dividend The continued growth in our underlying profit gives the Board confidence to propose an increase in the total dividend of 5p to 93p 2015 88p.
These results are produced by the efforts of our loyal and hardworking staff throughout the Group: Front cover, sincere thanks must go to them all.
contents page, back cover, above and right: Park B S E Freshwater West, London W2.
