CHAirMAnS STATeMenT Highlights Combined volumes of four Production and sales of key brands up 2% demineralised whey and GOS have commenced Cathedral City grows revenue and volumes in Transformational sale of a period of continuing, Dairies business completed significant price deflation on 26 December 2015 Improved Clover and Strong underlying cash Country Life performance in generation from the the second half of the year: continuing business Frylight continues to grow Proposed final dividend up strongly 1.9% to 16.0 pence Profit margins from continuing operations maintained after a strong second half of the year review of the year prebiotic which is added into premium infant formula to help aid The coming year will see Dairy Crest celebrate the 20th digestion and growth in babies.
Both of these products are to be anniversary of its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Since marketed and sold by our partner, Fonterra.
its flotation in 1996, Dairy Crest has reshaped itself from a We also continue to research other potential applications for supply-driven commoditised business to a lean, branded and GOS, in both human nutrition and animal feed.
The transformational sale of our Dairies business in December 2015, and the completion of our functional Putting innovation at the core ingredients investment in Davidstow this year, mark a step change HRH The Princess Royal officially opened the new Dairy Crest in our evolution and, with innovation at our core, position us well Innovation Centre at Harper Adams University in April 2016. for future growth.
This exciting facility will ensure that innovation is at the very core This financial year, we are pleased to announce a set of of Dairy Crests business.
We have a successful track record results which show the underlying robustness of our business.
of delivering consumer-focused innovation in packaging and With annual sales of 422.3 million and margins of over 15%, the New Product Development NPD.
Last year, over 11 per cent branded business has performed well in what is a challenging, of revenue from our key brands was from products less than deflationary market.
Our functional ingredients business is an area three years old.
The Innovation Centre is on the Harper Adams of increased focus and investment with strong growth prospects, University campus, giving us access to leading food and agribroadening the companys product base and geographic markets.
This relationship has started extremely well with a This is complementary to our strong UK branded grocery number of students already working within our business.
business led by the countrys largest cheese brand, Cathedral City, which is in nearly 60% of UK households and is the 16th our culture and values largest grocery brand in the UK ranked by retail sales.
Dairy Crest remains committed to doing the right thing in the way we conduct ourselves and do business.
We have been recognised Transformational Sale of Dairies for our work in this area by finishing top of the Business in the I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mark Allen and Tom Community BITC Index in 2014 and 2015.
Following the sale of the Atherton for their focus, drive and determination in leading the sale Dairies business, we are now updating our corporate responsibility of the Dairies business.
The transaction was extremely prolonged strategy to ensure we continue to lead the field in this area.
and challenging but completion was fundamental to delivering on our future strategy.
It is a testament to the senior management increased dividend recommended team that the transaction was ultimately completed and that the The Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.0 pence per share, making a full year dividend of 22.1 pence per share.
In line day to day running of the business was not impacted during with our progressive dividend policy, this is a 1.8% increase on last this time.
A number of former Dairy Crest employees transferred year.
The dividend is covered 1.6 times by adjusted basic earnings to Muller UK & Ireland Group LLP Mller as part of the deal.
A key part of our strategy going forward, will be to I would like to thank all of them for their commitment to Dairy continue to increase dividends year on year, aiming for a target Crest.
In particular, I would like to thank Mike Sheldon, Managing cover range of 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Director of the Dairies business, for his outstanding contribution to Dairy Crest over many years.
He left the company with our best Summary wishes for the future.
The Board remains confident in the future prospects for Dairy Crest.
The business has a strong management team which is investing for the future delivering against a clear business strategy of building brands, We have now completed our investment at our cheese factory adding value, driving simplicity and managing risk.
We are producing demineralised whey, an added value by-product of the cheese-making process.
Stephen Alexander Chairman Demineralised whey is the base ingredient for infant formula.
18 May 2016 We have also started manufacturing GOS at the plant.
GOS is a 8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
