CHAIRMANS LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS A new future for Debenhams Dear Shareholder, tosupport theCompanys transition For a discussion on our approach to I am delighted to have taken the role towards a global multi-channel future.
leadership, culture and governance of Chairman of Debenhams having He leaves the business in good shape please refer to the sections of this joined the board in January this year.
tonavigate the challenges and report commencing on page 32.
Iwould like to thank my predecessor, opportunities to come and we wish Nigel Northridge, who steered the Michael every success in the future.
In The year in review board andmanagement team the intervening period Suzanne Harlow, We had a strong first half of the year, successfully through a continuing Group Trading Director and Matt Smith, but saw a tougher environment in the period of great change in the CFO, with thesupport of the wider UK in the second half, with political and retailsector.
executive team, have done an excellent economic uncertainty overlaying some job inkeeping the business on track.
softness in key categories, such as New leadership clothing.
Despite this, over the past Our new Chief Executive Officer, Sergio We welcomed a new non-executive year the business has maintained Bucher, joined Debenhams this month.
director, Lisa Myers, to the board profitability and market share, has Following a rigorous recruitment on6September 2016.
Lisas long continued to generate cash and process, with some exceptional quality experience of asset management slightly increased the dividend.
candidates, we are delighted to have andunderstanding of retail sector found such a strong candidate, with investment, together with her We are continuing to evolve our clear leadership qualities, brand and knowledge of international retailers, business model to ensure the Group e-commerce expertise, and will be a valuable addition to the remains competitive, effective and international experience, to take boards mix of skills.
successful within changing markets, thebusiness into the next stage andthat our infrastructure is .
After ten years, Dennis Millard will class in order tosupport international step down from the board at the multi-channel growth.
The pillars of We have said goodbye to Michael Annual General Meeting in January ourstrategy delivering a compelling Sharp, whose five year tenure as 2017.
The board has benefited greatly customer proposition: focusing on ChiefExecutive has delivered a from his exceptional knowledge, better returns from our UK retail well-invested storeportfolio, and the commitment and understanding business: increasing availability and systems and infrastructure framework ofthe Company.
choice through multi-channel: and 2 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report expanding the brand internationally of 1.2x.
With our previous leverage commitment we look forward to a very remain central to the creation of ratio target of 1.0x in sight, last year exciting new phase for the development shareholder value and are enabled we set a new medium term leverage of Debenhams and I am confident we bycontinuing investment in ratio target of 0.5x.
have the best team to realise the .
potential of new Debenhams as a Our capital spending programme, leading international multi-channel retailer with a bright future.
An explanation of our business which includes a three-year systems strategy and progress in 2016, together investment of 130m, is expected to with a discussion of how we manage be comfortably funded within our risk andintegrate a sustainable existing resources.
approach across our activities, is shown on the following pages.
In line with our progressive dividend policy, we have increased the dividend Strong financial underpinning by 0.7% to 3.425p.
This was as a result of In response to more uncertain trading a 2.5% increase in the interim dividend, conditions in the UK in the second and a maintained final dividend.
half of the financial year, the business SIR IAN CHESHIRE has focused on managing stock and A great team effort CHAIRMAN margins and generating cash.
During On behalf of the board, I would 27 OCTOBER 2016 the year, we reduced our net debt like to offer all of our people my levels by 41m to 279m.
At the gratitude for all their hard work and current year end we have achieved dedication that has helped to deliver aleverage ratio of Net Debt EBITDA these results.
With their support and INTRODUCING OUR NEW CEO Sergio Bucher joinedDebenhams on17 October 2016.
From 2013 until joining our company, Sergio served as VicePresident, Amazon Fashion Europe, leading Amazons growth to become one of the largest fashion retailers in Europe.
Previously he was General Manager, Retail and e-commerce I am excited to be joining Debenhams, with Worldwide, at Puma, and prior to itsstrong UK heritage, a growing international that held retail roles at Nike and Inditex, where he led the start-up presence and a track record of supporting and of its lingerie retail brand, Oysho.
I look forward to working with its experienced and talented team to take Debenhams forward to an exciting new future.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3 INVESTMENT CASE Delivering long-term sustainable growth STRATEGY BUSINESS MODEL To be a leading international, multi-channel brand by We aim to create value for shareholders by serving our delivering a compelling customer proposition and customers well, with a clear understanding of what they increasing availability and choice through our flagship want, supported by our expertise in how to develop, digital platform and well-invested, well-located stores source and sell products through the channel that around the world.
Read more on pages 9 to 17 Read more on the inside front cover BRANDS KEY PERFORMANCE We offer a unique, differentiated and exclusive mix INDICATORS KPIs ofowned, international and concession brands.
Our The board assesses the performance of the business exclusive Designers at Debenhams ranges showcase on a range of financial, strategic and sustainability internationally renowned British design talent.
We have key performance indicators, some of which are linked market-leading positions in premium beauty, to the management performance share plan.
occasionwear and accessories in the UK.
Read more on pages 18 and 19 Read more on page 9 RISKS AND HOW WE DIVIDEND POLICY MANAGE THEM Debenhams is a cash generative business.
The board The management of risk plays a central role in strategic has reviewed thecapital structure and has adopted planning and is systematised to ensure that the Groups a progressive dividend policy which iscompatible reputation is protected and the strategic and operational withthe investment requirements of the business.
goals ofthe business can be delivered.
Read more on page 30 Read more on pages 20 to 25 4 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
