Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Delivering on our strategy The tried and tested DFS growth strategy has delivered another set of record results and put us in an excellent position, as the market leader, to continue to generate shareholder value.
Our unique and flexible business model, the quality and commitment of our people, our family culture and our focus on customer satisfaction remain the key factors behind our continuing success.
indb 8 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 Growth strategy on track Given the strong progress in reducing Conclusion DFS has weathered many forms of I am delighted to report that our financial our financial leverage and current positive and operational progress remains on trading momentum, the Board is also political and economic turbulence during its 47 years of operating history, and I track.
These excellent results reflect pleased to confirm it currently expects the executive management teams that the business will be in a position, have confidence that we will continue to be well positioned despite the successful implementation of multiple at the interim results in March 2017, strategic initiatives that have delivered to announce a further special capital uncertainties inevitably surrounding the outcome of the EU Referendum.
Our ahead of our expectations in a number return to shareholders anticipated to of areas, enabling us once again to occur prior to the current financial year business model, scale, vertical integration and highly flexible cost base all provide outperform the furniture retail market end in July 2017.
In the interests of as a whole.
Such outperformance has prudence, the return would depend on resilience against potentially weaker the capital requirements of the business, trading conditions, relative to the market.
been a consistent feature of the DFS track record in all the varied market in line with the detailed guidance We will continue to pursue our proven given within the Financial Review.
long-term growth strategy, leveraging conditions the business has encountered throughout its long operating history.
our excellent cash flow to invest in the People business for the future, and I am confident Our markets Our whole family of some 4,000 people that this will continue to deliver longdeserve our sincere thanks for their term profitable growth and cash returns The key macroeconomic indicators of consumer confidence, housing market hard work in delivering another set for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Their commitment activity and consumer credit availability remained generally favourable throughout to delivering outstanding service to our customers at every stage of their Richard Baker the year, enabling the UK retail furniture market to continue its recovery from experience with DFS is endorsed by Chairman record levels of customer satisfaction, as 5 October 2016 the low point it reached in 2011, in the wake of the global financial crisis.
The measured by our Net Promoter Scores.
market still remains, however, some 20% smaller by value than at its peak in 2007, I am delighted to welcome Nicola Bancroft to our Board as Chief Financial Officer, potentially indicating further scope for growth in the longer term once current following the retirement of Bill Barnes after almost 13 years.
Bill leaves with economic uncertainties are resolved.
our thanks and our very best wishes for the future.
Nicola and Bill have worked Results and dividend The business performed strongly closely together for the last three years and the handover of responsibilities throughout the year to deliver continued record levels of revenues, profits and cash has therefore been seamless and smooth.
I am particularly pleased that flow.
The strong cash generation that is such an important feature of our business we now have equal representation of women and men on our Board.
enables the Board to recommend payment of a final dividend of 7.5 pence per share FY15: 6.2 pence, an increase of 21.0%.
Together with the increased interim dividend of 3.5 pence FY15: 3.1. pence paid in June, this makes a total dividend for the year of 11.0 pence FY15: 9.3 pence, a rise of 18.3%, in line with our commitment to deliver excellent returns to our shareholders through a consistently progressive dividend policy.
