10 DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 Chairmans statement CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Diageo is a global leader in an industry that is growing and financially attractive.
As we deliver on our future opportunities with our brands and geographic reach, we will continue to promote responsible drinking as part of a balanced lifestyle.
This is at the centre of Diageos purpose to celebrate life every day, everywhere.
Dr Franz B Humer, Chairman Recommended final dividend per share 36.6p 5% 2015: 34.9p i Total dividend per share 59.2p 5% 2015: 56.4p Total shareholder return % 17% 2015: 2% i Includes recommended final dividend.
A stronger, more competitive business together represent almost half of the global Alongside the continued focus on organic I am pleased with the performance Diageo growth opportunity for our industry, and growth, Diageo released 1 billion from the has delivered this year, my last as Chairman.
also a leading competitive position in North sale of non-core assets through a more We are a stronger business and have returned America, the biggest driver of developed proactive approach to managing our to growth, and I would like to thank our Chief market growth.
In each of these markets we portfolio.
This included the sale of our wine Executive, Ivan Menezes, and the Diageo have a strong portfolio of brands, a proven interests primarily the US-based Chateau Executive team for leading this progress.
capability in identifying and acting on and Estate Wines and the UK-based Percy Diageo has positioned the consumer at the consumer insights, leading skills in marketing Fox businesses to Treasury Wine Estates and innovation, and a reputation for operating heart of the business, through marketing, and the sale of non-core beer assets in innovation, local participation strategies and in a responsible and sustainable way.
These transactions now has the consumer-facing culture required followed the restructuring of our business in to succeed in todays competitive Business development Southern Africa, having achieved our goal of Responsiveness and agility are key drivers of marketplace.
leadership in spirits and growth in the beer Diageos opportunity for growth lies in performance and the Diageo Executive team business through the successful brandhouse positive global demographics and income have enhanced these capabilities in several joint venture with Heineken and Namibia growth, and the increasing penetration of areas during the year, including: a continued Breweries.
Diageo now has the scale to move focus on building a world-class sales spirits in emerging markets.
Our footprint is to the next stage of growth in South Africa made up of enviable positions in key organisation, investment in local production, with a focused, simplified ownership geographies: in Africa and India, which and building the capability of local talent.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders Chairmans statement DIAGEO Annual Report 2016 11 Board changes Our investment in United Spirits Limited We put our resources and skills into hundreds of programmes around the world that reduce In November 2015, Deirdre Mahlan stepped USL in India offers Diageo a transformational growth opportunity in one of the most alcohol misuse, working closely with other down from the Board, as she moved from attractive spirits markets in the world.
India stakeholders to raise awareness and change her role as Chief Financial Officer to take up the role of President, Diageo North America.
is set to become the second country after peoples attitudes and behaviour.
This forms part of our support of the industrys Global I wish to thank Deirdre most sincerely for China with a population of more than one billion consumers of legal purchase age, with Producers Commitments to Reduce the her excellent contribution to the Board the expected growth of 1819 million legal Harmful Use of Alcohol, now in their fourth and am pleased that she continues to play a pivotal role in leading this important purchase age consumers per year.
year, which are making a tangible difference in areas such as reducing drink driving and business for Diageo.
I am also delighted Since Diageo became the principal shareholder in USL in India in July 2013, tackling underage drinking.
We are also to have welcomed Kathryn Mikells to the we have been determined to capture the proud that we are supporting skills and social Board as Chief Financial Officer, effective 9 November 2015.
Kathryn joined us with significant growth opportunity of one of enterprise in the community, through programmes like Learning for Life, bringing a track record for capital discipline and for the largest spirits markets in the world.
On 25 February 2016, Diageo announced that opportunities for training and careers in the developing strong cost cultures to create it had entered into an agreement with Dr Vijay hospitality industry, and Plan W, empowering efficient, agile organisations.
Diageo announced on 18 May 2016, that Mallya under which he resigned from his women through learning.
And we are working hard, including with our suppliers, Javier Ferrn would be appointed to the position as Chairman and Non-Executive Director of USL and from the boards of other to reduce our environmental impact, setting Board as a Non-Executive Director from USL group companies.
The agreement ourselves new, challenging targets around 22 July 2016.
On my retirement from the Board on 31 December 2016, Javier will take brought to an end the uncertainty relating water, carbon and waste for 2020.
These priorities represent an interlinked, holistic over as Chairman from 1 January 2017.
On to the governance of USL and put in place a five-year global non-compete excluding the approach to understanding and managing behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome United Kingdom, non-interference and our impact on society.
Javier to Diageo and say how delighted I am that he has agreed to be the next Chairman.
standstill arrangement with Dr Mallya.
Partnerships are key to delivering positive outcomes, and we have recently announced Through his roles at Lion Capital and Bacardi, Value creation and dividend a global strategic partnership with the Javier has a wealth of experience across the We measure our progress towards achieving NGO WaterAid, building on our efforts to consumer goods sector and brings a strong set of skills to the role of Chairman.
our Performance Ambition through four areas: improve access to safe water across Africa.
Also this year, through a partnership with efficient growth, value creation, credibility and Global volume share of premium spirits trust, and motivated people.
We improved the United States Agency for International % against each of our efficient growth metrics, Development, we have extended our work and Ivan will discuss these in his statement.
on skills as part of their programme in Colombia, and have set up a new farming Our value creation measures also improved.
Return on average invested capital ROIC was supply chain in South Sudan, supporting broadly flat against a decline last year and our livelihoods for hundreds of people.
These total shareholder return TSR performance partnerships, with more to follow, increase the reach of our programmes and help us has improved on last year, up 17%.
Diageo targets dividend cover basic contribute to the UN Global Goals.
earnings per share before exceptional items dividend per share within the range of Managing geo-political risks 1.8 to 2.2 times.
The recommended final and opportunities dividend for the year ended 30 June 2016 is Political and other volatility continues to be a Diageo 25% Beam Suntory 7% Pernod Ricard 16% Brown-Forman 6% 36.6 pence per share, an increase of 5% over growing feature of the global economy and Bacardi 9% Others 37% many of the markets in which we operate.
the prior year in line with our policy to rebuild Source: Impact Databank, March 2016 dividend cover to our targeted range.
This We are continually improving our ability to brings the full year dividend to 59.2 pence understand and interpret it: and to evaluate A global leader per share and dividend cover to 1.5 times.
and act against the potential risks and the It has been an honour to serve as your opportunities for the business.
We have Subject to approval by shareholders, the final Chairman.
During the past eight years dividend will be paid to shareholders on integrated the work of our strategy, risk and Diageo has become a truly global leader, 6 October 2016.
Payment to US ADR holders public affairs teams and also improved our with the assets and consumer-facing culture will be made on 12 October 2016. in-depth analysis of, and scenario planning for, required to succeed.
Diageos values are priority markets.
I am confident this will further deeply rooted in the principle of always Our role in society enhance our resilience and growth potential.
I am therefore Ensuring we make a positive contribution to It is too early to assess the implications of confident that Diageo will continue to society has always been a priority for Diageo the United Kingdoms decision to leave the prosper, and succeed in delivering its European Union for our business and and is at the core of our Performance Performance Ambition for all stakeholders Ambition.
Doing so is good for our business, operations over the longer term.
We believe, around the world.
good for our communities and good for however, that with our proven record of our consumers, and it is also true to our managing trade and operating globally, Diageo remains well placed to deliver its values and our people.
The Diageo Code of Business Conduct defines these values and Performance Ambition.
helps our employees live by them every day.
Dr Franz B Humer Chairman PDF Page: v3 Pg11New 5thAug.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged LR NoColourInfo Job Name: 64073E Diageo Annual Report 2016
