Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:12 Page 7 Dignity plc 04 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report From the Chairman Dignitys continued success is testament to our consistent focus and the dedication of our people.
Peter Hindley, Chairman Links Summary h h % 4 15.74p See Governance and structure: Consistent performance: a stable, p. 38 and p. 39 predictable, cash generative business.
Underlying earnings Final dividend See Board of Directors: per share up 4% to of 15.74 pence, Underlying operating profit up three p. 40 and p. 41 119.8 pence 2015: continuing the 10% per cent.
See Report on Directors 114.8 pence.
annual growth in the remuneration: p. 50 to p. 63 Dividend per share increased by dividend per share.
Overview helped the business, as all of these areas Our people represent opportunities for us given our 2016 has been another successful As in previous years we have made a scale and existing standard of facilities.
year for the Group, with good financial discretionary bonus payment to our performance and continued development employees, this year equating to 1,200 Dividends of our network of locations.
We have also The Board is proposing a final dividend of decided to embed this amount in all 15.74 pence per Ordinary Share, bringing In the last couple of years, Dignity employees future pay rather than continue the total dividend for the year to 23.59 has witnessed some notable changes.
to treat it as a discretionary bonus.
pence: another increase of 10 per cent Firstly, the number of deaths increased Therefore all employees have received on the previous year.
significantly in 2015 and then continued a flat 1,200 pay increase pro rated for to remain much higher than anticipated If shareholders approve this payment part time employees in January 2017. in 2016, helping us deliver stronger than at the Annual General Meeting AGM All other things being equal, the Group expected financial performance in the on 8 June 2017, then it will be paid on does not as a consequence anticipate last two years.
Secondly, competition 30 June 2017 to members on the register making a discretionary bonus payment has continued to increase, particularly in at close of business on 19 May 2017. to staff in respect of 2017s performance.
funerals and pre-arranged funeral plans.
This salary increase applied across the Governance and the Board These industries are unregulated which business, including managers and As a board, we are committed to has encouraged new entrants.
We are also maintaining our high standards of Executive Directors alike.
seeing a number of businesses offering corporate governance.
The Board continues Outlook for 2017 and beyond digital services in the funeral market.
to focus not only on what we deliver as a The number of deaths has been higher in business, but also how we deliver.
Ensuring We are tackling these changes head on.
2016 than the Group originally anticipated that there is a high level of cultural integrity We continue to seek regulation of our following a significant increase in the embedded within the way we operate is a markets, arguing that minimum standards number of deaths in 2015.
Historical data key part of what we deliver as a business of care should apply in funeral locations would suggest that deaths in 2017 could and how we deliver, as is our ability to drive and for better regulation of pre-arranged be significantly lower than 2015 and 2016. sustainable performance and meaningful plans.
We are also seeking to develop Trading in the first few weeks of 2017 stakeholder value.
our web presence in ways to help market has however continued to be strong.
As a our services, but also to help the level The composition of the Board has been result, the Boards financial expectations of service we provide our clients.
Finally, stable, with one planned change to address are unchanged for the year ahead.
we are introducing new, more affordable succession planning.
As already announced, The Board remains positive about the services that will appeal to customers we Martin Pexton has left the Board and been future prospects for the Group.
However, would not normally expect to be able to replaced by Mary McNamara.
I would like given the increased size of the Group help.
These efforts are the start of a multi to thank Martin for his contribution to the and increasing competition in each of year journey for us and we will update our Group and I am delighted to welcome our markets the Board has revised its stakeholders on how these efforts have Mary to the Board.
medium-term target underlying EPS growth rate to eight per cent per annum Creating value responsibly Acting with integrity to make from the current 10 per cent.
As with the a difference previous target, this objective includes the benefit of the reinvestment of cash Helping families at a very difficult time generated by the business and the Groups remains our core purpose.
We also aim ability to releverage its balance sheet either to support the communities in which Ensuring that there is a high level to fund acquisitions or return capital we operate and we are proud of the to shareholders.
of cultural integrity embedded positive role that our operations and people play in society every day, within the way we operate is a whether this is through job creation key part of what we deliver as a and promoting good business practice, business and how we deliver, as or supporting local charities and is our ability to drive sustainable community organisations.
performance and meaningful stakeholder value.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
