Chairmans statement Focused on creating long-term value Returns to our shareholders remain a key focus in this challenging market environment.
Cumulative dividends represent approximately 72% of the share price at the initial public offering.
Mike Biggs Chairman Dear shareholders, In 2016, the Group delivered profit before tax of 353.0 dividend of 14.6 pence per share will represent 5.8% growth million 2015: 507.5 million.
Before the reduction in the on 2015s regular dividend 13.8 pence per share, which is Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%, profit before tax was consistent with this policy.
We achieved this resilient result through our In addition, we paid a special interim dividend of 10.0 pence continued focus on the value, service and brand propositions per share in September 2016.
The Boards ability to return offered to our customers, on operating efficiency and on a dividend to shareholders is against the backdrop of a underwriting discipline in competitive markets.
challenging economic environment following the UKs EU membership referendum and the recent reduction in the Strategy Ogden discount rate.
Whilst the day-to-day operations remain The Groups mission is to make insurance much easier and unaffected, the Group continues to monitor the consequences better value for our customers.
The Boards role is to support of the devaluation of Sterling, inflation, uncertain financial and challenge the Groups management to develop and markets and the Ogden discount rate reduction.
execute a strategy which is aligned with this mission, and positions the business to take advantage of changes in Linking remuneration to performance technology affecting vehicles, homes and how our customers We remain committed to ensuring that executive pay is communicate with us, as well as delivering operating aligned with the Companys strategy of delivering long-term efficiencies and targeting sustainable income streams.
The effective execution of our strategy requires a substantial and continuing change agenda to improve our core systems, The Group achieved a return on tangible equity RoTE digital offering and the agility of the organisation.
However, a decrease of 9.4% 2015: an increase of 39.9% in the share price over the Dividends year to 369.4 pence 2015: 407.5 pence at 31 December We aim to increase the dividend annually in real terms, under 2016, together with dividend payments, provided a total our progressive dividend policy see page 110.
This aim shareholder return TSR of minus 1% for the year 2015: reflects the potential of the Companys cash-flow generation 46.9%, which is reflected in the long-term incentive plan and long-term earnings.
We are recommending a final regular LTIP outcome for 2016.
This follows three consecutive years dividend of 9.7 pence per share.
If approved, the total regular of outperformance versus the benchmark FTSE 350 excluding 10 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements IT Infrastructure Governance highlights The Group has been making positive changes to its IT infrastructure, including working towards the implementation and integration of major IT systems which is inherently complex Leadership and challenging.
The Boards ongoing areas of focus include Your Board seeks to ensure that decisions are of the highest developing future capability, and continuing to monitor risks standard.
It challenges strategic proposals, performance associated with IT systems stability, cyber security, and the delivery and management responsibilities.
See page 53. internal control environment.
Effectiveness Regulation, conduct and culture The effectiveness of your Boards and its Committees We maintain active relationships with our regulators through performance is considered annually in an effectiveness constructive two way dialogue.
Your Board promotes the review.
Groups culture and oversees the Groups conduct policy, which aims to ensure that we achieve good customer outcomes Accountability and that our employees behave with integrity.
We also have Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment a Code of Business Conduct which sets out standards that of the Groups position and prospects.
We monitor and our employees are required to observe.
We recognise that review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management opportunities always exist to improve the services offered to and internal control systems.
See pages 26 and 61. our customers: and your Board has encouraged a range of customer experience initiatives which are designed to deliver Remuneration increased levels of customer satisfaction.
Your Remuneration Committee ensures a close correlation between creating value for shareholders, and remunerating Board and Committee membership changes Executive Directors and senior executives appropriately.
Succession planning remains a key area of focus for the See pages 63 and 82.
In January 2016, Dr Richard Ward was appointed as our Senior Independent Director.
Following Priscilla Vacassins Relationships with shareholders retirement from the Board in March 2016, a number of Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular changes were made to the chairmanship and membership interaction with our shareholders.
Their continued support of the Boards Committees.
for our strategic aims is important.
On 1 February 2017, I was delighted to welcome Danuta Gray as a Non-Executive Director and Mike HollidayWilliams as an Executive Director to the Board.
Danuta brings investment trusts meaning that shareholders, since the initial executive and non-executive experience from her previous public offering in 2012 IPO, have received a TSR of 188% roles in a number of sectors, including financial services.
compared to the FTSE350 excluding investment trusts of 48%.
Mikes appointment reflects the importance of the Personal Since the IPO, the Group has delivered good results each Lines business to the Group.
Your Board will benefit from year, enabling the Board to declare cumulative dividends, closer interaction with the Personal Lines business and from including special interim dividends, equivalent to the expertise that Mike will bring to the Board.
My introduction approximately 72% of the IPO share price.
to the Corporate Governance report and the Nomination Committee report provide further information on these changes.
The Remuneration Committee has consulted our major shareholders and other stakeholders, on our proposed I would like to thank the entire Board for their significant Directors remuneration policy on which shareholders will contribution, commitment and service: and look forward to be given the opportunity to vote at the forthcoming AGM.
working with them in 2017 as the Group continues to build More information on awards and our proposed Directors on its strategic priorities.
remuneration policy is provided in the letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee on page 82.
Employees I would also like to thank our employees for their hard work, Solvency II initiative and commitment to our mission.
Their positive energy In June 2016, the Group received approval from the PRA and dedication in supporting our customers helped our for the use of a Group PIM to calculate its solvency capital business progress in 2016, and has put us in a strong position requirements SCR.
At 31 December 2016, the Group for the future.
held a capital surplus of approximately 0.92 billion above its SCR.
This was equivalent to a Solvency II capital coverage ratio of 165%, post-dividend and taking into account the impact of the new Ogden discount rate.
The Board considers the appropriate Group risk appetite range to be 140% to 180% of its SCR, which should enable the Group to meet Michael N Biggs its operational, regulatory and rating agency requirements.
