STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement ANOTHER YEAR OF EXCELLENT PROGRESS I am very proud that the Group has produced SUMMARY another excellent set of results with record sales o System sales increased by 14.5% and profits.
We continue to deliver as one of the to1,004.2m 2015: 877.2m leading franchises across the Dominos network worldwide and we are proud of our achievement o Underlying operating profit of 86.2m, as the number one pizza company in the UK up17.8% 2015: 73.2m andRepublic of Ireland.
We are in a strong o Basic earnings per share up 10.3% position tobuild for the future.
1 to13.1p 2015: 11.9p In the UK and ROI, our success in 2016 is once again rooted in o Final dividend increased by 14.8% to revenue-driven profit growth based on continued investment in e-commerce initiatives and record levels of new store openings, 4.5p per share 2015: 3.9p bringing the underpinned by strong franchisee profitability.
total dividend for the year to 8p per I am encouraged by the signs of progress we are seeing in Switzerland.
1 2015 has been adjusted for the 3 for 1 sub-division of shares Towards the beginning of the year, we invested in a strategic partnership effective on 27 June 2016. with Dominos Pizza Enterprises Limited in order to acquire Joeys Pizza, Germanys largest pizza delivery chain.
This has given us the opportunity to participate in a larger scale business in this market.
I am very pleased with the success of the conversion of Joeys Pizza stores into Dominos stores.
During the year, we took a strategic stake in Dominos in Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
We are expanding through local partnerships with strong local Dominos businesses, which combine their local knowledge with DPGs expertise in franchising, e-commerce and supply chain.
04 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Groups business model continues to be highly cash generative Board changes andwill allow us to invest in the future growth strategy of the business, In my report last year, I noted that we were seeking a new to invest in operating assets and to support the capital returns policy.
On 10 October 2016, Rachel Osborne joined theBoard and was appointed as our CFO.
Rachel has significant commercial Dividend finance experience having previously worked most recently at Vodafone The Board recommends a final dividend for 2016 of 4.5p and John Lewis Retail, in addition to other consumer-facing businesses.
2015:3.9p per share, being a 14.8% increase on the final dividend Rachel also serves as a non-executive director of HM Courts and Tribunals fortheprior year.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.5p per share Service.
I am delighted that Rachel has joined Dominos at such an exciting paid on 2 September 2016, the total dividend for the year will be 8.0p time for the Group.
I have no doubt that her extensive experience of per share, representing an increase of 15.6% on the dividend paid for financial and strategic management gained across blue-chip retailers the prior year 2015: 6.9p.
The full year dividend is 1.7 times covered by will be an asset for Dominos.
underlying profits after tax 2015: 1.7 times.
Subject to receiving shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2017, the final Additionally, we reported in last years corporate governance statement dividend will be paid on 25 April 2017 to shareholders on the register that we intended to appoint one of our independent non-executive Directors atthe close of business on 17 March 2017. as the Senior Independent Director.
Im pleased to report that Helen Keays was appointed to this role on 20 April 2016.
Our people Conclusion Our business relies on a network of entrepreneurial, diligent and driven franchisees who serve our customers day and night.
Every year, I continue In summing up, 2016 has been another year of excellent progress, to be amazed by their ability to improve our business, for our mutual andone in which we are well positioned for the future.
This year is no exception and I would like to place on record delighted with the momentum across the business and the entire team mythanks for all of their hard work and commitment, which continues can be very proud of its efforts.
Our focus is now on 2017 and I look to be the lifeblood of the business.
Their willingness to invest in new forward with optimism to our continued progress in the next phase of stores and to explore other means of growth gives the Board continued the Groups development.
Our franchisees in turn depend on their employees, and I want tothank Stephen Hemsley them for their ongoing commitment and contribution, helping tokeep us as the number one pizza company in every neighbourhood in which we Non-executive Chairman operate, despite ever increasing competitive pressures.
8 March 2017 We are driven day in, day out byour brand purpose: TO FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE ONE PIZZA AT A TIME This inspires and motivates us on three levels: ENTREPRENEURIAL DEDICATED TO KEEPING OUR 1 SPIRIT 2 INNOVATION 3 PROMISES It taps into the entrepreneurial spirit It aligns with our desire never to stand It inspires us to commit relentlessly embodied by our franchisees.
It recognises stilland to innovate continually to improve todelivering one pizza at a time.
the opportunity the brand has afforded our product, service, image and, increasingly, Weknowthatdowntime is precious, topeople to pursue their own dream use of technology.
Innovation is in the DNA weknow thatmoney is still tight and we ofbusiness ownership, populating our of the brand, be that from the invention understandthat delivered food cannot Company culture with stories of driver ofthe spoodle, our patented heatwave beadisappointment.
We know that we tomanager to single-store franchisee technology, or the development of online haveto deliver a hot, fresh, tasty pizza tomulti-store business owner.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 05
