CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2016 was a pivotal year for Drax, marking the completion of the biomass transformation project which commenced in 2012, and the announcement of a new strategy to deliver long-term sustainable value.
Against a background of low wholesale electricity prices, and a volatile and demanding environment for renewable energy providers, the Group has again delivered strong operational performance.
CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE FROM A DIVERSIFIED BASE In 2016 a key focus for the Board was the development of a new strategy for the Group, in order to ensure we are well placed to create long-term value across all three segments of the business: smart upstream sustainable pellet manufacturing, smart power generation and smart retail.
GROUP STRATEGY Following a comprehensive review, initiated in 2015, the Groups new strategy has been defined and is based on creating a more diversified earnings base that will produce higher-quality returns in the long term.
HIGHER QUALITY DIVERSIFIED Increased contractual and Central to this strategy, Drax aims to play EARNINGS AND MANAGEMENT non-commodity related earnings an increasing role in delivering a robust OF COMMODITY MARKET Broader and more diversified low-carbon energy system for the UK.
EXPOSURE earnings We announced our new strategy to the market in December.
Evidence of delivering TARGETING LONG-TERM GROWTH Identify opportunities for poston the new strategy can already be seen in the acquisition of Opus Energy and four 2027 earnings projects to construct fast-response Open Creating new opportunities in all Cycle Gas Turbine OCGT generation plants.
the markets in which we operate RESULTS AND DIVIDEND Our EBITDA for 2016 at 140 million was in OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Building on existing strengths line with our guidance, although below 2015 169 million.
This result principally reflects very challenging commodity markets and the removal of Climate Change Levy CCL exemptions.
However, we were able to partly offset the impact of these factors with a focus on flexible system support, the prompt and balancing markets, ancillary services and improving retail margins, all of which are important parts of our strategy to develop broader, non-commodity exposed earnings.
In accordance with our dividend policy, the Board proposes to pay a final dividend in respect of 2016 of 0.4 pence per share, equal to 1.8 million.
This would give total dividends for the year of 10 million 2015: 23 million.
SMART SOURCING SMART GENERATION SMART SUPPLY At least 2030% Diversified generation Profitable business Given the evolution at our business, the biomass self-supply andcapacity with critical mass Board believes that it is appropriate to New biomass markets Flexible, reliable review our dividend policy.
Discussions operations and contractwith our shareholders will take based revenues place in the first half of 2017.
02 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT POLITICAL AND REGULATORY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DRAX IS WELL The Governments decision to apply the Drax remains committed to the highest PLACED TO PROFIT CCL to renewables continued to have a standards of corporate governance.
significant effect on our results, reducing The Board and its committees play an FROM A CHANGING EBITDA by an estimated 34 million in 2016. active role in guiding the Company and On a much more positive note, following leading its strategy, which is why we are ELECTRICITY MARKET, an exhaustive and rigorous process, determined to ensure we have the right AND TO DELIVER the European Commission approved skillset to steer the Group forward.
our Contract for Difference CfD.
LONG-TERM, HIGHWe are strong advocates of diversity in QUALITY DIVERSIFIED 2016 was a year of significant change for the terms of thinking, background and gender.
UK Government, not least with the Brexit vote EARNINGS.
Our strategy of longIn the course of 2016, Melanie Gee left term hedging against currency fluctuations the Board.
I would like to thank her for her ensured we were protected against a negative years of commitment and service as a impact on the cost of our predominantly US non-executive director.
We are actively dollar and Euro denominated biomass supply.
seeking new non-executive directors whose skills will help us determine and deliver our A new Prime Minister, a newly created strategy for long-term value.
In this context, department in the Department for Business, retail and sustainability are our primary focus.
Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS, and changes to their respective teams mean new Full details of our corporate governance can opportunities to make the case for further be foundon page 62.
Our aim for the power station is to deliver 100% sustainable, OUR PEOPLE Sold to business customers renewable and reliable biomass generation.
Finally, I must thank all the employees and contractors who have worked so hard to Continuing to demonstrate the affordability help Drax succeed in the last 12 months.
As I 65% of biomass is also critical, and an independent said, it has continued to be an extremely busy report commissioned by Drax in early 2016 period for everyone across all of our business, showed that biomass is the lowest cost, scale, yet our team has once again pulled together Total of our electricity production 1 renewable generation available once total to help us meet all of those challenges.
We generated from renewables system costs have been accounted for.
are privileged to have colleagues from such a diverse range of backgrounds and skills.
CRITICAL ROLE TO PLAY IN THE ELECTRICITY MARKET What we all share is the determination to do 607,000 Drax has a major role to play, not just things in a sustainable way, and to continue producing electricity when it is needed, but tohelp the UK reduce its carbon emissions TONNES also in securing the stability of the electricity while continuing to provide the power our grid.
We are a generator that combines country requires.
Compressed wood pellets produced flexibility, reliability and sustainability.
Our unique profile enables us to help National It only remains for me to say that your Grid provide power whenever it is needed.
Board remains totally committed to the We renewed our contract with National complementary aims of delivering sustainable Grid to provide support services, and there long-term value for the Drax business, and are clearly greater opportunities for Drax to of helping our country build a low-carbon support the UK energy system in the future.
future through smart energy solutions.
Draxs four planned rapid-response OCGT plants have the potential to provide the flexible and reliable electricity that the UKs homes and businesses will need in the years to come.
Philip Cox CBE Changes in the retail energy market mean Chairman there are now greater opportunities 1 nera.
com publications archive 2016 NERA Imperial for challenger brands to succeed.
The Feb 2016 Renewable Subsidies and Whole System acquisition of Opus Energy, with its strong Costs FINAL 160215. html track record of supplying power to small to medium-size businesses, will complement our existing offering from Haven Power, which is well established in the large commercial and industrial sector.
03 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
