Chairmans Statement Andy Harrison Chairman Read more online at @ dunelm.
com I am pleased to report another year Our Chief Executive, John Browett, The competitive landscape in retail of good progress for Dunelm.
On a describes in the following report the continues to change at a fast pace consistent 52-week basis, we grew key initiatives which our teams are with the growth of new competition, our total sales by 7.1%, driven by the implementing to further strengthen our especially online.
Our operating model opening of six new stores, 1.0% growth business and support future growth.
has allowed us to gain market share in in our like-for-like store sales and 23.2% These initiatives, which represent a times of uncertainty, and post-Brexit, growth in our home delivery sales.
We considerable investment in the business, we are confident the same opportunities converted this revenue growth into 6.2% include exciting new store designs, exist now.
We have ambitious plans growth 5.1% growth on a 53-week basis investment in our online shop and its to continue to grow our business and in pre-tax profits and 7.5% growth 6.3% supporting infrastructure, and improved we intend to grasp the opportunities growth on a 53-week basis in earnings supply chain and warehousing which to further strengthen our competitive per share, notwithstanding our sustained will improve product availability and position.
We remain confident in the investment in the business.
In addition, we shall continue Dunelm proposition and look forward to to invest in our people with increased reporting further progress.
This profit growth, coupled with strong training and talent development cash flow, allows us to propose a 19.4% programmes.
In short, we aim to give our Andy Harrison increase in the final dividend, which customers even more reasons to shop at Chairman would increase the full year dividend by Dunelm and to make Dunelm a better 14 September 2016 16.7%.
In addition, we paid a special place for our colleagues to work.
dividend of 31.5 pence per share during the year, bringing the total dividend We have successfully navigated a year of considerable change in our Board, proposed for the year to 56.6 pence per share, some 115m in shareholder with John Browett formally taking the CEO reins in January 2016, Keith Down distributions.
In view of the scale of the special dividends in recent years, the becoming our new CFO in December 2015 and two new Non-Executive Board has refined our dividend policy to provide a slightly higher ordinary Directors, William Reeve and Peter Ruis, joining our Board.
John has also dividend pay-out ratio, the details of which are included in the Chief Financial strengthened our Executive team with a number of new appointments, which are Officers report.
central to delivering our plans.
We are Dunelm has become the UKs leading pleased to have brought in strong new homewares retailer by offering customers leadership whilst maintaining Dunelms an unrivalled proposition through our distinct business principles and culture, national network of 152 superstores and which have sustained our growth since website, providing an extensive choice the business was founded by Bill and of good quality, great value products, Jean Adderley in 1979.
We are proud of backed up by the knowledge and our culture which is exemplified by our expertise of nearly 9,000 colleagues.
Let me thank all our colleagues for their tremendous contribution to our continuing success.
We really appreciate their hard work and dedication.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 3 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
