04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder The US is the only major economy where bank credit has returned to normal.
By contrast, the I am pleased to be able Eurozone and Japan are still in the middle of to report strong extended programmes of quantitative easing investment performance intended mainly to keep interest rates low.
The during the year against divergence in monetary policy of the US and UK both the Companys on the one hand, and Europe and Japan on the benchmark and peer other, imply probable further volatility in the group, outperforming currency, fixed income and equity markets this the former by 8.5% year.
total return, debt at Jim Pettigrew market value.
This was The overall picture, therefore, is one in which despite a more challenging market background both growth and inflation are likely to remain during the last quarter which featured a recovery subdued for the foreseeable future with an in the fortunes of commodities, miners and oil extended period of ultra-low interest rates.
Not stocks, most of which are not held in the many foresaw at the start of the global financial portfolio.
This performance and the conditions crisis in 2008 that it would take 10 years or more on both the economic and market fronts are for markets and economies to return to normal discussed below.
The prognosis for global and UK growth remains questionable with shortThe income generation of the portfolio remained term uncertainties around the referendum solid, especially when viewed against FTSE unhelpful in this regard.
All-Share companies a number of which reduced their dividends.
The Board is proposing a final A review of the Companys portfolio in the dividend of 8.75p per share for the year which context of this market background can be found would result in a full year dividend of 24.35p per in the Portfolio Managers Report on pages 13 share, an increase of 2.1% year-on-year.
UK Equity Market Investment Strategy A gradual recovery of the UK economy continued The portfolio manager has remained consistent in in 2015 with, as in previous years, services his approach in favouring good quality leading the way with manufacturing and companies, many of which derive their income in construction lagging behind.
This has proved beneficial Total Returns Since Appointment of Invesco Perpetual on 15 September 2008 Figures rebased to 100 at 15 September 2008.
300 Share Price Net Asset Value debt at par Net Asset Value debt at market value 250 FTSE All-Share Index 200 150 100 50 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 both in terms of capital growth and in producing 2016 Highlights a growing income stream available for distribution to shareholders in the form of 1 dividends.
This strategy also enables the Total return portfolios outcome to be less dependent on Net asset value debt at par 4.2% the growth in UK consumption.
Net asset value debt at In this continuing low interest rate world, both market value 4.6% the Board and portfolio manager remain acutely Share price 4.0% aware of the need to provide a growing dividend stream for shareholders and to ensure a measure FTSE All-Share Index 3.9% of capital preservation whenever possible.
The Dividend increase 2.1% portfolio remains well balanced across the UK Dividend yield 3.7% market cap spectrum and there have been some disposals and additions of new holdings, 1 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
The overseas holdings have continued to contribute in both capital and As I previously reported in the half-yearly financial income terms.
report, during the year the Board, together with the portfolio manager, reviewed the Companys Performance for the Year maximum level of flexible debt.
Following this I am pleased to report the Companys good review, the facility was increased from performance for the year, producing on a total 100 million to 150 million.
As anticipated, the return basis a net asset value NAV with debt at portfolio manager has used this new flexibility to par of 4.2% versus a negative return of 3.9% manage actively the gearing of the portfolio for the FTSE All-Share Index the Index, the during the year based on his assessment of risk Companys benchmark.
For the same period the and reward of the additional market exposure.
NAV with debt at market returned 4.6% and Consequently, total borrowings have ranged from the share price total return with dividends 150 million at the start of the year, to reinvested was 4.0%.
180 million at the year end the latter being equivalent to gearing of 12.9%.
The portfolio continues to be concentrated in a relatively small number of stocks 54 at the year Dividend end as well as sectors, and its overweight or Income from the portfolio during the year was underweight positions in various sectors continue 58.9 million 2015: 56 million.
Of this, to be material drivers of the Companys relative 6.8 million, which is equal to 3.5p per share investment performance.
2015: 7.0 million: 3.6p, was from special The Companys share price ended the year at dividends.
Theoretically special dividends are 665p, an increase of 0.5% from the previous non-recurring: however, the Company has year end of 662p.
With debt at market value, the received a good flow of these dividends over the discount moved out from 3.5% to 4.4%.
This past few years and corporate results announced slight widening of discount was less marked than to date indicate that there will likely be more the trend of the peer group, the average special dividends receivable for the year to discount of which widened from 2.5% to 4.5% 31 March 2017.
The Board remains alert to the over the same period.
At 24 May 2016, the latest income requirement of the Company, and practical date before signing this report, the NAV reviews the situation on a regular basis with the debt at par and share price were respectively portfolio manager.
712.14p and 695p, and the resultant discount The Board is recommending a final dividend of was 2.4% and 0.2% debt at market value.
8.75p per share which, if approved at the AGM, Borrowings and Gearing will be paid on 29 July 2016 to shareholders on the Companys register on 10 June 2016.
This The Companys cost of borrowing has fallen increases the total dividend to 24.35p for the substantially following the redemption in year, an increase of 0.5p on last years total June 2014 of the 100 million 11% debenture.
This represents an increase of The Company now has a mix of fixed and 2.1% compared with the annual increase in the floating rate borrowings, comprising the old 3 Retail Prices Index of 1.6%, and demonstrates 100 million 7 4% debenture 2022 and the new the Companys commitment to its long-term 364 day credit facility.
It is pleasing to see that objective of providing income growth which the interest saving for this year alone being the exceeds the rate of inflation.
first full year without the 11% debenture was just over 10.5 million.
06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued that will decide if the UK remains in or leaves the Issued Share Capital Eurozone, not to mention the US presidential I am pleased to report that in order to satisfy election in November.
Against this uncertain demand in the market for the Companys shares, short-term backdrop, your Companys portfolio 550,000 new ordinary shares were issued during manager has decided that it would be unwise to the year at an average price of 716.2p.
There alter the portfolio to favour one specific scenario have been no further shares issued since the over another.
Portfolio turnover in this last year year end and as at the date of this report, has been low and, as before, the portfolio the Companys issued share capital is manager continues to favour those companies 195,666,734 ordinary shares.
that demonstrate the ability to grow market share, have a strong emphasis on and track Outlook record of growing dividends, and whose As was the case this time last year, the path of management is aligned with the interest of the UK equity market has many obstacles to shareholders.
Your Board continues to endorse overcome.
Globally there are a number of this approach.
uncertainties including the strength and sustainability of the economic recovery, geo-political risks, the work-out of high debt Jim Pettigrew levels in China and certain emerging markets, Chairman and the pace at which the US Federal Reserve 25 May 2016 will raise short term interest rates.
These are exacerbated by the referendum on 23 June 2016
