Chairmans Introduction The actions announced in November have already led to improvements in performance.
In the second half, we stabilised the gross margin, delivered cost savings of 7 million and consequently increased profit before tax by 14.3% at constant currency, compared to a 12% reduction in the first half.
Peter Johnson Chairman 2016 was a year of great progress for the first half.
Consequently, year-on-year profit Trading performance Group.
This began with the appointment before tax rose 14.3% in the second half 2016 was a year of two halves, with the of Lindsley Ruth as Chief Executive at constant currency compared to a 12.3% new management approach beginning to Officer CEO on 1 April.
He has brought decline in the first half.
yield benefits to costs and margins during a refreshingly direct and high-energy the second half, despite revenue growth Cash generation also improved in the approach to strengthening the management being impacted by a tougher market in second half leading to full-year headline team and addressing the weaknesses in the North America and expected disruption free cash flow of 62.6 million, compared business.
He has made important changes from our major restructuring in Asia Pacific.
with just 11.8 million in the first half and to the leadership team through the year, Whilst full-year underlying sales growth 52.3 million in the prior year.
culminating in the appointment of David adjusted for trading days and currency Egan as Group Finance Director towards Account re-presentation movements was 2.8%, second-half growth the end of the year.
The Board is delighted The business has been reorganised to slowed to 1.9% from 3.7% in the first half.
by the straightforward approach of this new increase accountability and transparency Encouragingly, we saw continued strong management team and is confident they as well as improve efficiency.
We have second-half revenue growth in Europe will deliver a step change in performance in therefore re-presented our accounts to whilst the UK business exited the year with the business.
show a profit and loss for each regional its first four consecutive months of growth hub: Northern Europe, Central Europe, Whilst Lindsley took firm action from for 31 months and this trend has continued Southern Europe, North America and into the first six weeks of the current year.
the start, the first major public step was Asia Pacific which includes our emerging his announcement of the Performance Full-year headline profit before tax fell 4.1% markets operations.
This highlights that we Improvement Plan PIP in November see with all the decline due to the stronger are not currently making acceptable returns pages 4 to 9.
Progress so far has been pound.
At constant exchange rates profit in all our hubs.
However, it also shows encouraging.
We exceeded our targets and before tax was flat, with gross margins the significant potential of the business to delivered 7 million of savings in 2016 down 0.8 percentage points and costs deliver attractive returns in regions such and are confident of delivering annualised at constant exchange rates up 1.3%.
as North America, where we do get the net savings of at least 25 million by The actions announced in November customer experience, accountability and March 2018.
We see many further have already led to improved underlying cost structure right.
Going forward, we aim opportunities to deliver efficiencies from profitability during the second half.
Gross to drive improved returns in all the hubs.
simplifying our business and we remain margins stabilised, with the year-on-year We are restructuring our activities in Asia committed to delivering a step change in constant currency decline reducing to 0.5 Pacific to improve the customer experience how we perform, benefiting our suppliers, percentage points in the second half versus in this region and drive improved returns customers, employees and shareholders.
1.2 percentage points in the first half.
Cost see page 9 for more details.
savings of 7 million were delivered during the second half and as a result constant currency costs fell 0.4% in the second half, which compared with a rise of 3.0% in the 2 24604.04-AR16-Proof2 Strategic Report sheet enables us to propose an unchanged policies.
There is more detail in the EU referendum final dividend for the year of 6.75 pence Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 Electrocomponents is a global business per share.
This will be paid on 26 July to 42.
This years internal Board evaluation with over 70% of revenues derived from 2016 to shareholders on the register on 17 was led by the Company Secretary outside the UK.
The total dividend for the year and included my own discussions with people in the UK, which operates as a will therefore be 11.75 pence per share, individual Board members.
Its conclusions, central distribution hub for our global resulting in headline earnings dividend together with completed actions arising business.
80% of our purchases for the cover of 1.1x.
from last years evaluation, are on page 41. global RS brand are routed through the UK to serve our international customer base.
Board and governance Corporate responsibility We currently benefit from the UK being a As required by corporate governance best As a member of the FTSE4Good Index, full member of the Single Market, so there practice, Rupert Soames will step down corporate responsibility is integral to our are no barriers, financial or administrative, as a Non-Executive Director at the AGM business.
Our greatest focus is on our which obstruct trade between the UK and after nine years on the Board, seven of employees, through ensuring a safe and the countries of the European Union EU.
them as Senior Independent Director and healthy working environment and engaging We therefore believe the UKs continued five as Chairman of the Remuneration them fully in our business.
We are strongly membership of the EU and active role at Committee.
During a difficult time for me, committed to being good citizens, playing the heart of the Single Market is critical Rupert stepped up to the role of Chairman a full part in the communities in which we if the UK is to remain a strong home for of the Company despite the huge pressures operate and controlling our impact on the businesses like ours.
In preparation for on his time.
The Board provides clear the referendum on EU membership, we for his support.
Ruperts contribution in all leadership in all these areas.
More on our undertook a risk assessment and identified these roles has been immense and we will approach to corporate responsibility can be the actions we would consider should this miss him greatly.
I would also like to thank found on pages 27 to 31. referendum lead to an exit from the EU.
Simon Boddie, who stepped down as Group Employees Whilst the longer-term impact on the UK as Finance Director at the end of September.
The Board is excited by the increased pace a whole would remain uncertain, our strong Our strong balance sheet and excellent of change and culture of accountability distribution footprint in Continental Europe internal financial controls are their own emerging at Electrocomponents and is would enable us to minimise the financial tribute to his contribution.
I am delighted to really pleased with the enthusiasm with impact on our business.
welcome David Egan, who joined our Board which our employees are responding.
On as Group Finance Director on 1 March Dividend behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 2016.
David brings outstanding experience The Board recognises the importance them all.
in driving transformational performance in of dividends to shareholders.
Peter Johnson profitability has fallen in recent years, Chairman we expect the action being taken by the The Board and its Committees continued to 19 May 2016 new management team will lead to this work effectively to monitor the performance recovering.
Meanwhile, our strong balance of the Group and compliance with its www.
com Electrocomponents plc 3 Stock Code: ECM Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016 24604.04-AR16-Proof2
