Chairmans Statement Over the last six months, we have reviewed and reconstituted the Board, set in train the development of a strong executive team and completed the first phase of our strategic review.
These initiatives are designed to optimise shareholder value and give me confidence that we are building a business with a strategy and structure that is attractive to shareholders.
We are eager to embark on the second stage of our review, though the timing of that is currently constrained by the terms of the outsourced management contract and will be after June 2017, unless we are able to negotiate earlier access to the portfolio companies with Epiris, which currently seems unlikely.
Overview I am pleased to make my first report as Chairman of Electra, having joined the Company in May.
The year to 30 September 2016 has been one of considerable internal change.
Through this period financial performance has continued to be strong, with a total return of 35% and share price growth of 36%.
The Company has also delivered the first full-year benefits of its policy to distribute 3% of NAV to shareholders.
Strategic Review In January the Board announced a strategic review of investment policy and structure, the first such fundamental review of the business in over 10 years.
In conducting its review the Board received input from relevant stakeholders, advisers and shareholders.
In May, pending the outcome of its review, the Board gave 12 months notice of termination of the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement MIG with Epiris and appointed Edward Bramson, who joined the Board in November 2015, as interim Chief Executive Officer.
In August the Board appointed Gavin Manson to the new role of Chief Financial Officer.
The outcome of the first phase of the strategic review, announced in October, confirmed the Boards intention to let the termination run its course.
The Board is now developing internal resource to manage the affairs of the Company, under the control of the Board, from June 2017.
This internalisation of management will allow the development of a cost-effective structure appropriate for the nature of the business, realising material cost savings, and will facilitate the implementation of best-in-class corporate governance to support the Groups future direction.
In addition, the strategic review set out the Companys intention to migrate to a corporate structure and cease to be a closed-end investment trust.
Further details of this transition will be made available in the outcome of the second phase of the strategic review, which will comprise a review of the investment portfolio after June 2017 and a review of the Groups future capital allocation policy.
The second phase of the review will include further consultation with shareholders and, prior to implementation, shareholder approval will be sought as required.
Further details of the benefits that are expected to be delivered on implementation of the outcome of the strategic review are in the Strategic Report on pages 7 to 16.
4 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 Board Changes The Board saw considerable change during the year, welcoming not only Edward Bramson, but also Ian Brindle, Paul Goodson and David Lis.
I am delighted that Linda Wilding and Dr John McAdam are joining the Board following the year end.
Linda Wilding was appointed as a non-Executive Director with effect from 1 December 2016 and Dr McAdam, who will join on 1 January 2017, is to be Senior Independent Director.
We have also proposed changes to our remuneration policy that, if approved at the AGM, will enable remunerated executives to be appointed to the Board after our AGM.
With these changes, our Board review is complete and I believe the Board is well-suited to take the Company forward.
The reconstituted Board and the executive team that is currently being developed give me great confidence that the changes that have been and will be made to the Company will optimise shareholder value and build a business with a strategy and structure that are attractive to shareholders.
I thank the members of the non-Executive Board who have left for their dedicated service to the Company.
I would also like to thank Epiris, who have managed the affairs of the Company for many years.
They will continue to do so until the end of May 2017 under the terms of the existing management agreement.
Investment Policy & Return of Capital Throughout the period of review and until further notice, the Companys existing investment policy and objectives remain in place.
The notice of termination of the outsourced management contract has reduced the number of additional investments being made in the second half of the year and, with continued realisations, has resulted in the accumulation of significant cash.
In November, the Board announced the opening of a Tender Offer giving shareholders the opportunity to tender shares for the Company to buy back up to an amount of 200 million.
This tender was approved by shareholders on 2 December and the offer remains open until 21 December.
It is our intention to propose certain resolutions at the AGM in March that will allow the Company to return further capital to shareholders should this become appropriate.
Investment Activity In the year to 30 September 2016 the Company invested a total of 218 million across the Buyout and Co-investments portfolio 137 million, the Secondary portfolio 7 million, the Debt portfolio 62 million and the Non-core investment portfolio 12 million.
More detail of these investments is given in the Managers Report and in particular of the two most individually significant buyout investments, Photobox Group and Retirement Bridge Group.
Realisations included a partial realisation on the successful flotation of Hollywood Bowl, and exits from Zensar, Daler-Rowney, Kalle and Elian, as well as further partial realisations of Allflex and AXIO.
Further details of these and other realisations are also given in the Managers Report.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016 5 Further Information Governance Financial Statements The Managers Report Strategic and Business Review Overview Balance Sheet In the year to 30 September 2016 the Companys balance sheet was simplified through the mandatory conversion of its 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds, redemption of the Zero Dividend Preference Shares and cancellation of the Companys multi-currency revolving credit facility.
At 30 September 2016, the Company had gross cash of 659 million and no borrowings.
Dividend In line with the distribution policy announced in 2015, the Group intends making distributions for the year representing 3% of year-end Net Asset Value.
The Annual General Meeting is due to be held in March 2017, which would not have permitted the payment of a final dividend until later than previously.
Accordingly the Directors have declared a second interim dividend of 110p per ordinary share, which will be paid on 19 January 2017 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 16 December 2016.
The ex-dividend date for the declared second interim dividend will accordingly be 15 December 2016 and the record date for the dividend will, as stated, be 16 December.
The terms of the Tender Offer have been amended so as to allow shareholders who successfully tender shares to retain the right to this dividend on those shares.
Following the declaration of this second interim dividend the Directors do not intend to recommend the payment of a further dividend in respect of the year to 30 September 2016.
Outlook The short-term performance of the Company will continue to be driven by asset value development, successful realisations and the return of capital to shareholders.
The Directors believe that the outcome of the second phase of the strategic review will result in improved, long-term shareholder value.
The timing of the outcome of the second phase of the review will be after the Board gains direct access to the portfolio companies financial information and management teams following the expiry of the outsourced management contract.
The Company is negotiating transitional arrangements with the Manager which may allow aspects of the review to be accelerated.
Neil Johnson Chairman 8 December 2016 6 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2016
