COM DIRECTORS REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER Dear Shareholder, improvements in financial performance In conjunction with this strategic review, and built the momentum to position the the Board will evaluate the appropriate FY 2016 was a year of challenge and business as the innovative and global deployment of capital in the business change for our Company.
Essentra, industry leader it is today.
His prior including the amount which is returned however, remains a fundamentally experience as an adviser in strategy to shareholders by way of dividends.
strong organisation with many and acquisitions will also prove extremely positive features to build further relevant in the future evolution of Essentra.
People and culture upon, and I look forward to leading The Board would like to thank Colin for On behalf of the Board, I would like the Board and working with our new his contribution to the development and to thank all our employees for their Chief Executive, Paul Forman, as we performance of Essentra since 2011, and dedication and commitment: Essentra move forward behind the common for his commitment and dedication during is proud of its international presence objectives of delivering sustainable, that time: we wish him well as he pursues in 33 countries, and we recognise the long-term shareholder value, excellent his career beyond the Company.
significant contribution of our c. 9,000 customer service and a motivated and employees.
Indeed, as part of my engaged workforce.
Peter Hill has advised the Board of his introduction to the Company as Chairman, intention to step down from his role as I had the pleasure of visiting a number Board composition Non-Executive Director following the of our facilities from our European Following the Companys 2016 AGM in Companys 2017 AGM, given his Chairman Components manufacturing hub in April, I was pleased to assume the role commitments elsewhere.
On behalf of my Kidlington and Americas headquarters of Non-Executive Chairman, upon the colleagues, I would like to thank Peter for in Westchester, US, to our Filter Products retirement of Jeff Harris.
Jeff was his considerable and valued contribution, joint venture site in Dubai and Health appointed as Chairman upon the listing as well as his wise counsel, during his & Personal Care Packaging operations in of Essentra as an independent company four-year tenure.
Charlotte, US, Portsmouth, UK and twice in 2005, and on behalf of my Board to Newport and can testify to the skill colleagues I would like to acknowledge and Strategic review and hard work of our people.
thank him for his dedication, commitment Following a challenging FY 2016, Pauls and counsel during his ten-year tenure.
stated near-term priority is on stabilising It is clear, however, that a year of challenge the organisation not least those handful and change has had a detrimental impact Separately, at the time of our interim of manufacturing sites where we have on employee morale and motivation results in July we announced that, evidently experienced operational issues particularly at those sites which have consistent with his long-term ambitions, over the last twelve months.
At the same experienced integration issues.
This was Colin Day had advised the Board of his time and with the full support of the manifested in certain responses to our intention to focus increasingly on his Board he has already initiated a 2016 engagement survey, which highlighted Non-Executive activities in the future.
wholesale strategic review of the a number of areas where we need to As a result, and consistent with its Company, to provide a clear and objective make improvement.
planning processes, the Board initiated assessment of the current status and a search for an appropriate successor positioning of the various business As part of his afore mentioned strategic and, at end-October, announced the activities within the Essentra organisation, review of the business, Paul is similarly appointment of Paul Forman as Chief together with their future potential.
very much focused on building employee Executive with effect from 1 January 2017.
The output of this review will be a clear engagement, not least in terms of Paul has joined Essentra from Coats corporate strategy with options which communicating the principles he believes Group plc Coats the worlds leading is aligned to a three-year plan, and are fundamental to a winning organisation industrial thread manufacturer where provides a data-driven view of the areas and, thus, making the most of the he was Group Chief Executive since which may require measured additional considerable talent which we have.
Paul brings a proven track investment in capability process and also committed to ensuring that the local record of international experience at the of how we intend to drive future growth.
action plans and Company-wide initiatives highest level notably at Coats, where Further to discussion with, and approval which are suggested by the post-survey he has overseen company rationalisation by, the Board, it is intended that Paul focus groups are monitored and executed as well as growth through acquisition, presents this revised strategy alongside in an appropriately timely fashion.
I and instigated and delivered a clear vision our interim 2017 results at end-July.
my Board colleagues wholeheartedly and corporate strategy, driven material support him in this approach in terms 48 DIRECTORS REPORT | CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARDS LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2016 | WWW.
COM of ensuring we maintain a safe, respectful can maximise its impact in support of Paul and diverse working environment which and the senior management team, behind duly engages and helps to maximise the a new strategy and a reinvigorated and talent of all our employees.
The Company has Board is encouraged by the improved re-engaged Lintstock, an independent communication with employees which third party, to oversee and co-ordinate has already taken place since Pauls the process.
Given the decision to appointment, and which is planned postpone the Board evaluation to early as part of the strategic review process 2017, Essentra was not in compliance with and beyond.
6.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 throughout 2016.
Reinforcing the Boards commitment to the health, safety and welfare of our Summary employees, those who visit the Companys I strongly believe that good governance locations and those who carry out work on is a cornerstone of a successful our behalf, I have initiated a programme company, founded on the principles and of safety walks, with each Non-Executive behaviours established by the Board and Director independently visiting at least one communicated throughout the Company.
of our facilities per year and undertaking My fellow colleagues and I are therefore a review of HSE policies and procedures encouraged by the positive interaction while on-site.
which has already been initiated by our new Chief Executive, and our collective Board evaluation commitment to promoting a strong As the Company continues to develop, culture of the highest standards of one of the greatest challenges facing the business ethics based on clear principles.
Board is to ensure that we have in place In support of Pauls new strategy to deliver the right people, culture and processes to sustainable, long-term shareholder value, exploit fully the opportunities available to the Board will thus seek to continue to Essentra, and to manage effectively the strengthen internal controls and reporting risks to which the organisation is exposed.
in order to establish an appropriate Accordingly, it is essential that the framework of policies, processes and Company has a fully engaged and management systems, subject to an committed Board with an appropriate agreed balance of risk and reward in mix of skills, experience and knowledge, the Companys pursuit of its objectives.
which is capable of engaging in positive and constructive debate to meet these PAUL LESTER, CBE challenges.
With the forthcoming Chairman departure of Peter Hill, the Board is looking 17 February 2017 afresh at composition, with a view to targeting recruitment to increase diversity and international experience relevant to the Company.
In light of the change in Chairman during the year and the arrival of a new Chief Executive at the very outset of 2017 it was not considered appropriate to commission a Board evaluation during the year.
Rather, a review is currently underway, with a key area of focus being to establish the ways in which the Board 49
