Chairmans statement '2016 has been a significant and positive year for the Group.
Premiums are ahead of expectations: Gocompare.
com has been demerged allowing both businesses to thrive and reach their full potential: capital is at the top of our risk appetite: and we have once again paid a special dividend, demonstrating the Board's commitment to return excess capital to shareholders. '
Introduction 2016 has been a significant and positive year for the Group as we continue to deliver value to all our stakeholders.
We have exceeded our growth expectations for the year with gross written premiums up 19% to 655m through enhancements to our underwriting capabilities and by taking advantage of favourable market conditions in Motor: demerged Gocompare.
com from the Group 'the Demerger' to allow both businesses to thrive and reach their full potential: and further strengthened our robust capital position providing us with the capital flexibility to continue our growth ambitions and deliver strong returns.
Insurance We have always said that we will only grow when we believe it is profitable to do so and throughout 2016 the favourable rating environment in Motor allowed us to grow strongly, albeit the Home insurance market continued to be challenging.
The management team remain focused in delivering the Groups growth strategy through initiatives, Sir Peter Wood Chairman such as footprint expansion, in a controlled manner and I believe they continue to make the right decisions in dynamic market conditions.
We are encouraged that the Government continues to explore options to lower whiplash claims costs which in turn could lead to lower premiums for customers, although we are mindful of the recent change in the Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75% and the impact this could have on customer premiums across the market.
com demerged from the Group and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Since acquiring full control of Gocompare.
com in early 2015 the Group successfully repositioned the business and strengthened its management team with the introduction of Matthew Crummack as chief executive officer in June 2016.
The return of Gio Compario reinvigorated Gocompare.
coms marketing proposition: an expense review addressed the cost base: and focus was given to the many opportunities available to Gocompare.
com to grow outside of its core markets.
com are now positioned to thrive and reach their full potential and we wish the new management team at Gocompare.
04 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Capital and dividends The Groups capital coverage above its solvency capital GOCOMPARE.
COM requirement has always been appropriate for the business that we are, and continue to be, a low risk personal lines insurer.
As part of the Demerger, the Group received a 2006 dividend from Gocompare.
com that further strengthened Founded by a team of insurance its robust capital position.
The Groups capital position is comparison experts at the upper end of our risk appetite, after allowing for the final dividend that is inclusive of a special element, and gives us the capital flexibility to pursue further profitable growth opportunities.
2007 Joint venture with esure alongside The Board has recommended a final dividend of 10.5 pence a start-up loan to fund marketing and growth per share, and in conjunction with the interim dividend of 3.0 pence per share, gives a full year dividend of 13.5 pence per share representing a payout ratio of 70% of underlying profit 2009 after tax.
Since the Group became public in 2013, the Board Gocompare.
com reports first profit has returned 240m to shareholders through dividends, of 12m.
Gio Compario takes to the stage underpinning the Boards commitment to return excess capital to shareholders.
Board 2010 Once again the Board have demonstrated the value Start-up loan repaid and esure acquires stake that their wealth of experience and knowledge bring to our Group and I would like to thank them for their input throughout the year.
We have benefitted from a 20112014 year of relatively little change after Anne Richards left us in Highly profitable and cash-generative February 2016 and I am delighted that Peter Shaw and Alan business with 54m paid in dividends Rubenstein joined the Board in March 2017, giving us further strength and depth.
Peter Ward will be stepping down from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2017 after 2014 many years of great service and I would like to thank him for his support, challenge and wisdom across the years.
esure announces acquisition of remaining 50% stake Summary 2016 has been a significant and positive year for the 2015 Group and this would not have been possible without the Business repositioned: cost base addressed: hard work and dedication of all our colleagues across the Gio Compario returns: focus on growth with development business.
I believe the Group is well positioned to carry on of new products with this positive momentum and I look forward to the future with great confidence.
2016 New management team announced 3 Nov Demerger from esure Group.
Profit generated up to the Demerger net of tax of 19.2m Sir Peter Wood this is included in the Group's underlying profit after tax.
Chairman esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 05
