Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder The companys dividend policy is to distribute Our 2016 Annual Report reects the successful and substantial start to our new transformation a third of its after-tax earnings.
Although adjusted diluted earnings a share have programme.
decreased by 5% to 66.5p, in view of our For 2016, the boards priority has been to strong balance sheet and operating cash oversee the development and implementation ows the board has approved an unchanged of the new medium-term strategy generated by final dividend of 16.4p a share to be paid on Andrew Rashbass, our new CEO.
He presented February 9 2017, giving a total dividend for the our strategy at the March 2016 Investor Day year of 23.4p.
and it is outlined in his Strategic Report.
2017 will continue to be a year of transition Our strategy is to invest around major sector in our three-year programme, with a clear themes, transform the operating model and focus on delivering the new business priorities.
actively optimise the business portfolio.
The Encouraging progress has been achieved and early signs of achievement provide confidence the group will look to build on this momentum in Euromoneys ability to harness organic and in spite of expected, demanding business acquired growth from the longer-term trends and market conditions.
Both our industry in asset management, price discovery, data and customer base will be adjusting to the analytics, capital markets and the broadly implications of Brexit, the new administration in dened financial services industry.
the USA and the change in dynamics inherent in the underlying digitalisation process.
In line with Andrews strategic review, the board has moved to a more traditional structure, Our board is fully focused on delivering including the creation of the CEO role and my sustainable medium-term value by supporting appointment as non-executive chairman.
This the management team in the execution of our sharpens the boards focus and governance new strategy.
We believe that Euromoney is and improves the companys management becoming well positioned for this economic structure.
To that end, Christopher Fordham, environment.
Diane Alfano, Bashar Al-Rehany, Neil Osborn and Jane Wilkinson, all previously executive JOHN BOTTS directors of the company, did not seek reChairman election at the AGM, but they have continued November 24 2016 to play the same vital role in the development of the company and execution of our new strategy.
