24 Strategic report Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Introduction Experian made excellent progress over the past year.
We returned to organic growth in our target range, a key performance indicator, and delivered on our strategic priorities to create strong shareholder value and build an even more successful business in the years to come.
We have again raised our full year dividend, by 2% to 40.00 US cents per share, reflecting the underlying strength of our business.
Don Robert Chairman In North America, experts in our Data USA healthcare is one of our fastest Strong strategic progress Lab are exploring how alternative data growing vertical markets.
We delivered Led by our Chief Executive Officer Brian sources such as prepaid credit card another outstanding performance, Cassin, the Group executed strongly data can support lending decisions, introducing innovative products to help against our strategic priorities, seeing while extending the scale and reach of hospitals and physicians improve their us deliver improving growth momentum.
payments cycle while also helping them We grew in every region, with particular to prevent fraud.
We were honoured strength in key parts of our business, Meanwhile in business information, we to again receive the industrys best in such as Credit Services and Decision are successfully globalising the services class accolade, which reflects our strong Analytics.
We invested in a number of we offer to businesses of all sizes.
Our leadership position and our peoples efforts.
exciting high-quality opportunities, which Global Data Network helps small to are making a real difference.
From USA medium sized enterprises to trade with Our Decision Analytics business helps healthcare to fraud prevention to software confidence outside of their domestic our clients make sense of vast quantities and analytics, the contributions from our markets, and we want to double our of data, by transforming it into actionable growth investments are meaningful and geographic coverage by 2018. information.
We use analytics to help our are helping us build an even better, even clients make decisions on hundreds of stronger company.
While concentrating In Consumer Services, I am pleased millions of credit applications every year.
our resources and focusing our efforts, to report that our efforts to return the This includes checking that applicants we also exited some activities considered North America business to growth are who they say they are, through to to be non-core during the year.
Over the past year preventing fraud.
It is these unique we have delivered on a strategy that capabilities that give us an important At the heart of our strategy is the belief has re-shaped the business, including competitive advantage.
An excellent that by unlocking the power of data we how we engage with consumers.
In the example of this in action is in Asia can help people and organisations to UK, we are responding to an evolving Pacific, where our identity and fraud realise opportunities and transform lives.
market by broadening our Consumer solutions strategy is going from strength Throughout this Annual Report, you can Services product range and diversifying to strength.
One of the many high points read examples of our breakthroughs in our sources of revenue.
For example, during the year saw us announce that data and analytics as we further unlock we secured wins from clients who are Chinas e-commerce giant, JD.
now providing Experian scores on their be using our software and technology to customers account statements.
We For example, in our consumer credit combat online fraud.
are looking forward to launching new bureau heartland we are taking steps services that will broaden our product to put consumers emerging needs at range and further strengthen consumer the very heart of what we do.
We are relationships, a prospect made even more finding new ways to expand the credit compelling by a definitive agreement universe for millions of people worldwide to acquire CSIdentity Corporation whose current credit profiles are often announced in April 2016. too thin for them to qualify for credit.
Strategic report Chairmans statement 25 Highlights 2016 US$4.6bn 40.00USc Revenue Full year dividend 105% US$972m 6% Cash flow conversion Total shareholder CO e reduction 2 returns Along with our core products and services, Strong and effective governance Creating shared value our social innovation programme invests Effective corporate governance, the Our business prospers when we invest in developing products that tackle oversight of which is the responsibility of in innovation with the power to change the inequalities facing people outside the Board under my leadership, defines the peoples lives and create stronger mainstream finance.
Since launching the framework within which we develop our communities.
global programme three years ago, our new strategy.
It also allows us to manage any social innovation products and services Having a financial identity is vital to challenges the Group may face, to monitor have helped 5.4 million more people get unlocking fair and affordable access to our performance and to manage existing vital access to essential services.
Without one, people and emerging risks, all of which are critical original aim was to help an additional and small businesses are unable to show for our long-term success.
5 million people by the end of 2018, making that they can repay credit.
This means it all the more satisfying to achieve this Two key governance focus areas for the they cannot get loans or are only offered milestone two years ahead of schedule.
Board and its committees during the year services at high interest rates.
Our Nothing ever stands still at Experian and were the information security incident in products enable clients to immediately we look forward to helping a great many North America and the conclusion of the check the identity of new customers.
We more people through our award-winning audit tender process.
You can read later in produce millions of credit reports a day programme over the years to come.
the Corporate governance report a more around the world, not only protecting in-depth update on these activities.
businesses from fraud, but also helping We also continued to reduce our them to make informed lending decisions.
There were some Board changes during environmental impact, with a the year, including the appointment of In some countries, the lack of public corresponding benefit to business Luiz Fleury, whose knowledge of the records makes it even harder for people efficiency.
Initiatives to cut our energy use Brazilian market will greatly support our to prove who they are and show their and business travel and to divert more efforts in a very important jurisdiction for financial history.
We look at new ways to waste from landfill all contributed.
Jan Babiak resigned and Fabiola help people build up a financial identity and Our shared vision Arredondo stepped down as non-executive profile that can be included in mainstream Every day, we put the power of data into the directors.
As previously announced, Judith credit bureaux: from uses of alternative hands of millions of people and businesses: Sprieser will step down as a non-executive data mentioned previously, through to our to help them understand it, make the most director at the conclusion of our annual software systems that connect people to of it and act on it.
We recognise that the general meeting in July, following six years important social and financial services for positive difference we make to peoples service on the Board.
We again thank them the first time.
lives is a powerful one, and made only for their extremely valuable contributions.
possible by the collective effort of 17,000 exceptionally talented people at Experian.
It is their focus, passion and commitment that drives our progress.
