F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Chairmans Statement Chris Russell Chairman The Companys portfolio and UK Commercial Property performed well during 2016, notwithstanding the unstable conditions and uncertainties arising following the result of the EU Referendum vote.
The Companys closed-ended structure was of benefit during the period after the vote.
Despite an immediate fall in the share price, the Company was not forced to react when some open-ended funds became forced sellers with many having to suspend redemptions as investors tried to sell down their property positions.
Performance for the Year The net asset value NAV total return for the year was 4.8 per cent Negative contributions came from: and the share price total return was 6.4 per cent.
The total return The changes to Stamp Duty announced in March 2016 which from the portfolio was 5.3 per cent, which compares favourably reduced the value of the portfolio by 0.8 per cent as the rate with a total return of 3.6 per cent from the MSCI Investment Property increase was factored in to property valuations.
Databank IPD Quarterly Benchmark Index.
The longer term Reading, Thames Valley One, Thames Valley Park reflecting performance of the portfolio remains strong with IPD rating it second new void space following the exit of the tenant.
quartile over three years and top quartile over five and ten years.
There was one sale during the year of the Companys Freehold The share price at the year-end was 136.4p, representing a interest in 25 Great Pulteney Street, London W1 in December 2016 premium of 0.7 per cent to the NAV per share of 135.5p, recovering for 54.3 million.
This reflected a net initial yield of 3.95 per cent and significantly from a 24 per cent discount experienced in the crystallised substantial value for the Company, reducing its exposure immediate aftermath of the Brexit vote.
The following table provides an analysis of the movement in the NAV per share for the year Borrowings and Loan Refinancing The Group amended its financing arrangements with Barclays Bank Pence PLC in respect of the existing 50 million term loan facility repayable NAV per share as at 31 December 2015 135.2 in June 2017.
This included extending the repayment date to June Unrealised increase in valuation of direct property portfolio 1.2 2021.
The Board also agreed an additional revolving credit facility of 50 million over the same period for ongoing working capital Decrease in valuation of interest rate swap 0.1 purposes and to provide the Group with the flexibility to acquire Other net revenue 5.2 further property when the opportunity arises.
Dividends paid 6.0 Following this refinancing, the Groups available borrowings comprise NAV per share as at 31 December 2016 135.5 a 260 million term loan with Legal & General Pensions Limited, maturing on 31 December 2024, and both a 50 million term loan The Company experienced modest capital growth in the portfolio facility and an undrawn 50 million revolving credit facility with of 0.8 per cent, ahead of the MSCI IPD index which recorded a Barclays.
The Groups net gearing was 17.2 per cent at the end of negative capital return of 1.1 per cent.
As with 2015, the strongest the year.
returns were experienced in the logistics and industrial sector.
The Group terminated, at a cost of 1.3 million, the interest rate In absolute terms, the most significant contributors to returns were: hedging arrangements linked to the previous Barclays facility.
This had been accounted for as a liability, net of accrued interest, of 1.5 London, St Christophers Place Estate reflecting yield million as at 31 December 2015.
The Group has entered into a new compression and rental growth on all elements of the Estate.
50 million interest rate swap to cover the extended Barclays term Birmingham, Unit10a Hams Hall Distribution Park reflecting the facility.
This has fixed interest payable at 2.5 per cent per annum, renewal and extension of lease agreements with the tenants.
a substantial reduction on the previous 4.9 per cent per annum.
Colchester, Ozalid Works, Cowdray Avenue The grant of The weighted average interest rate in the Groups total current outline planning for a residential development accompanied by a borrowings is 3.3 per cent, which is 0.3 per cent lower than before completed s106 agreement with the Local Authority more than the refinancing.
doubled the value of the property.
8 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT 71-77 Wigmore St, London W1 Dividends and Dividend Cover Twelve monthly interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid during the year, maintaining the annual dividend of 6.0p per share and providing a dividend yield of 4.4 per cent based on the year-end share price.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, the Board intends that dividends in 2017 will continue to be paid monthly at the same rate.
The Companys level of dividend cover for the year excluding capital gains on properties and loss on redemption of the interest rate swap was 87.0 per cent, ahead of the 80.6 per cent cover achieved last year.
The improved cover is primarily attributable to an enhanced level of rental income which increased by 2.0 million in the current year and a reduced performance fee of 1.9 million.
Management Fees We have had discussions with the Investment Manager over the management fee and agreed a revised arrangement with effect from 1 January 2017.
The performance fee has been removed and in the future, the Investment Manager will be entitled to a base management fee of 0.55 per cent per annum of the Groups gross assets reduced to 0.525 per cent on assets between 1.5 billion and 2 billion and 0.5 per cent on assets in excess of 2 billion.
The arrangement will be reviewed again formally in three years time.
are expected to fide-risk their property holdings and favour prime, All other terms and conditions will remain the same including the well-let assets.
Property is still attractively priced against the risk free administration fee and termination notice period of six months.
We rate of interest and the search for yield should support the property believe this to be a competitive fee arrangement, being the lowest ad investment market, with the industrial sector a major beneficiary.
valorem fee rate of the Companys peer group.
The occupational market may face headwinds from business rates, the imposition of a National Living Wage and higher import costs in Board Composition the coming year.
However, the Company is looking for opportunity The Company employed the services of an independent external in longer-term structural changes such as digitisation, urbanisation, search consultant to assist with the recruitment of new Board infrastructure and communications to grow capital value and Member, Paul Marcuse, who was appointed on the 12 January dividend cover in a portfolio of prime assets.
Paul has approximately 35 years experience in the real estate The Companys portfolio is well diversified, consists of high quality and finance sectors.
He was Head of Global Real Estate at UBS assets and is well positioned to continue to deliver attractive income, Global Asset Management between 2007 and 2012.
Prior to this, he combined with capital appreciation in line with the investment was Chief Executive of AXA Real Estate Investment Managers.
The Investment Manager will continue to look to invest in Peter Niven, who has served the Company since inception as a Noninteresting and accretive assets, as well as realising the value add Executive Director and was the Companys first Chairman from 2005 potential of the portfolio.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Peter for all the time and effort he has put in over the years.
Peter has made a valuable contribution towards the success of the Company and is the last of the first appointed Directors to retire from the Board.
Chris Russell Following the 2017 AGM, and subject to Shareholders approval, Chairman the Board will consist of six non-executive directors with an average 3 April 2017 appointment of 4 years service.
No further changes to the Board are anticipated in the near term.
See Alternative Performance Measures on page 63.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.30pm on Wednesday 31 May 2017 at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Forward-looking statements Guernsey.
The Notice of the Meeting is contained on pages 60 to 61.
This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to Shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting are requested to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
complete and return their enclosed Forms of Proxy.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially Outlook from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The Following a turbulent year for the UK, there is greater clarity forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on emerging from Brexit but considerable areas of uncertainty remain information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be and it is probable that this will influence investor sentiment.
Investors construed as a profit forecast.
