Chairmans Statement Due Diligence visit to China John Owen I have pleasure in In October, the Board carried out its regular due diligence visit to presenting the sixth Annual Report of China, visiting Fidelity Internationals offices and meeting with its Fidelity China Special Situations PLC analysts.
We made several visits to Chinese companies, reviewed for the year ended 31 March 2016.
This Fidelitys investment processes and continued to see at first-hand is my final Chairmans report before experience of developments in the country.
We were greatly stepping down at the Annual General encouraged by what we saw throughout a busy few days and Meeting on 22 July 2016. came away with a reinforced view that the rebalancing of Chinas economy to be more consumer-led will be the engine of its growth for the coming years.
Over my tenure as Chairman, we have striven successfully to make the Company a cornerstone investment for those seeking Chinese equity exposure, and the Board will continue to do so.
China is now, by some measures, the largest economy in the world, and the Board believes that when building a balanced portfolio, the country is simply too big to ignore.
For those investing in a wellbalanced global portfolio for the long term, either professionally or privately, a proportion held in China must warrantconsideration: and the Board believes that Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is the right vehicle to provide this exposure.
The Board continues to work with the Manager to ensure that the Company remains well positioned to meet this need, by focusing on the development of New China and the rebalancing of Chinas economy.
Performance Review For the year under review, the Companys NAV total return increased by 0.02% while the share price total return fell by 4.53%.
The Board sample products at Foshan Haitian Flavouring.
However, these numbers do not tell the full story.
In a year when the Benchmark Index, MSCI China Index in sterling terms, fell by 16.17%, the portfolio outperformed very strongly in a volatile period for markets, largely through skilful stock selection.
I am pleased that the Portfolio Manager has been able to navigate the portfolio successfully through this period.
In May 2015, the Companys NAV and share price reached an all-time high, but subsequent market movements have led to a fall back to levels similar to the start of the reporting period.
Negative sentiment towards China, led by concerns over its economic growth, movements in RMB and capital market policy have caused volatility since May 2015.
These points are addressed in the Portfolio Managers Report, but the Board continues to share the Portfolio Managers positive outlook for structural growth in areas including Chinese consumption and technology.
There is a continuing focus on the GDP number reported from China, but we believe that a slowing economy is the The Board visit CTRIP Corporations new oces in Shanghai.
natural path for the country as it develops into one of the largest and most sophisticated economies in the world.
It is unrealistic to Gearing expect aneconomy as big as China to grow over the next decade The Company renewed its multicurrency revolving credit facility at the same pace as during the last decade.
Instead, investors agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for US$150,000,000 on should focus their investments in areas that will drive Chinas 14February 2014 for a further three years.
The loan has been fully next stage of development and play into the structural changes drawn down throughout the period under review.
stemming from an increasing middle class and more advanced manufacturing and services sectors.
This requires on-the-ground To achieve further gearing, the Company uses Contracts For research and careful stock picking, and the Board has been Difference CFDs on a number of holdings in its portfolio.
impressed with Dale Nicholls ability to do this for our investors.
Further details are in Note 19 on page 65.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 3 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Chairmans Statement continued At 31 March 2016, the Companys gearing, defined as the Gross assure shareholders that we will keep both the discount and the Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets, was 27.2% 2015: 25.9%.
share repurchase programme under review.
The Directors regularly review and discuss the discount and the ways in which it might Change in Investment Policy be reduced so that the shares can trade at a level closer to the NAV.
The Directors also monitor market practice amongst peer The Company under its current Investment Policy is permitted group trusts and take regular advice from the Companys Broker.
to invest 5% of Gross Assets in unlisted securities issued by Since the year end, a further 575,000 Ordinary Shares have been companies which carry on business, or which have significant repurchased into Treasury at an average discount of 18.4%.
interests, in China or Hong Kong.
The Board is seeking to revise this limit to 10% of Gross Assets as there are now more potential Board of Directors unlisted investment opportunities and the revised limit would allow the Portfolio Manager to react quickly if investment opportunities After serving as Chairman of the Company since launch, I will occur.
retire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
I have enjoyed serving on the Board and would like to Following the successful initial public offering of Alibaba in which thank shareholders, my fellow Directors and the team at Fidelity the Company invested from an early stage, there has been a trend for all the support I have been given.
for companies to raise capital in private markets and to list on a public stock exchange after their development has progressed.
I am delighted to say that Nicholas Bull, Senior Independent Director, will succeed me as Chairman.
Nicholas, like me, has The proposed change to the Investment Policy is shown in the been on the Board of the Company since its launch in 2010.
Appendix in the Notice of Meeting on page 69.
A resolution to amend the Investment Policy accordingly is being proposed at The Board was pleased to welcome Vera Hong Wei as a new the Annual General Meeting on 22 July 2016, as detailed in the member of the Board with effect from 24 March 2016.
Vera is section on the Annual General Meeting on page 67. a Chinese national with 18 years experience in the Chinese financial industry which spans the central bank, commercial bank Dividend and asset management sectors.
Further details are included in her biography on page 21.
The Board recommends a dividend of 1.80 pence 2015: 1.30pence per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 March 2016 Andrew Wells will not be seeking re-election at the Annual for approval by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General General Meeting on 22 July 2016 as he is now focusing on a new Meeting.
This represents a 38.5% increase on the 1.30 pence paid in respect of the prior year.
role within the Fidelity business.
I am most grateful to Andrew for his valuable work for the Board, and the shareholders, during his The dividend will be payable on 26 July 2016 to shareholders on time on the Board.
I am pleased to welcome John Ford as a new the register on 24 June 2016 ex-dividend date 23 June 2016. member of the Board on 22 July 2016: he is FILs Global Chief Investment Officer for Fixed Income, Solutions and Real Estate.
Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends to purchase Johns biography can be found on page 22. more shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 74.
Vera and John will both be subject to election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and in accordance Discount Management and Treasury Shares with the UK Corporate Governance Code for Directors of FTSE 350 companies, all the other Directors are subject to annual re-election During the year, the discount widened which the Board believes at that time.
The Directors biographies can be found on pages21 reflects a more cautious attitude towards China amongst investors, and 22.
The Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills and notwithstanding the excellent performance of the NAV compared experience to form a balanced Board for the Company.
The Boards belief at present is that the discount is best addressed by buying back the Companys Viability Statement Ordinary Shares when appropriate, and during the year, 3.1% In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, of the Ordinary Shares in issue excluding Treasury Shares has the Directors are now required to report on the viability of the been repurchased during the year under review, purchased at an Company over a longer period than the twelve month period average discount of 16.4%.
Allshares have been repurchased into required by the Going Concern statement which is on page 23.
These buybacks will have benefited all shareholders as This new statement can be found on pages 13 and 14. the NAV per share has been increased by purchasing shares at a discount.
Change of Auditor We will be seeking to renew the annual authority to repurchase As reported in the Half-Yearly Report for the period ended up to 14.99% of the Companys shares at the forthcoming Annual 30September 2015, and in line with best corporate governance General Meeting, as we have done each year previously, and practice and EU regulations on mandatory audit rotation, a formal 4 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 audit tender process was undertaken by the Company in the reporting year.
A number of audit firms were considered and Ernst & Young LLP was selected as the Companys new independent Auditor for the year ending 31 March 2016.
The appointment is subject to approval by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting 22 July 2016 The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB on Friday 22 July 2016 at 11.00 am.
The Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak to shareholders.
Dale Nicholls, the Portfolio Manager, will be making a presentation on the years results and the prospects for the Company for the year to come.
We encourage you to join us on this occasion.
John Owen CMG MBE DL Chairman 1 June 2016 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2016 5 Job No: 25800 Proof Event: 21 Black Line Event: 3 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
