Chairmans Statement Performance over one, three and five years and since Vivian Bazalgette This is my first year launch to 31 December 2016 on a total return basis % as Chairman of Fidelity European FTSE Values PLC and I am pleased to World present your Companys Annual Report Europe as at 31 December 2016.
Share ex UK NAV price Index One year 17.6 7.6 19.7 Aiming to capture the diversity of Europe, across a range of Three years 32.1 27.8 26.3 countries and sectors, Fidelity European Values PLC looks beyond Five years 97.7 102.7 86.3 the noise of market sentiment and concentrates on the real-life progress of European listed businesses.
It researches and selects Since launch 1991 2,607.8 2,300.2 808.0 stocks that can grow their dividends consistently, irrespective of the Sources: Fidelity and Datastream economic environment.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns Performance Outlook For the year ended 31 December the net asset value NAV Eurozone growth gained some momentum towards the end of total return per ordinary share was 17.6%, underperforming the 2016, with private consumption remaining a significant contributor.
Benchmark Index, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which In addition credit conditions continue to ease and fiscal policies returned 19.7%.
The share price total return, however, lagged the are becoming more supportive at the margin, with further easing NAV return at 7.6%, as a result of the level of discount ex income likely in 2017.
A friendlier global growth backdrop is also a helpful widening from 2.9% at the start of the year to 11.1% at the end.
Nevertheless, there are downside risks to this positive spite of the year under review proving challenging, it is reassuring outlook.
In politics, Mr Trumps presidency, the repercussions of the to note that the three and five year returns are ahead of the Italian referendum and a packed election calendar in 2017 are Benchmark Index, as shown in the table below all figures are in some of the influences which could inhibit investment decisions.
It UK sterling terms and are on a total return basis.
is also likely that import demand in the UK will suffer as a result of a significantly weaker sterling.
This may have an adverse effect on The reporting year was marked by a series of largely unexpected trade in the Eurozone.
political outcomes, including the Brexit vote held in June, and The Portfolio Manager seeks to invest in attractively valued Donald Trumps victory in the US presidential elections in companies exhibiting long term structural growth prospects, November.
Whilstthe markets have so far reacted positively to proven business models, strong balance sheets and disciplined these events, there remains considerable uncertainty.
Ne vertheless use of their capital.
Such an approach seems well suited to the it is worth noting that the NAV return was in absolute terms very uncertain backdrop outlined above.
healthy, boosted by the post-Brexit weakness of sterling.
OTHER MATTERS European equities rose in sterling terms over the twelve month Gearing reporting period.
Expectations of fiscal stimulus were latterly The Company continues to gear through the use of long contracts encouraged by Mr Trumps election victory and for this reason the for difference CFDs.
As at 31 December 2016, the Companys markets anticipated an economic boost.
This in turn led to a sharp level of gearing was 3.0% 2015: 2.8%.
The Manager has flexibility rotation away from defensive stocks in favour of the more cyclical to gear within parameters set by the Board.
Gearing levels are and mainly lower quality sectors of the markets.
Such cyclical discussed at every Board meeting and between meetings when rotations occur periodically, creating challenging conditions for necessary.
Gearing made a very small positive contribution to your Portfolio Manager who remains focused on investing in performance in the reporting year, as can be seen from the attractively valued companies with sound long term fundamentals.
attribution analysis table on page 9.
After all, fundamentally strong companies tend to outperform over Discount Management and Treasury Shares extended time periods.
The Board continues to adopt an active discount management policy.
Whilst the primary purpose of this policy is to reduce share price volatility in relation to NAV, buying in shares at a discount also results in an enhancement to the NAV per share.
In order to assist in managing the discount, the Board has shareholder approval to hold in Treasury ordinary shares repurchased by the Company, rather than cancelling them altogether.
These shares are then available to re-issue should the share price come to stand at a premium to NAV, facilitating the management of and enhancing liquidity in our shares.
The Board is seeking Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016 3 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Chairmans Statement continued shareholder approval to renew this authority at the forthcoming I am also pleased to say that, as previously announced, Fleur Annual General Meeting.
Meijs will be joining the Board later this year.
As well as being a continental European national, she is a Chartered Accountant and As a result of the widening of the discount, the Company has a former Financial Services Partner at  repurchased 1,095,733 ordinary shares into Treasury in the LLP.
She is currently a non-executive Director of Invesco Asia year ended 31December 2016 which represented 0.3% of the Trust plc, a Director of Bridge to the Future, a member of the Companys issued share capital.
Since the end of the reporting Advisory Council for British Museum Friends and a member of the period and as at the date of this report, the Company has not Dutch Parliamentary committee for the structure of banks in the repurchased any further ordinary shares.
Fleur will join the Board on 1 September 2017 and Dividends will I am sure make a valuable contribution.
The Board is continuing with its practice of largely paying out We continue to review Board composition and Director succession revenue in full.
The objective is one of long term capital growth on a regular basis to ensure that we have a Board with a mix of and we have not sought to influence the Portfolio Manager by tenures and which provides diversity of perspective together with imposing any income requirement in any particular year.
the range of appropriate skills and experience for your Company.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 4.17 pence per Inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and share for the year ended 31 December 2016 for approval by being a FTSE 350 Company, all Directors are subject to annual the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on election and re-election by shareholders and, with the exception of 15May 2017.
The dividend will be payable on 19 May 2017 to Simon Fraser, put themselves forward for election and re-election shareholders who appear on the register as at close of business at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical details of each director are on 24 March 2017 ex-dividend date 23 March 2017. shown on page 20.
The increase in the proposed final dividend for 2016 over the Continuation Vote 3.33pence paid for 2015 is 25.2%.
Whilst we emphasise that the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the increase is a function of stock selection and cannot be extrapolated Company is subject to a continuation vote every two years.
into the future, Sam Morse, the Portfolio Manager, continues to focus The next such vote is at this years AGM.
The Companys on companies which are able to grow their dividends.
performance record has been very strong since launch in It should be added that the Board has elected under the November 1991 with a NAV total return of 2,607.8% compared Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of to the Benchmark Index return of 808.0%.
The share price total Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP return since launch is 2,300.2%.
Although the Companys NAV issued by the Association of Investment Companies, not to total return underperformed the Benchmark Index for the year charge any management fees or finance costs to capital, thereby ended 31December 2016, the return was still healthy in absolute enhancing the Companys capital return.
This is a matter for terms.
As mentioned previously, both the Companys NAV and judgement and the Board periodically reviews its charging policy.
share price total returns have outperformed the Benchmark Index Total return is not affected whichever route is followed, though over threeand five years, as reflected in the table on page3.
relative rates of taxation of income and capital gains may be a In addition, the prospects for the Company over a five year consideration for investors.
investment horizon can be found in the Viability Statement on Board of Directors page 11.
Accordingly, your Board recommends that shareholders Humphrey van der Klugt stepped down from the Board on 12 May vote in favour of the continuation resolution.
2016, and I succeeded him as Chairman.
After fifteen years serving Annual General Meeting as a Director, Simon Fraser will be stepping down from the Board The AGM of the Company will be held on Monday 15 May 2017 at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to take this at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M opportunity to thank them both on behalf of the Board, shareholders 5TA St Pauls or Mansion House tube stations.
Full details of the and the team at Fidelity for their commitment to the Company, their meeting are given on pages 58 to 60. hard work and their shrewd judgement.
This is our opportunity to meet as many shareholders as possible, Turning to Board appointments, I am pleased to say that Paul and I hope therefore that you are able to join us.
In addition to Yates joined us earlier this month as a non-executive Director the formal business of the meeting Sam Morse, your Portfolio and will stand for election at the AGM.
Paul has many years of Manager, will be making a presentation on the years results and experience in the asset management industry.
He held a number the outlook for 2017. of positions at UBS, covering management, portfolio management, pensions, strategy and client service and was CEO of UBS Global Asset Management UK Ltd between 2001 and 2005.
After undertaking a number of global roles at UBS he retired in 2007.
He is currently a non-executive Director of Merchants Trust Vivian Bazalgette plc and Aberdeen UK Tracker Trust plc.
I am confident that his Chairman deep understanding of the investment process, the markets and 14 March 2017 investment trusts will be an asset to the Board.
4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2016
