Chairmans statement I am pleased to make my first report to you as Chairman of FirstGroup.
Every day, FirstGroups Without doubt there are 110,000 people are responsible for providing significant challenges to vitaltransportation services for millions of customers faceand commitments still to across our core markets in the UK and North America.
The Groups five divisions have considerable deliver, but I am confident that opportunities to support economic activity and FirstGroup has opportunities improve social wellbeing by linking together the to deliver sustainable growth customers and communities they serve.
and good financial returns The transportation services provided by FirstGroup have always been acritical enabler of economic and social activity, and the economic through ever more rigorous andenvironmental challenges of increasing urbanisation, congestion, focus on customers needs and demographic change mean that this is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future.
At the same time, expectations for service quality going forwards.
and convenience at reasonable cost are increasing on the part of passengers and the governments we work with.
Meanwhile the digital economy continues to offer opportunities and risks throughout the Group, changing how customers expect to interact with the Group, how tickets are offered and revenue is collected, and how costs, employees and networks are managed.
In this environment, FirstGroup has significant advantages and opportunities thanks to its scale and experience, both within each of the markets served, and as a Group.
As a significant service provider in each business line with increasingly strong relationships with customers and passengers, a robust safety culture and improving financial and operational performance, the Group has sound foundations for the future.
Without doubt there are significant challenges to face and commitments still to deliver, but I am confident that FirstGroup has opportunities to deliver sustainable growth and good financial returns through ever more rigorous focus on customers needs going forwards.
In recent years, the Group has been investing in its capital assets and customer offerings while working to deliver improved margins through pricing and cost efficiency programmes.
Throughout this time, the focushas been on enhancing the Groups long term ability to generate sustainable value, not on short term fixes.
Advances have been made inseveral areas notably First Students bidding strategy, the reset of First Bus networks and fares, and the retooling of Greyhounds entire business model.
First Transit has extended the range of its expertise byservice line and by geography, and the Groups medium term future in the UK rail industry has been secured through the Great Western Railway GWR and TransPennine Express TPE contract awards, as well as through open access operations.
Meanwhile, cost efficiencies continue to be delivered, and a step change in the level of collaboration across theorganisation is underway, particularly in terms of smart ticketing andother customer-facing technologies.
06 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Although challenges have emerged along the way, and plans have Our people evolved in response, I am confident the continuation of this disciplined Since joining the Group in May 2015, I have had the opportunity to strategy will see the Group return to a position of significant free cash meet with many front line employees in all of the Groups divisions.
flowgeneration in the 2016 17 financial year and beyond.
Over time Ihave been extraordinarily impressed by the commitment and thiswill allow the Groups leverage and interest costs to reduce towards dedication shown by them and all our 110,000 people, who have an optimum long term level, while increasing shareholder returns.
The continued to focus on the task of delivering high-quality services Board recognises that dividends are an important component of total toourcustomers through some challenging years for the Group.
shareholder return for many investors and remains committed to Onbehalf of the Board I would like to extend my sincere gratitude reinstating a sustainable dividend at the appropriate time, having regard toallof our employees for their hard work during the year, which has to the Groups financial performance, balance sheet and outlook.
allowed the Group to lay foundations for further success into the future.
Results for the year With a clear strategy for delivering improved financial performance Underlying revenue was broadly flat, while reported revenue decreased anda growing focus on attracting new customers to our services, by 13.8% mainly due to changes in the rail franchise portfolio.
Group theGroup is well placed to deliver more sustainable cash generation adjusted operating profit was, however, comparable tothe prior year, and returns going forward.
Notwithstanding a number of headwinds benefiting from cost efficiencies in First Student and First Bus and a insome markets, the Board is confident that the Groups increasing good performance from First Rail, though we weredisappointed that ability to deliver the innovative, efficient and reliable transport solutions costs associated with driver shortages inFirstStudent did not allow the that customers and communities need to flourish will allow FirstGroup Group to report more progress thisyear.
Adjusted EPS increased to drive increasing shareholder value in the future.
by5.1% and netcash inflow for theyear before end of rail franchise outflows was 36.0m, which isexpected toincrease going forwards.
Wolfhart Hauser Chairman The Board 14 June 2016 On 1 December 2015 Matthew Gregory was appointed to the Board asChief Financial Officer, succeeding Chris Surch on his retirement.
Wethank Chris for his contribution over his three years with the Group.
Matthew has already begun to bring his considerable financial, strategic and international experience to bear and I am sure he will make a significant contribution to the Group and its future development.
I would also like to thank my predecessor as Chairman, John McFarlane, who stepped down from the Board at the conclusion oftheAGM in July 2015.
It is clear to me that in the short time he wasatFirstGroup he made an important contribution to the Groups strategy and its focus on delivery.
Corporate responsibility The provision of safe and sustainable transport services is an inherent part of FirstGroups operations and core to the values of the organisation.
The Group continues to be at the forefront of environmentally responsible vehicle procurement practices and support for emerging sustainable technologies, and in the year Group-wide safety training practices have been reinvigorated and a step change made in the approach taken to engagement with local communities.
Sound corporate governance is also a vital facet of our responsibilities toall our stakeholders, and in the year the Board has focused on severalareas including succession planning processes, risk appetite and management, cyber risk and security and remuneration practices.
Several Board meetings this year have taken place alongside in-depth visits to operations in the US and the UK, giving Board members greater insight into the day-to-day business and an opportunity to understand key issues at first hand.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 07
