Chairmans Statement Simon Fraser, Chairman 2016 was an extraordinary year in terms of political events, stock market returns and sterling weakness.
Despite the upheaval, I am delighted to report that your 1 Company had a very strong year, achieving a total shareholder return of 23.7%.
1 Our Net Asset Value NAV total return with debt at market value rose at its strongest annual rate for over a decade, gaining 23.9%.
The proposed total dividend for 2016 is 9.85 pence per share, an increase of 2.6% on the year our forty-sixth consecutive annual rise in dividends.
These results further strengthen our long-term record of delivering throughout the year, with few predicting the combined outcomes of growth in both capital and income for our shareholders.
Over ten years the US Presidential elections and the UKs Brexit Referendum.
While the share price total return is 141%, equivalent to 9.2% per annum and we delivered NAV total returns of 23.9% this fell short of the 29.6% over twenty years is 443%, which equates to 8.8% per annum.
delivered by our benchmark, the FTSE All-World Index.
Performance This shortfall was largely due to a significant reversal in performance 2 Our NAV per share with debt at market value rose from 483.4 within equity markets, with a substantial rally in areas previously pence to 587.2 pence per share while the share price increased out of favour, such as resources and economically sensitive stocks.
In sterling terms, investors Our underweight position in the highly performing North American enjoyed the strongest annual returns from global equity markets region and underperformance from stock selection there also since 1999 with your Company ending the year at a new record high detracted from returns as did our exposure to private equity which, for both the share price and NAV.
Volatility was a notable feature despite posting strong returns, lagged benchmark returns over the 3 Foreign & Colonials NAV and share price performance vs Market benchmark over ten years 250 200 150 100 50 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 3 Foreign & Colonial share price total return Foreign & Colonial NAV total return Market benchmark Source: F&C & Thomson Reuters Eikon 1 Total return see Alternative Performance Measures on page 87 2 Net asset value per share with debt at market value.
See Alternative Performance Measures on page 87.
3 See Glossary of terms on pages 88 and 90 for explanations of Benchmark and Market benchmark 6 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Foreign & Colonials annual dividend per share vs Consumer Price Index over ten years Rebased to 100 at 31 December 2006 200 150 100 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 Foreign & Colonial annual dividend per share Consumer Price Index Source: F&C & Thomson Reuters Eikon year.
While we underperformed listed markets over the year, we Our direct and indirect costs, expressed as the ongoing charge, performed well relative to our peer group and continue to deliver were 0.79%, down from 0.80% in 2015. excess shareholder total returns over the longer term.
Gearing Earnings and dividends Gearing levels ended 2016 modestly lower on the year.
In June, we We have made strong progress in our earnings over recent years.
secured 75m of new long-term debt in two tranches with twelve Revenue per share of 10.6 pence earned in 2016 represents a and fifteen year maturities.
The borrowings were undertaken ahead rise of 26% by comparison to 2015.
This improvement in earnings of the Brexit Referendum and replaced short-dated foreign currency 1 was helped by the receipt of 4.4m of special dividends from our denominated debt.
At a blended rate of 3.04%, we locked in interest investments.
costs for these borrowings at some of the lowest levels seen in many generations.
Our range of fixed rate borrowings is complemented by Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting access to short term funding when required.
AGM, shareholders will receive a final dividend of 2.70 pence per share on 2 May 2017 bringing the total dividend for the year Private Equity to 9.85 pence.
That represents an increase of 2.6% over 2015 Our private equity holdings delivered strong returns of 24.7% which compares with an increase of 1.6% in the Consumer Price in 2016 and generated 69.6m of net cashflow.
After the full year dividend, which is fully covered, our revenue commitments have now been repaid in full and we retain 264m reserve will stand at about one years worth of dividends.
of value in exposure at the year end.
We expect further profits to be realised for shareholders as these holdings mature, further A rising income stream in real terms is important for our shareholders enhancing shareholder returns.
and it is a clear focus of the Board that we maintain our record of long-term dividend growth ahead of the rate of inflation.
As ever, The Board has agreed to recommit capital to a new private equity there remains a great deal of uncertainty over the global economic programme taking a more focused, opportunistic and direct outlook but the Board is planning another dividend increase ahead of approach that is flexible and will ultimately be considerably cheaper.
We are doing this by making good use of the internal expertise at F&C.
New commitments to this programme have been made over In sterling terms, investors enjoyed the the course of the year.
strongest annual returns from global Buyback and share issue policies The year saw a general widening in investment trust discount levels.
equity markets since 1999 This deterioration in rating was driven by reduced investor demand 1 See Glossary of Terms on page 90 Report and Accounts 2016 | 7 as a function of uncertainty arising from Brexit as well as a perceived Outlook overhang from institutional sellers in the investment trust sector as Long running trends in inflation and interest rates may well have a whole.
For most of the year our discount traded wider than the turned on a secular basis, with significant implications for investment 7.5% average level that the Board has set for the purpose of opportunities across and within stock markets.
Despite longer term discount control.
Our desire to meet our discount control objective uncertainty and the unclear political environment, we enter 2017 led us to increase the pace of buybacks from the lowest level in a with some renewed impetus in the global economy and signs of decade and purchase 12.4m shares.
The discount closed the year improvement in corporate earnings for the first time in several years.
It remains the aspiration of your Board to reach a point Markets have responded with enthusiasm and the US economy where our share price trades at or around the NAV of the Company.
continues to be very resilient.
Your Board Your Company therefore faces a year of challenges and We continue to ensure that proper succession arrangements are opportunities as it has on numerous occasions since it was launched in place.
Edward Knapp was appointed during the year and brings as the very first investment trust in 1868.
Not only are we proud of to us his experience in board advisory and business transformation, our heritage but also of our relevance for investors in todays world.
including deep expertise in financial services and risk.
Stephen We will continue to adapt and innovate.
Our corporate structure Burley will retire immediately following the AGM in April having enables us to take a long term view, borrowing in different currencies served nine years.
Our thanks are extended to Stephen whose to invest and providing a rising income stream in real terms to our investment insight and experience have been particularly helpful in shareholders over time.
As we move towards the celebration of your recent years as the Companys strategy has evolved.
Companys 150th anniversary in 2018, you can be assured that we will remain focused on extending our record of delivering growth Our strategy in capital and income to you over the longer term from our globally At the start of 2013 your Board made the strategic decision to allocate diversified equity portfolio.
more capital to overseas markets, creating a truly global growth portfolio.
This decision has helped to significantly improve returns to shareholders: over the following four years, we have seen the domestic market, represented by the FTSE All-Share Index, deliver a healthy 44.1% return but well behind the 81.6% delivered from global equities.
Simon Fraser Chairman We carry out a review of the Managers overall investment 6 March 2017 performance and services following each year end with continual monitoring throughout the year.
As a consequence it has again been decided that F&C be re-appointed as our Manager.
Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
8 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Over ten years the share price total return is 141%, equivalent to 9.2% per annum and over twenty years is 443%, which equates to 8.8% per annum Our private equity portfolio materially outperformed listed stock markets again in 2014.
