Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 06 Chairmans Statement Meeting our commitments Over the course of Fresnillo plcs eight Against this backdrop, we have remained years as a publicly listed company, firmly committed to creating sustained a number of trends have reshaped the and shared value for all our stakeholders, global mining industry and altered the focusing on efficient, competitive We seek to competitive landscape: pressure on operations and high potential silver profitability arising from commodity and gold projects that can be developed ensure that price and currency volatility, rising costs, into low cost mines able to withstand and maturing mines with declining ore unpredictable metal prices.
We have capital allocation grades: lower rates of return on capital invested consistently over the cycle, projects concurrent with increased and thus have been able to grow and balances growth, shareholder appetite for returns: rising retain a motivated and qualified team.
social and environmental awareness: and Our strategic direction, combined with shareholder governmental initiatives to regulate and quality assets, operational flexibility and derive additional revenue from the sector, efficiency, solid financial position and among others.
returns, financial enduring commitment to responsible business practices are the pillars of long-term value creation.
strength and The year in review flexibility, within Precious metal prices, while still volatile, performed well in 2016 and reversed the context their downward trend spanning several years.
Our average realised gold and silver of a maturing prices rose 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively, over 2015.
The Groups gold and silver sustainability production increased 22.8% and 7.1%, respectively, exceeding its gold production framework.
target for the year and meeting the target for silver.
Better prices and higher volumes led to robust financial results.
Your Company generated US$2,045.0 million in adjusted revenues in 2016, a rise of 29.2% over the prior year, with a 505.5% increase in profit attributable to shareholders and US$12.6 million distributed to employees and workers in profit sharing.
The cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at year end were US$912.0 million and debt was US$800 million.
continued on page 08 FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS y L t i o r y g a e l t t n y I Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 07 Our Values We aspire to demonstrate a wellestablished ethical culture through our actions and behaviours.
Our values are the cornerstone of our Ethics and Culture programme.
Trust Embedding best practices Our Code of Conduct, founded upon our values, is a set of rules and principles that guide our behaviours and actions, including guidance on complying with the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the Mexican General Law of the National Anti-Corruption System.
Workshops and master classes are conducted regularly to embed ethics and integrity in the culture, in combination with an online training programme and evaluation to effectively reach employees.
We recognise that embedding ethics in the culture as a core competence in the organisational structure support our strategic and operating goals.
Board oversight The Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committee has been given responsibility for overseeing the ethics programme on behalf of the Board.
See pages 91-92 Vertical conveyor at the Fresnillo mine y t i l i b S i a s f n e o t p y s e R Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 08 Chairmans Statement continued I deeply regret to report that three fatal accidents occurred in the year, as well as one in early 2017, a major setback for our safety programme.
Following investigations, management has taken decisive steps to prevent the type of human errors that are invariably a root cause in these accidents.
Safety continues to be our highest priority, above production and profitability, yet we recognise that even with best-in-class systems and practices in place, our safety culture must be further strengthened and deeply embedded within the Company.
To that end, the Boards Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations HSECR Committee continued to review the culture and values as part of its work However, we also encountered operational The Board approved the resumption of in overseeing the safety culture in 2016. challenges.
The Fresnillo mine faced the Pyrites project in the Fresnillo District, ongoing issues and failed to reach its which will improve overall recoveries of Dividends projected production.
While silver grades gold and silver contents by processing Fresnillo plcs dividend policy takes into were slightly higher than in 2015, volumes historical and ongoing tailings from account the profitability of the business came under pressure due to a shortage the Fresnillo and Saucito mines, and underlying earnings, as well as the of skilled personnel, leading to insufficient which otherwise would have been lost.
Groups capital requirements and cash mine development and preparation, Always an attractive project from an flows.
An annual dividend of between as well as narrower veins.
Management IRR perspective, the Boards decision 33-50% of profit after tax is paid out oversight and mine planning have been to resume construction was supported each year in the approximate proportion strengthened and we expect gradual and by better than expected cash generation of one-third as an interim dividend and continued improvement over the coming in the first half of the year and a healthy two-thirds as a final dividend.
Fortunately, a solid performance at balance sheet.
the required flexibility to consider the Saucito and the initial contribution of San cyclical behaviour of precious metal prices Julin compensated for the shortfall and The Board also approved the construction and other factors that could affect our the Group as a whole met its silver targets of a second line at the Dynamic Leaching financial position.
Plant DLP at Herradura to increase gold recovery from the Centauro pit, and thus For 2016, the Board declared an interim The first phase of San Julin was higher production from this mine.
We dividend of 8.6 US cents per share and commissioned in the year, despite a delay, continue to evaluate a major expansion a final dividend of 21.5 US cents per and is now operating above its nominal of Herradura based on the most recent share, totalling US$158.4 million.
We capacity, contributing to annual silver exploration results below the open pit.
believe the Group remains well placed and gold production.
The second phase is Furthermore, Juanicipio, our joint venture to meet its current and future financial expected to be commissioned in 2Q 2017, with Mag Silver, will be presented to the requirements, including its development also at a delay of several months from the Board for approval in 2017. and exploration projects.
previous target, as the impact of certain external factors had been underestimated, Exploration results were positive, with an Our governance agenda including unforeseen extreme weather, 8.2% and 10.2% increase in total gold and The Boards agenda in 2016 was focused delays in equipment deliveries and silver resources, respectively.
Gold reserves on ensuring continued compliance with difficulties in obtaining permits.
We remained stable, whilst silver reserves the UK Corporate Governance Code, remain confident that San Julin will be decreased 3.2%.
Our resource base remains addressing outstanding and emerging a successful new mine and may open up very sound as we progress towards our issues related to our 2014 External Board additional growth potential in the district.
Evaluation action plan, Group culture and the composition of the Board with regards to the number of Independent Non-executive Directors.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 09 I am grateful for the service of the two For the near term, our focus will be on Key Board agenda members who stood down from the Board efficiency, cost control and meeting our items in 2016 in 2016: Rafael MacGregor, Non-executive operational commitments: the turnaround Director, whose role as Chairman of of the Fresnillo mine and the successful Safety and fatalities.
the Health, Safety, Environment and start-up of the second phase of San Julin.
Corporate culture, organisational Community Relations Committee has We will continue to set the bar higher for effectiveness.
been filled by Arturo Fernndez, Nonourselves in other areas such as safety, Fresnillo mine turnaround.
executive Director: and Mara Asuncin governance processes and organisational Aramburuzabala, Independent Noneffectiveness.
The latter may be more San Julin Project deliverance.
executive Director who also served on the difficult to quantify, but is as vital to Preparation of first Viability HSECR Committee.
Both Directors made long-term shareholder value creation as Statement.
significant contributions to the Board and our low cost operations, project pipeline Dividend policy, hedging Company during their eight and four years and portfolio of exploration projects that programme, investment allocation.
serve as key drivers of future growth.
Tender for 2017 external auditor Looking ahead Our ability to meet these commitments appointment.
Despite their recovery during the year, we depends chiefly on our people.
Together believe gold and silver prices will remain with my fellow Directors, I extend volatile.
Indeed, renewed signs of weakness my gratitude for their dedication and The Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 113-156 illustrates the at year end 2016 due to expectations of hard work.
full range of Committee activity and rising interest rates in the US point to the Board actions in pursuit of long-term uncertainty of any sustained recovery.
Alberto Baillres shareholder value creation.
Furthermore, geopolitical factors such as Non-executive Chairman Brexit, the new administration in the US, ongoing tensions in the Middle East and My colleagues and I take an active role in developments in China and India make setting Group strategy, reviewing progress forecasting unpredictable.
against plan and ensuring sufficient flexibility to respond to changing market We therefore maintain our disciplined conditions within the context of our approach to investment: growth projects commitment to continuous investment will continue to be evaluated against a through metal price cycles.
As part of range of metrics, including operational the Boards planning process, we seek and technical factors, pricing and market to ensure that capital allocation balances considerations, and our financial position.
growth, shareholder returns, financial strength and flexibility, within the context For 2017, we have increased our year-onof a maturing sustainability framework year capital expenditures and exploration centred on good corporate governance, budget, by 71.1% over the 2016 spend, environmental stewardship and to US$950 million.
We believe this level constructive community engagement.
of investment enables us to achieve our 2018 goals while setting the groundwork Board changes for the next decade of the Companys Charles Jacobs was appointed Senior development.
Independent Director at the AGM in May 2016, and we welcomed Alberto Tiburcio Dedicated to meeting our commitments to the Board as an Independent NonThe goals to which we held ourselves executive Director, serving on the Audit accountable at the time of our IPO in 2008 Committee.
As Chairman and CEO of have changed only insomuch as some Ernst & Young Mexico from 2001 until targets have already been met, notably his retirement in 2013, Mr Tiburcio brings our gold production as a result of the with him extensive experience as statutory acquisition of 44% of Penmont and auditor and advisor to many prestigious continued improvements at Herradura.
