22 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Chairmans statement Performance and dividend Galliford Try delivered another record set of results in 2016, with growth across the Group.
Throughout the year, Linden Homes benefited from a robust housing market, underpinned by supply shortages and ample availability of low-cost mortgages, and a land market that remained positive.
We grew revenue and margins, as we rigorously focused on overheads and processes.
Prospects for Partnerships remain excellent with the UK suffering a substantial affordable housing shortage.
Construction markets continued to generate a pipeline of opportunities with better margins.
While we saw some commercial clients delay contracts ahead of the EU referendum, and some public sector work has been slower to come through than we expected, we were generally encouraged by market conditions.
The markets in which Construction operates are typically less susceptible to short-term fluctuations, and we expect the construction market to remain positive notwithstanding any short-term distortion, not least because of the substantial We have successfully managed a number infrastructure renewal required in the UK.
of important changes to our Board and We recognise the importance of dividends senior management over the last two to our shareholders.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 56.0 pence years, allowing us to maintain our track per share, an increase of 22%.
Combined record of performance and deliver further with the interim dividend of 26.0 pence per share, which was up 18%, this gives a total solid growth this year.
dividend for the year of 82.0 pence per share, representing growth of 21%.
The final Greg Fitzgerald dividend will be paid on 23 November 2016 Chairman to shareholders on the register at 28 October 2016.
With earnings per share of 132.5 pence, the total dividend is 1.6 times covered.
The result of the referendum to leave the EU inevitably created a backdrop of Earnings per share Dividend per share uncertainty for the new financial year.
Although this resulted in share price reductions across our sector peer groups, 132.5p 82p and Galliford Trys share price fell broadly in line with the sector, the Board remains 17% 21% confident about the prospects for the Group.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 23 Strategy Having the right culture is critical for success Our values The strategy we outlined in February 2014, and we recognise the Boards role in setting Our values encourage us to work ethically which set out detailed Group and divisional that culture and demonstrating the right and to the best of our abilities.
They shape targets to 2018, has served us well and our behaviours.
We were pleased to launch our our approach to day-to-day activities performance each year has been ahead refreshed Code of Conduct during the year.
and help us achieve our business goals, of plan.
Going forward we will likely follow This provides a framework for everyone in while ensuring we remain a good a similar course, focused on achieving Galliford Try, and those who work with us, corporate citizen.
to ensure everything we do is in line with We are currently finalising our strategic targets our values, the law and our high ethical Excellence for the period beyond 2018 and will standards.
Our values are the foundation Striving to deliver the best.
communicate these in due course.
our business is built on and we must continue Passion to live by them to retain our reputation as Setting objectives has a number of benefits.
Committed and enthusiastic in all that an industry leader.
More information about We want to be transparent and show we do.
our culture can be found in Peter Truscotts investors what we think we will achieve Q&A on page 5.
Collaboration over the next few years.
I also believe we Dedicated to working together to perform better when we have clear goals All businesses depend on their employees achieve results.
and that our ambition helps to attract, and Galliford Try has excellent people retain and motivate our people.
I have very Integrity Demonstrating strong ethical standards, much enjoyed my 35 years with the Group.
Board and Governance I leave with a degree of sadness but I am with openness and honesty.
This was a period of further evolution on the confident the Group is in great shape to Board.
As planned, Peter Truscott joined us meet the challenges ahead.
I want to thank as Chief Executive from 1 October 2015 People and culture everyone for their hard work and dedication and I moved from Executive to Non-executive In addition to our new Chief Executive joining, this year, and thank everyone I have worked Chairman from 1 January 2016.
As I there were notable changes to the executive with over my career, together with all announced in July 2016, I will step down team.
Bill Hocking joined us from Skanska stakeholders, for their support.
from the Board following the conclusion as Managing Director of Construction in of the 2016 AGM on 11 November 2016.
He became Chief Executive While the EU referendum and the resulting of Construction & Investments on 1 August In February 2016, we announced that Chief uncertainty may cause some distortion of 2016, as part of the smooth transition of Operating Officer Ken Gillespie had decided some of our markets, we are confident that Ken Gillespies responsibilities ahead of his to retire from the Group in 2017.
He stepped the outlook remains positive for all three of retirement.
Andrew Richards left in April 2016 down from the Board on 31 July 2016 but our businesses.
It may be necessary to after more than 15 years with the Group he will remain responsible for specific tasks make investment decisions in the short-term and its acquired businesses, most recently until his departure in 2017.
We thank Ken that reflect the current market conditions, as Managing Director of Linden Homes.
for his substantial contribution to the Groups but at the same time we remain confident We thank him for his contribution and wish success and wish him and his family all the about future prospects and continue to him well for the future.
With effect from best for the future.
1 July 2016, Stephen Teagle has assumed Galliford Try has a relatively new Board, the role of Chief Executive of the Partnerships Greg Fitzgerald with four of our five independent business.
From 9 August 2016, Tom Chairman non-executive directors having joined Nicholson and Andrew Hammond were us in the last three years, bringing fresh respectively appointed to the positions of perspectives to our discussions.
We have Divisional Chairman East and Divisional worked hard during this time to ensure Chairman West for Linden Homes.
the Board provides the leadership and oversight the Group requires to continue delivering strong operational and financial performance.
It was therefore gratifying that our externally facilitated Board evaluation in March 2016 reported that we have a strong Board that is working well together.
