Chairmans statement John Connolly, Chairman GOOD GOVERNANCE IN SUPPORT OF SUSTAINABLE GROWTH development and board succession planning.
We place In his introduction to the Strategic an ever stronger focus on risk management.
Good risk Report, our chief executive officer, management is fundamental to us delivering our strategy Ashley Almanza, outlined the substantial and it is therefore central to our decision making process.
In 2013, we established a Risk Committee designed to progress made during 2016 in ensure adequate focus was given to defining and implementing our strategy.
Having been embedding a new risk management framework within chairman for nearly five years, I am the organisation.
In 2016, the need for this committee, which is separate from the Audit Committee, was pleased to see that the transformation reviewed.
We concluded that the scale of the on-going programme initiated by Ashley and his transformation of the Group warrants the additional team in 2013 is delivering tangible results focus that a stand-alone committee devoted to risk provides.
Of equal importance is good communication and has created a solid platform for the with our shareholders and to this end we hold various Group to continue to develop further.
Further information on the engagements that took place during 2016 is set out on Our governance page 68.
The Companys policy on remuneration of Our governance structure, described in this report, directors is set out on pages 80 to 88 of this report and a separate resolution to approve this policy will be put is designed to enable the board to discharge its responsibilities.
In leading the board I am keen to foster to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 25 May 2017.
No material changes have been made an environment conducive to rigorous challenge and open debate amongst board members on strategy, since the policy was last approved in 2014.
We look forward to receiving shareholders support once again performance, risk, corporate accountability and sustainability.
Our board performance, both collective this year.
and individual, is reviewed every year and this exercise Changes to the board allows particular focus on any area identified for further Effective boards need directors who bring the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge and are drawn from a range of diverse backgrounds.
The work IN THIS SECTION associated with changes to the board and succession Board of directors 58 planning were important elements of the Nomination Executive committee 60 Committees activity during the year under review.
Corporate governance report 62 The work of the Nomination Committee during the Audit Committee report 72 year is described on page 69.
Directors remuneration report 78 As announced previously, Mark Elliott and Adam Crozier Directors report 99 retired from the board at the conclusion of the AGM on Directors responsibilities 102 26 May 2016.
Mark Elliott, who had been a nonexecutive director since 2006 and Senior Independent 56 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Director for nine years, handed over his role as Continuing business performance saw a 6.3% increase chairman of the Remuneration Committee to John Daly.
in revenue, which rose to 6.8 billion.
It is worth noting Himanshu Raja stepped down as Group CFO in the increased contribution of technology, software and October and was succeeded by Tim Weller - a former systems, which represented 13% of Group revenues in non-executive director of the G4S board and an 2016 10% in 2015.
This increase reflects our experienced FTSE Chief Financial Officer.
The board is continued investment in technology and innovation.
grateful to Mark, Adam and Himanshu for their The combination of growing revenues and better contributions during their tenure and delighted that Tim productivity generated a 9.7% increase in the Groups has moved into his new executive role within the Group.
Improved profit and more effective working capital management saw operating Over the last twelve months, two new directors - Steve cash flow rise by more than 61% to 638 million.
Mogford and Barbara Thoralfsson - joined the board.
Earnings per share rose by 16.5% to 15.9 pence Steve Mogford, who was appointed on 27 May, took on per share.
the role of Senior Independent Director.
Barbara Thoralfsson joined the board on 1 July.
In December we Growth in profits and operating cash flow, together announced that Ian Springett, a serving FTSE CFO with with disposal proceeds of 82 million helped reduce extensive international experience, would join the board the Groups net debt to 2.8x 2015: 3.4x and we from 1 January 2017 and take on the role of chair of the remain on track to meet the target of 2.5x in the next Audit Committee.
Unfortunately, due to the onset of a 12 to18 months.
medical condition, Ian was not able to take on the role The board is confident in the Groups outlook and of Audit Committee chair, although he remains on the proposes a final dividend of 5.82p DKK 0.5029 board and we look forward to his return as soon as per share, payable on 9 June 2017.
Paul Spence, who was already a member of the dividend of 3.59p DKK 0.3143 paid on 14 October, Audit Committee and had chaired the December Audit this will bring the total dividend for the year to 9.41p Committee meeting, was appointed as interim chair with per share DKK 0.8172. effect from 20 January 2017.
Paul, who also chairs the Risk Committee, has strong leadership skills and Values extensive experience of the complexities faced by We recognise the value of a healthy corporate culture, businesses with an international footprint.
which supports our strategic objectives and is not only The diversity of skills and experience brought by the an enabler and a differentiator i. e. a source of new board members is already proving very valuable.
competitive advantage, but also protects and generates Steve Mogford, a serving CEO and Barbara Thoralfsson value.
It is important that our corporate culture is clear both bring extensive technology and international in its content and effective at all levels within our business experience to the board.
With this in mind, we embarked on an have undoubtedly added to the diversity of skills and exercise to refresh our corporate values during 2016. backgrounds of the board.
Succession planning and The CSR Committee oversaw the process, reviewing ensuring we have the skills required to enable the board progress and providing input at each of its meetings.
to provide effective challenge and oversight in support This thorough exercise resulted in simpler values, that sit of the continuing transformation of the Group is kept within a framework, which enables all employees across under constant review.
the Group readily tounderstand their relevance to our business and how they work together.
Results The values are being embedded in our human resources It is pleasing to be able to report on good progress in processes from recruitment through to evaluation.
2016 with the management team working well together.
Our 2017 global senior management and employee As reported by our chief executive on page 4, 2016 surveys will also be aligned to the new values.
During saw further substantial progress in implementing the the year, the board will have a number of opportunities Groups strategy.
to engage with employees across the Group and these meetings will give directors useful insight into how BOARD CULTURE the values are embedding in the business.
Further information on our values can be found on page 15 Creating and maintaining an effective and in our CSR Report 2016. board culture is vital to ensuring good decision making, healthy debate and People challenge and also to set the tone for the With operations in around 100 countries and over rest of the organisation.
A key element of the selection process for each new board 585,000 employees, we are acutely aware that G4S is member is to assess whether a particular well placed to contribute positively to societies across candidate willbring the right level the world.
Our employees play an important role in this ofchallenge, independence and openness.
On behalf of the board, I wish to thank the The result is a board where members are both challenging but also supportive of employees of G4S whose hard work and dedication in each other.
delivering services to customers in sometimes difficult and challenging environments is truly inspiring.
Culture features implicitly or explicitly in all discussions and interactions.
We recognise that strong governance is an essential component of a healthy culture John Connolly and that the board should set the tone Chairman for the entire organisation.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 57
