Introduction Chairmans statement Mr Ian Reeves CBE Chairman Dividends and returns relating to mature renewable energy and PFI investments with operational One of the Companys key objectives is track records, were driven by to provide shareholders with regular, comparable market transactions and sustainable longterm dividends.
Net For the fourth consecutive year the Im pleased to report valuation movements accounted for a Company has paid dividends of that the Company, 1.05% increase in the Companys net 7.6 pence per share.
This predictable asset value at 30 September 2016. and dependable income has resulted entering its seventh in a consistently strong demand for Equity raisings and investments year, has produced the Companys shares.
The Companys During the year, the Company raised share price has been resilient and another period of gross proceeds of 95 million through stable in the midst of wider market placings of 16.9 million and measured growth, upheaval, including the postBrexit 64.4 million shares issued at tremors, and has performed strongly maintaining a high 118.00 and 116.50 pence per share over the last few months.
Both share issuances level of dividend Companys share price at the year were oversubscribed, a continuing end was 131.60 pence per share, distributions and reflection of investors support of and representing a premium to net asset confidence in the investment strategy enjoying a robust share value of 20%, producing a total of the Company.
shareholder return for the year price performance.
The Board believes that considered of 15.6%.
and conservative growth benefits Net asset valuation shareholders through increased share The net asset value per share liquidity, economies of scale, and increased over the year from 107.47 further investment diversification.
This was The Company made loan investments primarily driven by the accretive totalling 92.8 million over the period nature of shares issued at a premium with 53.6 million advanced post to prevailing net asset values and year end.
Valuation discount rate reductions over the year, GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  04 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Chancellors Autumn Statement on 23 November 2016 was full of positive sentiment toward future UK infrastructure development, with infrastructure spending still seen as a key tool to boost economic growth.
Investment portfolio difference auction for renewable With the Brexit decision now over six energy projects in April 2017, there months behind us, the impact of the The Companys loan investments have is room for cautious optimism that UKs decision to leave the EU remains performed well, accruing an average a meaningful infrastructure difficult to quantify.
In part, that is yield of c. 9.0% throughout the year, development pipeline will emerge.
simply due to the enduring uncertainty with the operational and construction that surrounds the withdrawal process performance of most of the projects Over the last few years, the influx of and the nature of the UKs longerterm that support the Companys capital seeking both debt and equity relationship with the rest of the EU.
investment portfolio being materially exposure to UK infrastructure has Key economic repercussions seem to in line with expectations.
Two biomass driven up prices in many of the be an increased likelihood of higher projects have encountered operational Companys target investment sectors.
The and grid connection challenges, issues This has resulted in valuation uplifts Company is well positioned to weather that have been reflected in valuation on some of the Companys existing both eventualities with inflation reductions, but the Board are assets, a reduction in available protection across half of its instigating in both cases a clear investment yields and a challenging investments, valuation discount rates plan to achieve much improved investment environment.
at material premiums to the riskfree performance.
The Companys However, most investors, institutional rate and a profile of principal investment portfolio is 26% exposed investors in particular, tend to be repayments that, in a higher interest to PFI projects, 64% to renewable restricted to opportunities larger in rate environment, would allow energy assets, 9% to social housing size and profile.
This has meant that reinvestment at higher rates of return.
transactions and 1% to asset finance.
the Company still remains well Principal risks and uncertainties Market outlook and investment focus positioned to achieve attractive returns The principal risks faced by the The Chancellors Autumn Statement by investing in smaller infrastructure Company include but are not limited on 23 November 2016 was full of projects in areas that continue to be to execution risk, portfolio risk, positive sentiment toward future UK poorly served by the broad lending financial risk, operational risk, infrastructure development, with market.
The Company has also found cybercrime and regulatory, legal and infrastructure spending still seen as an increasing number of opportunities compliance risk.
The full details can a key tool to boost economic growth.
to lend at attractive rates against be found on pages 30 to 33.
There seems to have been a policy wellperforming operational assets shift towards smaller projects that, it supported by legacy subsidy regimes is hoped, will have a more immediate as asset owners seek to refinance impact on productivity.
The Chancellor existing debt or lenders look to sell gave particular mention to areas such Mr Ian Reeves CBE down positions.
Particular areas of as road and rail improvements, Chairman focus are social housing for vulnerable ultrafast fibre networks and social adults, smallscale PFI and 13 December 2016 housing.
Given the Governments established areas within the commitment to announce a new PF2 renewable energy sector.
pipeline early next year and the longawaited second contracts for GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  05 Strategic report Strategic report Overview To provide shareholders with Strategic regular, sustained, longterm distributions and to preserve the overview capital value of its investment assets over the long term.
Read more pages 8 to 11 UK infrastructure assets involving UK infrastructure private sector investment typically generate revenues from longterm, market public sector backed contracts.
Read more pages 12 and 13 The Chancellors Autumn Statement Market reaffirmed the Governments support for private sector outlook investment in UK infrastructure.
Read more pages 14 to 17 GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  06 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Company raised a total Review of 95 million, made eleven investments totalling 92.8 million of the year and delivered a total shareholder return of 15.6%.
Read more pages 18 to 21 The Company is exposed to a Investment portfolio of 43 infrastructure loans valued at 699.7 million with an portfolio average annualised yield of 8.8% and an average life across the portfolio of 15 years.
Read more pages 22 to 29 The Board and the AIFM recognise Principal risks that risk is inherent in the operation of the Company and are committed and uncertainties to effective risk management to protect and maximise shareholder value.
Read more pages 30 to 33 GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  07
