04 Chairmans Introduction Implementing a Successful Strategy Genus PIC and our Asian operations were the driving forces behind this growth, with Genus ABS seeing profits decline as its dairy Genus delivered another customers faced further falls in milk prices.
strongperformance in 2016, The Groups strategy focuses on creating differentiated products, targeting key markets, and sharing in the value we deliver to withasecond consecutive year customers.
We made further strong progress against each of these objectives.
Our research and development programmes ofrobust profitgrowth.
are producing genetic gains that offer increased productivity, efficiency and profit to our customers.
We aim to be at the forefront of science in our field and in the year developed or acquired exclusive rights to gene editing technology and applications.
We also made good progress in preparing our GenusSexed Semen technology for commercialisation.
China and India are the worlds largest porcine and dairy markets respectively.
We signed further royalty agreements in China and opened a world-class bull stud in India, positioning us for future growth in these markets.
As well as increasing our strategically important royalty revenues, we continued to demonstrate the value of our genetics through new proprietary indices targeted at traits that create value for commercial customers thus helping customers to understand thebenefits of our superior genetics and allowing us to share inthe value we add.
Developing our Board and People The latest independent evaluation of the Board and its Committees shows that the Board continues to provide strong and effective leadership.
Succession planning and diversity are important focus areas for us and having previously identified the need for an additional Non-Executive Director, we were delighted to appoint Lysanne Gray to the Board during the year.
Lysanne brings considerable experience of risk management, audit, business operations and the food sector, broadening the range ofskills and knowledge on the Board.
Mike Buzzacott will be retiring from the Board at this years Annual General Meeting, after more than seven years as a Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Board I want to acknowledge his significant contribution during this time, particularly in transforming the Committee into an effective value adding resource, whilst developing and embedding our risk management processes.
We thank him for his contributions and wish him well for the future.
More information on the Board and our corporate governance arrangements can be found on pages 44 to 87.
Bob Lawson Chairman of the Board Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 05 Genus employs over 2,600 people in 26 countries, whose expertise and dedication enable us to innovate and deliver for customers.
I want to thank everyone for helping to make this another successful Our Values year.
In recognition of our peoples importance, we continue to invest in developing their skills and ensuring we have astrong pipeline of critical talent coming through the organisation.
To enhance our proprietary, differentiated products for customers, We are one team, dedicated to Customer in the last year we have focused on recruiting, retaining and helping customers thrive.
We Centric developing employees who can help us explore and harness anticipate their needs and help outstanding science.
them seize opportunities, acting as partners to improve quality, The Board recognises its responsibility for setting the behaviours efficiency and output.
If were not and ethical standards we want to see throughout Genus.
Our adding value for our customers, values see right underpin our culture, which is one of respect, westop and think again.
We are proactive, determined to Results Since the year end, we have been focused on the court case bethe best we can be and to exceed Driven withInguran LLC trading as Sexing Technologies ST in Madison, expectations.
The jurys verdict, delivered in mid-August, confirmed for ourselves, our customers and that ST had wilfully maintained monopoly power in the market our industry.
Every one of us takes for processing bovine sexed semen since July 2012, but that ABS pride in delivering the highest level had infringed two patents and breached confidentiality under our of performance.
If something can existing contract with ST. We are currently awaiting the courts beimproved, we find a simpler, decision on our request for an injunction which, if granted, will better way to do it.
allow us to terminate the existing ST contract and remove the We are an innovative, forwardcontractual prohibitions preventing the launch of our GSS product Pioneering thinking company.
We have the in the short term.
Full details of the case can be found in note 7 courage and confidence to explore but as shareholders will readily understand this is an important new ideas and the energy and milestone in the development of the ABS dairy business.
We are creative, tenacious and resourceful Returns to Shareholders in every area of our work.
The Board aims to balance the need to invest in the business, sowe can capture the growth opportunities we see in front of us, We are a business rooted in science People with the requirement to offer shareholders an attractive return but built around our people.
We oncapital and rising dividends.
Focused inspire, challenge and support everyone to perform, develop and We are recommending a final dividend of 14.7 pence per grow.
We treat others with respect share, giving a total dividend for the year of 21.4 pence per and we invite views and feedback share, following the interim dividend of 6.7 pence.
This represents tohelp us improve.
an increase of 10% over last years total dividend of 19.5 pence.
Thefinal dividend will be paid on 2 December 2016, to shareholders We are ethical to our core.
We feel Responsible on the register at the close of business on 18 November 2016. a deep sense of responsibility to ourcustomers, colleagues, animals, Summary communities and shareholders.
This was a pleasing year for Genus, with robust financial Weare honest, reliable and performance in often difficult markets, and good progress trustworthy.
We mean what we withour strategy.
In the coming year, the Board will continue sayand do what we say.
to focus on successfully implementing the Groups strategy, the competitive landscape, managing risk and continuing to enhance governance.
2017 will see us step up our investment in research and development, as we look to further develop and progress our differentiated product offerings and position the business forlong-term success.
Bob Lawson Chairman 7 September 2016 Genus plc Annual Report 2016
