CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Continuing to perform 2016 proved to be an interesting its commitment and diligence throughout the process.
Against a backdrop of heightened political and economic In order to remain competitive, we need to ensure that the Group runs as efficiently and uncertainty, the Group once productively as possible.
To this end, we again proved its resilience with announced in July 2016 that we were taking a good set of results.
As a global action to reduce fixed costs across the Group manufacturer working for some and this was achieved in the second half of the year.
of the most technically demanding customers, we continued to deliver Dividend for our stakeholders.
Earnings per share on a management basis Mike Turner CBE Our strategy increased to 31.0 pence in 2016 with a first Chairman full year contribution from Fokker.
We have a clear strategy with an overarching objective to maintain above market growth.
In light of our performance during the year, we have again increased our dividend and GKN Aerospaces focus moved from the are recommending a final dividend of 5.9 acquisition of Fokker, completed in October pence per share, making a total of 8.85 2015, to its integration.
The integration has pence per share for the year, an increase progressed well and Fokker has performed of approximately 2% over the prior year.
It has also brought some excellent people who will make a very positive contribution to GKN Board changes Aerospace in the future.
Succession planning is a key Board GKN Driveline has made good strategic responsibility and a strong talent pipeline is progress in the past year making advances crucial to the Groups success.
As reported in its eDrive and hybrid electric technology.
last year, Kevin Cummings and Phil Swash With the electric vehicle market growing were appointed to the Board in January faster than envisaged, this is an important 2016, having been members of the step for the division and the Group.
Subsequently, in order to rebalance the GKN Powder Metallurgy continues to push composition of the Board and bring a fresh ahead with its additive manufacturing perspective to Board discussions, Anne technology and its digital approach to Stevens was appointed as an independent manufacturing.
Best practice will be non-executive Director in July 2016.
Annes spread across GKN to take advantage of knowledge of the automotive and aerospace these advances.
markets is a great asset to the Board.
The sale of the Stromag business and the subsequent restructuring of the Group into three divisions was an important step in sharpening GKNs focus.
I would like to thank the GKN Land Systems team for 12 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION In 2016, GKN Aerospace was named one of the top 100 apprenticeship employers and our Filton site won an award for its apprentice programme.
People 100 apprenticeship employers and our Filton site won an award for its apprentice Our people have worked hard to deliver these programme.
In April 2017, a new results and I would like to thank them for their 8.85p apprenticeship levy will come into force for UK hard work and commitment.
companies which recognises the importance Total dividend per share 2015: 8.7p Our employees are critical to the successful of this vital form of technical training.
Every year, GKN delivers billions of products to its customers Summary around the world and our employees ensure they are delivered with the right specification Overall, 2016 was a good year.
Fokker is to the right place at the right time.
integrating well into GKN Aerospace and performed more strongly than expected.
During the year, we conducted a global Sales in GKN Driveline once again grew employee engagement survey to identify above its end markets and GKN Powder areas in which we could improve the Metallurgy continued to deliver good returns.
experience of working at GKN.
Action plans Most importantly, we continued to position have been developed at site level following the Group for the future including by taking the survey responses and their success will action to reduce fixed costs across the Group be measured in the coming year.
and selling our Stromag business in order to focus our investment on core operations.
Culture During the year, we undertook an external Looking ahead Board evaluation and I was pleased that The changes in the political landscape in 31.0p the culture of our Board was highlighted as 2016 have brought uncertainty regarding a particular strength.
I believe this extends new trade arrangements and policies.
Earnings per share on a management to the Group overall: there is an ingrained However, with a clear strategy and basis 2015: 27.8p culture of doing the right thing at all levels.
a sharpened focus, I am confident that The cornerstones of GKNs culture and the GKN will continue to succeed.
behaviours expected of its leaders are encapsulated in the GKN DNA: more information can be found on page 20.
We continue to focus on diversity and engagement as our key initiatives in 2017.
Apprentices The availability of quality apprenticeships that develop valuable vocational skills is important not only to young people who are looking for Mike Turner CBE development opportunities but also to the Chairman future of UK industry.
GKN has a good record in providing such apprenticeships: in 2016, GKN Aerospace was named one of the top GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
