04 GSK Annual Report 2016 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that GSK made The Board was unanimous in its decision to further good progress during 2016. appoint Emma Walmsley, previously Head Operating performance signicantly of GSKs Consumer Healthcare business, improved in our three businesses and there as the new CEO.
Emma has very strong was continued progress in the late and early leadership skills and a clear track record of stage R&D pipeline.
In every important area, delivery on performance.
The Board believe it has been a year of solid achievement.
Emma will bring new thinking to how the Group operates in todays healthcare 2016 performance environment, whilst at the same time Management continues to make strong harnessing the momentum evident in progress in driving the sales and cost current performance.
benets from the integration of the Novartis I want to thank Sir Andrew again for his GSK made further businesses in Vaccines and Consumer dedicated service to GSK.
These businesses have been progress during 2016. commitment and leadership GSK has built transformed through the transaction and are a balanced set of businesses with ne now true global leaders in their respective Operating performance prospects and delivered very significant markets, well positioned strategically and signicantly improved improving nancially.
rewards to shareholders with substantial cash returns.
He has also led efforts to and there was continued In Pharmaceuticals, new product sales address the most pressing concerns the have shown very good momentum, industry faces, ranging from reforming our progress in the R&D particularly in HIV and Respiratory.
New commercial model, increasing transparency products now make up around a quarter of pipeline.
of trial results, and ensuring medicines are total pharmaceutical sales.
This is important priced more fairly and made more accessible given the pricing pressure faced generally by to patients worldwide.
He will be much pharmaceutical companies and the potential missed within GSK and we wish him well in introduction of generic competition to Advair his future endeavours.
Read more for many years the Groups biggest single Board changes during the year source of profits in the US during 2017.
We continue to refresh the Board.
In 2016 Governance report See page 80 The Groups improved operational we welcomed two new Non-Executive performance also contributed to markedly Our Corporate Governance report sets out our Directors: Dr Jesse Goodman and Dr increased cash generation.
Operational corporate governance practices and includes Vivienne Cox.
Jesse is Professor of Medicine cash ow also benefited strongly from the the reports of our Board Committees.
at Georgetown University and a leader in devaluation of Sterling following the Brexit public health, and Vivienne brings many Remuneration See page 112 vote in June, although the value of nonyears experience in complex global sterling liabilities for debt funding and Our Remuneration report sets out our manufacturing organisations.
Meanwhile, contingent consideration, has also remuneration arrangements for Executive and Stacey Cartwright stepped down from the increased.
Non-Executive Directors and includes our new Board at the end of December.
My thanks go Remuneration policy for 2017.
Ordinary dividends of 80p per share have to Stacey for nearly six years of dedicated been declared for 2016, the same level as service to the Board.
The company expects to maintain the As we enter a critical period of pipeline Our Boards Diversity policy, including gender, same payment in 2017, in accordance with activity, we have reected this on the Board sets out measurable objectives which our the statements made in 2015.
This level of with the creation of a new Board Science Nominations Committee monitors and reports distribution still exceeds the free cash ow Committee, chaired by Dr Goodman.
In progress towards their achievement.
generated by the business despite the addition, Dr Patrick Vallance, President R&D, material improvement in cash generated Viability statement See page 56 has joined the Board.
Later this year, Moncef in 2016 referred to above.
Given that 2017 Slaoui will step down from the Board after Our Viability statement sets out our assessment is the last year of the three year dividend 28 years with the company.
Moncef is a of the prospects of the Group over the next commitment made in 2015, the Board will scientist of global repute and has been a three years.
be considering the appropriate dividend remarkable presence at GSK, particularly policy for 2018 and beyond during the in the Vaccines business.
We wish him, course of the year.
CEO succession In closing, I would like to thank all GSKs A key area of focus for the Board through employees and partners for their hard 2016 has been to manage the CEO work and dedication.
The business has succession as Sir Andrew steps down outstanding people and they have made after 33 years with the company and into 2016 a very successful year.
The Board conducted a thorough, global search for a successor, which included internal and external candidates.
