Governance Chairmans introduction We recognise that access to water is an essential need for Dear Shareholders, our host communities, as it is for our operations.
A working 2016 was a year of considerable action by your Company group comprising experts from across our business has and your Board as we transitioned from a higher-geared worked this year to better understand operations where company in a tough sector down-cycle to a business with a access to water may be a challenge, due either to its surplus robust balance sheet and a more positive or scarcity, and are now looking at appropriate operating environment.
From a governance and commercial perspective, our Our activities generate significant benefits for our host unrelenting focus has been on the rapid delivery of our debt governments and communities.
To support responsible reduction programme which we announced in September management of revenues from extractive activities, we have 2015.
We ignored distractions, including gradually this year published a report detailing our payments to host improving market conditions, to deliver an outturn that has governments on a project-by-project level.
We also continue surpassed our initial challenging objectives.
I believe that to support the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative this is testament to the strength of our Board and the quality EITI, and participate in in-country efforts to strengthen of our management team.
New regulation and guidance on governance continue We continue to focus on dialogue with our host apace.
We seek to engage with the Financial Reporting communities: by supporting local training, business Council, the Investment Association and other bodies where development and procurement: and by investment in public appropriate.
As an example, I participated in the FRCs infrastructure such as roads and water and power consultation on culture, and its working group published distribution.
We strive to do so while meeting our their report in July last year.
We agree that a healthy responsibility to respect human rights, as detailed by the corporate culture leads to long-term success by both UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights.
We believe that our To achieve this, we identify and assess our human rights reaction to our challenges over the past 18 months or so has impacts, and maintain mechanisms at our operations to been testament to the strong culture of Glencore which has enable our host communities to raise concerns, complaints endured in a time of stress and challenge for the business.
Safety remains critical to the Board.
We remain committed We aim to deliver competitively-priced commodities that to our goal of zero fatalities.
Our condolences go to the meet our stakeholders needs and contribute to global families of the sixteen people who lost their lives last year, society.
A number of our products, such as copper, cobalt including ten people who died following two separate and nickel, play a key role in the transition to a lower-carbon incidents at our copper operations in central Africa.
We work to understand fully our products All members of the HSEC Committee visited these sites in properties in order to produce, transport and store them 2016, and have worked closely with the management of the safely, and we share this knowledge with our stakeholders operations to understand the causes of these tragic events in our value chains.
Similarly, as in previous years, we met with the management of each of the operations that Never before has the Group been so well positioned for the experienced fatalities last year to discuss the incidents and opportunities that lie ahead.
Glencore today is a highly cash ensure that appropriate learnings have been identified and generative business, underpinned by the resilience of our shared throughout the organisation to prevent recurrence.
marketing business, strong asset portfolio and excellent management team.
At the 2016 AGM, shareholders approved the Aiming for A resolution, which called for a comprehensive response to the challenges posed by climate change.
I am chairing an internal working group on climate change, which includes business heads and senior representatives of key functions.
The working group is leading the delivery of our climate change commitments.
We have used this years budget planning process to develop a view of the projected energy use and emissions footprint of our operations until 2020, Anthony Hayward and will be using this information to identify strategic Chairman opportunities to reduce our emissions footprint and drive 1 March 2017 meaningful targets in the business.
We also continue to engage positively in public policy debates in countries where we operate concerning carbon-related regulation.
80 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors Anthony Hayward Chairman Age 59 Appointed: Anthony Hayward was appointed Dr Hayward was chief executive of BP plc from 2007 Independent Non-Executive Chairman in May 2013. to 2010, having joined BP in 1982 as a rig geologist in Prior to being appointed Chairman he was the Senior the North Sea.
He became group treasurer in 2000, Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
chief executive for BP upstream activities and member of the main Board of BP in 2003.
Committees: Health, Safety, Environment and Communities HSEC Dr Hayward studied geology at Aston University in Birmingham and completed a Ph.
D at Edinburgh Experience: Dr Hayward is non-executive chairman University.
He is also a fellow of the Royal Society of of Genel Energy plc LON:GENL, a partner and Edinburgh and holds honorary doctorates from the member of the European advisory Board of AEA University of Edinburgh, Aston University, the Capital and chairman of Compact GTL Limited.
University of Birmingham and Aberdeen University.
Ivan Glasenberg Chief Executive Officer Age 60 Appointed: Ivan Glasenberg joined Glencore in In January 1990, he was made responsible for the April1984 and has been Chief Executive Officer worldwide coal business of Glencore for both sinceJanuary 2002. marketing and industrial assets, and remained in this role until he became Chief Executive Officer Committees: HSEC inJanuary 2002.
Experience: Mr Glasenberg initially spent three years Mr Glasenberg is a Chartered Accountant of South working in the coal commodity department in South Africa and holds a Bachelor of Accountancy from the Africa as a marketer, before spending two years in University of Witwatersrand.
Mr Glasenberg also Australia as head of the Asian coal commodity holds an MBA from the University of Southern division.
Between 1988 and 1989, he was based in California.
He is currently a non-executive director of Hong Kong as head of Glencores Hong Kong and United Company Rusal plc HKG: 0486.
Before joining Beijing offices, as well as head of coal marketing in Glencore, Mr Glasenberg worked for five years at Asia, where his responsibilities included overseeing Levitt Kirson Chartered Accountants in South Africa.
the Asian coal marketing business of Glencore and managing the administrative functions of the Hong Kong and Beijing offices.
Peter Coates AO Non-Executive Director Age 71 Appointed: Peter Coates has been a Non-Executive He was non-executive chairman of Xstrata Australia Director since January 2014.
Prior to this he served as from January 2008 until August 2009.
From April an Executive Director from June to December 2013 2008 until April 2011, he was a non-executive and a Non-Executive Director from April 2011 to chairman of Minara Resources Ltd. From May 2013 May2013.
toJune 2016, he was a non-executive chairman of Sphere Minerals Limited.
Mr. Coates is non-executive Committees: HSEC Chairman chairman of Santos Limited ASX:STO and a Experience: Prior to joining Glencore in 1994 as a non-executive director of Event Hospitality and senior executive in the coal department, Mr Coates Entertainment Limited ASX:EVT.
Mr Coates is a had occupied senior positions in a range of resource past chairman of the Minerals Council of Australia, companies, including those mining silver, lead, the NSW Minerals Council and the Australian nickel, iron ore, bauxite and coal.
in2002 as chief executive of Xstratas coal business, Mr Coates holds a Bachelor of Science degree in when Glencore sold its Australian and South Mining Engineering from the University of New Africancoal assets to Xstrata, stepping down South Wales.
He was appointed to the Office of the inDecember 2007.
Order of Australia in June 2009 and awarded the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy Medal for 2010.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 81 Governance Directors and Officers Leonhard Fischer Independent Non-Executive Director Age 54 Appointed: Leonhard Fischer was appointed an Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of Winterthur Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Group from 2003 to 2006 and a member of the executive Board of Credit Suisse Group from 2003 Committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination toMarch 2007.
He joined Credit Suisse Group from and Remuneration Allianz AG, where he had been a member of the Experience: Mr Fischer was chief executive officer of management Board and head of the corporates and BHF Kleinwort Benson Group S. A. formerly RHJ markets division.
Prior to this, he had been a International S. A. from January 2009 until April memberof the executive Board of Dresdner Bank 2016, having been co-chief executive officer since AGin Frankfurt.
Mr Fischer holds an M. A. in Finance from the University of Georgia.
William Macaulay Independent Non-Executive Director Age 71 Appointed: William Macaulay was appointed as an Mr Macaulay is a director of Weatherford Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2011. International NYSE:WFT.
He also serves on numerous private energy company Boards.
Committees: Audit and Remuneration Mr Macaulay holds a B.
A. degree with honours in Experience: Mr Macaulay is the chairman and chief Economics from City College of New York, and an executive officer of First Reserve Corporation, a MBA from the Wharton School of the University of private equity investment firm focused on the energy Pennsylvania.
He has also received an Honorary industry, and has been with the company since its Doctor of Humane Letters degree from founding in 1983.
Prior to joining First Reserve, Mr Macaulay was a co-founder of Meridien Capital Company, a private equity buyout firm.
From 1972 to 1982, he served as director of corporate finance at Oppenheimer & Co. with direct responsibility for the firms buyout business.
He also served as president of Oppenheimer Energy Corporation.
Peter Grauer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Age 71 Appointed: Peter Grauer was appointed as an Prior to this, Mr Grauer was managing director of Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013 Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1992 to 2000 and became the Senior Independent Non-Executive whenDLJ was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston Director in May 2014. and founder of DLJ Merchant Banking.
He served asmanaging director and senior partner of CSFB Committees: Nomination Chairman and Audit Private Equity until 2002.
Mr Grauer is a director Experience: Mr Grauer is chairman of Bloomberg ofBlackstone NYSE:BX and Davita Inc NYSE:DVA.
Inc. the global financial media company that was Mr Grauer is also a member ofthe International founded in 1981.
Mr Grauer was chairman and chief Business Council of the World Economic Forum, and executive officer from 2002 to 2011 and has been a a trustee of Rockefeller University.
member of Bloombergs Board of Directors since 1996.
Mr Grauer graduated from the University of North Carolina and the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Program for Management Development in 1975.
82 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Patrice Merrin Independent Non-Executive Director Age 68 Appointed: Patrice Merrin was appointed as an Ms Merrin was a director of the Alberta Climate Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2014.
Change and Emissions Management Corporation from 2009 to 2014.
She was also a member of the Committees: HSEC Canadian Advisory Panel on Sustainable Energy Experience: Ms Merrin is currently a non-executive Science and Technology from 2005 to 2006, and from director of Stillwater Mining NYSE:SWC and 2003 to 2006 was a member of Canadas Round Table Novadaq Technologies Inc Nasdaq:NVDQ.
She has on the Environment and the Economy.
been a director and then chairman of CML Ms Merrin is a graduate of Queens University, Healthcare from 2008 to 2013, of Enssolutions, a mine Ontario and completed the Advanced Management tailing solutions company, and of NB Power.
Following initial roles with Molson and Canadian Pacific, Ms Merrin worked at Sherritt, the Canadian diversified miner, for 10 years until 2004, latterly as COO.
She then became CEO of Luscar, Canadas largest thermal coal producer.
John Mack Independent Non-Executive Director Age 72 Appointed: John Mack was appointed as an Mr Mack previously served as chief executive officer Independent Non-Executive Director in June 2013. of Morgan Stanley from June 2005 until December 2009.
He retired as chairman in 2011.
Mr Mack first Committees: Remuneration Chairman joined Morgan Stanley in May 1972, becoming a and Nomination Board Director in 1987 and was named President Experience: Mr Mack is a non-executive director of in 1993.
Enduring Hydro, Corinthian Opthalmic and Lending Before rejoining Morgan Stanley as chairman and Club Corporation NYSE:LC.
Mr Mack also serves on chief executive officer in June 2005, Mr Mack served the Advisory Board of China Investment as co-chief executive officer of Credit Suisse Group Corporation, is a member of the International and chief executive officer of Credit Suisse Business Council of the World Economic Forum, the First Boston.
NYC Financial Services Advisory Committee and the Shanghai International Financial Advisory Council.
Mr Mack is a graduate of Duke University.
Officers Steven Kalmin Chief Financial Officer Age 46 Appointed: Steven Kalmin has been Chief Financial Mr Kalmin holds a Bachelor of Business with Officer since June 2005. distinction from the University of Technology, Sydney and is a member of the Chartered Experience: Steven Kalmin joined Glencore in Accountants Australia and New Zealand and the September 1999 as general manager of finance and Financial Services Institute of Australasia.
treasury functions at Glencores coal industrial unit which became part of Xstrata.
Mr Kalmin moved to Before joining Glencore, Mr Kalmin worked for nine Glencores Baar head office in October 2003 to oversee years at Horwath Chartered Accountants in Sydney, Glencores accounting and reporting functions, leaving the firm as a director.
becoming Chief Financial Officer in June 2005.
John Burton Company Secretary Age 52 Appointed: John Burton was appointed Company Secretary in September 2011.
Experience: He was formerly company secretary and general counsel of Informa plc and before that a partner of CMS in London specialising in corporate law.
A. degree in Law from Durham University.
He was admitted as a Solicitor inEngland and Wales in 1990.
