Chairmans statement Andrew Allner, Chairman we are clear what we stand for today and what we need to Dear Shareholder stand for in the future.
We believe that the trust our people We have delivered robust results for the year slightly ahead of and our customers place in us must be earned every day and our expectations and have achieved high levels of passenger that is why we are committed to taking care of every journey.
satisfaction in the majority of our businesses.
However, we have seen challenges in the year with particular difficulties in the Performance GTR franchise, which has faced operational issues and capacity constraints associated with the Thameslink Programme from Overall, the Group delivered robust financial performance in the start.
This complex franchise, on which more than one the year, demonstrating the effectiveness of our long standing million passenger journeys are made every weekday, is being strategy of providing high quality and locally focused passenger More information modernised to meet ever-growing demand.
We achieved good profit growth in our bus on page 46 industrial action has compounded disruption on the network business, despite a number of headwinds and, as planned, have and, as a result, we have not provided the levels of reliability met the 100m profit target when adjusting for the impact of and service our passengers expect.
As previously announced IAS 19 revised.
Importantly, customer satisfaction in our our margin on the GTR franchise over the life of the franchise regional bus continues to lead the industry.
In London we is now expected to be lower than originally forecast.
remain the largest bus operator.
Your Board is very focused on addressing these issues along In rail, our Southeastern and London Midland franchises with key partners.
We are sorry that the introduction of recorded strong financial results.
London Midland was also changes, which will be of great benefit in the longer term, is successful in securing a direct award contract and achieved creating inconvenience and hardship for passengers.
a strong customer satisfaction score of 86%.
Early in the year I appreciate how frustrating and difficult it is when things Southern and Gatwick Express were integrated into GTR, go wrong.
resulting in the creation of a new business and new leadership team.
Your Group has a highly experienced and committed management team with integrity, a clear strategy and a strong During the year we continued to invest in future growth with focus on improving passenger satisfaction.
I believe that, with further disciplined capital investments across the Group to continued government support, we are well placed to address make our existing business more attractive to our customers.
the challenges and to bring about the improvements in service We will continue to invest in the talent and skills of our people, to which we aspire.
through training and development, and by enabling them to network across the Group to learn from each other.
We will also continue to invest in long term relationship building.
Our Contributing to society future lies in our ability to engage with stakeholders and At Go-Ahead, the contribution we make to society is develop appropriate solutions to their needs.
We need to ensure the Group is in a sound financial position and that our investors and lenders make Go-Ahead is developing an increasingly diverse portfolio of appropriate returns for the capital and debt they provide and operations that will reduce our dependence on any single the risks involved.
This then enables us to focus on our role market or contract and ensures we have excellent knowledge in society which is to provide reliable and high quality of, and access to, a range of new opportunities.
This year we public transport.
are pleased to have won business in two overseas markets.
In Singapore, Go-Ahead was successful in its bid for a five-year Your Board spends considerable time on shaping our Groups bus services contract, while in Germany the Group was culture, which guides us as we renew and advance the business.
awarded two contracts for rail services.
Doing the right thing for our customers has always been a core part of who we are, and drives our ongoing improvement.
Dividend Your Chief Executive, David Brown, has recently led a review of Our underlying business performance and confidence in the Go-Aheads vision, beliefs and attitudes, which underpin our medium term outlook have enabled the Board to propose a culture.
Through talking to a wide cross-section of stakeholders, 2016 final dividend of 67.52p per share, supported by bus including employees and industry partners, we are making sure 88 The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 2016 Accounts 2016 Str Strategic repor ategic report t Go Gov ver ernance finance Financial statements Financial statements Shareholder inf Shareholder infor ormation mation division profitability.
Combined with the interim dividend of Doing the right thing for our customers has always been 28.33p per share, the proposed total dividend will be 95.85p a core part of who we are, and drives our ongoing per share, an increase of 6.5%.
The final dividend will be paid on improvement of the organisation.
25 November 2016 to all shareholders on the register at close of business on 11 November 2016.
Your Board has a clear capital allocation policy for the Group In March we welcomed Patrick Butcher, who was appointed to which is continually under review.
We consider our policy for the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer.
Patrick brings a capital structure and how surplus cash is to be deployed wealth of industry experience, having joined from Network between ongoing operations, investment in new franchises and Rail where he was Group Finance Director since 2009.
He has new businesses, ongoing dividends to shareholders and made an excellent start and is already making a valuable possible further returns to shareholders.
Our objective is to contribution to the Group.
retain an efficient capital structure, whilst maintaining financial flexibility in the event of downside scenarios or new I would also like to thank the previous Group Finance Director, investment opportunities, and to provide additional returns to Keith Down, for the significant contribution he made in his four shareholders where it is prudent to do so.
Robust corporate governance Looking ahead It has always been important to me that Go-Aheads Board Whilst the past year was challenging, good progress has been functions as a key strategic partner and sounding board for made on many fronts.
These developments provide a solid management, challenging us all to be better.
We pride ourselves base from which to take advantage of future opportunities.
on our reputation for conducting business activities in the Our strategy of increased marketing, use of technology, the highest ethical and professional manner, guided by our development of partnerships with local authorities and corporate governance principles and practices as well as strong improved customer service is already producing results and will Board oversight.
The composition of the Board, with its diverse be the key to driving this business forward.
A strategy of range of skills and experience, is one of our key strengths.
The selective investment in operations outside the UK will increase relationships we have fostered, both within and outside the our resilience and provide us with further growth opportunity.
boardroom, have strengthened Board dynamics.
With oversight from the Board, the GTR management team Your Board takes an active role in ensuring best corporate will continue the modernisation programme and focus on governance practices.
During the year, we implemented the resolving issues locally.
recommendations from the independent external Board The current fiscal year has started with change in the broader More information evaluation conducted in 2015 and also undertook an internal on page 40 political and economic environment.
Go-Ahead will continue Board evaluation.
These reviews help us to continually improve to act to meet the needs of a changing world and prudently and adapt to the changing needs of the business and ensure balance strategic growth with sound risk management we are always operating in accordance with best practice.
It remains crucial to maintain the advantages that well-managed public transport can bring to society, and to Our people provide people with the mobility that is essential to our At Go-Ahead we recognise that remuneration should be economic and social needs.
However working patterns and the closely linked to performance.
Whilst we have largely achieved performance of different sectors of the economy may fluctuate, the financial and strategic targets set at the beginning of the those needs will continue to provide opportunities for the year it is clear that we have not delivered the required levels public transport industry to serve its customers to mutual of passenger service on our Southern routes.
Go-Ahead is a high quality operator with leading David Brown, who in my view is an exceptional and committed market positions in the bus and rail sectors.
Looking ahead, Group Chief Executive, made it clear he does not wish to be I am confident we will continue to deliver value for our considered for an annual bonus this year and declined a customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.
At Go-Ahead we firmly believe in a pay-for-performance culture.
In order to improve our focus on improving customer service and demonstrate our commitment to passengers we have made important changes to our remuneration arrangements.
Last year we embedded customer service Andrew Allner, targets within long term incentive awards.
In addition, this year Chairman we have introduced passenger satisfaction measures in our annual bonus plan.
8 September 2016 As a public transport business it is ultimately the quality of the service we provide that will underpin our leadership in the transport sector.
To meet these challenges, our employees work hard to meet our customers needs.
I would like to express the Boards appreciation and thanks to all our employees for their contribution to another successful year for the Group.
The Go-Ahead Gr The Go-Ahead Group plc I oup plc I www www.
