Strategic report Chairmans letter A period of significant progress I am pleased to report significant Baroness Margaret Ford Chairman progress following our changes intheexecutive leadership at the beginning of the year.
Shortly after taking office as Chief Executive, Helen Gordon, supported byan energetic leadership team, reviewed and refined the strategy theBoard hadinitiated at the end of 2015.
She immediately set out the key milestones to achieving a step change in the strategic direction of the Company with the ultimate objective of improving value for all stakeholders.
The benefits are already beginning to materialise and the future attractions of the business as an income generating, residential rental company are becoming increasingly clear.
In simple terms, we are shifting the nature havebeen cut, and resources have Sadly we have to report that this year of the business from a traditional trading beenconcentrated on identifying and welost Stephen Dickinson, who died model, heavily reliant on house price creatinga strong pipeline of private after a short illness.
Stephen joined inflation as a driver of capital value, to rented sector PRS assets, that build Grainger in 1974 and was an extremely aninvestment model with a sustainable on ourheritage and will deliver strong, effective Chief Executive of the and visible income stream from well-run sustainable shareholder returns over Company until 2002, eventually retiring private rented residential homes.
from the Board in 2009, and was instrumental in leading the Company The Grainger model continues to The transition from strategy to from private to public ownership.
He capture over time the full reversionary implementation has been short and was a wonderful person who left a very value of our regulated portfolio.
decisive and I would like to thank all of strong legacy and will be much missed Thepredictable cash flow from these my colleagues on the Board for their by all at Grainger.
properties is then reinvested directly tremendous effort in achieving this.
into developing or acquiring modern, Theeffective management and proper Finally, we never forget that over 18,000 purpose-built residential rental governance of the Group is critical to our people choose to make their home with properties.
This is a significant growth continued success and I have set out on Grainger.
We take that responsibility market in the UK as the demand pages 43 to 53 a number of key actions very seriously and our staff will continue forhomes outstrips supply and the that we have taken to ensure that it to go the extra mile for our customers, optionto rent becomes an increasingly remains of the highest standard.
day in and day out providing the best attractive and affordable alternative service and best support possible.
We have also enjoyed strong support from the majority of our Shareholders I am pleased to say that the new for our move to a UK residential rental management team has lost no time model with a greater focus on reliable indelivering on the milestones set out income.
Their support of this and our Baroness Margaret Ford inJanuary 2016 and in reshaping the new management team during this Chairman organisation to support the strategy.
first year of transition has been 1 December 2016 Disposals have been made, costs much appreciated.
8 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
