GREENCOAT U K W I N D Chairmans Statement I am pleased to present the Annual Report of Greencoat UK Wind PLC for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Performance During the year, portfolio power generation was 6 per cent.
below budget at 978.1GWh owing to average wind speed across the UK being 6 per cent.
In the first three quarters of the year we also saw lower power prices before prices increased in the fourth quarter.
Despite this, net cash generated by the Group and wind farm SPVs was 49.0 million and dividend cover was 1.4x, showing the resilience of the business model.
The Groups current average production provides enough electricity to power 375,000 homes.
stake in the 350MW Clyde wind farm, one of the largest windfarms in the UK.
Clyde is the Dividends and Returns fourth wind farm to be acquired from SSE and The Companys aim is to provide investors with an maintains a longstanding relationship between both attractive and sustainable dividend that increases in companies.
The acquisition also brought in the line with RPI ination while preserving capital on a real Greater Manchester Pension Fund and the London basis.
The Company declared dividends of 6.34 pence Pensions Fund Authority as co-investment partners.
In per share with respect to the year and paid dividends June, the Group acquired Screggagh, a 20MW wind of 35.1 million during the year.
The mix of acquisitions demonstrates the Groups ability to source and In addition, NAV per share increased from 102.9 pence execute transactions across the market but only ex dividend on 31 December 2015 to 107.0 pence ex when we consider the terms to be advantageous to dividend on 31 December 2016, an increase in NAV our shareholders.
per share of 4.1 pence 4 per cent.
while RPI increased by 2.5 per cent.
Since listing, NAV per In May, the Company raised gross proceeds of share has grown by 9.2 per cent.
while RPI growth has 100 million through the placing of 95.2 million new been 7.4 per cent.. shares at an issue price of 105 pence per share.
In November, the Company raised gross proceeds of The Total Shareholder Return for the year was 17.4 per 147 million through the over-subscribed placing of cent.
and since listing has been 46.1 per cent.. 133.6 million new shares at an issue price of 110 Gearing pence per share.
Only shares sufficient to repay the revolving credit facility were issued as the Company The Groups policy is to have no gearing at the did not consider holding significant cash on its individual asset level and to keep overall Group level balance sheet to be in the interest of shareholders.
borrowings at a prudent level the maximum is 40 per cent.
of GAV to reduce risk while ensuring that the The Board was delighted with both placings, the first Group is at least fully invested thus always using capital and second tranches of the 300 million new share efficiently.
Over the medium term, we would expect programme, and is grateful for the support received gearing to be between 20 per cent.
from existing shareholders as well as being pleased to and during most of 2016, gearing was within this welcome a number of new shareholders.
During the year, the Groups longer term xed entered the FTSE 250 index in September, and now rate borrowings were increased from 75 million to with a market capitalisation of 880 million, the 100 million.
As a result of Novembers equity raise, Company has seen an increase in liquidity in its shares the Groups revolving credit facility was fully repaid and as well as the benets of economies of scale.
therefore as at 31 December 2016, the Groups borrowings were 100 million, equivalent to 11 per Outlook cent.
Wind continues to remain the most mature and widely Acquisitions and Equity Raising deployed renewable technology available in the UK and the Company is in a good position to benefit as During the year, the Group made two additional high electricity production from wind becomes an quality acquisitions, increasing our net generating increasingly important part of the UKs generation mix.
In March, the Group acquired a 03 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016 Chairmans Statement continued Outlook continued next few years, providing extensive and very encouraging opportunities for further value creating The Company does not expect any material change investment.
to its business as a result of the UK exiting the European Union.
Being solely UK focused and Given the strength and stability of cash generation deliberately low-risk, all of the Groups assets and from our investments, we can condently target total liabilities are inside the UK and sterling denominated.
dividends of 6.49 pence per share with respect to 2017 In addition, the regulatory regime under which the increased in line with December 2016 RPI.
assets operate is robust, longstanding and rooted in UK legislation.
Governance At the end of June, the Government approved the The Company undertook a Board review during the Fifth Carbon Budget under the 2008 Climate Change year, with the external assistance of Independent Audit Act, legislating for a 57 per cent.
reduction in carbon Limited, and a number of minor governance changes emissions relative to 1990 by 2032.
The Fifth Carbon have been made.
Budget lies on the pathway to 80 per cent.
emission reductions by 2050, which is more onerous than Annual General Meeting EU legislation.
The 2017 AGM will take place on 26 April 2017 at Owing to significant sterling devaluation since the EU 2.30pm at the ofces of the Investment Manager.
referendum vote, the price of gas has increased in Details of the formal business of the meeting are set sterling terms and this has fed into higher current and out in a separate circular which is being sent to forecast future power prices.
In addition, global oil and shareholders with the Annual Report.
We look forward gas prices have strengthened throughout the year.
to meeting shareholders on that occasion.
Since the EU referendum vote, ination has also increased.
As the vast majority of our cashows are either directly or indirectly linked to RPI ination, this is likely to have a positive effect on future cash generation.
Tim Ingram The Company continues to look at acquiring operating Chairman UK wind farms both onshore and offshore from a market that is expected to reach 60 billion over the 22 February 2017 Clyde 04
