CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Investing in our future Greggs performed strongly in 2016, benefiting from the investments that we have made in recent years and the continued implementation of changes in line with our strategic plan.
The food-on-the-go market continues to grow and is highly competitive and fast-moving.
This requires us to constantly evolve and develop our offer to customers.
Our clear plan and record of delivery is bringing sustainable long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Overview In 2016 Greggs demonstrated once again its ability to manage a major change agenda whilst delivering a strong trading and financial performance.
The Greggs brand is increasingly relevant to consumers in the food-on-the-go market as a result of our investments in the shop estate and the quality of our food and drink offer.
We have made notable progress in the overhaul of our processes and systems and this will continue in the year ahead, alongside significant investment to transform our internal supply chain to support further growth in shop numbers and deliver a more efficient business.
The Chief Executives report provides greater detail on performance in 2016 and progress against our strategic plan.
Our people and values Consumers have many options in the food-on-the-go market, and we have to ensure that all aspects of our business support our purpose and strategy.
This has required us to make some difficult decisions, particularly regarding the organisation of our manufacturing and logistics operations, which the Board has considered carefully and which are outlined in this report.
In all its discussions the Board has been clear to ensure that any changes are implemented with due regard to our values: being open, honest and treating people with consideration and respect.
I would like to thank everyone who has worked for Greggs during the past year and contributed to such a strong performance on so many levels.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8 Strategic Report Passion drives us forward and we are able to deliver success by loving what we do Find out what goes on behind the scenes in 24 hours on page 5-7 These values are also reflected in our approach to conducting Dividend business responsibly.
We have made further improvements to Our progressive dividend policy targets an ordinary dividend that our already strong reputation in areas such as environmental is two times covered by earnings, with any further surplus capital management, animal welfare and support for the communities being returned to shareholders.
Our Finance Director, Richard where we trade.
Acting responsibly and conducting business in Hutton, outlines the expected application of the distribution a sustainable manner by looking after the interests of all policy in more detail in the financial review.
stakeholders is ultimately in the best interests of shareholders.
In line with its progressive dividend policy the Board intends to I would like to thank everyone who has worked for Greggs during recommend at the Annual General Meeting a final dividend of the past year and contributed to such a strong performance on 21.5 pence per share 2015: 21.2 pence, giving a total ordinary so many levels.
Their commitment to delivering outstanding dividend for the year of 31.0 pence 2015: 28.6 pence, an service and value to our customers every day was clearly reflected increase of 8.4 per cent.
in customer satisfaction and sales in 2016.
Looking ahead The Board The Board recognises the need to engage with, and balance The composition of the Board was unchanged in 2016.
Much of the interests of, many different stakeholders including customers, our time has been spent overseeing the major programmes of employees, pensioners, suppliers and shareholders.
There is an change that support the Companys strategic plan, particularly the overriding priority to maintain and enhance the competitiveness significant investment under way to grow our internal supply chain.
of the business in order to equip Greggs for long-term We also continued to focus on the development of our people and sustained success.
our understanding of the needs of customers.
In the short term we face a period of greater economic Directors continue to be encouraged to get out into the business, uncertainty and increased pressure from cost inflation.
We have sample our products and talk with colleagues and customers.
In highlighted the changes necessary to support the ongoing doing so we ensure that Non-Executive Directors contributions strategic realignment of the business, including the major to Board discussions are well informed, supporting open and investment programme under way to grow our supply chain.
constructive dialogue with the management team.
This will involve some difficult changes for some of our colleagues, as detailed in the Chief Executives report, but is The Board oversees the allocation of resources for the business essential to support the long-term competitiveness of and this includes the level of investment in its operations, taking the business.
account of shareholder returns as well as a fair reward to staff, responsible funding of pension obligations and equitable Greggs is a strong business with a great team.
I am confident that treatment of suppliers.
The business is highly cash-generative we can build on our recent success and make further progress in and continues to operate without external financial debt, the year ahead.
a position considered appropriate given the lease obligations inherent in our business model.
Ian Durant Further details of the Boards work can be found in the Governance Chairman and committee sections of the annual report.
28 February 2017 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
