strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Chairmans Statement This is an exciting time to be part of Halfords.
We have a clear strategic plan aimed at driving sustainable long-term growth Dennis Millard Chairman delivered by engaged and talented colleagues.
See more on Our Retail Strategy on pages 14 to 19 Read about Governance on pages 34 to 73 It has been a year of change to continue to invest to enable Groups future prospects and the Outlook for the management team: Jill sustainable long-term growth.
As cash generative nature of the This is an exciting time to be McDonald joined as CEO in May a consequence, the new Moving business has enabled the Board part of Halfords.
We have a clear 2015 and Jonny Mason as CFO Up A Gear strategy was launched to recommend a full year dividend strategic plan aimed at driving a few months later.
Both have in November 2015. of 17.0p, an increase of 3.0%.
sustainable long-term growth settled in quickly and have made delivered by engaged and These plans are fully laid out in Our colleagues have been a strong impact.
The change of talented colleagues.
On behalf the Annual Report, along with resilient and committed management provided us an of the Board, I would like to thank explanations of the progress throughout, working hard to drive opportunity to step back and take all of our 11,000 colleagues for already made.
sales and implement the strategic another detailed look at the Group their hard work and commitment, priorities.
I was particularly and its strategic plans.
This reand also their enthusiasm in Performance pleased that Halfords was again affirmed our previously held view embracing the new strategy.
Following two years of strong awarded a place in the list of that Halfords is a fundamentally I would also like to extend a sales growth in Retail, this was Top 25 Best Companies To Work strong business operating in warm welcome to the Tredz always going to be a challenging For as well as winning awards good, growing markets.
It also and Wheelies businesses and year, particularly for our cycling for community partnerships identified that the turnaround colleagues.
We look forward to business.
The weather wasnt and developing colleagues.
the business had gone through the year ahead.
helpful either, but Im pleased to Well trained, highly engaged in the last three years under the report that financial performance and happy colleagues will lead, Dennis Millard Getting into Gear strategy was was solid for Retail, with robust in turn, to satisfied, supportive Chairman impressive: colleagues are much sales growth from the motoring 1 June 2016 customers.
more engaged and customers side of the business and a sound have noticed and benefitted performance for Autocentres was from the changes.
However, it achieved as it executed on its also identified that the job to plans.
As a result, we generated modernise Halfords was not growth in underlying earnings yet done and that we needed per share.
Confidence in the stock code: HFd halfords.
