Chairmans introduction to Governance Our success is underpinned by the Leading the governance robust and meaningful corporate governance agenda framework that we havein place.
Paul Walker Chairman Director, became the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Jane Aikman will step down as a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee after our Annual General Meeting in July, and Carole Cran, who was appointed a non-executive Director in January 2016, will assume the role of AuditCommittee Chairman.
I would like to thank Jane for her valuable contribution to the Company over the last nineyears, in particular in her role as Audit Committee Chairman and for her support with Carole Crans induction.
I am delighted to have Carole as a member of our Board and welcome her further contribution as she prepares for and takes up the role of Audit Committee Chairman.
I believe that we have the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge on our Board to deliver strong leadership, make clear and effective decisions and harness anopen and transparent culture which encourages an entrepreneurial approach Good governance is essential for promoting LEADERSHIP atabusiness level.
the success ofthe Company and it sits Developing effective leadership throughout the attheheart of how we manage our Group.
Group is essential for attracting and retaining Biographies for each of the Directors are set Our success is underpinned bythe robust talent and aiding succession planning.
The out on pages 56 and 57 and for those and meaningful corporate governance additional focus that has been given to Directors standing for election or re-election framework that we have in place, supported improving the quality and performance of at the Annual General Meeting, are also by our Group-wide culture of openness, Halmas management talent over the past contained within the Notice of Meeting.
transparency, constructive challenge two years has been invaluable.
support of executive activity surrounding EFFECTIVENESS talent has reinforced this strategic imperative Building on the externally facilitated Board The Board is committed to maintaining across the entire business.
evaluation that was concluded last year, I have the highest standards of corporate continued to work closely with my fellow governance and, on their behalf, I am Equally, at Board level, it is important to have Directors to improve the effectiveness of the pleased to present Halmas Corporate the right balance of skills and experience, Board.
The competence and culture of open Governance Report for2016.
while enabling a refresh of non-executive challenge that lies within our Board enables Directors over time.
Over the past year, we us to deliver effective decision-making within This report provides an explanation of have had the opportunity to change the a governance framework which is fit for the the framework within which the Group is composition and responsibilities within the future growth of the Company.
governed and sets out how we have applied Board.
Following Stephen Pettits retirement the main principles and relevant provisions of from the Board after last years annual the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014. general meeting, Tony Rice, non-executive 54 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I I I I e e e e n n n n r r r r n n n n i i i i u u u u o o o o q q q q v v v v c c c c a a a a t t t t A A A A e e e e PEOPLE AND CULTURE reward with the interests of shareholders.
The Groups business model is set out on I reported in last years Chairmans statement Further information on the Companys page 12 and an explanation of the strategy that we were upgrading our talent and remuneration policy and approach is set and longer-term objectives of the Company education programmes to ensure that we outin the Remuneration Report on pages is contained within the Strategic Review on have the best people to meet the growing 73to 90. pages 4 to 47. demands of our business and customers.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK BOARD PRIORITIES Iam pleased to report that we have made CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our priorities for 2017 are to continue to: considerable progress in this area and have CODE 2014 THE CODE improve focus on our customers and their continued to foster a culture which is more Throughout the year ended 2 April 2016, needs through innovation and our go-todiverse and inclusive.
You can read more theCompany has fully complied with the market strategies: seek acquisition about our talent and leadership initiatives provisions as set out in the Code a copy of opportunities in existing and new markets onpages 50 and 51. which is available on the Financial Reporting which complement our current portfolio REWARDING SUCCESS Councils website at www.
The and which can deliver the growth that We recognise that recruiting and retaining Groups approach to risk management weexpect: and improve the capabilities talent that can deliver the capabilities that and internal control is summarised on and diversity of our talent.
weneed to match Halmas growth requires pages 28 and29.
areward structure that motivates our people The Directors confirm that they consider tooutperform and enables them to share in Paul Walker the Annual Report and Accounts, taken Halmas success.
The executive share plan Chairman as a whole, to be fair, balanced and adopted at last years annual general meeting 14 June 2016 understandable and provides the information was designed to incentivise our executives necessary for shareholders to assess the and senior management to achieve superior Companys position and performance.
returns for the Company and align their How the Board supported strategy Governance at Halma, like its business model, is ingrained in the operating culture throughout the organisation and within the Board of Directors.
With a model that has had great success in terms of consistent dividend growth and TSR performance in the UK, the Board has not needed to oversee any large scale changes but has not been complacent and has continued to improve its processes and procedures to ensure that they are fitting for a company that is near the top of the FTSE 250.
Strategy The Boards governance role The Board monitors the diversity of the Groups portfolio ofbusinesses to ensure that proposed acquisitions or newmarket niches of strategic interest complement the strategic objectives of the Group and do not dilute the resources of the management teams.
The Board also provides sufficient challenge to the internal resources dedicated to identifying and evaluating the deal pipeline.
The Board exemplifies the autonomous culture of the Group as one of providing our employees with the space toexercise control and authority having given them the guidance and tools to operate.
The Boards support insuch endeavours underpins the right behaviours.
The Board recognises that part of Halmas fundamental strength not only derives from our selection of specialist technologies in markets with resilient growth drivers, but also in our targeting of investment in the right opportunities and deliberately placing that investment close to our end markets.
The Board endorses the agile operating structure which is best suited to deliver successful innovation.
The Board provides each business with the necessary investment to meet our growth targets, but equally, subjects them to rigorous scrutiny so that investment priorities can be evaluated.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55 E E E E m m m m w w w w p p p p o o o o o o o o r r r r G G G G w w w w e e e e r r r r
