Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures Chairmans Statement Dear Shareholder, The year to 31 January 2016 was a milestone year for HarbourVest Global Private Equity HVPE or the Company as it completed its transition from an almost unknown and illiquid company when listed in 2007 on Euronext Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext to become in 2015 a fully-fledged investment company listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and to be included in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All-Share Index.
Along the road, HVPE had listed on the Specialist Funds Market in London in 2010, which resulted in a material increase in liquidity in the Companys shares.
However at that time the majority of shares were still held by U. S. persons and thus the Company could not implement those corporate governance changes as would permit the Company to move up to the Main Market.
Amongst the most important of the changes that were required was that there should exist only a single class of shares such that all investors in HVPE had the right to vote on resolutions at General Meetings.
Although I have covered most of the journey to the Main Market in earlier letters, the completion of that journey represents such a transition for the Company that an outline of the changes bears some repetition.
With a few exceptions, which I do not consider to be materially detrimental to the interests of shareholders, HVPE is now a fully-fledged company with corporate governance arrangements that are not dissimilar from many Guernsey-domiciled investment companies.
All shareholders have been enfranchised so the Company is now controlled by its investors.
The Investment Management Agreement and the Articles have been updated.
There is daily market liquidity in the shares.
The number of shareholders has increased materially and considerable effort has been, and continues to be, devoted to widening the appeal of the Company and hence its shareholder base.
One aspect, though, that has not changed is the clear focus of the Board on creating shareholder value and ensuring that the interests of those shareholders are paramount.
None of this could have occurred without the support of the Companys founding shareholders and of HarbourVest Partners, LLC HarbourVest.
When HVPE was listed in 2007, HarbourVest paid for all the costs of that listing, which involved a substantial investment by HarbourVest.
Until the Main Market listing in 2015, HarbourVest owned the only voting shares and thus controlled the Company.
It is greatly to HarbourVests credit that the firm appreciated that, in order for HVPE to achieve a Main Market listing and become a mainstream London-listed company and enhance the visible demonstration of HarbourVests expertise, it would be necessary for HarbourVest to relinquish control, which duly occurred in September 2015.
I will return to the Board later in this statement.
However, I must pay tribute to the farsightedness of HarbourVest in agreeing to this change and particularly to Brooks Zug, one of the founding partners of HarbourVest more than 30 years ago and a director of HVPE since listing.
Brooks will stand down as a member of the Executive Management Committee of HarbourVest later in 2016.
However, he will continue as Senior Managing Director and will remain a director of HVPE for which his longstanding experience of private equity is invaluable.
PERFORMANCE, ASSET VALUES, SHARE TRADING, AND DISCOUNTS The year to 31 January 2016 was a volatile one for stock markets.
After reaching an all-time high in May 2015, the total return of the MSCI All Country World Index was negative at -6.3% for the twelve months.
In contrast the net asset value NAV per HVPE share increased by 5.6%.
As I wrote in September 2015, the functional currency of the Company remains the U. S. dollar and throughout this Annual Report, all figures and comparisons are provided in U. S. dollars unless advised to the contrary.
The principal metric that is denominated in a different currency is the share price quote on the London Stock Exchange which, as a condition of listing, has to be in Pounds sterling GBP.
However, when considering the NAV performance of the Company the Board continues to focus on figures in U. S. dollars, which is also the currency in which the majority of the Companys assets are invested.
HVPEs share price at its year end on 31 January 2016 was 8.71, equivalent to $12.41 at the exchange rate of 1.4244.
A year earlier, the Company did not have a sterling quote.
Its U. S. dollar share price then was $12.73, equivalent to 8.45 at the exchange rate of 1.506.
Thus the share price in U. S. dollars decreased over the year by -2.5%, having in the previous five years increased by 154.6%.
In contrast, on account of the relative weakness of sterling, in GBP the share price 5 increased by 3.1%.
As the NAV had increased relative to other companies has since remained by 5.6%, the decline in the U. S. dollar equivalent favourable, there can be no certainty that the share price was on account of the increase in Company will always be within the FTSE 250 the discount to NAV to 26% at which the shares Index.
That will depend on the relative market were trading on 31 January 2016 in contrast to capitalisations of HVPE and other listed the discount of 20% twelve months earlier.
This companies and on the level of share trading widening of discounts was a marked feature of although, having already been included, the almost all companies within the listed private tests required to stay in that index are less equity sector and was particularly pronounced in rigorous than those that had to be passed January 2016 when listed markets generally were to join in the first place.
I can report, though, very nervous.
Since then HVPEs discount has that since joining the FTSE 250 Index, HVPEs narrowed again and now stands at 19%.
relative position has strengthened and that trading is more than sufficient at present to The presence of discounts, and the volatility of support continuing inclusion in that index.
those discounts, is a matter of frustration to all investors in closed-end investment companies.
It is estimated that in the year to 31 January 2016, Companies that invest in very liquid assets have 15.3 million shares were traded being some options open to them whereby they can try to 19.1% of the Companys shares in issue.
However, for companies, Of these, 11.1 million were traded between such as HVPE, which invest in long-term illiquid the Main Market listing in September and the assets, options are more limited.
It is the view end of January with median daily volumes now of your Board that the principal focus for HVPE running at some 35,376 shares a day.
Prior to should be for the Company to be managed 2010, HVPE would go for weeks without more with a clear aim of growing the total return NAV than a handful of trades and even after joining per share at a rate in excess of the total return the Specialist Funds Market trading was mostly growth of public markets.
If that can be achieved, sporadic rather than regular until the prospect then long-term investors should be encouraged of the Main Market listing was clearly in sight.
to look beyond short-term discount volatility and As I have previously written, it is important that trust that the growth in NAV will, in due course, the percentage of the Companys shares held be translated into share price growth.
by U. S. Persons remains below 50%.
During the In the 2014 Annual Report I reported that the year there was a marked reduction in the U. S. Investment Managers aim remained to grow percentage and, to the best of the Companys total return NAV per share at 5% in excess of knowledge, it is currently approximately 42%.
the total return from public markets.
By a quirk COMPANY PORTFOLIO, of timing, in the slightly more than eight years BALANCE SHEET AND FEES since launch of the company in December 2007 The Investment Managers report following to the latest year end on 31 January 2016, the this statement describes the Companys affairs excess NAV return over the total return from the in considerable detail so I will confine myself MSCI All Country World Index was exactly 5.0% to commenting on more strategic matters.
However, the relationship between The first is that of valuations of private equity share prices, which change daily, and private assets in which the Company is indirectly equity asset valuations, which are normally only invested.
HarbourVest monitors the perforrevalued quarterly or even less frequently, will mance of the vast majority of the 6,923 always be variable.
Nevertheless, the focus underlying companies in which HVPE has of the Board and the Investment Manager will interests.
During the year, 501 companies were continue to be to deliver material growth of involved in a liquidity event.
Typically that would NAV per share in excess of public markets.
have been a merger or acquisition or an initial Trading in the Companys shares increased public offering.
Since 2012, HVPE has reported markedly following the listing in the Main Market on the uplifts from carrying value, that being in September 2015 and yet further following the valuation of the shares of that company on inclusion on the FTSE 250 Index in December the last valuation day before the liquidity event 2015.
HVPE was the very last company to be was announced.
Once again in the year to included and, although the share price movement 31 January 2016 those uplifts have been 6 HVPE 2016 Annual Report Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures very material, on this occasion averaging years, the Company is in a position to run a approximately 38%.
This is not dis-similar higher Commitment Ratio than many of its to the uplifts reported in the last three years peers.
Further details of the analysis and Annual Reports of 37% in 2013, 50% in 2014, the tests applied are set out in the Investment and 42% last year.
Even allowing for some Managers Review, building on information survivorship bias it is the opinion of the provided in last years Annual Report relating Investment Manager and the Board that to the cash flow implications of investing achieving such uplifts well underpins the across multiple funds and vintages.
basis of valuation of the underlying unlisted As counterbalance to the increased commitments, companies in which HVPE is invested.
the Company aims to have financial resources I now turn to the Companys balance sheet and available that exceed those projected to be cash position.
The extraordinarily favourable required under the Investment Managers climate for realisations of private equity assets modelling, even when modelled on a scenario that has pertained for the last three years that is more extreme than that of 2008 to 2009. has resulted in HVPE holding in excess of However, it is not impossible that a more extreme $200 million of cash at 31 January 2016. scenario for the world economy does lie ahead.
That cash is invested in triple-A rated money Thus the cash holding, backed up by the market funds on which next to no interest $500 million of debt facilities from Lloyds is earned at present.
The build-up of cash Bank and Credit Suisse, which are committed has been significantly greater than even the to September 2019, is seen as a prudent most optimistic of projections had forecast.
cushion against the uncertainties of managing However, as I wrote in May 2015, the cash a company with a balance sheet of over balance is a residual arising from the move- $1.3 billion in an unprecedented economic ments of two much larger figures, namely environment.
In the year the As is the case with almost every asset class, Company received $362 million of realisations fees in the private equity world have trended and paid $211 million in investments capital downwards in recent years and HVPE has benecalls.
One only has to reflect on the significant fited from its favoured status as a longstanding, contrast in the year just ended with that for large client of HarbourVest.
A year ago, I reported the year to 31 January 2009 when the figures that management fees as a percentage of yearwere $83 million of realisations and $128 million end NAV had been 1.1%, which was less than of investments.
half of the level five years earlier.
In the year to HVPE came through the financial crisis of 2008 31 January 2016, the percentage remained at to 2009 without changing its strategy and 1.1%.
The majority of management fees are without having to take any emergency action calculated by reference to committed capital.
to strengthen the balance sheet.
The Company Thus the increase in commitments that I have continued to commit to new funds, albeit that described may well result in fees as percentage the pace of calls of cash relating to those comof NAV not declining materially further until mitments was not in the control of the Company, new commitments enter the growth phase nor in most cases of the Investment Manager.
of the private equity cycle as described in The Investment Manager has steadfastly the Investment Managers report.
advised that the Company should continue to ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND commit to new funds throughout the investment INFORMAL SHAREHOLDER MEETING cycle and without material market timing in The Company will hold its formal Annual General order to optimise NAV growth over the longer Meeting in Guernsey on 12 July 2016.
Indeed, in light of experience of over eight of the meeting, together with the resolutions to years, through difficult times and heady times, be tabled and voting forms, is expected to be the Board has accepted the Investment Managers dispatched to shareholders in the first week of advice that the pace of commitments should June 2016. be increased in order to position the Company for sustained future NAV growth.
Given that the Company invests principally in fund-of-fund vehicles that draw down capital over several 7 Ahead of the formal AGM, the Company will nature of the asset class in which the Company hold an informal meeting for interested shareinvests.
Both Brooks and Peter are keenly holders at the InterContinental Hotel, Park Lane, aware of their responsibilities to shareholders.
in London at 11.00 am BST on Wednesday The Board will continue to comprise a majority 15 June 2016.
The Investment Manager has of independent directors, and the Chairman recently issued invitations and details by email.
will always be drawn from one of those.
However, any shareholder who has not received Thus I encourage shareholders to vote in those details but would like to attend in person favour of Brooks and Peters re-election.
or by telephone should contact Richard This year all directors will put themselves Hickman at rhickman@harbourvest.
forward for re-election at the AGM.
Thereafter, those nominated by HarbourVest and those MANAGEMENT AND BOARD independent directors that will have served for In its monthly update of November 2015, the nine years or more will be eligible to be proposed Company announced that, for the time being, for re-election annually.
Those independent it had settled on a management structure directors who have served less than nine years whereby I would continue in the role of part-time will be required to offer themselves for re-election Executive Chairman.
Richard Hickman, who is every third year.
In my experience an investment based in London, was promoted to Director, company is best served by a mixture of relatively Investment & Operations and Billy Macaulay, long-serving independent directors and newer who is based in Boston, was promoted to appointments.
Although the Board has no Director of Finance.
Richard and Billy are both formal policy on tenure, I envisage that one employed by HarbourVest, and their services or more new appointments to the Board are contracted to HVPE.
They are responsible will be made within the next twelve months for the day-to-day operations of the Company, with one or more retirements to follow.
whilst the investment strategy and policy remain The Boards principal aim will be to ensure that in the hands of directors Brooks Zug and Peter every future appointment is wholly appropriate Wilson, subject to the over-riding control of in order to help guide the future of the Company.
Nevertheless we are mindful of the present Later in 2016, five founding directors of the lack of gender diversity although we consider Company, including myself, will have served experience and qualifications to be paramount.
One of those, Brooks Zug will At seven individuals, with the possibility of an be proposed by HarbourVest at the AGM for increase in numbers, albeit perhaps temporarily, re-election as a representative of the Investment the Board is already quite large by investment Manager.
Shareholders will recall that, under the company standards.
However, as a Guernseygovernance arrangements negotiated in 2015, domiciled company with assets exceeding HarbourVest has the right to nominate two $1.3 billion and a large international diversity of directors for election or re-election at the AGM assets and shareholders, effectiveness of the and has confirmed its intention to nominate the Board is more important than numbers.
In that two existing HarbourVest directors, Brooks Zug regard, and significantly ahead of the deadline and Peter Wilson.
These days it is relatively for doing so, the Board has resolved to unusual to see a person working for the Investcommission an external appraisal to review ment Manager, let alone two, on the Board of its operation and effectiveness during 2016 an investment company.
However, as I have and intends to appoint Board Alpha Limited covered in earlier letters, I am firmly supportive to undertake that task.
of the presence of two partners of HarbourVest as directors of HVPE given the specialist 8 HVPE 2016 Annual Report Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures CONCLUSION After more than seven years of rock bottom interest rates in most developed economies, and indeed negative policy rates in several major countries, risk assets, including private equity backed companies, have had an extraordinary run.
Many commentators have called interest rates higher over many months.
Yet the authorities have been very reluctant to put at risk what, in many economies, has been a weak recovery from the global financial crisis.
Thus interest rates have remained lower for longer than most people expected, and this environment has underpinned the prices of many risk assets and encouraged a positive surge of realisations.
It is hard to believe that such benign conditions can continue indefinitely.
Nevertheless, both the Board and Investment Manager consider that the Company is soundly positioned to continue investing through whatever cycles lie ahead in order to deliver future growth in NAV per share and thus, ultimately, of increased return to shareholders.
The Companys NAV will not be immune in the event of a material downturn in listed stock markets.
However, over the longer term, it remains the aim of both the Board and the Investment Manager that the Company should continue to deliver NAV total return materially in excess of public stock markets.
