HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MIKE EVANS CHAIRMAN I am delighted to introduce our Annual weakness and, in the latter stages of the CONTINUED GROWTH Report for the year ended 30 June 2016 in reporting period, the debate surrounding IN CLIENTS AND ASSETS which we announce a strong set of financial the referendum on the UKs membership of DRIVING A RETURN TO results together with a growth in profits.
Notwithstanding this, we have delivered net new business PROFITS GROWTH.
inflows in line with last year, underpinned by impressive numbers of net new clients.
GROWTH As a result, our assets under administration finished the year at another record level.
Our asset gathering has continued despite We have delivered strong underlying periods of low investor confidence during the performance across our business and we year, particularly in the first quarter of the are pleased to report a 10% increase in current calendar year which has historically profits, despite market weakness during the been a strong period for us.
The return to profit growth and the have been concerned by weaker financial continued pace of asset gathering gives us markets, geo-political uncertainty, economic the confidence to invest in the future growth HARGREAVES LANSDOWN STRATEGIC REPORT 13 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 of the business.
Over the course of the PEOPLE year, we have broadened the range of our Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager Funds, and carried on the development of our We recognise the importance of developing 3% savings proposition which remains on target a team which contains the best talent in the to launch in late calendar year 2016. industry and have sustained our focus on INCREASE TO supporting our people, with much attention DIVIDENDS on leadership and development, culture and succession planning during the year.
GOVERNANCE We have made a number of changes to the Board.
In October 2015 we appointed Jayne Good governance remains at the heart of Styles as a new independent Non-Executive The coming year is an exciting one as everything we do.
During the course of the Director and Chair of the Investment we seek to continue the Groups growth year, the Board Risk Committee has spent Committee.
Jayne is the Chief Investment trajectory, building on the new services and time on the development and approval of Officer of MS Amlin and brings broad features delivered in recent years and the introduction of our savings proposition to the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment investment knowledge and relevant financial allow us to continue to thrive in our chosen Process and improved its focus on emerging services experience.
Our dedicated and talented people risks.
In appointing Jayne Styles as Chair we welcomed Christopher Hill as our new remain integral to our success and, as always of the Investment Committee, we have Chief Financial Officer, who brings a wealth my gratitude goes to my colleagues for sought to refine and focus the remit of the of financial and operational experience.
As their continuing hard work, diligence and Investment Committee.
We commissioned a previously announced, Dharmash Mistry enthusiasm.
mid-year Internal Audit review of the action resigned as a Non-Executive Director at the plan arising from last years external Board end of August 2015 and we thank Dharmash Mike Evans effectiveness review and are pleased with for his contribution to the Board, particularly Chairman the progress we are making as we continue in the digital arena.
6 September 2016 to develop the Board.
We have announced today that our Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, has decided to step down no later than 30 September 2017. DIVIDEND Christopher Hill, our current Chief Financial Officer, will become Deputy Chief Executive with effect from 1 October 2016.
It is the We are a financially strong Group with a Boards current intention that Christopher robust balance sheet retaining a capital base will be confirmed as Chief Executive over and above regulatory capital adequacy following Ians departure subject to FCA requirements.
Given the delivery of strong approval.
earnings growth in the year and taking into account the future cash requirements of Ian has done a fantastic job of leading the Group, the Board has approved a total Hargreaves Lansdown to its current position dividend for the year of 34.0p per share of a market leading successful FTSE 100 2015: 33.0p, representing a 3% increase business, serving the investment needs of versus 2015 and a dividend pay-out ratio of 836,000 clients and looking after 91% 2015: 99%, more in line with historic 61.7 bn of the UK publics assets.
This represents a second thanks Ian for his outstanding contribution to interim ordinary dividend of 16.30p per Hargreaves Lansdown.
