Chairmans statement Delivering on our promises We are very pleased to be reporting such positive results for our first full year as a listed company.
In particular, we are proud to have successfully delivered on the promises that we made when we listed and are equally pleased to have in place a strategy, business model and governance structure that will support and enable future growth.
Overview and strategy It is with great pleasure that I introduce the Annual Report for Hastings Group Holdings plc for the first complete year as a listed entity.
The Group continued to deliver on its promises made to shareholders at the IPO in October 2015.
Live customer policies LCP grew to 2.35 million, well on our way to beat our target of 2.5 million at the end of 2017.
This strong growth has meant that the Group has delivered on its strategy and increased profitability.
TheBoard is aware that the Group is on track to either meet or beat the targets set out at the IPO last year: as a result, the Board has reviewed and approved updated targets.
Further details are provided by the Chief Executive Officer in his update.
2016 review Similar to last year, the year was one of increasing premiums for the car insurance market with premium inflation ahead of claims inflation.
Along with We continued to deliver on increased policy numbers, the Groups profit after tax increased to 78.4m promises made to shareholders.
2015: 2.3m and adjusted operating profit for the year increased to 132.1m Mike Fairey 2015: 126.1m.
Adjusted operating Chairman profit was 152.1m before the impact of a 20.0m one off charge due to the reduction in the personal injury discount rate the Ogden rate announced by the Lord Chancellor on 27 February 2017.
The Groups continued growth has also led to the expansion of the Groups operations.
The quality and diversity oftalent available in Leicester means we now employ nearly 700 colleagues in the city, which has helped to enhance the Groups operational resilience and capability.
Our operational capabilities at locations in Bexhill and Gibraltar have also been further strengthened as a result of our focus on talent anddevelopment.
06 Final dividend Full year dividend 6.6p per share 9.9p per share Board Audit, Remuneration and Risk The Board and governance Board governance Committees.
As a consequence of this As explained last year, the composition priorities transaction the Founder Shareholders of the Board was not fully compliant have agreed that one of its appointees with the UK Corporate Governance would step down as a Director of the Code 2016 the Code as at least half Leadership Company once RMIs shareholding the Directors excluding the Chairman Clear division of responsibilities and reached at least 19.9% and the Goldman constructive independent challenge did not meet the independence criteria.
Sachs Shareholders have agreed that underpins our commitment to the I am pleased to report that the Board one of its appointees would step down long term success of the Company.
has delivered on its intention to be once that shareholding reached 29.9%.
Code compliant with the appointment Effectiveness Details of these Board changes will be of two new Independent Non-Executive The Board and its Committees have announced once confirmed.
Teresa Robsonthe appropriate balance of skills, Capps and Alison Burns bring a breadth experience, independence and Optimising shareholder value of knowledge and experience from knowledge of the Company to enable dividends across the financial services industry.
them to discharge their respective The Board remains confident in the duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board recognises that the Company Groups long term prospects and is does not currently fully comply with the pleased to propose a final dividend of Accountability Code in relation to the composition of 6.6 pence per share.
This dividend will Based on sound risk management the Remuneration Committee in that be paid on 31 May 2017 to shareholders and internal control principles, the Board provides a fair, balanced and not all members of this Committee are on the register on 5 May 2017 withan understandable assessment of the Independent Non-Executive Directors.
This Companys position and prospects.
The Board continues to believe that the is the Companys second dividend for independence of the Remuneration the year having paid 3.3 pence per Remuneration Committee is not compromised as it has share in November, taking the full year To promote the long term success an Independent Chairman and a majority dividend to 9.9 pence per share.
This of the Company, performanceof Independent Non-Executive Directors.
final dividend is subject to shareholder related remuneration is transparent, approval at the Annual General Meeting stretching and rigorously applied.
The Company announced on to be held on 25 May 2017.
14December 2016 that it was notified Relations with shareholders by its majority shareholder, Hastings The Board welcomes constructive Investco Limited, that along with Mike Fairey interaction with all shareholders at certain individual shareholders it Chairman the Annual General Meeting in May had reached an agreement to sell a and throughout the year.
proportion of its shareholding in the 1 March 2017 Company the Transaction to Rand Merchant Investment Holdings Limited RMI, a South African investment holding company, of up to 29.9% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Transaction completed on 1 March 2017.
Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement between RMI and the Company, as long as RMI holds at least 15% of the Companys issued share capital RMI is entitled to appoint one Director to the Companys Board and have an observer attend, but not vote at, meetings of the Board and the 07
