Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 48 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Alan Thomson Chairman respect at the heart of what we do.
I am Dear Shareholder proud that, during the year, the Board have I am pleased to present to you the taken decisions that, when considered Governance section of our 2016 Annual against broad criteria, have had ethical Report.
The solid corporate governance considerations very much at the forefront, framework which underpins the way your Operating within and as such were ones that were felt to be Board operates is well established, but the right fit for our business.
remains dynamic and adaptable to the ever a robust governance changing corporate and social landscape we 2016 was notable for us as a Board as we face globally.
I am fortunate that I get to visit framework makes undertook an external evaluation of our many of our business locations around the own performance.
What you get out of these world: within the last financial year as a us a stronger exercises is often only a product of what Board we have visited Japan and Australia, you put in and I was most grateful, as the in addition to a number of UK sites, and what business principal Board sponsor of this activity, is clear from speaking with senior management for the commitment shown by my colleagues and leaders across the business is that the to the process and what it was designed same factors are embedded into their modus operandi wherever they are in the world.
Further information on the I and my Board colleagues live by the evaluation can be found within the principles of good governance in the way following pages.
we operate and endeavour to cascade that in all our dealings with and, on behalf of, Richard Smelt retired from the Board at our the Company, so it is rewarding to see that AGM last year.
In December 2015 we were this culture exists throughout the business.
very pleased to welcome MT Rainey as a valuable addition to the Board.
MT is an Operating within a robust governance experienced media and marketing framework, I believe, makes us a stronger professional, who has worked extensively in business, where we have integrity and the UK and US.
MT founded the advertising OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 49 agency Rainey Kelly Campbell Roalfe, which Our governance framework she grew to a top 20 agency before it was sold to Y&R, a subsidiary of WPP plc, and Responsibility for good governance rests where MT was CEO then Chair until 2005.
The Board has also with the Board: this is underpinned by an MT has considerable digital and marketing delegated to a sub-committee certain effective governance framework which, knowledge and understanding and a strong matters which are routine in nature, or the Board believes, fits the requirements customer focus and her skill set is a which have been agreed in principle by the of Hays business.
complementary fit to our Board.
Board: such matters require a meeting of three directors, with an appropriate mix The Board retains certain matters for its November 2016 will mark nine years since of executives and non-executives.
Such own preserve: other specific responsibilities Paul Harrison was first elected to the Board.
matters are reported to the full Board.
are delegated to its principal Committees, During the year we have considered Pauls namely the Audit Committee, the independence and regard him not only as The Chairman of each Committee reports Remuneration Committee and the independent of character and judgment, but to the Board on its proceedings, and Nomination Committee.
Each of these also free of any connections that may lead to minutes of the meetings are available Committees operates within defined terms conflicts of interest.
Paul will therefore stand as appropriate.
of reference, which are available on the for re-election at this years AGM.
As we continue to assess the skills and Board of Directors attributes required to ensure the Board Set standards, values, policies and strategic aims membership has the right mix of skills Ensures we have the resources in place to meet our objectives and knowledge required for the evolving Monitors and reviews material strategic issues, financial performance and business landscape were faced with, we will risk management continue our policy of appointing the most appropriate candidate based on their skills See page 52 and experience.
I look forward to meeting any shareholders who can join us at our AGM in November, Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Committee and extend my thanks to you all for your Reviews and monitors Committee Makes continued support as we look forward to financial statements Sets, reviews and recommendations the year ahead.
Oversees external recommends overall to the Board on its audit remuneration policy composition and that Alan Thomson Reviews internal and strategy of its Committees Chairman audit plans Reviews and approves 1 September 2016 remuneration arrangements for See page 57 See page 60 executive directors and senior management See page 64 Chief Executive Management Board Day-to-day management of our business and operations, responsibility for monitoring detailed Statement of Code Compliance performance of all aspects of our business Hays plc is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by See page 52 the Financial Reporting Council available at frc.
uk, which was published in September 2014.
As a listed company, Hays is required to report on how it has Group Risk Committee applied the principles of the Code and Provide strategic leadership, direction and oversight this is set out in the following pages.
The of risk Board is pleased to report that Hays has complied with all of the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 30 June See page 55 2016 and to the date of this document.
