4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:15 Page 3 Section 1: Chairmans Statement Introduction It is with great pleasure that I write to you as your new Chairman, following Graham Pickens retirement from the role in March this year.
Graham was Chairman of the Company for 10 years from IPO in March 2006, and presided over sustained success for the Company during that period.
The performance of the Company during the year to 31 March 2016 was ahead of plan, with cash flows from the portfolio in line with expectations, despite low historic inflation.
This set of results marks the Companys 10 year anniversary, and the ninth successive year of dividend growth.
In view of the Directors confidence in the Groups prospects, the Board has issued a revised dividend target per share of 7.65p for the year to March 2017 and new guidance of 7.85p per share for the year to March 2018.
Total shareholder return for the year was 9.6% on a net asset value The Companys Ongoing Charges Percentage as defined by the NAV total return basis and 6.8% on a share price total return basis.
Since launch, the Company has delivered an annualised return of 9.7% and 10.7% on the same basis as above respectively, ahead More details of the financial results are set out in Section 2.4 of the IPO long-term target of 7% to 8% per annum.
Operational and Financial Review, under the heading Accounting.
The Companys Acquisition Strategy, discussed below, was rePortfolio Performance confirmed by the Board at an annual review in September.
The The Groups portfolio continues to perform to plan or better, and, secondary market for operating PPP investments continues to as at 31 March 2016, consisted of 104 social and transportation evolve, with markets outside the UK supplying an increasing infrastructure projects including one conditional investment volume of deal flow.
This has been reflected in the pipeline of 31 March 2015: 101.
The return generated from the portfolio opportunities evaluated by the Investment Adviser in the year.
The during the year after rebasing for new investments, the disposals Investment Adviser continues to seek value in our chosen sectors and investment distributions was 7.9% 2015: 9.6%.
This return but is taking a cautious approach, focused on finding the right is in line with the discount rate used to value the portfolio at opportunities with appropriate risk-adjusted pricing.
In an 31 March 2015, and represents a good return from the portfolio.
infrastructure market characterised by increasing competition, the The return includes the adverse impact of actual inflation running trend of rising valuations has continued, meaning pricing discipline lower than the 2.75% per annum valuation assumption which has remains vital to avoid a dilution of returns.
been off-set by various cost savings and efficiencies, including one-off insurance savings recognised in the year.
Financial Results and Performance Financial Results The Group began the financial year with seven projects under The Company has prepared its consolidated financial statements construction, comprising 5% of the portfolio by value.
Three for the year to 31 March 2016 in accordance with EU IFRS, investments achieved successful construction completion while a including IFRS 10 and the Investment Entity amendments, which is further one was acquired during the year.
The five projects in consistent with the prior year.
These require the Company to construction at the end of the year represented 1% of the portfolio prepare IFRS financial statements which do not consolidate the by value as at 31 March 2016.
The Board and Investment Adviser project company subsidiaries.
expect this percentage will increase again, as a function of the pipeline of opportunities that the Investment Adviser is seeing.
Profit before tax was 157.4m 2015: 231.0m and earnings per share were 11.9p 2015: 18.6p.
Whilst lower than the prior year Good progress has been made during the year on projects which which benefited from certain one-off revaluations and a large have suffered from operational challenges.
Of particular note, the disposal, these figures are better than the internal forecast based Zaanstad Penitentiary project overcame the bankruptcy of one of on an unwinding of the discount rate, reflecting rises in investment the joint venture construction partners to reach construction valuations and strong portfolio performance.
completion in March, in line with its contracted delivery date.
Proactive intervention by the Group, with the provision of 20m Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions, capital working capital on commercial terms now repaid with interest, repayments, profit on disposals and fees totalled 130.8m 2015: was a key component of this successful outcome.
After Group operating and financing costs, net operating cash flow of 107.3m covered the 93.0m distributions paid in the year 1.15 times 2015: 1.59.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 3 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:15 Page 4 Section 1: Chairmans Statement continued As announced in February, the public sector client on one of the Overall the Companys performance Groups smaller school projects by value has informed the project company that it intends to serve a voluntary termination notice on inthe year was ahead of plan, with the project.
Under the terms of the project agreement, the Group investment cash flows received in line will receive market value compensation in lieu of ongoing investment returns.
with expectations, despite low inflation Valuation and Net Asset Value during the year.
The portfolios As in previous years, the Investment Adviser has prepared a fair market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at 31 March 2016. valuation has again benefited from increased market valuations of The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, the economic assumptions adopted, and the discount rates infrastructure investments.
The Directors have again taken independent third party expert advice on the valuation carried out by the Investment Adviser, which concluded that the valuation was appropriate.
Since the financial year end, the Group has made two new acquisitions of M1-A1 Link Road Lofthouse to Bramham project The Directors have approved the valuation of 2,030.3m, which and Hinchingbrooke Hospital project, with a combined investment includes 97.4m of future investment obligations, for the portfolio of value of 17.1m.
104 investments, including one conditional investment the A63 Motorway, as at 31 March 2016.
This compares with 1,872.1m At the beginning of the year, the Group disposed of its 50% interest as at 30 September 2015 including 21.8m of subscription in the Fife Schools project for a net consideration of 7.3m, in line obligations, and 1,732.2m as at 31 March 2015 including with the Boards valuation as at 31 March 2015.
In addition, a partial 22.5m of subscription obligations.
An analysis of the increase in disposal was made of Ealing Care Homes to promote a strategic the valuation is detailed in Section 2.5 Valuation of the Portfolio.
alignment of interest with the joint venture partner on the project.
The NAV per share was 142.2p at 31 March 2016 2015: 136.7p, Capital Raising which was ahead of budget.
After taking into account the 1.87p per In the year the Company raised a total of 178.2m before expenses share fourth quarterly interim distribution declared on 12 May through the issue of 117.1m new shares.
This was achieved through 2016, and payable on 30 June 2016, the NAV per share at three value-accretive tap issues in July and December 2015 and in 31 March 2016 was 140.3p: an increase of 5.5p over the March 2016.
Each tap issue was oversubscribed reflecting continued comparable figure as at 31 March 2015.
This increase is shareholder appetite for the Companys proposition and attractive attributable to the continued upwards trend of market pricing of investment performance.
infrastructure investments, the performance of the portfolio and the issuance of shares at a premium to NAV.
The Company currently has remaining authority and tap capacity to issue approximately 9.7m shares.
Acquisitions and Disposals The Group made three new investments, one conditional The Investment Adviser refinanced the Groups revolving credit facility investment and six incremental acquisitions during the year, for a in November 2015, increasing it in size to 200m previously 150m total consideration of 242.1m.
Further details are set out in and on improved terms, further details of which are set out in Section Section 2.4 Operational and Financial Review and Note 13 to the 2.3 Business Model, Organisational Structure And Processes.
Group has a current net funding surplus of approximately 7m.
The Company secured the conditional investment in the A63 Distributions Motorway project in the south of France, in February.
The On 12 May 2016 the Board announced a fourth quarterly interim Investment Adviser expects the conditions to be fully met early in dividend for the year to 31 March 2016 of 1.87p per share, which 2017, at which point the transaction will be completed.
This results in an aggregate dividend for the year of 7.45p per share, in line with the published target.
The Investment Adviser acquired 10 investments during the year, despite ongoing competition for infrastructure investments across In light of the Groups overall performance, the Directors have all sectors and markets.
These were sourced principally through a increased the dividend target for the current financial year to March wide network of relationships and in some cases were secured on 2017 to 7.65p per share.
This represents a 2.7% growth in the an exclusive basis.
Over the course of the year the Investment aggregate dividend compared to the year ended 31 March 2016.
Adviser participated in 11 auctions but was outbid in all but one.
In In addition, the Board looks to the future with confidence and has, unsuccessful auction processes, the winning bids were at prices as a result, also approved guidance of 7.85p per share for the year which would not have been value accretive to the Group.
As ending 31 March 2018. commented previously, finding value at auction remains difficult due to the levels of competition but participation often provides valuable data and insight into competitors pricing strategies.
4 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:15 Page 5 It remains our intention to continue to pay quarterly interim As the UK approaches the forthcoming referendum on its dividends and to continue to offer a scrip dividend alternative.
membership of the European Union, we have considered the risks Further details of the scrip dividend alternative will be published in that an exit vote might pose for the Group.
Our assessment is that July when the first quarterly interim dividend for the year to an exit vote would have minimal impact on the Group from an 31 March 2017 is declared.
Clearly it could impact the macroeconomic environment, for example fluctuations of Sterling relative to other Risks and Uncertainties currencies and or UK Gilts yields.
However, the Board retains confidence that, compared to the broader capital markets, the The risks to which the Group is exposed and the strategies Companys investment proposition will remain attractive during any employed to manage and mitigate those risks have not changed period of uncertainty.
The projects in which the Company invests are reliant on the Operational challenges, including those relating to latent performance of a number of subcontractors to fulfil the terms of the construction defects, continue to arise on certain projects from time concession agreements.
This performance, and any deficiencies to time as expected.
However, overall portfolio performance therein, are actively monitored by the Investment Adviser, as is the continues to be solid and, through its proactive approach to asset Groups overall exposure to any single supply chain provider.
management, the Investment Adviser is pre-empting potential challenges, ensuring that best practice is adopted across the Corporate Governance and Regulation portfolio and, when issues do arise, lessons are learnt.
As previously announced, effective from 1 March 2016 I took over The Investment Adviser has continued to see examples of a strict the role of Chairman of the Board from Graham Picken, and Frank contractual approach by certain UK public sector clients towards Nelson became the Senior Independent Director, succeeding John their private sector counterparts.
The UK PPP market has seen a Hallam.
Both will retire from the Board on 30 June 2016. small number of public sector clients alleging asset-wide defects and then making material payment deductions, thereby deriving I wish to take the opportunity to thank Graham and John for their significant savings on their anticipated expenditure.
As previously long-standing, dedicated service to the Company, leading it through reported, an example has been to challenge the adequacy of firethe first 10 years of its life, and to wish them well in their new retardant barriers in buildings.
Both played an exemplary role shaping the growth of the Company since IPO and in the success it has enjoyed in that time.
Currently, the Group has no contractual situations materially impacting the portfolio cash flows, but we are monitoring the In light of these retirements, we are in the process of seeking situation closely and using the lessons learned from industry up to two additional Directors to complement the skillsets of experience to manage and mitigate risks as far as practicable.
As the five remaining Directors.
Further information will be provided has always been the case, the Investment Advisers approach to in due course.
asset management is to pro-actively maintain close, open stakeholder relationships, especially in relation to enhancing client As in previous years, and consistent with best practice, the satisfaction levels and avoiding contested contractual disputes remaining five Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at where possible.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM on 19 July 2016.
In March 2016, the UK HM Treasury announced its Business Tax The Board regularly reviews the structure of the Group and its Road Map.
In part this was a response to the OECDs final reports residency mindful of possible changes with respect to legislation, on its base erosion and profit shifting BEPS initiative.
We completed a thorough review in document sets out certain changes which may impact September which concluded that the current arrangements infrastructure investors.
However, we do not expect the remain appropriate and prudent, but we will continue to monitor implementation of the proposals to be material to the portfolio this going forward.
The Board was pleased to see an assurance that the government intends to introduce rules to ensure A new inclusion in this years Risk and Risk Management review that any new measures do not impede the provision of legitimate Section 2.8 is a viability statement.
The Directors have determined private finance for certain public infrastructure in the UK.
that five years is an appropriate period over which to assess the viability of the Company for the purposes of the statement.
On a cautionary note, we cannot be definitive on the impact of the matters contained in the Road Map until legislation is enacted: the In March Graham Picken and I held a number of one-on-one Investment Adviser therefore continues to engage with industry meetings with shareholders.
This gave me a chance to meet with groups, HM Treasury and HMRC in the lead up to the drafting of some of our largest institutional stakeholders and we were able to legislation which is expected in the second half of 2016. discuss governance as well as the Companys strategy and performance.
As always, good and effective communication with shareholders is enormously important to the Board, which receives regular reports from the Investment Adviser and the Companys broker on the many meetings they hold with existing and prospective investors.
HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 5 4491 HICL Annual Report 2016 FRONT END.
qxp XXXX 25 05 2016 11:15 Page 6 Section 1: Chairmans Statement continued procurement opportunities varies by region and so the Group is Acquisition Strategy looking for opportunities to find genuinely differentiated access to a The Board held its annual review of the Groups overall strategy in pipeline of investments.
A number of regions saw a growth in September.
Discussions were shaped by advice and insights from a procurement following the financial crisis and, as these projects number of advisers actively involved in infrastructure investment.
The now become operational, the Investment Adviser is witnessing an Acquisition Strategy was re-affirmed, incorporating some evolution.
increase in the related secondary market deal flow.
The primary focus continues to be on acquiring investments in operational PPP projects, both in the UK and in other regions As the infrastructure asset class has matured, investors have specifically certain countries in Europe, North America, Australia and developed an increasingly sophisticated understanding of risk.
Fundamental to evaluating and pricing projects in these There is now a range of market segments that investors perceive regions is an understanding of the allocation of risk and how if at all as offering low-risk, yielding assets of which PPP is one example.
it differs relative to similar UK projects.
In this regard, the Company Other market segments positioned at the lower-end of the risk benefits from the Investment Advisers longstanding experience of spectrum include electricity transmission projects e. g. offshore structuring, developing and managing assets in the UK and overseas.
transmission lines or OFTOs in the UK and also operational regulated assets such as gas transmission assets.
As noted in previous years, the Board anticipates that the portfolio composition will evolve progressively with the inclusion of attractive Outlook acquisitions in market segments other than PPP that can contribute As noted above, the supply-demand dynamics of the infrastructure to building a portfolio positioned at the lower end of the risk spectrum asset class, including investments in operational PPP projects that of infrastructure investments.
During the year, the Investment Adviser are the Companys principal focus, continue to drive asset prices progressed activity across these aspects of the Acquisition Strategy.
This poses a challenge for sourcing attractive new Investments will only be made in segments of the market which are investments.
The Investment Advisers response is to focus on our appropriate in light of the Companys risk appetite.
Beyond this, but agreed Acquisition Strategy, including an origination approach that common to all acquisitions, any new opportunity must meet the favours situations where the competition is less intense.
Companys risk-adjusted return requirements and value accretion measures.
These incorporate an assessment of political, fiscal and In geographic terms the pipeline is, and is expected to remain, currency risks for overseas investments.
balanced between UK and overseas opportunities.
This may result in a moderate increase in overseas investment exposure as a With ongoing competition for attractive infrastructure investments, the percentage of the portfolio, thereby providing a greater degree of Investment Adviser remains focused on sourcing opportunities from international diversification.
The pursuit of opportunities in our its network of industry relationships, as opposed to open auctions, principal markets will continue to be the focus of origination activity and also by acquiring follow-on interests in existing projects.
The latter although we expect progress will also be made in the other market are attractive as such projects, including their financial and operational segments that we have identified as part of the Acquisition Strategy.
history in particular, are already well understood.
The Board looks to the future with confidence.
The Investment Market Developments Advisers depth of expertise and resource supports the continued In almost all markets, the appetite of investors for infrastructure drive to seek further value for the Companys shareholders.
At our investments has continued unabated.
There is an ongoing Capital Markets Seminar in February 2016, the Investment imbalance between the supply of, and demand for, investments in Advisers team provided a detailed insight into how this is achieved the Groups target sectors.
This has led to increasing asset prices, in practice, through a disciplined approach to: active asset thus reducing returns, and has contributed to the Companys NAV management to preserve the value of our portfolio and deliver base growth in recent years.
case investment returns: value enhancement to deliver incremental upside through discrete asset-specific or portfolio-wide initiatives: As observed in previous years, the procurement of new projects by and sourcing new investments that are accretive to the existing the UK public sector has slowed considerably.
Exemplifying this, portfolios financial performance.
The materials are available to view the March 2016 UK National Infrastructure Plan re-affirmed the on the Companys website.
current Governments commitment to using private capital in infrastructure investment, but contained no tangible pipeline of new In light of the current portfolios performance and prospects, the PPP opportunities.
Instead the trend is towards encouraging Board is increasing its aggregate dividend target to 7.65p per share private investment in other forms of UK infrastructure e. g. for the current financial year to 31 March 2017, with new guidance electricity transmission.
The Government is also pursuing large of 7.85p per share for the year to 31 March 2018. capital projects such as HS2 and Crossrail 2 that have no obvious role for private investment.
The slowdown in primary procurement is feeding through to the secondary market where, notwithstanding the Groups own success with acquisitions, activity was more generally muted during the year.
Outside the UK, procurement of new infrastructure assets with Ian Russell investment characteristics suitable for the Group continues in a Chairman number of European countries, in Australia, New Zealand and 17 May 2016 Canada and, to a lesser extent, in the USA.
Competition for new 6 HICL ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
