Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2016 7 Chairmans statement Mindful of the need to deliver shareholder value, My closing words in this statement are reserved the Board responded to all three proposals with for colleagues.
Special mention goes to all those urgency and diligence.
who worked for Homebase while it was owned In summary, following approval by by Home Retail Group.
I would like to thank them shareholders, the sale of Homebase was for their loyalty and hard work and wish them completed on 27 February 2016 and, on 1 April well for the future.
Special mention also goes to 2016, your Board announced that it those executives and other colleagues in the recommended acceptance of the offer from Group who, in addition to their regular workload, J Sainsbury plc for the whole of Home Retail took on the challenges of handling, initially the Group, which included a return of cash in respect offer for Homebase and subsequently, the two of the Homebase sale and a further payment of offers for the Group as a whole.
The level of 2.8 pence per share in lieu of the FY16 final commitment was quite extraordinary and was dividend.
There are still regulatory hurdles to be maintained throughout the second half of the overcome, but assuming these are settled year and beyond.
Finally, I would like to thank my satisfactorily we currently expect the takeover to non-executive colleagues who contributed their In this annual statement to shareholders, which be completed in the second half of the calendar time and wisdom to many more meetings than is likely to be the last one, I had hoped to report a year.
Shareholders will be kept informed of they could have expected at the beginning of third year of increased profits.
has not been the case and the reasons why are In the meantime, the Board and executive discussed later in this report.
In brief, Homebase management and other colleagues remain performed broadly in line with our expectations responsible for delivering the best possible but Argos did not.
However, some notable John coombe performance from both the Argos and Financial improvements were made to Argos customer Chairman Services businesses.
We do this in a commercial service capabilities ahead of the critical environment made more challenging by the Christmas peak period in line with the aspirations introduction of the living wage legislation and of the Transformation Plan.
These improvements the absence of any relief on business rates which will serve Argos well in the future.
last year amounted to a charge against profits of Shareholders will be aware that this has been approximately 140 million.
We also have to a year of two halves.
To September 2015 all our navigate a period of potential integration, with focus was on running the businesses and trying its attendant anxieties for some and new to improve its performance.
From September opportunities for others.
We are committed to that business focus continued but in addition, we doing this fairly and successfully.
became increasingly involved in corporate I have previously reported on the magnificent activity as a result of a proposal made to efforts made by colleagues on behalf of purchase Homebase.
This involvement was then charitable causes.
This last year has been no compounded by proposed offers from both different and Macmillan Cancer Support has J Sainsbury plc and Steinhoff for Home Retail benefitted from cash raised of approximately Group, although Steinhoff subsequently decided 1.5 million.
This is in addition to assistance given not to proceed with a confirmed offer.
by colleagues to many local charities around the country.
