Chairmans statement We are confident of our enormous potential...
Operationally, 2016 was characterised by a strong first full year from our top-tier Inmaculada operation in Peru.
There were also improved contributions from Arcata its best since 2010 and from our Argentinian mine, San Jose, reflecting a much more promising economic environment in the country.
In line with the production growth, cost reduction continued for a With regards to our environmental efforts, I am pleased to report that fourth straight year and together with a supportive precious metal the Group continued to improve its environmental performance and price environment, the Company generated strong cashflow maintained its corporate ISO 14001 certification.
Furthermore, as part throughout the year.
Consequently, the Company has been able to of our ongoing focus on aligning remuneration with our strategic follow through decisively on our promise to reduce leverage by goals, a new environmental scorecard has been adopted, performance repaying $127 million of debt during the year and building up a against which bonus entitlements will be calculated for senior healthy cash balance.
We are now in an increasingly solid financial management over and above the usual operational and position to manage our remaining debt profile whilst giving financial metrics.
management the flexibility to invest in further organic growth Our relations with local communities are of the utmost importance options and continue to return capital to shareholders.
and we dedicate significant resources in recognition of the social Hochschild has always aimed to invest in mineralised districts with the licence granted to us.
Details on the varied programmes that the possibility to grow over time and in this regard we are excited by the Group has run focusing on our core themes of education, health and potential of our portfolio.
The discovery and subsequent resource socio-economic development can be found in our Sustainability Report growth of our new Pablo vein district at Pallancata demonstrates our and online.
ability to reinvigorate existing operations, at a low cost through local Board exploration.
We believe that there are significant further opportunities to capitalise on latent processing capacity at our plants as well as to I wish to thank the employees across the business and my fellow Board extend the lives of our mines and expand their capacity.
The Board is members for their dedication and support over the year.
At the Board confident that the ambitious exploration programme announced in level, the stabilised operating environment during the year led to the the third quarter will deliver substantial low cost resources and provide resumption of our Non-Executive succession plan and I was delighted the Company with further growth optionality in the years to come.
that we were able to announce the appointment, in November, of Eileen Kamerick and, from the start of this year, Sanjay Sarma.
Each Precious metal prices once again experienced periods of volatility in brings a varied skill set to the board table and we look forward to our 2016 although both silver and gold did rise to levels not seen since future board discussions.
It leaves me to pay special thanks, on behalf 2013 thereby providing the Company with an unanticipated boost to of the Board, to Roberto Daino and Nigel Moore who have served as already strong cashflow generation.
However, the subsequent sharp Directors since the IPO in 2006 and will be retiring at the forthcoming decline in prices at the end of the year illustrated the ongoing AGM.
Their contribution over the past decade has been invaluable and unpredictability of our markets and consequently I am encouraged we wish them the very best for the future.
by the Companys continuing emphasis on cost control and debt repayment.
Outlook Sustainability The Company is determined to retain emphasis on our low cost organic growth strategy and the ongoing repayment of debt particularly given Despite the progress made in 2016 as the third consecutive year the already unpredictable nature of 2017 so far.
We are confident in without any fatalities, it is with huge regret that an accident at the the sizeable potential shown in the areas surrounding our operations Inmaculada mine early in 2017 resulted in two deaths.
On behalf of as well as our teams ability to bring early stage projects through the the Board, I would like to convey our deepest condolences to the pipeline and combined with an embedded cost control culture, the families of the victims involved.
The accident serves as a reminder of prospects for further shareholder return are very strong.
the high level of risks emanating from mining operations in general.
I would like to thank those across the Group whose efforts are focused on making our operations a safe place to work and to whom I pledge Eduardo Hochschild the Boards unequivocal support in the belief that every accident Chairman is avoidable.
7 March 2017 4 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016
