Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 05 Chairmans statement Over the last two decades Howdens has evolved and grown to become the leading supplier of kitchens in the UK, focused on providing good service to small builders and value to all concerned.
can flourish, and performance is recognised and BUILDING FOR THE FUTURE rewarded.
At the same time, we also look to deal This is my first year as Chairman of Howdens, having with our suppliers with integrity, fairness and succeeded Will Samuel in May, and I am pleased to respect, in order to build long-term relationships.
report that 2016 saw solid progress for the Group.
Sales increased by 7% compared to 2015, with an While we continue to invest to grow the business, almost unchanged gross margin of 64.2%, despite cash alone does not create success.
As a Board, we the impact of a weaker exchange rate, combined understand that the Howdens culture and way of with strong cash generation.
doing business is different from many companies.
Your Board believes it is the principal reason for our Since its inception in 1995, Howdens has grown continued success and that retaining the culture is to become the leading supplier of kitchens in the vitally important.
UK, by focussing on providing a high level of service to local builders and value to all concerned.
Its We are therefore delighted that Howdens has been business model has enabled the Group to navigate chosen, for the third time, as one of The Sunday and develop through varying market conditions, Times 30 Best Big Companies to Work For in providing a strong platform for expansion.
This award is a reflection of the very strong ethos of the business, built over many years, that its Your Board believes that there are considerable activities should be worthwhile for all concerned.
opportunities for long term growth of the core business, and that in order to fulfil that potential RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS we must continue to invest in both capacity and Earnings for the year were 29.5p per ordinary share, capability through this economic cycle.
an increase of 8.0% on the prior year 2015: 27.3p.
A three-year programme of investment across In line with our stated dividend policy, which is set the Group was initiated in 2015 in areas including out in detail in the Review of Operations and Finance manufacturing capability and warehousing capacity.
on page 14, the Board is recommending a final During 2016, we invested in further cabinet dividend of 7.4p, resulting in a dividend for the full manufacturing capacity at our site in Howden, year 2016 of 10.7p, an increase of 8% on the prior Yorkshire, a new cabinet component line at our year 2015: 9.9p.
The increase reflects both the site in Runcorn, Cheshire and a new warehouse in earnings per share performance and the Boards Raunds, Northamptonshire.
All of these projects are confidence in the prospects for the business.
As a Board we are mindful of the changing economic This programme of investment resulted in capital landscape, which during 2016 saw movements in expenditure of around 45m in 2015, 65m in foreign exchange rates and a change in consumer 2016, and an anticipated 60m in 2017. sentiment.
In particular, the pound deteriorated against the US dollar and the Euro, increasing our HOWDENS CULTURE AND input costs, and we also saw a slowdown in the kitchen market in the second half of 2016. BUSINESS MODEL The business was designed from the start to work Whilst mindful of current economic conditions, around the needs of the small builder, who knows given our cash position of 227m at the end of the that we are always in stock in our local depots, year, the Board has approved a share repurchase which are run by experienced and knowledgeable programme of up to 80m to take place during the staff.
The builder knows that our depot managers next two years.
This follows similar programmes of are empowered fully to run their depot as they see 70m and 55m in 2015 and 2016, respectively.
fit, creating an environment where the individual Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 06 Chairmans statement continued During 2016, we repurchased 80m of shares, GOVERNANCE buying 25m remaining from the February 2015 Having a clear governance framework and operating programme and concluded the February 2016 with integrity in all we do is vital to maintain the programme.
Together with 65m in dividend trust of investors, customers, our colleagues payments, Howdens returned 145m to and other stakeholders.
We aim to uphold high shareholders in the year.
standards of governance in a constantly changing environment, where expectations, as well as BOARD CHANGES regulations, continue to evolve.
Our Corporate Will Samuel retired from the Board in May 2016, Governance Report, beginning on page 43, sets after ten years as Chairman.
On behalf of all at out our procedures and reports on our compliance Howdens, I would like to thank Will for his significant record throughout theyear.
contribution to this unique business and in particular, for his clear insights after the divestiture MARKET ENVIRONMENT of MFI in 2006 and helping steer the Group through Howdens has a strong track record of dealing with the difficult times following the financial crisis of change and facing the challenges of the evolving 2008 and 2009. marketplace.
The Board is mindful of the challenges that lie ahead and we continue to evaluate the I would also like to thank our Senior Independent potential risks that could impact the Group.
We Director, Michael Wemms, who will be retiring at address these matters in more detail on pages 22 our AGM in May this year.
Michael joined the Board to 26.
In particular, we monitor our market situation in November 2006 and during his tenure, he has closely, in order to ensure timely responses to been Chairman of our Remuneration Committee potential changing conditions.
The depth of experience he has brought to Howdens has been PEOPLE AND RESPONSIBILITY valued by all.
Howdens is a local company and our people embody the idea of local service, both for our I am delighted that Debbie White joined the Board as customers and for the wider community.
In 2016, an independent Non-Executive Director in February the Group donated around 2.5m to good causes, 2017, and on joining, became a member of the including doubling our commitment to Leonard Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Debbie brings a wealth of experience to the Board and is currently Global Chief Executive Officer of Our approach to corporate responsibility takes Sodexo Healthcare, Defence and Justice Services.
into account our values and our wish to fulfil our She is a trustee of the charity Wellbeing of Women responsibilities, and is shaped by our engagement and is Chair of its Audit Committee.
with a wide range of stakeholders, including our customers, colleagues and local communities.
As a consequence of me taking up my new role as Reflecting these aims, Howdens looks to promote Chairman, in May 2016, Andrew Cripps has taken safety, energy efficiency and environmental over as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andrew awareness, and recognises the importance of joined the Board in December 2015, brings a wealth training, development and opportunities for young of experience to the role, and is currently a Nonpeople.
More detail can be seen in the Corporate Executive Director of Booker Group plc and was Social Responsibility Report, beginning on page 27.
Chairman of its Audit Committee.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone in Howdens for their contribution to the business and their local communities throughout the year.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 07 LOOKING AHEAD 2016 saw Howdens grow and continue to invest for the future.
We remain confident in the Groups potential.
At the same time, we continue to be watchful, given the uncertainty surrounding the economic outlook.
We believe that the business has the financial capability, the culture and the skills, to enable us to look to the future from a position of stability and strength.
Richard Pennycook Chairman 22 February 2017 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
