Strategic Report Group Chairmans Statement The Group has improved its productivity, embraced technological change and continues to reinforce its standards of business conduct.
It has a strong capital position and is gaining market share in important areas.
The Groups reported profit before tax amounted to $7.1bn, some 62% lower than the prior year.
This decline principally reflected the impact of significant items, most of which had no impact on capital, even though they were material in accounting terms.
On the adjusted basis used to measure management and business performance, profit before tax was $19.3bn, broadly in line with the $19.5bn achieved in the prior year.
This outcome was largely driven by improved cost performance as prior year initiatives gained traction and substantially offset lower revenues, while loan impairment charges were marginally higher.
Earnings per share of $0.07 compared with $0.65 in 2015.
The Groups core capital position improved materially.
A change to the regulatory treatment of our associate in mainland China, continued run-off of legacy assets, planned reduction in Douglas Flint Group Chairman certain segments of our trading books and inadequately remunerated assets, together with capital released from business disposals, notably 2016 will be long remembered for its significant and our operations in Brazil, drove this improvement.
largely unexpected economic and political events.
This created the capacity to return $2.5bn of capital These foreshadowed changes to the established by way of a share buy-back, which was completed geopolitical and economic relationships that have in December.
We met our objective of maintaining defined interactions within developed economies the annual dividend in respect of the year at $0.51, and between them and the rest of the world.
The as indicated at the interim stage.
This was delivered uncertainties created by such changes temporarily through the declaration today of a fourth interim influenced investment activity and contributed dividend of $0.21.
Reflecting on the strength to volatile financial market conditions.
Against of the Groups capital position, the Board also this background, HSBCs performance in 2016 approved a further share buy-back of up to $1bn, was broadly satisfactory.
Encouragingly, operating which is expected to commence shortly.
performance in the second half of the year was much Strategic actions are now bearing fruit stronger than expected and compared with the prior year, as businesses and financial markets responded In reviewing performance in 2016, the Board more optimistically than predicted to these events.
noted with approval the traction now evidenced from management actions to reshape the Group and address the challenges brought about by Greater focus on the trade and investment the continuing low interest rate environment.
Greater focus on the trade and investment corridors where HSBC has strong market corridors where HSBC has strong market positioning generated solid market share gains positioning generated solid market share gains and broader product penetration, particularly and broader product penetration in servicing outbound China investment flows.
This is recognised in the leading industry awards highlighted in Stuart Gullivers review.
4 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chairmans Statement Significant investment in technology and process systemically important bank G-SIB.
This involved redesign is now not only delivering greater cost removing or mitigating residual constraints on the efficiency but also is poised to markedly enhance clarity of the Groups core college of regulators our ability to detect and prevent financial crime.
approach to winding down the Group, should In addition, 2017 will see the progressive launch this ever be necessary.
While clearly we do of applications that will materially improve our not envisage such circumstances as other customers digital experience, enhance their than extremely remote, completion of a online security and bring greater personalisation comprehensive resolution framework is a of product offerings.
necessary pillar supporting HSBCs ability to continue to operate as one of the worlds G-SIBs.
While there is still a long way to go, it was Indeed, our strategy is built around maintaining encouraging to see the significant improvement the scale and the reach of our international in performance across all business units in network, which in 2016 again demonstrated its Mexico following the substantial repositioning resilience and competitive advantages.
of the Groups operations there.
This contributed to the Groups success in replacing substantially Tangible benefits accrue to our shareholders all of the revenues given up through continuing from the detailed work done with our regulators run-off of legacy portfolios, risk mitigation in to demonstrate the strength of our capital position areas exposed to higher threat of financial crime and the effectiveness of our resolution planning.
and reduction in trading books.
Beyond supporting the maintenance of our dividend, in 2016 managements efforts created Furthermore, HSBC is safer today from the threat the capacity to return capital to shareholders of financial crime because of the investments by way of a share buy-back and demonstrated we have been making in our Global Standards justification for a reduction in the additional programme.
The Board remains fully committed capital buffer applied to HSBC as a G-SIB.
to our work in this area in 2017 and beyond.
UK referendum on EU membership Regulatory matters Not a great deal has changed since we reported It was extremely disappointing that the regulatory at the interim stage, given that the UK has still to community was unable to achieve its targeted trigger its formal exit notice and so no negotiations completion of the Basel III framework in January have taken place.
We welcomed, however, the 2017 on the consensual basis expected.
It is now additional clarity given to the Governments almost 10 years since the commencement of the position in the recent speech by the Prime Minister.
global financial crisis and it is time to draw a line The scale of the challenge of negotiating across the under further regulatory changes, particularly since entire economic landscape, as well as addressing there is no doubt that our industry is more strongly the legislative and other public policy adjustments capitalised, better governed and more risk aware that will be required, has become clearer.
We than it was a decade ago.
Finalisation of the believe there is now, as a consequence, a widely structure and calibration of the capital framework shared recognition that an implementation phase is crucial to give banks certainty over prospective between the current position and the one that capital allocations in support of lending and market is ultimately negotiated will be necessary: we activities.
This is particularly important at this time strongly endorse this view.
when public policy is focusing on encouraging greater support for longer-dated assets, including Since the referendum we have focused on infrastructure, and seeking to build out the capital advising clients on the implications of leaving markets of Europe and emerging markets.
It is the EU for their businesses.
We have also been hugely important that regulators and policy makers responding to UK Government outreach seeking now move as quickly as possible to finalise the guidance on which elements of the current capital framework in line with their stated EU-based legal and regulatory arrangements commitment to deliver that framework without it should focus on to preserve the essential role a significant, broad-based increase in capital that financial markets based in the UK play in requirements.
Equally important is the avoidance supporting European trade and investment activity.
of fragmentation in the global regulatory For our own part, we have broadly all the licences architecture as the new US administration and infrastructure needed to continue to support reconsiders its participation in international our clients once the UK leaves the EU.
The best outcome would be derives from our position in France where we early global agreement on unresolved issues, are the sixth largest bank with a full range of followed by an extended period of regulatory capabilities.
Current contingency planning suggests stability to allow familiarity and experience to be we may need to relocate some 1,000 roles from gained from what has been put in place.
London to Paris progressively over the next two We made further progress in 2016 on completing years, depending on how negotiations develop.
the resolution planning required of us as a global HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | Group Chairmans Statement Countering these factors are signs of a cyclical Board changes upturn.
Global purchasing manager indices are We welcomed Jackson Tai to the Board on at their strongest for some time, the US economy 12 September last year.
Jack brings a rare looks robust and growth in China has held up combination of hands-on banking expertise, well, defying the concerns reflected in the market top level governance experience and a deep retrenchment seen in the first quarter of 2016. knowledge of Asia and China.
These attributes Additionally, commodity prices have risen, were accumulated in a 25-year career at reflecting optimism regarding growth in J. P. Morgan & Co. both in the US and in Asia, infrastructure investment as well as agreement and subsequently in senior roles at DBS, the reached to cut oil supply.
These factors also imply leading Singapore-based regional banking group, reflation across the major economies and rising where Jack latterly led its regional expansion as interest rates, which would benefit HSBCs Vice Chairman and CEO.
Jack was appointed a conservative balance sheet structure.
member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
At the forthcoming AGM we shall bid farewell to We enter 2017 with the restructuring our two longest-serving independent directors, namely, our Senior Independent Director, Rachel of the Group essentially completed, Lomax, and Sam Laidlaw.
Rachel during her tenure has served on the Audit, Risk and Nomination and with a strong capital position Committees, and took responsibility as the first and a conservative balance sheet Chair of the Conduct & Values Committee to establish its terms of reference and its agenda.
Sam served on, and latterly chaired, both the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
However, it is fair to reflect that the upgrades to Together, Rachel and Sam have also been leading economic growth we are now forecasting are the process to manage my own succession.
Their largely the partial reversal of downgrades made combined knowledge of regulatory and public last year when uncertainty was elevated as a result policy, business leadership, corporate governance of the unexpected political events.
Forecast global and consumer issues has been invaluable to the growth remains slightly lower than its long-term Board.
On behalf of all shareholders, I want to trend with risks largely to the downside.
thank them for their dedication and commitment.
We enter 2017 with the restructuring of the Group Chairman succession essentially completed, and with a strong capital position and a conservative balance sheet.
We are In the Circular inviting shareholders to the 2016 gaining market share in areas of importance to AGM, I indicated that the process to find my own HSBC as others scale back and our offerings successor had been initiated with the intention of become more competitive.
Much of the heavy having this concluded during 2017.
This process investment in reshaping the Group to improve remains on track and an announcement will be productivity, embrace technological change and made in due course.
reinforce global standards of business conduct has been made.
Outlook As ever, we owe a huge amount to our 235,000 We have recently upgraded our forecasts for global colleagues who have delivered this change at the economic growth reflecting the likelihood of a shift same time as working tirelessly to meet customers in US fiscal policy and a broader based cyclical expectations of them.
On behalf of the Board, recovery.
As in recent years, incremental growth is I want to thank them all for their dedication expected to be driven by emerging economies in and commitment.
which HSBC is well represented.
Risks to this central scenario, however, remain high.
In particular, we highlight the threat of populism impacting policy choices in upcoming European elections, possible protectionist measures from the new US administration impacting global trade, uncertainties facing the UK and the EU as they enter Brexit negotiations, and the impact of a Douglas Flint stronger dollar on emerging economies with Group Chairman high debt levels.
21 February 2017 6 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
