Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 04 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report another good set of results, which once again demonstrate the strength of the Groups business model and the strategy outlined last year.
The Group is a family of brands of building products with a diversified range of clay and concrete products.
We are a leading manufacturer of clay bricks and concrete products with operations in both the UK and the US.
The UK Referendum on EU membership added some uncertainty to the UK market during the year, but we continue to believe firmly in the fundamentals which exist in that market and have maintained our strategy.
In 2016, the UK brick business experienced a marginal increase in volumes over the full year after lower first half volumes, primarily as a result of industrywide destocking within the builders merchant and distributor supply chain.
This muted start to UK brick sales helped to emphasise the significant progress made in our concrete businesses whilst the strong performance of our US operations, partially due to the mild weather at the beginning of 2016, further demonstrated that we are much more than a UK brick manufacturer.
I continue to believe that the Group is well prepared to benefit from the continuing demand for new housing.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 05 The market and our strategy Board, corporate Outlook governance and our Housing market fundamentals in both Looking back, the past year proved to employees of our key geographies remain positive, be one of considerable change with the and I continue to believe that the Group Referendum on European Union EU I am proud of the great strides we made is well prepared to benefit from the membership in the UK and Presidential during 2016 in establishing robust continuing demand for new housing.
Our businesses governance arrangements within the navigated these uncertainties very Group.
In February 2016, we appointed During 2016, the Group has continued effectively and I am confident that they Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella to the its strategy of growth through investment will continue to do so as the full impacts Board.
Both joined the Boards and product innovation, together with of these major geopolitical events unfold Remuneration Committee, Audit expansion of its existing product portfolios, over the next few years.
Committee and Nomination Committee, which have been at the heart of its and Lynn became Chair of the success over many years.
Forecasts for our key markets both in Remuneration Committee.
In January 2017, UK and US remain positive and we have The construction of our new brick plant Justin Read also joined our Board as a invested in the UK to improve efficiency in Leicestershire continues at pace and NonExecutive Director.
I am delighted to and meet increased demand.
The is expected to be commissioned in the welcome all three to the Board.
Together fundamentals supporting demand for our second half of 2017, whilst our new roof tile they bring a wealth of experience that will products in UK remain unchanged and manufacturing plant at Leighton Buzzard be of great benefit to Ibstock as we indeed the current government continues became operational in the second half of continue to develop our business.
to demonstrate its commitment to delivering 2016 in line with our plans.
In the US we The addition of two new NonExecutive Our strategy is discussed in more detail have sufficient capacity to accommodate Directors is just one area in which we on pages 11 to 17. forecast increases in our key markets.
have progressed along our corporate governance journey in 2016.
I am pleased Following the debt refinancing and UK Our results to present a significantly increased level pension closure projects combined with of compliance with the UK Corporate positive market fundamentals and the Revenue for the year ending 31 December Governance Code for 2016, as described strength and depth of our management 2016 was 435 million and the profit after more fully on pages 40 to 46. teams, I remain confident that Ibstock taxation for the year was 90 million with will continue to deliver from the strong EPS of 22.3pence.
Our adjusted results Our business is run by an extremely foundations laid in 2016 and I look to saw an adjusted EBITDA of 112 million.
experienced management team Wayne the future with confidence.
Sheppard, Chief Executive Officer and We have proposed a final dividend of Kevin Sims, Chief Financial Officer, have Jamie Pike 5.3pence per share, which is in line with a combined experience of over 50 years NonExecutive Chairman our dividend policy of distributing 40 to 7 March 2017 within the Building Products market.
50% of our adjusted profit after tax over a business cycle.
The performance of the business, and our continued success, even during uncertain times, is down to the hard work of all of our employees across the Group.
I wish to thank all of our colleagues for their excellent work over this period.
