ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 36 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear shareholders, In November 2015, we announced that we had entered into the Transaction which will, when completed, involve the disposal of our global hybrid voice broking and information business to Tullett Prebon.
We see our future as a financial technology company and a post trade services group.
We, the board, questioned every step of the negotiations to make sure we had secured the best terms for our shareholders: we are satisfied that the Transaction will create value for you and your support at the shareholder meetings in March was most encouraging.
Many people in ICAP have been involved at various stages of the Transaction and I would like to thank them for their hard work.
This includes members of the GEMG who, while still managing their businesses, committed a significant amount of time to the Transaction.
On the boards behalf, I would like to thank Michael in particular, for without his support and outstanding commitment the Transaction would not be happening.
Reinforcing culture Advancing and maintaining the right corporate culture is a key part of the boards agenda.
We define our culture as our personality as it encapsulates what we value and believe We strive to be a good in as an organisation and how we behave, both collectively and individually.
There has been much discussion on the need investment, a great employer for cultural change within the financial services industry.
We have a strong culture already: what we must do now is and a valued contributor to our reinforce it through clear articulation and greater alignment across all our businesses.
Our culture is underpinned by our commitment to the highest standards of professional conduct.
This is essential to maintaining the trust of our customers and to achieving sustainable financial performance.
During 2015 16 we have strengthened this foundation using a number of new measures.
They include a new Group training programme which uses recently publicised cases within the financial services industry to highlight examples of unacceptable behaviour and the effect they have on individuals and the institutions they work for.
These training tools have helped to define behavioural boundaries.
The board monitors conduct risk and we are developing an aggregated dashboard to track our performance in this area.
All this activity is supported by a strong ethos that good professional conduct must be the norm and is in all of our best interests.
We do not tolerate misconduct which, should it occur, is dealt with swiftly and rigorously.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 37 A review of our FX business during the year highlighted how Strengthening our leadership effective we have been at instilling this culture within our The board is committed to promoting good governance and ensuring organisation.
The review formed part of an FCA planned crossthat the Groups leadership team possesses the appropriate skills market remediation exercise following enforcement action against and experience to deliver long-term shareholder value.
a number of banks because of their business practices.
I chaired We have made a number of significant appointments during the the committee responsible for our internal review and am happy year.
We welcomed Stuart Bridges to the board in September, to report that our findings, overseen by external assessors, gave as our new Group Finance Director, and Jenny Knott in August, me confidence that we are setting high standards and have created as Chief Executive Officer of the PTRI division, and both became an environment in which issues are quickly escalated and addressed.
In November, Tim Cartledge, Chief Strategy Officer of EBS BrokerTec, Steve Gibson, Chief Executive Advancing investor relations Officer of Euclid Opportunities and Per Sjberg, Chief Executive It is important that our policies on pay are consistent with our Officer of TriOptima, were also appointed to the GEMG.
We highlighted in our 2014 Annual Report that we would appointments strengthen the leadership of the Group: they all be introducing a new remuneration policy for executive directors have strong track records in financial services and have had a with effect from 1 April 2015 to ensure that the structure going positive impact on the Group.
forward was aligned with the Companys strategic objectives, in the long-term interests of shareholders and in line with best Diane Schueneman resigned as a non-executive director with practice, including that of financial regulators.
effect from 31 December 2015 because of her appointment and commitments as a non-executive director of Barclays PLC.
During the year we consulted with a number of shareholders I would like to thank Diane for her considerable contribution representing more than 50% of our share capital together to the board and to the Group as a whole.
As yet we have not with relevant proxy advisory bodies, including Institutional appointed a new non-executive director as we will be reviewing Shareholder Services ISS which represents a number of the composition of the board in light of the changes to our institutional shareholders, on our remuneration proposals.
business model following completion of the Transaction.
Shareholders we consulted with were broadly supportive of our initial proposal and, in response to some comments, I am proud to be part of a board that has such high levels of we made a number of small changes to the proposed plans.
In my experience, having board members who are involved, accessible and approachable is Due to a lack of engagement on ISSs part, it was very difficult essential to good governance.
I enjoy coming into the office to consult with them until the design phase had all but been and being able to see for myself how our people go about completed and the new arrangements were due to be their business.
The result was a lack of time to provide ISS with sufficient context to the changes and a recommendation from The structure of the Group may be changing but our ambitions ISS to vote against both our remuneration policy and the 2015 remain the same.
We strive to be a good investment, a great remuneration report.
While we recognise that all proxy advisory employer and a valued contributor to our communities, year bodies have limited resources with which to engage with FTSE 350 after year.
Thank you for continuing to support these goals.
companies, we do not feel it is appropriate for stewards of shareholdings, particularly of those held in tracker or index funds Charles Gregson which, by their nature, have less opportunity to sell shares in those Chairman companies whose governance policies they do not approve of, to 16 May 2016 exercise their stewardship on important matters without a proper understanding of the background to proposals.
As pressure has grown on institutional shareholders to exercise their voting rights, the providers of proxy voting services have become more influential.
We understand why many institutional shareholders favour proxy voting and we try to have the same open and constructive dialogue with proxy voting firms on our corporate governance that we have with our own shareholders.
When a proxy firm recommends voting against a remuneration policy, going forward we would welcome the opportunity to address their concerns with our shareholders before the vote to ensure we can fully explain the rationale for the decisions made.
In this governance and directors report I have written to ISS, one of the most active proxy voting firms, and to the FRC setting out my views, to ensure that proxy voting Leadership bodies fully understand the impact of their recommendations Read more, pages 40 and 41 on companies and to ask for the fairer treatment of companies.
Effectiveness Read more, pages 45 to 47 Accountability Read more, pages 48 to 53 Relations with shareholders Read more, pages 43 and 44 Remuneration Read more, pages 59 to 70
