CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In my second annual statement to you as Chairman of IG, I am pleased to report on a year of strong growth for the Company in revenue and profit, with both hitting newhighs.
The good financial results are driven primarily by improving performance from our digital and mobile marketing in our more established markets, supported by reasonablyvolatile financial markets, andour investments in Switzerland, Dubai and Nadex beginning to produce returns.
This year has produced a challenging backdrop against which to execute our strategy.
As you know, our previous Chief Executive Officer CEO retired and our Chief Financial Officer CFO resigned during the first half of this financial year.
After a thorough process, the Board appointed Peter Hetherington as CEO in December last year.
Earlier this month, we also appointed Paul Mainwaring as CFO, subject to FCA approval.
The succession process has gone smoothly, thanks to the skill and dedication of Peter and his Executive team.
We remain committed to growing our business within our current global footprint and beyond, as opportunities allow.
We set out a vision some time ago to be the default choice for active traders globally.
At the half-year results in January, we expanded upon this to include non-leveraged products such as execution-only stockbroking share dealing and portfolio-based investing IG Investments.
This will allow us to appeal to sophisticated and active investors across a range of their needs and in different stages of their lives.
Our strategic clarity is coupled with a total commitment to operational efficiency.
This rangesfrom the strides we are making in online marketing, through the incremental improvements to our client onboarding process, to the enhancements to execution and risk management practices that are allowing us to extract increasing value from every client trade.
Our people are core to our operational success.
Recent attrition levels in our London office have been too high, due to competition for the scarce skills we require to prosper.
In response, we have increased some salary levels to help retain key staff.
At the same time, we are expanding our presence in Krakow and Bangalore to access key skills competitively.
We expect our London office to remain at the core of our operations.
Shortly after the year-end the UK electorate voted to leave the EU.
I continue to be impressed by how the broader team in IG handles such volatile events.
Andy Green Chairman 4 IG Gr IG Group Holdings plc oup Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Annual Report 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The team prepared meticulously for what turned out to be a Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the night of severe and sudden movements in financial markets.
very pleased to report that they steered the business through Malcolm brings to the Board deep knowledge of the financial unscathed.
They concentrated on the interests of our clients services and investments sectors and a wealth of experience on leading up to and throughout the period, with clear client the boards of publicly listed businesses.
I would like to welcome communications and margin-setting policy.
The result, however, them both to IG.
Following these changes, your Board continues to does throw up new challenges for IG, and will divert some comply with provision B.
1.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance resources over the next couple of years, as we decide on the best Code the Code.
course of action to secure the future of our European business.
In The intention again this year is to put every Board Director up for doing this, we will also consider any relevant elements of other election or re-election at the AGM, in compliance with paragraph forthcoming legislation in this area.
Regulatory compliance remains a key tenet of IGs operating model.
REMUNERATION We are regulated in 17 jurisdictions across the world.
While we can never guarantee we will not fall foul of a specific regulation, In response to the attrition levels mentioned earlier, this year we our intention is always to comply and we continue to invest in our carried out a targeted salary benchmarking exercise, to ensure capability here, with the aim of maintaining our good track record.
our overall remuneration structure enables us to recruit and retain high-quality people.
We also introduced a flexible benefits scheme, which allows our employees to choose the mix of benefits which suits their individual circumstances.
This will increaseour overall remuneration costs, but I believe makes us increasingly competitive Our strategic clarity is coupled in a tough labour market.
In determining the remuneration of the with a total commitment to CEO and CFO, the Remuneration Committee took into account the growth of the business and the competitiveness of salaries at operational efficiency.
all levels of the Company, and benchmarked these roles against companies of comparable size and complexity in financial services and the FTSE 250. DIVIDEND IGS PEOPLE This has been another strong year for cash generation atIG.
Once again, I and the rest of the Board want to thank all the In line with the Boards previously stated intention to pay out, people who work at IG for delivering another record year for the as an ordinary dividend, approximately 70% of the Groups Company.
We were extremely impressed, if not surprised, by the annualearnings, the Board is recommending a final dividend way our people pulled together during the uncertainty caused by of 22.95 penceper share, taking the full-year dividend to 31.40 the CEO and CFOs departures during the first half of the year, and penceper share, 11.5%ahead of the prior year.
by the way they have rallied behind Peter, as new CEO.
We are in no doubt that our people remain our key asset.
The Board will maintain acapital structure and cash position in the business to enable it to withstand any changes in the LOOKING FORWARD regulatory environment or structural shocks in the financial markets, We have been investing heavily over the last few years in while providing sufficient headroom to take advantageof any transitioning IG, from a very successful but relatively narrow investment opportunities.
specialist, to a broader-based business, through product extension, BOARD geographic expansion and platform development.
We are nowcoming towards the end of this particular projectinvestment The Board structure has changed significantly in the past year.
This year, as well as delivering results from those statement last year I noted the retirement and acknowledged the investments, we have a number of important initiativesplanned, great contribution of our CEO, Tim Howkins.
In October, Chris Hill, which Peter considers in more detail in his statement, as we CFO, stepped down from the Board and left IG, to take up a CFO seek newopportunities to grow and to expand our knowledge role elsewhere.
As I said at the time, we were sorry to lose Chris but and experience across anemerging range of exciting digital understood his decision.
In December, following a thorough search process, the Board appointed Peter Hetherington as the new CEO.
Peter was The Board is committed to delivering on the strategy we have previously Chief Operating Officer and has been a member of the agreed, to the benefit of all our stakeholders.
IGs success is built IG Board since 2002.
The Board was delighted to confirm Peter as on placing clients at the heartof our business and we aim to further CEO, and believes he brings the right mix of business knowledge enhance our leadership position by providing them with even and fresh thinking to the CEO role.
In July 2016, we announced better technology and continuous improvements to their overall that Paul Mainwaring had been selected by the Board as CFO, experience.
With our recent investments beginning to bear fruit subject to FCA approval.
Paul was previously CFO of Tullett Prebon and exciting plans for the year ahead, I am increasingly confident plc and we are looking forward to welcoming him to the Board in about the future.
In September, June Felix joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
June is currently president of Verifone in Europe and brings with her significant international experience along with knowledge of product innovation in the financial and digital sectors.
Also in September, Malcolm Le May joined the Andy Green Chairman 19 July 2016 5 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
