Introduction Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans statement Good progress in a tough environment Despite difficult market conditions our results for 2016 were in-line with expectations and the Group continued to deliver against our ambitious strategic objectives.
The combination of necessary management actions to address the current market difficulties and the continued progress in the execution of our strategy underpin our plans to enhance customer relationships, grow our market shares and further improve working capital.
The Groups balance sheet is strong and our operations are inherently cash generative which provides the headroom to invest in organic development and appropriate acquisition opportunities as they arise.
Continuing to execute our strategy During 2016, the considerable work being undertaken to improve our businesses gained traction as we continued to improve both our operations and our customer offering.
The strategic initiatives behind that work remain our priority, despite the market headwinds our industry currently faces.
There is no question that IMI is becoming a stronger, more efficient and more competitive company capable of delivering long-term sustainable growth.
As our businesses continue to improve, the resulting benefits are becoming increasingly evident to our customers improved on-time-delivery, faster response times and reduced scrap rates are the fundamental pre-requisites that will confirm IMI as a world-class supplier.
We have also improved significantly our product offering in 2016, having launched many new products and re-vitalised our go-to market and sales strategies in several parts of the Group.
All of these initiatives are Lord Smith of Kelvin significantly enhancing our customers service experience and our competitiveness.
Chairman More details about these positive developments are set out in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 43.
Our people The improvements being made in all parts of the Group are due to our people who, despite the on-going difficult economic and market conditions, are relentlessly driving our many strategic and operational growth initiatives.
I have seen this first hand during the site visits we undertook during the year.
In October, the Board met in Germany where we had an opportunity to visit Hydronic Engineerings plant in Erwitte and Precision Engineerings Buschjost operations.
In both locations the progress has been impressive and the hard work and enthusiasm of employees were clearly evident.
Dividend Reflecting continued confidence in the Groups prospects, the Board is recommending a final dividend increase of 1% to 24.7p 2015: 24.5p making a total dividend for the year of 38.7p, an increase of 1% over last years 38.4p.
Looking ahead This is an exciting time to be part of IMI.
Our various strategic growth initiatives are laying the foundations for long-term shareholder value creation.
Today our underlying business is stronger and our ability to compete and win in the marketplace is being significantly enhanced.
We will be very well placed to deliver accelerated growth and sustainable and profitable progress as market conditions improve.
Board details Corporate Governance Turn to page 46 Turn to page 49
