OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Board is pleased to be recommending a total dividend for the year of 155.2 pence per share, another strong increase of 10per cent.
This is the eighth consecutive year that we have delivered dividend growth of 10 per cent and we are committed to maintaining this annual growth rate over the medium term.
Operating Responsibly The responsible way we run our business is integral to our long-term sustainability.
We take pride in doing things the right Mark Williamson way, living our values and adhering to our Chairman Code of Conduct.
We support community initiatives across our market footprint, provide employment Im delighted to welcome you to the first Annual Report and for more than 30,000 people around the world and return around 17 billion a year Accounts of Imperial Brands.
Our name may have changed but our strategy and values Governance and the Board Imperial Brands continues to be run in remain the same.
We continue to run a responsible and anopen and transparent manner.
You successful business thats focused on maximising canfind out more about our governance sustainable returns for our shareholders.
framework and the work of the Board and its Committees in the Governance Report.
The composition of the Board changed We added to our long track record of delivery with another strong performance in 2016. during the year.
Non-Executive Director The excellent results we delivered from ITG Brands in the USA were a particular Ken Burnett stepped down in February highlight, as we continued to build on our enhanced position following last years after completing nine years service acquisition of brands and other assets.
andIwould like to thank him for the As well as driving our operational performance we also made further progress with considerable contribution he made to ourtransition initiatives, which continue to strengthen the business and improve our our success.
Following Kens departure we appointed None of our achievements would be possible without the energy and commitment two independent Non-Executive Directors, ofour people.
Employees across the Imperial Brands family have worked tirelessly Steven Stanbrook in February and Therese todeliver these results and I would like to thank them all for their commitment Esperdy in July.
Between them they have held many Imperial Brands senior executive roles over the years, Shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of changing the name of our parent Steven at a number of FMCG companies company from Imperial Tobacco Group PLC to Imperial Brands PLC at our Annual including SC Johnson & Sons Inc, and General Meeting in February.
Therese in the banking sector, most notably at JP Morgan.
The rationale for change was simple: Imperial Brands better reflects the brand-focused business we now are.
Both have extensive international experience, including in the USA, and are Consumers know us for our Growth and Specialist Brands, the key assets in our portfolio.
proving to be great additions to the Board.
These are quality brands, delivering quality growth and we continue to build the contribution they make to our volumes and revenues.
Delivering Strong Results 2016 was another strong year of delivery We also have strong corporate brands: Imperial Tobacco, home to most of our worldwide for the business and we look to the future tobacco operations, ITG Brands in the USA, our international premium cigar business with confidence.
Tabacalera, our non-tobacco subsidiary Fontem Ventures and our European distribution business Logista.
We have the right strategy, the right brands and the right people, and that puts The breadth of this brand focus is reflected in our new name and marks an exciting us in a strong position to create further newchapter in our growth story.
value for shareholders over the Enhancing Shareholder Returns coming years.
The consistent execution of our strategy continues to create value by maximising sales, cost and cash opportunities.
On a constant currency basis tobacco net revenue was up 9.7 per cent, adjusted operating profit was up 10.4 per cent and we grew adjusted earnings per share by 12.0percent.
