Chairmans statement Creating long-term shareholder value Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present of our relationships and the Ignite objective of Inchcapes Corporate Governance Report for the becoming the OEMs partner of choice.
Our global year ended 31 December 2016.
This year, routine scale and expertise also creates opportunities to fully disclosures required under the UK Corporate leverage our strategic assets and drive growth from Governance Code are detailed in the Compliance all of our revenue streams.
I am encouraged by Report on pages 82 to 86 which should be read in the results in 2016 to deliver in these areas and conjunction with this report.
confident in the management team to continue our long-term track record of growth and success I am pleased with our ability to grow profit and for our stakeholders.
achieve robust cash generation in 2016.
The Ignite strategy has already delivered meaningfully and The acquisition of the business in South America positions us well to adapt and find growth and the expansion into Thailand were great opportunities as the automotive industry evolves.
We achievements for the Group and clearly have a strong platform for future growth across our demonstrate the success of the Ignite strategy, markets and revenue streams, enabling Inchcape to and I would like to take this opportunity to welcome deliver sustainable returns for our shareholders.
the new colleagues to Inchcape.
As you will see from Stefans CEO report and Richards CFO report Inchcapes long-term success will draw on our on pages 6 to 31, the Group, despite challenges strength as the only independent multi-brand in some markets, has delivered good earnings automotive Distributor and Retailer with global scale.
The Group has long-standing and multi-country relationships across our OEM partners.
The ability to We, as a Board, feel that the Ignite strategy which expand with our partners in 2016 into new and has been developed during the last 18 months puts existing growth markets is testament to the strength the Group in a good position to grow our business in a competitive global market.
46 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the operation and effectiveness of the Committees.
Changes to the Board The results were analysed by the Company Secretary The last two years have seen several changes to the and the findings were presented to the Board in Board.
During the year, Richard Howes joined as the February 2017.
Chief Financial Officer and Rachel Empey joined as a Non-Executive Director.
In January 2017 we The evaluation showed that the Board is functioning announced that Alison Cooper will stand down at well and the issues of concern raised last year, the end of February 2017 after nearly eight years specifically succession planning and the CR as a Non-Executive Director.
I would like to thank Committee, had significantly improved during 2016.
Alison for her valuable contribution.
In March 2017 The evaluation did not show any areas of significant we announced the appointment of Jerry Buhlmann concern for the Board.
However, we will continue to as a Non-Executive Director.
Further information on review the Board and Committee processes during the succession planning and recruitment process the year to ensure that they are functioning well.
The can be found in the Nomination Committee Report Board evaluation in 2017 will be an externally on pages 54 to 55. facilitated review.
In addition to an effective Board, it is important to Dividend have the right key management in place to deliver The Board is pleased to recommend payment of a the Groups strategy.
Whilst the Nomination final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 Committee usually has responsibility for reviewing of 16.8p.
This gives a total dividend for 2016 of 23.8p, and monitoring the succession planning of the a 13.9% increase on 2015 20.0p.
Subject to Group Executive Committee, the full Board reviewed approval at the Annual General Meeting on the global talent plans at the July and December 25 May 2017, the final dividend will be paid on meetings and is confident that the team is well 23 June 2017 to shareholders of the Company on placed to deliver the Ignite strategy.
Further the register of members at the close of business on information on the Group Executive Committee can 19 May 2017. be found on page 9 and information on the global talent review can be found in the CR Report on Outlook page 40.
Inchcape has a good track record of growth and Board activities from the focus on the Ignite strategic objectives, coupled with our strong fundamentals, a As part of the Boards annual planning process, the platform for future growth from our global portfolio of Board agreed to carry out a deep dive on one markets and diversified revenue streams.
The strategic objective of the Ignite strategy at Board acquisition of the Subaru and Hino Distribution meetings throughout the year.
The purpose is to businesses in a number of markets in South America enable the Board to review strategy on a continuous at the end of 2016 provides us with an opportunity to basis rather than as a once a year event.
It also frees grow our Emerging Markets operations in 2017. up time on the annual strategy day for the Board to focus on key issues such as disruptive trends facing The Group has identified opportunities to better the industry and the risks and opportunities leverage our scale in some of our regions and associated with the Ignite strategy.
respond to slower market conditions in some markets.
This action will protect our profitability as well In addition to the regular agenda items such as the as our future potential to compete and win.
The CEO, CFO and Investor Relations reports, and the outlook for Inchcape remains one of growth and the monthly performance report, the Board also ability to drive robust returns for our shareholders and debated certain key issues shown on the table on success for our stakeholders across the business.
During the year, the Board approved a new Group Tax Policy applicable to all entities within the Finally, I would like to thank the Board members, the Group.
In addition and in accordance with the management team and all Inchcape colleagues for requirements of the Finance Act 2016 in the UK, a their hard work and dedication during 2016. formal tax strategy statement has been published on the Groups website www.
Board evaluation This year, we carried out an internal Board evaluation which consisted of a comprehensive questionnaire covering oversight responsibilities, Board KEN HANNA effectiveness, the performance of the Chairman and Chairman inchcape.
