STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CONTINUED PURSUIT OF GROWTH AND PERFORMANCE Derek Mapp, Chairman would like to thank Informa colleagues and the Groups management team for their dedication and hard work during a busy and productive year for theGroup.
Their I support, combined with that of Shareholders, allowed the Group to make further good progress with the implementation of the 2014-2017 Growth Acceleration Plan GAP while delivering another year of positive financial performance.
MOMENTUM AND DELIVERY Over the last three years, we have focused on progressively improving operational fitness at the Group and strengthening capabilities in all areas.
2016 was the penultimate year of the GAP strategy and the peak year of investment, as the Group seeks to return all areas of the business to growth and create a platform for future scale.
The execution of the plan has been measured and effective.
Yourmanagement team has created anew operating model and structure, added new experienced senior management, made selective disposals and significant investments in the business, including a number of targeted acquisitions.
The Board was encouraged to see the benefits of this change and investment continue from 2015 into 2016, both in operational progress and financial performance.
While there is further to go, the Board believes the Group is well positioned for continued delivery in 2017. INTERNATIONAL GROWTH AND SCALE It is partly our confidence in what has already been achieved under GAP and the capabilities now embedded in the Group that enabled the Board to support the addition of Penton Information Services Penton, in November 2016.
The addition of Penton creates a more international Group, with greater strength in key market verticals and a portfolio with better balance and resilience.
It also specifically continues the Groups international expansion strategy in Global Exhibitions and adds scale and breadth to Business Intelligence at an opportune time, as it returns to growth.
Throughout the process, your Board took an active role in assessing the strategic and cultural fit as well as the financial rationale ofthe www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS combination.
We unanimously concluded it was alogical next step Q&A with Derek in the GAP strategy, building on the strong foundations established over recent years.
The Board will remain equally vigilant through the integration process to ensure we maximise the growth and returns Mapp on the derived from the combination.
The Group intends to change the wayit measures growth in 2017, from organic to underlying revenue importance of growth, in part to assist in providing ongoing assurance that the combination delivers from the outset.
culture at Informa It was encouraging to receive strong support from Shareholders for the addition of Penton through the approval given at the October 2016 General Meeting and participation in the Rights Issue that part-funded the deal.
This was a strong endorsement for the What makes Informa unique?
Groups strategy and its management team.
It enables Informa to We believe Informas culture and identity is continue topursue its growth ambitions in a way we believe will distinct.
When we changed the leadership maximise value for all Informas stakeholders in the coming years.
of the Group in 2013, the Chief Executives ability to connect with the company and 2016 DIVIDEND GROWTH colleagues was essential.
We are a people The Groups positive financial performance in 2016, combined business and give individuals freedom to with the increased balance and breadth across Informas grow, experiment and learn.
We think big portfolio, led the Board to approve a final Dividend per Share and act small.
We encourage openness of13.04p for the year.
This takes the total Dividend for 2016 and inclusiveness.
We minimise barriers to19.3p, up 4.3% year-on-year.
Everyone has the opportunity to challenge and contribute.
We believe this achieves a balance between sufficiently rewarding Shareholders during this period of measured change and How does the Board engage?
expansion while retaining the financial strength and flexibility for Feelings and facts.
Facts really matter and management to continue investing and pursuing growth.
It also we respect the data collected and analysed reflects our commitment to increase the dividend by at least 4% across the Group, such as from Inside Informa per annum throughout the GAP programme, a commitment we in 2016.
All fellow are happy to reconfirm for 2017.
Board members regularly met colleagues BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES TO SHAREHOLDERS from across the Group to take the pulse of Talking with colleagues around the company during the year, as the business and understand its day to day in previous years, I have been struck by how they have seized the challenges and opportunities.
opportunities created by the Groups renewed focus, ambition and investment since 2013.
There was an understandable sense What is in place to encourage a positive of change and maturity when Informa joined the FTSE 100 in and inclusive culture?
This was undoubtedly a milestone and testament At all levels, we encourage consistent and tothe progress made by the Group in the pursuit of greater scale, open communication and this starts at the breadth and international reach.
Management is visible and clear about the Groups strategy and ambitions, and Colleagues, management and the Board are aware of the encourages colleagues to invest in this future newopportunities and responsibilities our increased balance through initiatives like ShareMatch, our share andbreadth and status confers.
As Chairman, I have a specific incentive plan, or through long-term incentives.
responsibility to ensure the Board has the skills and experience We promote diversity in the workplace under tosupport the Group as it develops and expands, and to govern the direction of the AllInforma group, to ensure the Group in an effective manner.
there is balance, fairness and equal opportunity in everything we do.
In 2016, the Board welcomed John Rishton as a Non-Executive Director.
John brings extensive experience as a senior executive How important is cultural fit when adding in major international organisations.
He will succeed Dr Brendan businesses to the Group?
ONeill as Chairman of the Audit Committee, when Brendan Its high up the agenda, In a people business it steps down from the Board in 2017 after nine years of service.
Financials might give you an attractive These are nosmall boots to fill and we thank Brendan for his acquisition multiple, but people are what will valuable and incisive contributions to the Group over the last generate attractive long-term returns.
You can read more about the Boards activities and Penton, the similarities in culture, operational developments in the Governance Report starting on page 68. focus and the journey they were on were striking.
According to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, This was a key factor in giving us the confidence I can confirm that the Strategic Report, which makes up pages to pursue a combination of the businesses.
1 to 67 of the Groups Annual Report has been reviewed and approvedby the Board of Directors.
Making sure the themes and learnings from My thanks again go to the management team and all Informa Inside Informa translate into actions.
The colleagues, as well as our customers, business partners and Groups Code of Conduct and its key policies Shareholders for their support in 2016.
I look forward to continuing have been refreshed to make them more to engage with many of you in 2017 as the Group focuses on engaging and contemporary.
Work is also combining Penton with Informa and continues to invest for future underway to better understand how the Group growth and scale.
relates to all stakeholders, and to connect what Informa does more closely to its impact on DEREK MAPP, Chairman society, which Im particularly excited about.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
