04 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MAINTAINING CONFIDENCE IN THE FUTURE HIGHLIGHTS Dividend increases for 11th consecutive year New Board members contributing well Our thanks to two long-serving Board members as they retire Our strategy is evolving to being a digital services enabler Safety services on the sea and in the air remain part of our core purpose Andrew Sukawaty Governance Chairman See page 56 to invest in enhanced and new services to ensure 2016 OVERVIEW WE ARE WELL that seafarers and aircraft, flying over oceans As I look back at our performance in 2016, we have and remote areas globally, have the benefit POSITIONED TO GROW seen further progress in many areas of our business of the latest technologies to keep them safe.
as we put in place the building blocks needed to Every day we also connect millions of people PROFITABLY IN THE support our growth ambitions.
At the same time around the world on land, at sea, and increasingly, we have experienced a more volatile share price, in the air.
Our current investments in satellite YEARS AHEAD.
primarily driven by a derating of the satellite sector and infrastructure platforms will enable us to during the course of the year.
We remain committed make a real contribution to digital society across to delivering the best value over time for our the world.
This will allow us to ride the wave of shareholders and other stakeholders, as we invest these developments in a way that mobile satellite to achieve growth in the future.
In my 2015 Chairmans Statement, I referred to Our focus remains on serving customers in that year as being one of transition, preparation remote environments with uniform global mobile and investment in the next phase of our growth or portable connectivity that is highly reliable.
and that our diversified business model provided These customers want to enjoy the same an important equilibrium in our overall financial connectivity experience wherever they are performance.
I am pleased that the plans laid out whether these are for mission critical activities in 2015 have come through in 2016 with our Global or for business as usual corporate operations Xpress high-speed Ka-band broadband service and we can deliver this for them.
being introduced globally, steady progress in the The nature of our business requires us to carefully IFC market, a significant step up in the payments invest in new satellite constellations, products from Ligado and the continued build out of our and services.
As our portfolio has grown, these European Aviation Network and Inmarsat-6 multi-million dollar investments have been satellite constellations.
We remain confident that overlapping more and becoming more spread out the growth potential for these services present over time, leading to less volatility in our capital a strong opportunity to grow our overall profits.
All of our investments are subject to In our CEO, Rupert Pearces section, he describes a rigorous review process to ensure that we have how we are evolving our strategy towards becoming sound expectations concerning future financial a digital services enabler.
We were created to save lives at sea, and later to support aviation safety, and that is still a fundamentally important part of what we do today.
In both of these areas we have continued STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 05 My 2015 Chairmans statement referenced our PERFORMANCE achievement in increasing dividend payments GOVERNANCE AT WORK In 2016, both of our government businesses grew, in each year since we listed in 2005.
We increased We have had a larger Board to allow new mainly reflecting the take up of our new Global our interim 2016 dividend paid in October 2016 Directors to benefit from the experience Xpress services.
This was achieved despite a and have recommended a 5% increase in the of longer-serving colleagues.
This has been difficult market in which governments have final dividend to be paid in May 2017.
We have of help to the Boards performance and generally reduced their budgets.
Our maritime determined that this is the right level of dividend commented on positively by the Directors business introduced the maritime variant of Global having regard to the medium-term outlook for as part of the 2016 Board evaluation process.
Xpress Fleet Xpress to the market, enabling the business.
its customers to benefit from higher-broadband speeds and the market-leading reliability of our Governance BOARD ACTIVITIES See page 56 L-band service.
Aviation continues to be our During 2016, we have seen the two Board highest growth segment supported by strong members who joined in 2015 Mr Robert Ruijter performance from our business and general and Dr Hamadoun Tour settle into the rhythm aviation and safety services and an area we are of meetings and discussions.
We are also pleased investing in.
Aviation opportunities for IFC continue to have added a new Board member Philippa to develop, with airline customers committing to McCrostie in September 2016.
Pip, who was our Ka-band Global Xpress service and or our previously Global Vice Chair of Transaction soon to be launched European Aviation Network, Advisory Services, one of EYs four global a world-leading innovation providing broadband businesses, has joined our Audit Committee and Wi Fi to passengers across Europe.
her biography can be found on page 60.
Progress in 2016 was, however, slower than Our thanks go to two long-standing Board expected with Aviation customers taking longer members who retired from the Board in 2017. than expected to close their negotiations for Stephen Davidson, who joined the Board when new long-term cabin connectivity deals and we became a public company in 2005 and was GX requiring a longer period of on-the-ground our Remuneration Committee Chairman for the operational introduction.
Consequently, our majority of that time, retired in January 2017. revenues were lower than expected in 2016.
Kathleen Flaherty, who joined the Board in 2006, We countered these headwinds with ongoing retired on 2 March 2017.
They were both supportive tight control of our costs and capital expenditure members of our Board and challenged management and a successful outcome on our US cooperation thinking which contributed greatly to our strategic agreement with Ligado, leading to improved discussions and decisions.
We are grateful for revenues, EBITDA and free cash flow over 2015. their contributions.
Currency movements were also favourable.
Our Board is diverse in experience, gender and The Board and I continue to believe that we are well nationality.
This diversity contributes to creating positioned as a Company to grow profitably in the a Board which materially adds to the development years ahead.
We are fully funded for our immediate of our strategy.
For a global company in a high investment needs, partly because of two successful tech business, we believe this is essential.
More bond offerings we completed in 2016 which raised details about the mix of our Board can be found over $1bn.
We have a strategy which drives our on page 60. business forward over the coming years to position us as a digital services enabler.
We are committed We completed an external Board evaluation to achieving our ambitions which will create in 2015, so our review in 2016 was carried out a strong and attractive business for our staff: internally.
More detail about this is provided in improved financial results and value for our the Corporate Governance Report on page 71. shareholders several of whom have been invested In summary, we have responded to some of the with us since our IPO and to whom we are grateful areas raised in 2015 and the overarching view is for their support and loyalty: and an eco-system that the Board continues to operate extremely who will want to work with us to provide innovative well.
The newer Board members are contributing platforms and solutions for the future, and our strongly and the continuity of maintaining partners who work with us to deliver these services some longerserving Directors alongside the across the globe to customers who need reliable, appointment of new ones has served the Company cost-effective communications.
We would also and the Board well.
like to thank our global staff who continue to be committed to delivering highly reliable innovative services to serve mission critical needs that our customers depend on from Inmarsat.
