1 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another strong year of successful delivery against our strategic objectives.
JUSTIN DOWLEY CHAIRMAN I am pleased to report another strong year The market environment continues to Meeting on 21 July 2016.
The ex-dividend, of successful delivery against our strategic offer attractive opportunities to grow, and record and payment dates for the special objectives, reinforcing our confidence in the further expand our range of long term value dividend and the share consolidation health of the business and our commitment creating strategies, in the new financial year factor will be set out in the AGM circular to generating long term shareholder value.
DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY DIVIDEND AND CAPITAL RETURN CHANGES TO THE BOARD We continue to make significant progress The Board is focused on maintaining a As announced in February 2016, I will be in growing our specialist asset manager capital structure that is appropriate to standing down as your Chairman at the franchise across geographies and deliver our business strategy.
In July 2014, Annual General Meeting.
It has been an strategies.
Highlights of the last financial the Board committed to re-gearing the honour to have served on your Board for year have included: balance sheet to between 0.8x and 1.2x by more than 10 years, the last six as your July 2016 and, with the planned growth of Chairman.
During my time as Chairman I Increasing funds under management, the fund management business, increasing am proud to have overseen the Companys exceeding our fundraising target return on equity to over 13%.
Since May 2014 successful transition from being primarily an Delivering and growing our we have returned 400m to shareholders investment company to becoming a leading existing strategies through special dividends and share specialist asset manager.
Investing in new strategies that are repurchases, whilst maintaining sufficient I will be succeeded as Chairman by Kevin expected to drive future growth resources to deliver attractive growth in our Parry, our Senior Independent Director, fund management business.
Increasing fund management profits subject to shareholder approval.
Kevin has The Board recommends a final ordinary a wealth of relevant industry experience and Returning surplus capital to shareholders dividend for the year of 15.8p, making a deep knowledge of the Companys sector One key success has been the continued total for the year of 23.0p 2015: 22.0p, an and business, which will contribute greatly to expansion of the Secondaries asset class.
increase of 4.5% on prior year.
The Board the future success of ICG.
Initiated in November 2014 through the hire has decided to maintain the dividend Peter Gibbs will succeed Kevin as Senior of a dedicated team: we have now completed reinvestment plan DRIP.
If approved by Independent Director and a search three transactions and had a successful shareholders, the final dividend will be paid is underway for a new Non Executive first close of our Strategic Secondaries on 5 August 2016 to shareholders on the Director who will be the new Chair of the Fund.
Our commitment to this asset class register as at 17 June 2016.
was augmented in February 2016 with the In addition the Board is recommending acquisition of the management contract of Finally, on a personal note, I would like to a further capital return of 200m to the listed private equity investment trust, thank my colleagues on the Board and in shareholders by way of special dividend of Graphite Enterprise Trust since renamed management, past and present, for their 63.4p per share.
Once this proposed further ICG Enterprise Trust.
support, and wish Kevin and his team every capital return has been completed, subject success as they lead ICGs continued growth The growth in our fund management to shareholder approval, we will have met the and development.
franchise has been driven primarily gearing and return on equity targets set out through supporting existing strategies, This Strategy Report, on pages 1 to 38, has two years ago.
We therefore do not expect organic expansion into new strategies been approved by the Board of Directors any further special dividends thereafter.
However, the acquisition and is signed on its behalf by: The special dividend, with an associated of the ICG Enterprise Trust management share consolidation to maintain, as far as contract is an example of our willingness possible, the share price before and after to make acquisitions where the right Justin Dowley the special dividend, will be subject to opportunity exists.
Chairman shareholder approval at the Annual General 23 May 2016
