Chairmans statement Demand for consumer credit is growing, customers are looking to borrow money in different ways, competitors are offering greater choice and regulatory challenge has increased.
Dan OConnor Chairman Operating in an evolving sector For our strategy new regulations and this has enabled us to continue As a leading player in the consumer see pages 10-11 serving our customers with the credit products they need credit business, we are operating in and want.
However, this was not the case in Slovakia when early in 2016 we were forced to take the decision to a rapidly evolving sector, one where close our home credit business after new rate cap regulation and competition have legislation was enacted.
In Poland, the Board provided greatly intensified and where some oversight and support to transition our business to operating under the total cost of credit regulations which of our customers are migrating to were introduced in March 2016.
However, a proposal to digital offerings.
further tighten this rate cap published by the Polish Ministry of Justice in December 2016 was a disappointing Without doubt, 2016 was a difficult year for our company.
development which has brought about a high degree of Whilst great progress was made in IPF Digital, increasing uncertainty for many credit providers in that market.
The regulatory challenges in Europe have had a negative Board has confidence in the Polish team as they impact on our results and share price.
Trading in Mexico constructively engage with key stakeholders to get the was difficult in the first half of the year, but I am glad to best outcome for customers, the wider consumer finance report an improved performance in the second half and sector and IPF.
Staying with Poland, at the beginning of 2017 we announced to the market that we had received an Regulation adverse decision from the Polish Tax Chamber with Lets start with regulation.
During 2016, regulation respect to two financial years, the details of which are remained a top priority for the Board and management explained in the financial review of this report.
Once again, changes to regulations, and decision, which we have appealed, was extremely proposals in the pipeline, have impacted how we do disappointing especially so as the items in question are business.
Over the years, we have had a good track long-standing tax treatments that have previously been record of adapting our product offering to comply with 2 Strategic Report confirmed as correct by the Polish tax authority.
I will following the departure of Adrian Gardner who resigned reiterate what we said at the time of our announcement.
in order to pursue an alternative business opportunity.
We do not adopt aggressive tax strategies as evidenced Justin brings to the Board a wealth of finance experience by Provident Polskas average effective tax rate since 2008 and depth of insight into the markets in which we which exceeds the Polish corporate income tax rate of operate.
We are also searching for a new Senior 19%.
We have also received very clear advice on the Independent Director to replace Tony Hales who will have strength of our case and will defend our position robustly served almost ten years as a director at the time of our in court.
Our CEO Gerard Ryan comments on these issues 2017 AGM.
The Board asked Tony to continue as a director in more detail in his review on page 17. until our AGM in 2018 and I am pleased to confirm that he agreed to this.
Our strategy The Board undertook market visits to Mexico and Poland We are operating in a dynamic business environment and during 2016.
During these visits I was pleased to see just continue to evolve our strategy to cater for that.
We have how strong our teams focus is on serving our customers a strong history of providing a valued home credit service well and this is reflected in our recent annual to a specific sector of consumers who are not well served engagement survey findings.
With the development of mobile technology we also recognise that many of these people are increasingly Commitment to sustainability looking to borrow through digital channels.
We are We believe that it is important to ensure that we are changing our business to adapt to these market acting ethically at all times.
We provide a clear template dynamics and take advantage of new lending to our people through our Code of Ethics and this year opportunities but our ethos to deliver simple consumer 99% of employees and 85% of agents undertook our finance remains at the core of what we do.
We will ethics e-learning test.
continue to offer home credit and it will be a significant part of the business but we have moved beyond our We were pleased to be ranked in the top 7% in the heritage to serve customers with digital offerings, an area financial services Supersector in the FTSE4Good ESG of the business which has strong growth potential.
This score puts IPF amongst the highest scoring represents a very exciting opportunity for our company.
financial services companies in the world for its responsible approach to business.
We also received the highest possible scores in the Corporate Governance Financial performance and Human Rights and Community categories.
Our We delivered profit before tax of 92.6 million in 2016.
This continuing excellent performance in the FTSE4Good was lower than in 2015 reflecting a combination of lower index reflects our commitment to sustainable growth by home credit profit and higher investment in IPF Digital, operating in a responsible and ethical manner.
offset partially by strengthening FX rates.
We delivered credit issued growth of 8% driven by a Outlook strong performance in our Southern Europe and IPF Demand for consumer credit is growing but customers Digital businesses, together with a return to higher levels are looking to borrow money in different ways with of growth in Mexico in the second half of the year.
competitors offering greater choice while regulatory Customer numbers reduced year-on-year by 2% due, oversight has increased.
At this time it is not clear how primarily, to competitive pressures in the Czech Republic draft rate cap proposals in Poland will impact our and Poland, which was offset by growth in Mexico and IPF business but we are working to make sure that key Digital.
Credit quality remains good and impairment as a stakeholders fully understand the potential implications of percentage of revenue at 26.8% remains within our target change and deliver legislation to better reflect both the range of 25% to 30%.
needs of customers and businesses.
In the meantime, we continue to focus on modernising our business to meet Shareholder returns the changing needs of our customers, profitably and We aim to run and develop high-yielding businesses to sustainably, in order to continue to deliver returns to you, provide good returns to our shareholders.
shareholder approval, a final dividend of 7.8 pence per I would like to close by thanking all our team for their share will be payable which will bring the full year continued efforts and hard work.
2016 was a challenging dividend to 12.4 pence per share 2015: 12.4 pence per year but we have the strategy and means to execute it to share.
The full year dividend represents a total payment deliver for our customers, shareholders and equivalent to approximately 41% of post-tax earnings for other stakeholders.
the full year 2016 which is above our target pay-out rate of 35%.
Board and people I was delighted to welcome Justin Lockwood to the Board Dan OConnor on his appointment as Chief Financial Officer in February Chairman 2017.
Justin, previously the Groups Head of Finance, assumed the role of Interim CFO in September 2016 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 3
