International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to report that 2016 represented International Public Partnerships INPP, the Company tenth anniversary of listing.
Over the past decade, we have generated a total shareholder return of 148.5%.
This is equivalent to an average annual return of 9.4% 1 and ahead of our long-term target of 8%-9% returns.
We are positive about the Companys ability to continue to deliver predictable, inflation-linked returns in the future.
Despite operating in an environment of increased political uncertainty, the combination of strong and sustained portfolio performance, growth in capital deployed into complementary assets, and robust investor demand for the stock, has resulted in an increase of INPPs market capitalisation to over 1.7 billion at the end of 2016, up from 1.4 billion at the end of the previous year.
The infrastructure investment market remains buoyant, driven by increasing numbers of investors seeking access to long-duration, lowvolatility, robust-yielding assets with inflation protection and low correlation to the broader market.
In 2016, we made and committed record levels of investment into global infrastructure projects and are pursuing a healthy pipeline of new opportunities.
GROWTH IN INVESTOR RETURNS Every year for the past ten years, we have achieved annual growth in dividend distributions, broadly in line with longer-term inflation expectations at an average rate of approximately 2.5%.
The past year has been no exception: we achieved our targeted dividend of 6.65 pence, representing a 3.1% growth over 2015 6.45 pence.
The Board is pleased to reaffirm its minimum dividend target for 2017 of 6.82 pence per share and guidance of 7.00 pence per share for 2018.
We have good forward visibility of investment cash flows and, given the predictable nature of the Companys investments, we are confident of our longer-term prospects to pay out a dividend linked to long-term average inflation.
By providing two-year forward 2 guidance, we hope to provide shareholders with additional visibility.
INVESTMENT ACTIVITY Over 2016, INPP made and committed to seven new and eleven follow-on investments across the regulated utility, education, electricity transmission and transport infrastructure sectors, totalling 209.9 million of investment and 280 million of commitments.
Our ability to access high-quality infrastructure investments is testament to the combined expertise of INPP and that of our Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited Amber.
The largest commitment in 2016 was an agreement to invest up to 275 million, as part of a consortium of leading international investors, to acquire a share of a 61% stake in National Grids gas distribution network GDN.
This investment highlights INPPs and Ambers strong industry relationships and expertise and will augment INPPs high-quality, long-duration, inflation-linked returns.
We expect more regulated assets to come to the market and, as a well-established investor in this space, INPP is well positioned to capitalise on future opportunities.
Through leveraging our status as a significant owner of education investments, we acquired interests in an additional ten U. K. schools projects from Balfour Beatty, the construction firm, for 72.3 million in 2016.
This investment was secured on a bilateral basis through INPPs pre-emptive rights position - gained in 2011 when we acquired the U. K. Governments stake in such schemes, avoiding a competitive auction process.
One of INPPs most significant projects is the unique 4.2 billion Thames Tideway Tunnel project Tideway.
It will deliver a 25- kilometre super-sewer under the River Thames in London and it provides predictable, inflation-linked returns.
I am delighted that this project continues to progress through construction on plan, due for completion in 2023, and our 129.1 million investment to date including 70.2 million invested during 2016 continues to provide positive cash flow yield.
6 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 CAPITAL RAISING AND CORPORATE CREDIT FACILITY INPP has strong financial support for its investment strategy, using capital sourced from a combination of internally-generated cash resources, its corporate debt facility and proceeds from new share issuances.
To support portfolio growth, we conducted capital raisings in July 2016 and December 2016, securing 125 million and 75 million respectively.
Both placements were concluded at narrow discounts to the market price, and were supported by existing and new investors.
We have increased our corporate credit facility to 400 million, to support the strong pipeline of new potential investment opportunities in regulated and other public infrastructure.
Our three-year credit facility provides INPP with the flexibility to invest in appropriate opportunities and acts as an efficient bridging facility between capital raisings rather than serving as long-term, structural leverage.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE As well as new asset acquisitions, we continue to focus on achieving consistently-strong performance from our existing portfolio.
The Board believes that an active asset management approach, together with the proven ability of Amber, the Investment Adviser to originate and structure new opportunities, is fundamental to INPPs long-term success.
We ensure major activities such as construction schemes or project variations are tracking to schedule and budget and everyday aspects of our projects are monitored, as well as ensuring we maintain strong relationships with partners and clients.
The value of this approach is demonstrated by INPPs strong growth in Net Asset Value NAV, which increased 24.3% to 1,603.7 million, or 9.2% to 142.2 pence on a NAV per share basis in 2016.
BREXIT The INPP Board has closely monitored the market and political reactions following the U. K. s referendum on its membership of the European Union EU on 23 June 2016.
While the decision to leave the EU has led to uncertainty and associated market-related volatility, the full impact of Brexit is extremely difficult to forecast.
However, we believe that the Companys existing investments are unlikely to be significantly impacted in the long-term as: 1 counterparties to the concessions in which we invest will continue to use and require our assets: 2 there are no Brexit-specific clauses that would lead to the cessation of our concession agreements: and, 3 as a Guernsey-domiciled Company, we are not subject to significant uncertainty surrounding changes to EU regulation as in the main such rules have not been applicable.
There is still much that is unknown about the process and implications of Brexit and we will continue to monitor the effects on INPP as the terms of the Brexit negotiations emerge.
In the context of the uncertainty created by Brexit, we believe that demand will stay high for assets in which INPP invests, with stable, inflation-linked distributions.
BASE EROSION AND PROFIT SHIFTING BEPS During the year, the Company continued to monitor proposals by national governments to implement the OECD led initiative aimed at tackling base erosion and profit shifting BEPS.
In the U. K. the Company and its Investment Adviser have been particularly active in responding to Her Majestys Treasury and Her Majestys Revenue and Customs, to consultations and to draft legislation with regard to BEPS Action Point 4, related to restricting the tax deductibility of corporate interest.
Legislation on this subject was published in March 2017 as part of the Finance No.
2 Bill 2016- 17 and, subject to receiving Royal Assent expected later this year, is due to become effective as of 1 April 2017.
We are pleased to report that this legislation addressed a significant proportion of the concerns the Company had with initial consultations.
Whilst, given the number of elective options and other features of the legislation, the Company and its Investment Adviser continue to work through the full implications, at this stage it is not expected that these rules will have a significant impact on portfolio valuation.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INPP continues to comply with the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance and the U. K. Corporate Governance code as set out on page 45.
The Board values good corporate governance and this is reflected throughout the business.
As part of its ongoing review of control risks, the Board recently commissioned an external review of the Companys security protocols and controls in respect of cybersecurity.
7 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 This review did not identify any material defect in our controls however we continue to monitor proposed improvements to further improve robustness in this area.
During the year, the Board also decided to procure an external review of the process for monitoring and reporting of asset availability, as this is an important metric for public sector clients.
We expect to report the findings from this review in the half-year financial report.
As part of INPPs risk management process, the strength of the Companys underlying cash flows were reaffirmed through its viability risk assessment, first introduced a year ago.
Full details of this assessment can be found in the Risk Management section of this report.
In addition to these above points, further information on INPPs corporate governance developments over the year can be found in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
OUTLOOK The market outlook is positive.
Infrastructure ranks highly on many Government agendas: this asset class is a key economic driver to growth and delivering positive social benefits.
The global scale of the capital investment ambition of governments is significant and we anticipate this will generate more investment opportunities.
Political uncertainty and consequential economic risk present potential market-wide challenges, which need to be analysed and assessed as and when they materialise.
The nature of INPPs investment portfolio and the active approach we have adopted to asset management both provide a firm foundation from which to react to any emerging risks.
INPP remains focussed on delivering completion of its investments into Tideway and National Grid Gas, while continuing to develop and appraise potential investment opportunities that meet its risk-return profile.
Amber continues to track and develop opportunities at various stages of development in regulated utilities including offshore transmission, health, judicial, other accommodation and transport projects.
All opportunities are appraised on a case-by-case basis and pursued in a disciplined way.
This ensures that INPPs strong platform, carefully developed over the past ten years, continues to be enhanced.
More information and a detailed pipeline of opportunities is set out in Current Market Environment and Future Opportunities section.
Rupert Dorey Chairman 29 March 2017 1 Since inception.
Share price plus dividends assumed to be reinvested.
2 Future dividends cannot be guaranteed.
Projections are based on current estimates and many vary in the future.
