DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Over the past 12 months, much has been achieved.
We have continued to pursue the strategy outlined by Andr Lacroix last March that established the mission, purpose and vision of Intertek and the values that underpin this strategy.
We have redefined our value proposition shifting our focus to Adjusted operating profit was up 10.4% at constant exchange Total Quality Assurance solutions that provide our customers rates to 409.7m and we improved our adjusted operating margin with Assurance, Testing, Inspection and Certification services to 16.0%.
On an underlying basis, adjusted diluted earnings per that deliver more than assuring quality of components, products share were 167.7p, up 19.2%.
Return on invested capital was 21.7%.
and assets to now look at processes and systems.
This enables Intertek has a progressive dividend policy and seeks to grow ever more complex supply chains to operate safely by monitoring, the dividend each year in a sustainable way while maintaining assessing and managing risk in this rapidly changing world.
a minimum dividend cover of 2.5 times earnings.
On 14 October 2016 PERFORMANCE 2016, we paid an interim dividend of 19.4p per share 2015: I am pleased to report another year of strong progress.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Board will propose delivered revenue of 2,567m, an increase of 8.8% at constant a final dividend of 43.0p per share, which will make a full year exchange rates over the prior year benefiting from the 12 month dividend of 62.4p per share 2015: 52.3p, an increase of 19.3%.
Our Products and Trade This final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2017 for those businesses delivered good organic growth of 5.5% and 1.3% shareholders on the register on 19 May 2017.
During 2016, respectively at constant exchange rates, while as expected the share price increased from 27.77 to 34.81, and total trading conditions in the Resources sector remained challenging.
Organic revenue growth at constant exchange rates was 0.1%.
CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENT The Groups focus on strong cash generation continued in 2016, with adjusted cash flow from operations increasing by 21.4% to 565m.
"Capital investment is a key capital allocation priority ensuring "" As a global leader in the attractive that Intertek is well placed for future growth."
Investment in new Quality Assurance industry, Intertek laboratories and equipment in the year was 106m, equivalent to 4.1% of total revenue 2015: 112m, 5.2%.
is well positioned to seize significant growth opportunities that will deliver Net debt at the year end was 744m, a decrease of 4.1% on the prior year.
"This has driven a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5 times value for shareholders. """
in 2016, an improvement on prior year.
ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS We continue to focus on strengthening our portfolio of global and local businesses in growth areas.
In 2016, Intertek completed three acquisitions and investments: FIT-Italia, an Italian company specialising in providing assurance services to the retail and agricultural sectors through food quality and safety assessments: EWA-Canada, a leading cyber security assurance solutions business that strengthens our Internet of Things proposition: and a Joint Venture with ABC Analitic, which establishes Intertek as the environmental quality assurance market leader in Mexico.
The total spend on acquisitions and investments in 2016 was 34.8m, net of cash acquired.
Sir David Reid Chairman 52 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION Our strong financial position means that we continue to have More detail can be found in the Sustainability and CSR Report on the flexibility to consider strategic acquisition opportunities pages 45 to 51. that bring complementary services to our portfolio and have CULTURE, VALUES AND ETHICS the potential to increase shareholder value.
Values are at the core of Intertek.
The way we live these values BOARD AND COMMITTEE CHANGES and our behaviours are even more important: doing the right One of my key roles is to constantly evaluate the balance of thing is integral to our people and our business.
We strive to deal skills, experience, knowledge and independence of the Directors.
with our business partners with integrity and respect and treat The composition of the Board continued to evolve during 2016. them as we would hope and expect to be treated ourselves.
We Edward Astle retired at the AGM and I would like to thank Edward have robust ethical policies and control procedures which help us for his valuable contribution to Intertek since December 2009. ensure that good business ethics are embedded across the You may be aware that, sadly, Mark Williams passed away in Group.
This is key to our success.
March 2016 after three years on the Board.
Our decentralised structure encourages fast decision making at We welcomed Andrew Martin to the Board as a Non-Executive the local level by people who really understand their customers Director and a member of the Audit Committee on 25 May 2016. needs and can provide great service.
We rely on the quality of our Andrew will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from employees around the globe to deliver our strategy for growth.
It is their innovation, entrepreneurial spirit, passion and commitment that drives our progress.
On behalf of the Board, GOVERNANCE I would like to thank all of our employees for their continued As Chairman, I am committed to strong and effective corporate dedication and diligence.
This enables us to assess business performance and strategic progress as well as manage existing and emerging risks.
LOOKING AHEAD To this end, during the year, we established a Risk Committee, Structural changes in sourcing and distribution have made separate from the Audit Committee, and reporting directly to supply chain operations more complex for our customers.
The the Chief Executive Officer.
The work of the Board and its fundamental strengths of our high-quality business model are Committees is set out in the Corporate Governance Report therefore critical in a world that demands greater quality on pages 56 to 87. assurance and gives me confidence that we will continue to create long-term value for our shareholders.
Intertek continues to support diversity in all its forms across the organisation including the Board.
While all Board appointments are made on merit, we firmly believe in the importance of diversity.
Three of the nine Board members are female.
The Board notes the recommendations of both the Hampton-Alexander Report and The Parker Review and is following through to ensure the Group takes the appropriate steps to champion ability and diversity across the business.
Sir David Reid CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chairman Foremost in our approach to corporate responsibility is a continual focus on sustainable business practices.
Not only do we strive to ensure our own processes are sustainable and adhere to best practice, our role in helping our customers around the world improve the social, ethical and environmental impact of their products, processes, and supply chains, ensures quality, safety and the reputation of their business and brands.
Another key operating principal is health and safety and we have policies and processes in place to ensure staff welfare remains of utmost importance.
Our aim is zero lost time accidents and to achieve this, we are committed to continuous review and improvement of our health and safety performance to help identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risk.
Our employees cultural values and relationships with their local communities is important to them, our business and to our clients.
Throughout the year, our colleagues have led awareness campaigns, volunteered, participated in fund-raising efforts and inspired young people.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 53
