Chairmans summary 2016 was another extremely productive year for the group Mike Humphrey Chairman IP Group enjoyed an extremely productive year in 2016.
The first half of the year saw major commercial HIGHLIGHTS developments in our key assets across all four of the sectors in which we operate and we recorded successful exits from three companies.
That strong Portfolio companies raise operational performance continued in the second half c. 230m of new capital in 2016 of the year which also saw significant fundraisings from three of our largest portfolio companies as well as a corporate acquisition.
These achievements Sale of entire holding in Tracsis took place against a backdrop of general uncertainty following the outcomes of both the UKs referendum plc for 13.1m on its membership of the EU and the US presidential election.
Acquisition of Since the publication of our half-year report, it has been pleasing to see the UK Government, and Parkwalk Advisors Ltd other governments around the world, acknowledge the continued importance of supporting scientific innovation.
IP Group was founded on the belief that modern economies need to not only support Key events fundamental scientific research but also to Of the many highlights in 2016, I would like to draw commercially leverage this innovation through the your attention to both exits and fundraisings.
On the creation of significant businesses that contribute former, the Group recorded the second largest cash to employment and economic growth.
As such, exit in its history with the sale of its entire holding in in todays increasingly dynamic world, the Tracsis plc in March 2016.
The Group was a founder fundamental driver of our business the need for the shareholder in Tracsis, which was spun out of the commercialisation of science remains as strong as University of Leeds in 2004 and, following eight ever.
successful acquisitions, is now a profitable business As we begin 2017, it is worth noting that the Group with turnover in excess of 30m, employing more remains well-capitalised with a strong balance sheet than 600 people.
The sale resulted in net cash and that our portfolio is well diversified with a broad proceeds of 13.1m, bringing total proceeds from range of early to mature businesses across four Tracsis to date to 14.3m and representing a multiple sectors.
Geographically, we also have a burgeoning of approximately 38 times the Groups investment operation in the US and a healthy pipeline of new of 0.4m.
I would like to stress that our most On the point of fundraisings, it is noteworthy that our valuable portfolio company holdings are making portfolio companies raised over 230m of new capital excellent commercial progress.
We are fortunate this year with almost 200m of that falling into the to be able to call on an extremely experienced second half of the year, a remarkable achievement management team who have weathered a number given the prevailing economic climate.
Our most of business cycles.
All of these factors combine to valuable spin-out company, Oxford Nanopore, raised ensure that the Group remains well positioned for the 100m.
Other significant fund raisings including AIMfuture.
6 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Acquisition Summary In December, the Group announced that it had agreed In summary, 2016 was another extremely productive to acquire Parkwalk Advisors Ltd, the UKs leading year for the Group despite challenging circumstances university spin-out focused EIS fund manager, for an of external uncertainty, particularly in the second half initial consideration of 10m up to a maximum of of the year.
As ever, we are grateful for the continued 20m over three years, subject to the achievement hard work and commitment from our staff, academic of certain business performance targets.
Parkwalk partners and portfolio companies.
I would also like to has been a long-term co-investment partner of IP extend the Boards thanks to all of our stakeholders Group, having co-invested over 17m in 14 investment for their continued support.
IP Group remains as rounds during 2015 2016 alone.
The primary reason excited as ever about evolving great ideas into worldfor the Groups acquisition of Parkwalk was to further changing businesses and we look forward to further secure access to this increasingly important source developing the Group, its partnerships and its spinof financing for early-stage technology companies out companies in 2017 and beyond.
and we believe Parkwalks strong links to leading Mike Humphrey institutional wealth managers and university partners Chairman will be beneficial to the Group.
In addition, it is a profitable business and is immediately accretive to IP Groups operating results.
The acquisition completed on 31 January 2017 and Im delighted to welcome the Parkwalk team to the Group.
Financial performance In terms of financial performance, the Groups objective is to generate long-term value for its stakeholders and the Groups portfolio has delivered strong growth to date.
Since inception in 2001, the Group has generated a gross realised and unrealised internal rate of return IRR on its portfolio of approximately 19% and an annualised return on Hard NAV per share of approximately 14% since the end of 2003, the year in which the Group was admitted to AIM.
However, it remains important to consider that portfolio company valuations and therefore results can fluctuate from year to year and this was the case in 2016.
The Groups net assets excluding goodwill and intangibles Hard NAV were broadly unchanged at 706.5m 2015: 714.3m with the fair value of the portfolio increasing to 614.0m 2015: 552.2m although the Group recorded an overall loss for the year of 14.8m 2015: profit of 75.1m.
The Group ended the year with gross cash of 112.3m 2015: 178.8m.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Market The purpose of IP Group is to evolve great ideas into world-changing businesses.
The Directors consider that the Group is operating Its Global Economic Prospects report is forecasting and competing in two major areas.
Firstly, the Group 2.7% growth compared with the 2.3% seen last year.
competes for access to great ideas with significant Nonetheless, it also flagged heightened uncertainty commercial potential.
The Group primarily sources after the US Presidential election in particular.
These these ideas from world-leading academic research factors may have an impact on the Group this year.
institutions, frequently those with which it has a longAccessing great ideas quality term partnership arrangement.
Secondly, the Group competes for risk capital to develop these great research ideas into viable businesses against other investment There are considered to be a number of common opportunities.
While the market for capital is very challenges facing the developed and developing broad and deep, the Groups companies are typically world today, including issues such as ageing seeking earlier-stage and development risk capital.
population, climate change, resource scarcity, energy availability and storage, rapid urbanisation, health Economic backdrop challenges and increasing digitisation.
The Group The overall economic backdrop has a significant believes that overcoming many of these intractable bearing on the Groups ability to pursue its strategic problems will require one or more scientific solutions.
In the shorter term, financial market Further, historically, many such scientific solutions volatility and investor risk appetite impacts the have come from fundamental R&D carried out in the Groups ability to access capital for the development worlds leading research universities and institutions, of its spin-out companies, could affect the likelihood a trend that we do not see materially changing in the of achieving exits and impacts the periodic valuations near term.
As a result, IP Group partners with leading of its holdings in portfolio companies.
Over the research institutions in countries where leading longer-term, government spending on fundamental research is produced.
The Groups two current areas R&D and indeed policy support towards the of geographic focus are the UK and the US, which commercialisation of generated IP are key areas lead the world in the production of top rated science, affecting the Groups business model.
with its core activities continuing to remain in the UK.
The Group does, of course, continually assess In this context, it is worth noting that these are, of potential opportunities in other territories that satisfy course, very uncertain times both economically and its criteria including long-term partnerships with politically, particularly following events such as the leading research institutions and good access to both UKs vote in favour of leaving the European Union and capital and entrepreneurial talent.
the outcome of the US presidential election.
From an economic perspective, last year, for example, the International Monetary Fund predicted global growth would slow to 3.1% in 2016 before recovering to 3.4% in 2017.
The forecast had been revised down by 0.1 percentage point for 2016 and 2017.
More recently, however, the World Bank predicted a moderate improvement in global economic growth in 2017.
8 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy The Office for Budget Responsibility forecast then Global research landscape that GDP growth will slow to 1.4% in 2017 before From a global perspective, the US remains the recovering to 1.7% in 2018, 2.1% in both 2019 and 2020, worlds largest R&D performer with nearly $433bn and 2% in 2021. of domestic R&D expenditures in 2013 according to the G20 Innovation Report 2016.
This exceeded by Stressing that research and development is a about one-quarter the amount of R&D performed in key driver of economic growth and a vital part the Peoples Republic of China, the second-largest of the Governments Industrial Strategy, the UK performer, which is broadly on par with the combined Government also announced that it would review EU28 area.
Among the G20, South Korea has the the tax environment for R&D to ensure the system highest ratio of R&D expenditures to gross domestic is strongly pro-innovation to make the UK an even product owing to rapid increases in recent years.
more competitive place to carry out R&D.
Funding of 100m has also been earmarked to incentivise Yet there are concerns that a decline in government university collaboration in tech transfer and in funding of science and technology research in some working with business.
countries could pose a threat to innovation.
The OECD Science, Technology and Innovation Outlook The UK Government also began a review of long term 2016, published in December, noted expenditure on investment into British firms.
The Patient Capital R&D by universities and public research institutes review, led by the Treasury, will look at how to remove in OECD countries began flattening out in 2010 the obstacles to getting long term investment into following three decades of growth as other policy innovative firms.
It has also pledged to invest 400m priorities, such as state pensions, health and social into venture capital funds via the British Business care, absorbed a growing share of public resources.
Bank, aimed at enabling small companies to scale It indicated that public spending on R&D may plateau up and ward off foreign purchases of promising at current levels or decline even further as a result companies.
of continued pressure on public finances in many countries and sluggish economic growth.
UK landscape In the UK, where IP Group is predominantly based and where it has partnerships with 14 leading UK universities and access to innovation from both Oxford and Cambridge, the Government has announced a package of measures designed to support innovation and drive economic growth.
A stimulus package that will see an extra 4.7bn flowing into science and innovation over the next four years was unveiled last Autumn on the back of the outcome of the UKs referendum on its membership of the EU and the expectation of lower growth.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Market CONTINUED IP Groups approach to building businesses is one of Competitive landscape the ways in which it differentiates itself from more The number of companies and organisations seeking traditional venture funds.
The Group actively supports to commercialise intellectual property, and or provide the development of its portfolio companies through capital to spin-out companies from universities and access to early-stage business-building expertise, research intensive institutions in the UK has increased interim executive support, technical and commercial in recent years.
Further, the Group continues to face networks and senior team recruitment and the risk of competition in new geographies in which it development in addition to the provision of capital.
seeks to operate, for example as a result of its recent expansion into the US.
In addition, the Group provides operational, legal, business and company secretarial support to its When approaching new opportunities, potential companies, with a view to minimising the most funders including the Group will often act in a common administrative factors that can contribute collaborative manner through syndication of to early-stage company failure.
The Group has also investment.
However, there are also occasions when successfully carried out a number of instances of IP Group may need to participate in a competitive two innovative programmes to accelerate company process to obtain an interest in a particular growth, working with CEOs and company boards to technology.
The Group and its portfolio companies regularly It is also worth noting that IP Group announced the compete with a range of technology, and other, acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd, the UKs leading businesses when seeking capital for the development university spin-out focused EIS fund manager, in of their business models.
The competition for capital, December 2016.
The Group considers EIS funds to and for opportunities on occasion, can come from a be an increasingly important source of financing wide variety of entities, including: for early-stage technology companies and believes Parkwalks strong links to leading institutional wealth specialist traditional venture capital investors: managers and university partners will be beneficial to large private institutional investors: the Group.
privately managed schemes based on government These factors have helped us create a solid track funding: record.
Since inception in 2001, the Group has private individuals, both acting individually or generated a gross realised and unrealised internal rate collectively as groups such as business angel of return IRR on its portfolio of approximately 19% networks, crowdfunding platforms or through and an annualised return on Hard NAV per share of beneficial tax mechanisms such as SEIS, EIS and approximately 14% since 2003, the year in which the VCTs: Group was admitted to AIM.
direct public funding, for example the EU level JEREMIE fund and other national and local schemes: and universities and research intensive institutions seeking to raise private sector funding themselves to support their in-house technology commercialisation activities.
10 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy IP GROUPS COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE IP GROUPS KEY DIFFERENTIATORS Strength of partnerships with leading research institutions, giving access to potentially disruptive IP Technology transfer capability to identify disruptive IP and to enable its transfer from research lab to commercial entity Business-building expertise, including executive search, administrative support, capital sourcing and innovative portfolio board and CEO programmes Patient capital approach, enabling the provision of funding from cradle to maturity unconstrained by artificiality of fixed life funds Strong track record built over 15 years 11 Stock Code: IPO www.
