Strategic Report Strategy and Operations Chairmans Statement To be able to announce record results, even after a year in which television advertising saw a small decline, is eloquent testimony to the health of ITVs business.
This is my first annual report as Chair, and Key to rebalancing ITV has been the its a pleasure to observe how different ITV is significant growth of ITV Studios in the UK compared to seven years ago or indeed since and internationally.
Worldwide demand for I first joined the Board in 2013.
To be able to quality content continues to grow from We have a clear announce record results, even after a year in broadcasters, from traditional platforms which television advertising saw a small and from the new VOD services.
ITV, as an strategy in place decline, is eloquent testimony to the health increasingly scaled international producer of ITVs business.
It reflects the fruits of the and distributor of high-quality content, is which the continued rebalancing of the Company, well placed to take advantage of that.
Well with revenues other than spot advertising continue to seek opportunities to add scale management team representing more than half of the total.
and value in the future, both organically and through acquisitions, as we grow our global remains very In the business of television, it of course all content business and further diversify our starts with superb programmes and they revenues away from our reliance on the UK focused on are made by a plethora of great talent: television advertising market.
performers, writers, directors, producers and delivering journalists.
Both ITVs main channel and our Adam Crozier and Ian Griffiths lead a strong family of channels improved their SOV in management team, who took swift action 2016, a huge achievement in a multi-channel, after last Junes referendum to deliver multi-platform era.
This underlines the value additional cost savings to ensure ITV is of one of our greatest assets: the ability to well placed to face the opportunities and deliver the only commercial, genuinely mass challenges that lie ahead.
We have a clear audience in the UK and one which also offers strategy which the team remains very the key demographics to advertisers.
Pivotal to our success is offering choice and Our strong balance sheet and significant flexibility to our viewers, and within that the cash flows will support this and enable ITV Hub which we launched just over a year us to continue to invest in the business ago continues to be highly demanded as we as well as deliver sustainable returns further develop and enhance its service.
Significantly we have recently announced the beginning of our SVOD service, BritBox, jointly In 2014, the Board made a commitment to with the BBC.
BritBox will offer the best of grow the full year ordinary dividend by at British content in the US and it is our intention least 20% per annum to 2016 to achieve a to roll out our SVOD services further into more normal dividend cover of between 2.0 other international markets under the and 2.5x adjusted earnings per share.
with this policy, and reflecting ITVs good performance in 2016, the Board is proposing a final dividend of 4.8p which equates to a full year dividend of 7.2p.
Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman 14 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Pictured: Loose Women has been broadcast as part of the ITV daytime schedule for 17 years.
It grew its audience by 8% in 2016 and reached 3.9 million viewers a week.
Reflecting ITVs strong cash generation and Dividend the Boards confidence in the business, the Dividend per share p ordinary Board is also proposing a special dividend of 7.2p 5.0p per share, worth just over 200 million.
I am proud to be leading a focused Board of non-executives to which I am pleased to 20% welcome a new member, Salman Amin, the YoY Chief Operating Officer of SC Johnson, who brings extensive experience of advertising and marketing and who works in one of our 7.2p key territories, the US.
Increase on 2009 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 On behalf of the Board, Id like to take this opportunity to thank all colleagues for the creative and commercial achievements of 2016 as we look forward to 2017 5p Special dividend, worth just over with enthusiasm.
200m Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman Pictured left to right: Fixer Upper is produced by High Noon in the US and was the highest rated programme on the network HGTV in 2016: The Durrells was commissioned for ITV and was the most watched new drama launch of 2016.
