Str Stra at tegi egic Repor c Report t Delivery against Strategy OUR VISION We know our customers better than anyone else.
We will be there whenever and wherever they need us, offering great products and services at fair prices.
Our colleagues make the difference, our Our strva a lue te s ma gky i e us diff s b erent.
uilt on the fundamental strengths of our business of great heritage, quality food Maintained at fair prices and market share at strong values DAVID TYLER SAINSBURYS CHAIRMAN 16.5% 12.1p Proposed full-year 681m dividend, down 8.3% Underlying Adapting profit before tax to a changing marketplace 4 Strategic Report Chairmans Letter Your Board remains focused on building shareholder value and we are confident that by following our strategy, driving efficiencies and managing costs carefully, we will achieve this.
Our strategy is built on the fundamental also apply to around 40,000 colleagues under Accelerating our strategy strengths of our business: our great the age of 25.
Inaddition, nearly 126,000 The most significant event this year has been heritage, quality food at fair prices and colleagues and management will share a your Boards proposal to acquire Home Retail strong values.
It recognises that customers bonus of around 100 million in recognition Group plc, owners of the Argos retail chain.
will increasingly shop through multiple of their hard work during theyear.
The combination of Argos with Sainsburys channels and according to their varying will create a leading food and non-food At our AGM on 6 July 2016, John McAdam, needs.
Our business will continue to adapt retailer.
It provides us with an opportunity to Senior Independent Director, will step down to changing shopping needs, ensuring that accelerate our strategy, delivering compelling after ten years as a Non-Executive Director.
we exceed customer expectations in a fastrevenue and cost synergies.
Wewill create a Iwould like to thank John for his very valuable paced, digital world.
multi-product, multi-channel proposition contribution to Sainsburys, in particular for with fast delivery networks which will be very The UK retail sector is evolving rapidly in line his counsel in his role as Senior Independent attractive to customers.
We are pleased that with changing consumer behaviour.
Susan Rice, who has been a valued the Board of Home Retail Group plc has are shopping more often and are buying member of the Board since 2013, will succeed recommended our offer to its shareholders, fewer items on a typical trip.
Furthermore, John as Senior Independent Director.
and our focus is now to obtain the necessary customers are seeking greater choice, speed Brian Cassin, CEO of global information services regulatory clearances and prepare for the and convenience, as well as high levels company Experian plc, joined the Board as a future integration of our two businesses.
of service, however they choose to shop.
Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2016 and Thegrocery market continues to experience will be a member of the Audit Committee Dividend price competition and food price deflation, and the Nomination Committee.
Brian brings Your Board remains focused on building and the growth of discount retailers and to us his experience of running a FTSE40 shareholder value and we are confident that new online entrants to the market have company and of big data and analytics by following our strategy, driving efficiencies changed the competitive landscape.
topics of key importance to Sainsburys.
and managing costs carefully, we will achieve Inthese conditions, it is clear that grocery this.
We are committed to paying an affordable retailers must adapt to stay ahead.
Outlook dividend to our shareholders and have fixed The UK grocery market will remain Like-for-like sales have declined this year as dividend cover at 2.0 times.
The growth of the discount a result of pricing pressures and food price recommending a final dividend of 8.1 pence retailers, food price deflation, ongoing deflation.
Underlying profit before tax was per share this year, making the proposed price competition and the continuing down nearly 14 per cent to 587 million, full-year dividend 12.1pence pershare.
pressure on consumer expenditure look underlying basic earnings per share was set to continue throughout 2016.
However, down just over eight per cent to 24.2 pence Management and colleagues we have a business that is well-placed to and return on capital employed declined 88 Mike Coupe leads a highly talented and navigate this tough trading climate and we basis points year-on-year to 8.8 per cent.
experienced management team and we have have significant opportunities to grow our However, the strategy we outlined 18 months over 162,000 colleagues.
The commitment, business and accelerate our strategy.
ago is working and we are currently the skills and customer service standards our best-performing of our main supermarket colleagues deliver make the difference.
peers, growing volumes and maintaining In August, we announced a four per cent marketshare.
pay increase for 137,000 colleagues who work in our stores across the country.
Our David Tyler new standard hourly rate is well above the Chairman Governments National Living Wage and will 5
