Chairmans statement A year of substantial development Revenue for the 2016 financial year IWG is a Jersey-incorporated company increased to 2,233.4m 2015: 1,927.0m, with its head office in Switzerland.
The an increase of 5.5% at constant currency choice of Switzerland reflects, among up 15.9% at actual rates.
With the other factors, the increasing presence of improved operational efficiency, senior management located in Switzerland Once again, we have underlying operating profit grew 14% as the Group continues to streamline its delivered against our at constant currency to 186.2m a 29% organisation in order to achieve synergies improvement at actual rates.
Underlying of scale while developing worldwide.
strategy as demonstrated profit before tax increased 34% to by a strong set of financial Strategy 174.7m.
Our cash performance was Our strategy uniquely positions us to again strong.
Cash flow before growth results as well as the further both drive and benefit from the exciting capital expenditure, share repurchases growth of our business and developments and growth in the flexible and dividends increased 33% to 286.1m.
We have continued This strong financial performance has our global network.
It was our efforts to enhance our operating driven a further increase in our post-tax particularly pleasing to see model with a focus on simplicity, scalability, cash returns on net growth investment.
people, cost control, risk management and our concerted efforts to These strong results were achieved great customer experience.
alongside further strategic development improve efficiency result in We are actively pursuing our partnering of our business, growing our network lower overheads whilst we approach to investment, in which we with the addition of 231 new locations, will increasingly become the facilitator also continued significant refining our formats to benefit our between the property investor and the customers, introducing innovative new growth in the number of end customer.
We made good progress in solutions, driving operational efficiencies our locations.
this area during 2016, targeting property through initiatives including a new city owners with a view to partnering with clustered field structure and capital them in the expansion of our national Douglas Sutherland efficiencies by focusing on partnering networks across the world and entry into with property owners.
Throughout all Chairman new markets.
This will have the effect of these activities, our strong cash improving returns and reducing risk across generation and disciplined investment the business.
Our approach to enhancing approach have once more enabled us property returns will also allow us to invest to maintain a robust capital structure.
on an opportunistic basis directly in New name properties where the return is attractive.
One highly visible change that took place Our large global footprint gives us the during the year was the change in name ability to constantly review our investments to IWG plc International Workplace Group in growth by region, by country and by for the new holding company of the Group.
Our agile approach means that we There were several reasons for this move can rapidly adjust our investments based which supports our provision of flexible on evolving market conditions.
workplace solutions under multiple brands, including Regus, Spaces, Signature, OpenOffice, Kora and MOS.
In the Boards view, while Regus will remain one of our flagship brands, we can better serve customers and optimise growth and returns by offering a segmented portfolio of workplace formats and solutions.
12 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board Dividend I would like to thank my Board colleagues We continue our commitment to a for their valuable contributions during the sustainable and progressive dividend year, which helped the Group deliver in recognition of our confidence in the another strong set of results for the benefit long-term performance of the business of our customers, our business partners, and the strength of the Groups financial our employees and our shareholders.
The Board is recommending a On 17 February 2017 we announced 15% increase in the final dividend to that Lance Browne has resigned as a 3.55p.
Subject to the approval of Non-Executive Director effective from the shareholders at the 2016 AGM, this will annual general meeting on 16 May 2017. be paid on 26 May 2017 to shareholders I wish to thank Lance for his wisdom, on the register at the close of business on insight and support in his role as Senior 28 April 2017.
This represents an increase Independent Director as well as his many in the full-year dividend of over 13% to contributions to the Groups overall 5.10p 2015: 4.50p.
I look forward to working with Douglas Sutherland Franois Pauly who will be proposed for Chairman the role of Senior Independent Director with effect from Lances resignation.
28 February 2017 People Each year our success is driven by the commitment and skill of our talented and experienced people.
An engaged and dedicated workforce is vital to us achieving our global growth aspirations.
We recently concluded our annual senior leadership conference, with active participation of almost 200 colleagues from around the world.
The capabilities and enthusiasm displayed there renewed my confidence in our ability to continue to execute our strategy.
Our success is testament to our people in every market and at every level.
I would like to thank them on behalf of the Board for their strong performance and implementation of significant initiatives in what has been a transformational year for the Group, solidly positioning IWG for future growth.
