James Fisher and Sons plc Chairmans statement Chairmans statement In 2016, James Fishers underlying profit before tax increased by 11%.
This reflected the continued resilience of the Fisher business model with its well-balanced spread of activities across the marine sector and international markets.
Charles Rice, Chairman I am pleased to report that James Fisher and Sons plc The Group remains focused on investing in niche businesses grew strongly in 2016 producing underlying profit before which operate in demanding environments where their tax of 45.8m, an increase of 11% over the prior year.
This strong marine service and specialist engineering skills reflected the continued resilience of the Fisher business are valued and rewarded.
Our businesses have a wide model with its well-balanced spread of activities across international presence across the faster growing markets the marine sector and international markets.
Three of our of Asia Pacific, the Middle East, Africa and South America four divisions, Marine Support, Specialist Technical and and we will continue to invest in expanding our position in Tankships posted good improvements in results which these new markets.
The Group has only a small presence in more than absorbed continued weakness in Offshore Oil.
Europe outside the UK and Norway and therefore the Group revenue for the year grew by 6% to 466.0m Brexit process is likely to have limited direct impact on 2015: 437.9m and underlying diluted earnings per share Group trading.
were 76.3 pence, an increase of 11% compared with 2015.
The Board believes that each of our four divisions continues Statutory diluted earnings per share were 78.7 pence to have attractive prospects based on strong market 2015: 79.2p.
Underlying trading improvements were the key driver The strongest growth opportunities are currently in Marine of growth with currency gains making only a limited Support and Specialist Technical.
In Marine Support, contribution to the increase in profit of 1.4m overall.
The the award of the Galloper wind farm contract together Groups cash conversion improved further to 103% and the with the acquisition of Hughes Sub Surface Engineering year end balance sheet gearing remained at a conservative marked a significant step up in our presence in the growing 41% despite acquisition expenditure of 24.6m and higher renewables market.
We continue to find new growth project related working capital requirements.
opportunities for our ship-to-ship transfer activities in Asia The underlying strength of the Groups performance and Pacific, Africa and Brazil.
In Specialist Technical, our JFD the positive outlook for the year ahead has led the Board subsidiary now has a clear market leadership position in to propose an increase in the final dividend to 17.6 pence the supply of hyperbaric and specialist diving equipment per share 2015: 16.0p, making a total for the year of 26.15 to the commercial market as well as in its niche defence pence per share, an increase of 10% compared with 2015. activities.
The past year has seen strong growth in orders from the Asia Pacific region and JFDs acquisition of Lexmar Strategy in Singapore will further strengthen our presence in this important market.
Our nuclear business has also been The 2016 results confirm the resilience of the James successful in establishing an initial presence in the Chinese Fisher Group with its spread of businesses across multiple and Japanese markets and we will seek to build on these sectors of the marine services market.
This has enabled the opportunities in the future.
Group to offset the downturn in the oil and gas sector with continued growth elsewhere.
The decentralised structure Over the last seven years, our Tankships division has of the Group has allowed focus to be maintained on seizing performed well with profit improvements every year driven the new opportunities available in the Marine Support and mainly by cost efficiencies and tight management of Specialist Technical areas in particular, without distracting capacity.
The point is nearing when some of our older ships from the rapid restructuring of our Offshore Oil activities.
While we see opportunities to do this in a cost efficient manner, there will necessarily be some increase in overall vessel costs in the medium term.
2 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements JFD Indian Navy submarine rescue contract JFD is the world leader in the provision of submarine rescue services and has long-term contracts to manage submarine rescue services for NATO, the Singaporean Navy and the Australian Navy.
In 2016, JFD was awarded a 193m submarine rescue contract by the Indian Navy for the design, assembly and supply of two submarine rescue vessels for delivery by December 2018 with a 25 year contract to manage and maintain the submarine rescue service.
The Offshore Oil division is well placed assuming some Staff resumption in customer maintenance spend.
Our gross The Group continues to benefit from a strong and stable margins have proven to be robust: capital expenditure management team both at Board level and in our operating has been reduced and costs remain under tight control.
It is becoming increasingly international in its Our businesses have been very active in seeking out new operations with growing scale and complexity in the customer markets in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Results have contracts that it undertakes.
Considerable attention has been stabilised at levels reported in the second half of 2015.
It is given to managing these changes effectively both in terms too early to be confident of a strong recovery but we have of management recruitment and via a significant step up in now seen an improvement in the order book in Norway our centrally organised training programmes which have the which should benefit 2017.
We will continue to invest in double benefit of improving cohesion across the Group as Offshore Oil as attractive opportunities arise which meet our well as raising skill levels.
The broad spread of our businesses means that some staff Our businesses are increasingly technology led with the have been coping with the pressures of growth while others recent contract gains by JFD being one example of how have had to face tougher times.
On behalf of the Board, I technological leadership can give our businesses a real would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work competitive edge.
When combined with the Groups and commitment shown to the continued success of the growing scale and its ability to manage increasingly complex James Fisher Group.
contracts we see good opportunities for organic growth.
The strength of our balance sheet enables us to continue Outlook to invest for the future and to make bolt-on acquisitions Our Marine Support and Specialist Technical divisions have which improve the capability and market presence of our started 2017 with strong order books and a number of businesses.
Trading volumes in Tankships are stable and we are seeing some early signs of improved activity in The Board Offshore Oil.
We therefore have a positive view of the year There were no changes in the Boards composition during ahead and are confident of the Groups potential to provide the year.
This year the annual board appraisal was based further growth and value for our shareholders in the future.
on an internal evaluation of its performance across the key areas of business performance, strategy, financial Charles Rice reporting and key performance indicators, risk management, 28 February 2017 succession planning and corporate social responsibility.
The Board reviewed the key issues being raised by the investor community in relation to good corporate governance.
The Board considers that it functions well as a unit, provides a good balance of support and challenge to management and reports in appropriate detail to investors for a company of its scale.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 3 James Fisher and Sons plc 2016 in focus 2016 in focus January JFD wins a contract in Singapore for the design and manufacture of up to eight self-propelled hyperbaric lifeboats.
Fendercare Marine, the global provider of ship-to-ship STS cargo transfer services, is awarded a certificate of excellence for STS operations throughout 2015 by the Dubai Maritime City Authority.
February JF Marine Services wins a 25m contract to supply a wide range of marine services to support the construction of the Galloper wind farm, off Lowestoft, UK.
March JFD wins a 193m contract to design, assemble and supply two deep-submergence rescue vehicles for the Indian Navy and subsequently, to manage and maintain submarine rescue services for 25 years.
April JF Nuclear wins a 60m, four year contract to design and deliver the capability to decommission a core reactor at Winfrith, Dorset, UK.
June Acquisition of visual asset management company, Return to Scene Limited for 1.9m.
July JF Nuclear awarded contract to develop the cutting-edge technology to sample radioactive debris sitting below the reactor cores at the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant.
August Acquisition of Specialist Technical business, Lexmar, Singapore, for S$26.8m 15.0m.
Acquisition of Marine Support business, Hughes Sub Surface Engineering, for 9.0m.
September Acquisition of the rig cooling technology of SWT, Norway for 3.0m.
November JFD wins a c. 35m contract from Shanghai Salvage to design and build a 24 man saturation diving system rated for diving support to depths of 500m.
December JF Testing Malaysia secures a contract to install its monitoring systems on the Penang bridge establishing it as a key player in the instrumentation and monitoring sector in South East Asia.
JF Marine Services delivers first offshore oil exchange on wind turbines at Thornton Bank wind farm.
4 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Revenue by geography Revenue by division 12% 28% 38% 44% 32% 23% 11% 12% UK Middle East, Africa & Marine Support Specialist Technical the Americas Europe Offshore Oil Tankships Asia Pacific Profit by division Capital employed by division 7% 15% 22% 39% 40% 38% 8% 31% Marine Support Specialist Technical Marine Support Specialist Technical Offshore Oil Tankships Offshore Oil Tankships Winfrith reactor decommissioning project In April 2016, JF Nuclear was awarded a 60m contract by Magnox Limited to decommission the largest of the reactor cores on its site in Winfrith, Dorset, UK.
The contract is to design and deliver a facility to segment and package the reactor core of the redundant Steam Generating Heavy Water Reactor over a four year period.
The reactor was shut down in 1990 and has subsequently been subject to fide-fuelling and decommissioning operations.
Cutting up and packaging the reactor core for disposal is a major step in returning the site to a green field state.
