STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT On behalf of the Board I would like to thank everyone at JLT for their continued hard work and contribution to the Group's results in 2016.
Geoffrey Howe I am pleased to present the Groups before tax increased by 1% to 172.6 2017 to shareholders who are on Annual Report for the financial year million.
The Group's trading profit margin the register as at 31 March 2017. ended 31 December 2016. reduced from 16.2% to 15.4%.
This will bring the total dividend for JLT has delivered a good set of financial The reduction in the Groups underlying the year to 32.2 pence per share, an results in 2016, when set against trading profit reflects JLT's continued overall increase of 5.2% and the eighth the continued challenging trading investment in building out its US consecutive year that JLT has paid an environment.
In 2016 we have continued Specialty operation and the challenging increased dividend.
to face severe external headwinds in business environment.
More detail on The business has delivered a Total the economies in which we operate, both of these are set out in the Chief Shareholder Return TSR of 195% in the industries in which we specialise Executives Review on pages 15 to 17. over the past 8 years, as illustrated and in the insurance market.
We are Excluding the US Specialty net in the chart on page 88. also addressing the challenges that investment of 27.0 million, the Groups have been specific to JLT, including the underlying profit before tax would have build-out of our organic start-up in US increased by 5%, and the Groups Specialty and the challenges posed by 1,261.3m trading profit margin would have been legal and regulatory changes in our UK broadly maintained at 18.1%, compared TOTAL Employee Benefits business.
We now with 18.4% for 2015. have a clear line of sight to the benefits REVENUE that will flow from all our efforts to Our reported profit before tax reduced address those challenges.
by 13% to 134.9 million, which includes the impact of exceptional costs of 9% 37.7 million and, as a consequence, PERFORMANCE reported diluted EPS decreased to INCREASE Total revenues increased by 9%, 37.8p and underlying diluted EPS ON 2015 or 3% at constant rates of exchange, decreased to 51.4p.
to 1.26 billion with overall organic revenue growth of 2%.
INCREASED DIVIDEND 20.6p The Groups underlying trading profit The Directors have recommended a final FINAL increased by 3% to 193.7 million: dividend of 20.6 pence per share 2015: however at constant rates of exchange 19.5 pence for the year to 31 December DIVIDEND it decreased by 9%.
The dividend will be paid on 4 May 12 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION JLTs share incentive schemes are designed to ensure that CORPORATE ACTIVITY HIGHLIGHTS decisions are made by management to support long-term Our Risk & Insurance businesses delivered organic revenue growth, that the right behaviours are rewarded and that growth of 3% in the year, with particularly strong performances managements interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
in Construction and Aviation in all markets around the world.
Further details of the operation of these schemes can be found in the Remuneration Committee Report set out on pages 73 JLT Re achieved market leading organic revenue growth of 4%, to 91. double 2015s rate of growth, with an improved trading profit margin of 21%, as that business gained further momentum The strength and support of Jardine Matheson has been, and as a global reinsurance broker and advisor.
will continue to be, an important factor in the success of JLT.
Since 2014 a Relationship Agreement has been in place with We successfully implemented the restructure of our UK Jardine Matheson, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the Employee Benefits business.
This included delivering the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, which require shareholders anticipated savings of 9 million in the year, and a further with a 30% or more shareholding to comply with certain saving of 5 million will be secured in 2017.
The business is independence provisions set out in a written and legally now positioned once again to grow its revenues and profits.
The build-out of our US Specialty platform continues, with In March 2016 an amended Relationship Agreement was revenues increasing by 57% in the year to US$56 million.
signed, formalising the processes the Company has in place With the peak of the investment programme being reached in to control the provision of information to Jardine Matheson 2016, we are now fully focused on narrowing our investment and clarifying when and how information may be requested losses this year and next, to achieve profits as planned in 2019. by Jardine Matheson from JLT.
The recently announced investment in, and partnership More detail on the relationship with Jardine Matheson with, Construction Risk Partners CRP, a highly respected is set out on page 60.
Construction specialist broker, will establish a market-leading Construction practice as part of the US Specialty business.
The acquisition also completes our global Construction SENIOR MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENTS capability and enables us to serve international contractors There were a number of Board and senior management wherever they operate around the world.
In the year the Group completed 7 new acquisitions, for a total James Twining stepped down from the Board with effect from consideration of 25.3 million, as it continued to build further 26 April 2016.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown joined the Board as a scale in its existing businesses and geographies.
Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2016 and succeeded Richard Harvey as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE November 2016.
Bruce will unfortunately be stepping down from the Board at the end of June, following his appointment The Board recognises the need for a strong corporate as Chairman of Lloyd's of London.
Sadly Lord Leach, our governance framework and supporting processes across Deputy Chairman, died in June 2016 see next page.
Adam the Group and believes that good governance, with tone set Keswick joined the Board as Deputy Chairman with effect from from the top, is a key factor in delivering sustainable business 1 September 2016.
Richard Harvey retired from the Board performance and creating value for the Group's stakeholders.
with effect from 31 December 2016 and Jonathan Dawson The Board and I feel that the Board has a good balance of succeeded him as Senior Independent Director with effect from experience, skills and knowledge to support and challenge the same date.
I would like to thank Richard and James for their the management team, and that it is supported by effective contribution to the Board and wish them both well for the future.
More information on these systems can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on Mike Rice, CEO of JLT's US Specialty business, and pages 55 to 62.
In addition, the Directors Report on pages 92 William Nabarro, Special Adviser to the Group Chief Executive, to 99 reports on JLTs compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate both joined the Group Executive Committee with effect from Governance Code the Code during 2016.
Lucy Clarke, Deputy CEO of JLT Specialty, joined the Group Executive Committee with effect from During the year, the Board and each of its Committees 26 September 2016. undertook reviews of their effectiveness.
The conclusions from these reviews provided useful feedback to each body on its With effect from 28 February 2017, the following senior performance.
Further details are provided in the Corporate management changes are being made: Mike Methley is being Governance Report on pages 55 to 62. appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer.
Mark Drummond Brady becomes CEO of JLT Latin America and Chairman of JLT Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 13 STRATEGIC REPORT Canada, in addition to his current role as Deputy Group CEO.
We are also keen to ensure that we minimise our Mike Reynolds, Global CEO of JLT Re, assumes responsibility environmental impact and we take a number of steps to for JLT Insurance Management.
Bala Viswanathan, CEO of JLT reduce our carbon footprint, such as encouraging the use of UK & Ireland Employee Benefits, also becomes International teleconferencing facilities where possible, instead of travelling Chairman of Employee Benefits.
OUR PEOPLE SHARE BUY-BACK AUTHORITY On behalf of the Board I would like to thank everyone in JLT We will be seeking renewal of our standing share buy-back for their continued hard work and contribution to the Groups authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, results in 2016.
I would also like to welcome all our new up to a maximum of 10% of the Companys issued share colleagues who have joined JLT during the year.
As in previous years, we will not be seeking shareholder distinctive culture at JLT that values agility and entrepreneurial approval for a dispensation under Rule 9 of the Takeover drive, rigour and depth of thought and a collaborative approach Code in relation to this authority.
We invest in our people and provide This means that if the directors were to initiate a buy-back, exciting opportunities to develop their careers as well as a first then in order to avoid triggering a mandatory offer obligation class working environment.
There is further information about on Jardine Matheson Holdings JMH under Rule 37 of the our people and culture on page 7.
Takeover Code, JMH would need to be able to participate in those buy-backs so that its overall percentage holding which OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY as at 10 February 2017 was 40.16% did not increase following the buy-back.
JLT takes its role in society very seriously and has an active Although the Company has not utilised the authority to buy Corporate Responsibility programme.
JLTs approach is coordinated by a Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee, back shares since 2008, the Board believes it would be in the chaired by the Deputy CEO and whose members also include interests of all shareholders for the Company to have the right to purchase its own shares in the market in the appropriate the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Investor circumstances.
We would only exercise this authority if we Relations and the Group Company Secretary, as well as representatives from each of the Group's principal businesses.
believe it is in the best interests of the shareholders and Our Diversity Committee has defined our Diversity agenda would result in an improvement of earnings per share.
on the basis of three pillars: Networking, Sponsorship and Involvement.
In 2016 JLT supported a number of initiatives, both internally and in public events in the London and other markets, to help drive a more diverse and inclusive business and to play our part in addressing diversity challenges in our industry.
JLT supports the charitable efforts of colleagues around the Geoffrey Howe Group.
We currently focus on three strategic partners aligned Chairman to our own areas of business: sharing the social benefits of 28 February 2017 knowledge, wellbeing and resilience.
Our current partners on these strategic themes are Udaan Foundation knowledge, Alzheimer's Society wellbeing and RedR resilience.
We manage the majority of our charitable giving business-bybusiness, with a central fund to provide greater support to our strategic partners.
We regularly engage clients in joint fundraising activities and Lord Leach see this as an important part of client relationship building.
Deputy Chairman February 1997 - June 2016 We match pound-for-pound money raised by UK staff in fundraising activities and all UK staff are entitled to take Sadly Lord Leach, our Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive one Charity Day per year, when they can spend company Director since 1997, and a representative of Jardine Matheson on our Board, died in June 2016.
Rodney had been a hugely time helping a charity.
The Group Charities Committee respected source of great wisdom and invaluable advice to considers the many requests we receive from charities the Board as well as to Dominic, myself and our predecessors and takes a particular interest in those charities connected over many years.
to communities local to our offices.
14 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016
