Overview Executive Chairmans Statement Introduction Dividends and Earnings per Share I am delighted to report that the Group has The Board proposes paying a final dividend of 6.20p delivered another very strong set of results for the 2015: 5.90p bringing the total dividend payable for year to 30 January 2016 with the headline profit the year to 7.40p 2015: 7.05p per ordinary share, before tax and exceptional items increased by 57% an increase of 5%.
The proposed final dividend will to 157.1 million.
Given that last years result was be paid on 1 August 2016 to all shareholders on the a record for our Group then the performance in the register at 24 June 2016.
We believe that this level year was very pleasing, further demonstrating of dividend strikes a fair balance for shareholders the increasing influence of the JD fascia in the UK with appropriate capital retained to facilitate and beyond.
ongoing developments, particularly investment in the international Sports Fashion fascias, which will The foundation of our continued success remains drive success for the Group, and increased benefits our world class core Sports Fashion fascias.
The to shareholders, over the longer term.
investments made over a number of years in developing our multichannel retail proposition and driving improved The adjusted earnings per ordinary share before buying, merchandising and retailing disciplines have exceptional items have increased by 58% to 61.34p given us the platform to exploit the favourable trends 2015: 38.89p.
which exist for athletic inspired footwear and apparel throughout Europe.
We remain committed to continually The basic earnings per ordinary share have increased enhancing our proposition for both customers and third by 43% to 50.16p 2015: 35.17p.
During the period we demonstrated this through the opening of new larger spaced flagship Board Effectiveness style JD stores in London, Glasgow, Newcastle and As Executive Chairman, I am responsible for the Amsterdam.
JD has continued to develop its reputation leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness for setting the highest standards of visual merchandising in all aspects of its role.
The Board is then responsible and retail theatre and the new flagship stores, which also for the Groups strategic development, review embrace the latest innovations in digital technology, take of performance against the business objectives, these standards to a new level.
overseeing risk and maintaining effective corporate governance including health and safety, During the year we have expanded our international environmental, social and ethical matters.
presence with additional stores in existing European territories together with a number of stores in new People countries.
We continue to gain traction in Europe We are fortunate, as a Group, to have talented and and are confident of the opportunities that exist committed people in every aspect and level of our for the JD fascia in these markets.
The record result is principally due to their we have opened our first store outside of Europe expertise, energy and passion.
I thank everybody at Sunway Pyramid in Kuala Lumpur as part of a newly involved in all of our businesses for delivering these formed venture with Stream Enterprise in Malaysia.
Opening a store outside of Europe has brought the expected challenges and we continue to enhance the Current Trading and Outlook flexibility of both our proposition and our operational We are encouraged by the continued positive trading processes to cope with the increasing scale of our across our core fascias in the year to date and the international ambitions.
Our key international brand Board continues to believe that the Group is very well partners strongly support the continued international positioned for profitable growth.
Our next scheduled update will take place upon the In the early part of the year we made a number announcement of our Interim Results which is of operational management changes in our Outdoor scheduled for 14 September 2016. operations.
This brought the Blacks and Millets and the newer Ultimate Outdoors fascias under common leadership and greater use has been made of the merchandising and commercial management expertise in the core JD team.
Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman Whilst there is a continual requirement to refine 13 April 2016 the product proposition, we believe that this new operational framework has given our Outdoor fascias a more efficient and appropriate cost base from which to operate and we are optimistic that this, combined with ongoing refinements to the product offering, will deliver a further improvement in the financial performance of these fascias in the year to January 2017.
