06 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT LAST YEAR, WE STATED THAT LOOKING FORWARD, WE HAVE CONFIDENCE IN THE ROBUSTNESS OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND THE DELIVERABILITY OF OUR STRATEGY.
OUR RESULTS FOR 2016 CONFIRM THAT CONFIDENCE, IN WHAT HAS BEEN A YEAR OF POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC TURBULENCE.
When facing an uncertain environment, we believe in keeping No changes to the Board took place during the year.
At a senior our strategy simple, focused and flexible.
In 2016, we simplified management level, Derek Potts, Group Managing Director of our business through the disposal of our non-core Project Primary Investment, has decided to retire, and will leave us at Management Services PMS activities in the UK.
This allows the end of March 2017.
Derek originally joined John Laing in management to concentrate on the core tasks of origination 2001.
He has had responsibility for all the Groups bidding and of greenfield projects, active management of construction and primary investment activities and has been instrumental in operational risk and timely realisations in order to monetise leading the Groups expansion into international markets and value.
Our focus remains on PPP infrastructure and renewable new sectors.
During his time with the Group, he has made an energy in Asia Pacific, Europe and North America.
Our pipeline exceptional contribution and we are very sorry to see him go.
is strong and diversified by sector and geography, which gives During the year under review, the Board complied with all us flexibility in origination, and the funds we manage and the applicable provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code active secondary market give us flexibility in distribution.
We have a balanced group of directors who worked Our performance in 2016 was strong: well as a board during the year.
With the impending retirement of Derek Potts, we reviewed our succession plans and I was Net Asset Value NAV grew by 14.3% to 1,016.8 million encouraged to see much promise among our senior management or 277p per share at 31 December 2016, from 889.6 million team.
As well as regular Board meetings, we held reviews in or 242p per share at 31 December 2015: June and in October 2016 to address the future strategy and direction of the business.
These reconfirmed our commitment Investment commitments reached 182 million, in line to creating further shareholder value through the continued with our guidance: application of our current business model.
Realisations of investments for dividend purposes were As Chairman, I interact regularly with many members of staff 127 million, ahead of our guidance for 2016 of both from overseas and the UK and, on behalf of the Board, approximately 100 million: I would like to thank all of them for their contribution to these Our total external Assets under Management grew to results.
I would also like to extend the Boards thanks to all 1,472 million, an increase of 30%: and the Groups stakeholders for their continued support.
We are proposing a final dividend for 2016 of 6.3p per share Our dividend policy has two parts: made up of a base dividend of 3.7p per share and a special a base dividend of 20 million starting from 2015 growing dividend of 2.6p per share.
at least in line with inflation: the Board is recommending Our three core markets all saw continued strong demand a final base dividend for 2016 of 3.7p per share: and for new privately-financed infrastructure projects.
Using our a special dividend of approximately 5% 10% of gross experienced teams, sector specialists and working with local proceeds from the sale of investments on an annual basis, partners, we have committed capital to both PPP and renewable subject to specific investment requirements in any one year.
energy in all three regions, and increasingly also see prospects The Board is recommending a special dividend for 2016 of in related infrastructure sectors, for instance in the water or 2.6p per share.
This has been arrived at by applying 7.5% broadband sectors.
to realisations for dividend purposes of 127 million During the year, the markets in which we are active continued achieved in 2016, which exclude the combined proceeds to be affected by significant movements in macro-economic of 19.5 million from the disposals of our shareholdings factors.
In particular, the Brexit vote in June 2016 precipitated in British Transport Police and Oldham Housing.
a prolonged weakening of Sterling versus the major currencies we invest in.
While this has been positive for the value of our overseas investment portfolio in Sterling terms, our preference would be for a more stable foreign exchange environment.
At a governmental level, there are signs that a number of countries are moving towards fiscal rather than monetary policy in order to stimulate economic growth.
We would agree that increased infrastructure expenditure is a good way to provide such fiscal stimulus and in some of the jurisdictions we operate in, notably Australia and Canada, we see it already happening.
Other countries including the UK and the US look as if they could follow suit.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 07 When facing an uncertain environment, we believe in keeping our strategy simple, focused and flexible.
The total final dividend therefore amounts to 6.3p per share, which, together with the interim dividend of 1.85p paid in NAV October 2016, makes a total dividend for 2016 of 8.15p per share, an increase of 7% over 2015, after taking into account 1,016.8 million the timing of the IPO in February 2015.
The final dividend will be put to shareholders for their approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM which will be held on 11 May Profit before tax 2017.
At the Companys AGM on 12 May 2016, all resolutions were approved by shareholders.
192.1 million There are positive signs in each of our core infrastructure markets of a strong level of deal flow over the coming years.
Portfolio valuation With our flexible business model and our strong geographical presence, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage 1,175.9 million of the opportunities this will create.
New investment committed 181.9 million Phil Nolan CHAIRMAN Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
