6 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overview The macroeconomic environment this year has SUMMARY created difficult trading conditions for some of our Strategic focus and effective management businesses.
In that context I am pleased to report that Johnson Matthey has maintained momentum enabled the group to deliver a robust overall, delivering a robust performance.
At the performance despite the challenging same time, we have continued to invest in R&D, macroeconomic environment.
our facilities and our business systems to enable future growth.
Underlying earnings per share of Continued investment to support future growth.
178.7 pence were slightly down on last year.
We have further refined our strategy of focusing Special dividend of 150 pence per share paid on value adding sustainable technologies and have in February 2016, proposed ordinary dividend responded to the difficult conditions in some markets of 71.5 pence up 5% on last year.
by taking action to reduce our costs.
Since early March 2015, two non-core businesses have been Board focused on the development and sold and the proceeds returned to shareholders execution of strategy, board effectiveness and through a special dividend.
At the same time we the companys people, culture and values.
have also made a number of bolt-on acquisitions that have strengthened our capabilities.
Ongoing emphasis on the development of value Health and safety is a priority across the group: adding sustainable technologies.
The group it is the first item on every board and management committee agenda.
Tragically, last summer an remains well placed for continued growth.
accident at our Fine Chemicals Riverside facility in the US resulted in the death of one of our colleagues.
This has reinforced our determination to ensure that at all times our people are aware of the importance of managing our business in a way that prevents accidents and injuries across the group.
The 26% reduction in our lost time injury and illness rate illustrates that progress towards this goal is well underway.
Tim Stevenson Chairman Performance The solid performance for the group as a whole was underpinned by another strong year for Emission Control Technologies.
With air quality remaining high on the global agenda, sales of our emission control catalysts continued to grow.
Elsewhere, Fine Chemicals made progress and in New Businesses we have continued our investment to drive future growth, notably in the area of battery materials.
Challenging macroeconomic conditions in the markets for Process Technologies and Precious Metal Products, which are expected to remain for a number of years to come, demanded a high level of management responsiveness.
In both divisions, costs have been reduced which will benefit the group over the coming year.
However, we recognise and regret the difficulties this will have caused to those employees who, as a result, left the group during the year.
7 Strategic Focus Board Matters In Conclusion Our strategy is clear and we will The boards role is to set the groups Although the macroeconomic conditions continue to review and refine it.
Our strategic direction, manage risk and we encountered over the last year are overall ambition is to create value for have financial and operational oversight likely to persist in 2016 17, we have our shareholders by investing in both of the group.
During the year, we have taken the necessary short term actions our established areas of expertise and particularly focused on the three priorities where needed and at the same time in developing the next generation of which I have already mentioned: the continued to invest for the long term to sustainable technologies.
development and execution of strategy: drive future growth.
We have continued to invest over ensuring we have the right people: Key to the groups performance 5% of sales on R&D which is directed and encouraging and supporting the during the year has been our employees.
towards those areas of the business embedding of appropriate culture and It has been a difficult and demanding which best align with our strategy and values throughout the group.
year and as usual they have risen to enable us to expand our portfolio of To be effective in its role, the board the challenge.
On behalf of all our short, medium and long term technology requires a balance of skills, experience shareholders, I give our thanks and options.
Likewise, we have increased and appropriate diversity in our appreciation to them all.
You can read our investment in capital expenditure to directors.
The boards needs in this more about their contributions over support future anticipated growth.
regard will change over time and we the past 12 months to the companys are alert to the necessity to keep the success in this report.
The long term drivers for the group, Talent, Culture and Values Reflecting on the changes to the in particular the need for improved air Making sure we have the right people board announced this year, I would like quality, a growing and ageing population and a pipeline of talent for the future to thank Larry Pentz, who retired on and the efficient use of natural resources, needs of the business is critical to the 31st March 2016, for his tremendous remain firm.
We are well placed to continuing success of the group and we contribution over 13 years as a member benefit from them.
I am confident that have in place comprehensive plans to of our board and over 32 years as an this, in combination with our unrivalled make this happen.
Providing employees employee of Johnson Matthey.
technical expertise, deep understanding with the right opportunities for career On behalf of the board, I also wish of customers applications and excellent development in a culture in which they to thank Den Jones who, for personal people, will ensure the continued are encouraged to succeed will help reasons and following a mutual success of Johnson Matthey.
build a more sustainable and profitable agreement with the company, will step company for our shareholders, a better down as Group Finance Director over place to work for our people and will the summer this year.
We wish him well create value adding sustainable in his future endeavours.
Following nine years on the board, As a board we understand that including the last two as Chair of our setting the tone from the top starts with Remuneration Committee, Dorothy us.
It is important that we ensure that Tim Stevenson Thompson will step down as a there is the right emphasis on health Chairman Non-Executive Director in July this year.
and safety and on doing the right thing We have greatly valued her input to wherever we do business.
Programmes the work of the board and thank her are in place to help our employees for her contribution.
understand what is expected of them.
I am delighted that from 1st January Read more about our 3C Strategy 2017 we will welcome Jane Griffiths to on pages 20 and 21. the board as a Non-Executive Director.
Jane, who is currently Company Group Chairman of Janssen EMEA, the research based pharmaceutical arm of Read more about research and Johnson & Johnson, will bring significant development on pages 22 and 23. experience and understanding of the management of global businesses, particularly across the pharmaceutical sector, together with a strong interest in diversity and the encouragement of Read more about our people, culture women's careers in business.
I look and values on pages 66 to 71. forward to working with her and to her contribution to the board.
See our Board of Directors on pages 82 and 83.
CREATING LONG TERM VALUE BY INVESTING IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEXT GENERATION SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
