EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 3 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance After a period of prolonged weakness, emerging markets rallied strongly from January onwards but were still down on the year in local currency terms.
However, in sterling terms, investors received a positive return as a result of the sharp fall in sterling in the week after the UKs EU referendum.
Taking account of those currency fluctuations, for the year to 30th June 2016, your Company produced a return on net assets of 12.7%.
This compares very favourably with the benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index in sterling terms, which returned 3.5%.
Stock selection was again the most significant positive factor, adding approximately 7% in relative performance over the past 12 months, thus further enhancing the Companys excellent long term performance record.
The graph on page2 illustrates that the Company is significantly ahead of the benchmark over three, five and ten years.
The return to ordinary shareholders was 9.3%, reflecting a widening of the discount over the year, from 10.7% to 13.2%.
The post-referendum fall in sterling widened the discount out by increasing net assets in sterling terms.
The share price tends to follow these fluctuations with a lag.
As I explained in the Companys half year report, the Board had always emphasised capital growth as its investment objective.
Given that the benchmark we aim to beat is a total return benchmark i. e. capital gains plus income reinvested, we restated that policy to a total return objective.
I would reiterate that this has not, and will not, result in any change in the way in which the portfolio is managed.
Revenue and Dividends Historically, the Company allocated 100% of its management fees and finance costs to the Companys revenue account.
As disclosed in the half year report, the Board reconsidered this policy in the light of the investment returns from the Companys portfolio and the expected split of returns between capital and income in the coming years.
As a result, it decided to charge 70% of the Companys management fees and finance expenses to capital with effect from 1st July 2015.
On this revised basis, the revenue return per share for the year was 9.49p on the old basis it would have been 5.1p.
This change in expense allocation will increase the potential for dividend increases over time, but of course dividends will still fluctuate in line with underlying earnings.
As a result of the increased earnings per share, we propose to increase the dividend from 6.0p to 9.0p.
This is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
This increase reflects, on a one-off basis, the change in allocation policy.
Our earnings are affected by currency fluctuations and future dividends will be in line with earnings.
Discount and Share Repurchases We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the discount of our share price to the net asset value.
The share price rose 5.6% over the year, from 587.0p to 635.0p at the year end.
The discount ranged between 8.5% and 14.7%, averaging 11.4% through the year.
The Boards policy on discount management remains unchanged it is prepared to take action to try to ensure that the discount does not exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
As we have done in the past, we are prepared to buy shares in at discounts of between 8% and 10% in order to achieve this, subject to those caveats.
During the first six months of the financial year, the Company repurchased a total of 200,000 shares into Treasury.
However, as reported at the half year, volatility then picked up and sentiment deteriorated, markets were far from orderly and we stepped back from further purchases.
3 EMIT pp01-21 03 10 2016 14:48 Page 4 Strategic Report continued CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED After the turn of the calendar year, the discount widened out some way further in volatile markets.
As we indicated in the half year report, so that we did not drift too far away from our targeted discount range, the Board increased the amount of buy backs significantly in the second half of the year and 2,073,673 shares were bought back into Treasury.
We had some success in narrowing the discount, but this was overwhelmed by the sharp rise in the net asset value in the last days of the financial year, caused solely by sterlings depreciation.
Since the year end, the discount has started to narrow in again and we believe that our buyback policy has moderated the volatility of the discount, which shareholders have informed us is important.
The Board Nigel Kenny will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
He joined the Board in 2008 and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his contribution, in particular in bringing his financial experience to bear in chairing the Audit Committee.
Richard Laing will succeed Nigel as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Anatole Kaletsky will become Senior Independent Director.
I have indicated my intention to step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
In order to plan for that and to ensure appropriate succession planning and continuity, the Board has engaged an independent third party, Trust Associates, to assist with the recruitment of a new director.
We expect to make an appointment with effect from January 2017.
The Manager The Board monitors the performance of our Manager through the Management Engagement Committee.
Last years performance continued the strong long term performance record.
Thus we remain satisfied with the Managers overall performance, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance, where we continue to be well served.
AGM This years AGM will be held at JPMorgans office at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Wednesday 16th November 2016 at 3.00 p. m. Austin Forey will give a presentation to shareholders, reviewing the past year and giving his view on the outlook for emerging markets for the current year.
The meeting will be followed by afternoon tea, which will provide shareholders with the opportunity to meet the Directors and the Investment Manager.
We look forward to seeing as many shareholders as possible at the AGM.
Outlook As our Investment Manager indicates in his report, some of the downward forces affecting emerging markets over the last two or three years appear to be moderating.
Sentiment is no longer one way and some flows are going back into emerging markets.
The economic fundamentals in Asia appear to be improving but that is not always the case elsewhere.
Much will depend upon what happens in the developed world where economic growth is still below trend, but the period of underperformance of emerging markets seems to be near its end.
Given that we still expect superior long term results in the emerging world, that provides some reason for optimism.
Volatility will remain, of course, but your Company, with its excellent long term record, will be well placed to take advantage of the opportunities ahead.
Alan Saunders Chairman 4th October 2016 4 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
