CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Strong corporate governance is important for all businesses but particularly for companies such as ours, which are entrusted with peoples savings and operate in regulated environments.
We put great emphasis on effective governance at Jupiter and there have been a number of important changes to the Board and Executive Committee, adding further strength and depth to our senior team.
We were delighted to welcome Charlotte Jones as our new Chief Financial Officer in September following the departure of Philip Johnson, our former CFO.
We would like to thank Philip for his contribution during his six years at Jupiter and wish him well for the future.
Charlotte has extensive financial services experience: she joined the main Board as well as the Executive Committee.
We also welcomed Jasveer Singh, who joined us as General Counsel in November and became a member of the Executive Committee.
In July, Karl Sternberg was appointed as a Non-Executive Director, bringing 30 years of experience in the industry.
In addition, Jon Little retired from the Board in October and, in November, John Chatfeild-Roberts stepped down from the Board to concentrate on his role as Head of Strategy for the Merlin range of funds.
We would like to thank both for the service they have provided to the Board.
Market conditions were mixed for much of the year and the result of the UK referendum on EU membership means that uncertainty is set to be a feature of the political, regulatory and economic landscape for at least the next two years.
Despite the uncertainties, market This was another successful levels remained robust overall.
Net flows, which suffered in the run up to the referendum, were positive, albeit subdued, in the second year for Jupiter, as we made half of the year.
progress with delivering our Regulation will continue to be a key focus in our industry, in terms of the implications of Brexit and the FCA final market study report, organic growth strategy which is expected to be published later in 2017.
We welcomed the publication of the FCAs interim report in November and strongly through further diversification.
support the goal of fee transparency for all our clients.
In advance of the FCA market study, we had commenced a review of our approach to pricing for our unit trust range.
Whilst we must await the final FCA report, we have taken some proactive steps to make changes aligned with the FCAs goals.
Liz Airey Jupiter operates a progressive dividend policy, targeting a payout Chairman of 50% of our underlying earnings per share.
Following the interim dividend of 4.5p per share which we announced in July, the Board is declaring a full year dividend of 10.2p per share.
The total ordinary Welcome to our 2016 Annual Report.
dividend for the year is therefore 14.7p per share, an increase of 1% on 2015.
Jupiters success is based on achieving investment outperformance for our clients, after all fees.
Continued In addition, we are pleased to be able to announce a special strong investment performance helped drive net inflows and, dividend of 12.5p per share, to be paid at the same time as the full alongside positive markets, an increase in the assets we year dividend.
Special dividends are distributed to shareholders manage on behalf of our clients.
This has been achieved when we do not need to hold cash for other purposes and enable amidst the uncertainties of political, regulatory and us to deliver returns to our shareholders sooner rather than later.
2017 is likely to be a year of change and uncertainty, but we The Board is responsible for setting and nurturing the Companys approach this from a position of balance sheet strength and with culture, which is focused on high performance, individual a deep pool of talented staff.
We believe that we are well equipped responsibility and putting clients first.
At Jupiter, we give freedom to and flexible enough to make continued progress in this evolving employees to deliver within a team framework.
Our culture makes environment and look forward to the challenges and rewards of Jupiter an attractive place to work and is a key advantage for us.
I would like to record my thanks to everyone in Jupiter for their individual contributions.
Jupiters success this year, as ever, is underpinned by their commitment and professionalism.
