Chairmans statement Building on our market leadership I am pleased to announce the Just Eat has had another strong year Groups results for the year inwhich we have seen our revenues ended 31 December 2016. andUnderlying EBITDA continue to Total revenues increased by 52 per cent to375.7 million 2015: 247.6 million, growsignificantly.
Underlying EBITDA was up by 93 per cent to115.3 million 2015: 59.7 million and Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc Chairman profit before tax was up 164 per cent to91.3 million 2015: 34.6 million.
Furthermore, the Group continued to be highly cash generative, with 97.0 million of Ouragreed acquisition of hungryhouse net operating cash flow 2015: 74.2 million.
Read more inthe UK is conditional upon receiving aboutcorporate In February 2017, we announced that regulatory approval.
These transactions governance DavidButtress will be stepping down as follow the 2015 acquisition of Menulog, commencing Chief Executive Officer at the end of the theclear market leader in Australia, where on page 40 first quarter, due to urgent family matters, we continue to drive further value from atwhich time I will assume the role of thatbusiness.
Executive Chairman until Davids successor Our strategy is underpinned by the desire to is appointed.
anticipate and fulfil the needs of consumers On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank and restaurants.
As leaders in technology, David for his outstanding contribution.
wewill continue to invest in innovation and Davidhas been an incredible leader and seek partnerships with others where we can colleague, who has earned the respect and enhance the consumer experience or create loyalty of all who have worked with him.
additional value to our Restaurant Partners.
Whilst we have commenced the search We will continue to evolve our brand and foranew Chief Executive Officer, David make the right investments behind it, both willleave an experienced leadership team to further grow the total market and to atthe helm and will continue on the Board increase our share within it.
Corporate governance During the year, we extended our leadership Corporate governance has always been positions in the 12 markets where we important to us, as it provides the structure compete and are now profitable in eight within which the entrepreneurial culture of ofthose, on an Underlying EBITDA basis.
It enables continued Aswell as generating strong organic growth, growth in an environment that is both we remained focused on our strategy of supportive and controlled, while ensuring consolidating our number one positions that shareholder value and stakeholder across our markets, acquiring businesses interests are aligned and can be maximised inSpain, Italy, Mexico, Brazil and Canada.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 6 Strategic report In my statement last year, I noted that we Looking ahead Read more about would become fully compliant with all of the While the UK remains our largest market, our culture on provisions of the UK Corporate Governance weare excited by the growth we are seeing page 36 Code during the year, and this was achieved in our international businesses.
The majority on 1 March 2016. of these markets are much less penetrated than the UK and therefore represent As set out a year ago, Benjamin Holmes and significant opportunity for the Group.
Michael Risman stepped down from the Board as Non-executive Directors following We will continue to build our presence in all publication of our full year results in 2016. our geographies and extend our leadership through investment in our technology, brand The Board was delighted to welcome Roisin and people.
In doing so, we are confident of Donnelly as an Independent Non-executive continuing to drive sustainable, profitable Director on 17 October 2016.
The Group is very strongly record of success in building brands, coupled positioned for the future.
with extensive international marketing anddigital experience, will be invaluable toJust Eat.
An outstanding team We appointed Paul Harrison as Chief Financial Officer on 26 September following Mike Wroes Dr John Hughes CBE, Hon DSc decision to retire on that date.
Mike has been Chairman a trusted colleague and, since joining Just Eat 6 March 2017 in 2008, was instrumental in growing Just Eat from a small private company with a big vision, to a large public business with even greater ambitions.
I wish him all the best for the future.
Paul has an exceptional history of delivering results at both high growth and large public technology companies.
This experience will prove invaluable as we continue to build on this platform and reach new heights in the coming years.
Our executive and operational management teams were further strengthened this year to ensure that we have the right experience and skills necessary to expand our market-leading position.
On behalf of theBoard, I would like to thank the entire JustEat team for their continued hard workand contribution to our success overthis past year.
