JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 04 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman The merger of Just Retirement and Partnership Assurance has proved A sustainable business to be an excellent transaction.
We are delivering synergies ahead model, focussed on of schedule and have increased our cost savings target.
delivering growing profits Pro forma operating performance The Group focusses on growing operating profits rather than sales volume, which ingrowing markets has resulted in our new business operating profit increasing to 124m I am pleased to introduce the JRP Group It has been an eventful few years 2015: 68m and adjusted operating 2016 Annual Report, our first report for our Group and its predecessor profit to 164m 2015: 104m.
since the merger of Just Retirement and companies.
We have completed two Partnership Assurance completed.
In Initial Public Offerings, successfully Embedded value and capital 2016 the Group has adapted its business navigated Pension Freedoms, diversified Group embedded value grew to 2,047m model to the new Solvency II capital into new products, markets and, of 31 December 2015 pro forma: 1,773m requirements and demonstrated its course, completed the merger.
We and we have maintained a sound Group potential to grow profits.
The Group is have addressed those challenges well economic capital coverage ratio of 216% now the leading specialist provider of and are building an exciting future.
retirement income products and services to both individuals and corporates, and 2016 was a year that demonstrated our Our capital management approach has a major provider of lifetime mortgages.
products are well placed in attractive been adapted to the new regulatory growth markets.
Momentum has been environment and our estimated Solvency Our customers are the focus of maintained in both the DB fide-risking and II capital coverage ratio at 31 December everything that we do and investing lifetime mortgage markets, despite the 2016 is 151%.
Our principal insurance in our resources enables us to provide uncertainty of Brexit, and, importantly, company was one of just 19 companies products and services to help them we have seen a promising return of to receive Prudential Regulation Authority achieve a fair, fulfilling and secure demand in the market for individual internal model approval before the end retirement.
guaranteed income for life solutions.
These attractive markets combined Our business has achieved strong with our stronger medical intellectual growth in profits and the Board remains property, expanding distribution comfortable with our capital position and franchise and sustainable capital model sustainable business model.
make the Group an adaptive, innovative company with a strong business model in growing markets.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 05 Our communities Dividend Both Just Retirement and Partnership I am particularly pleased that the Board had strong relationships with the has proposed a final dividend of 2.4p communities they operated in and I am per share, making the total dividend for pleased to say our new Group continued the year 3.5p.
This represents growth this important work during 2016. of 6% over calendar year 2015, and the Board believes it to be an appropriate We participated in an engagement and prudent payment at this time.
programme to support pupils in primary and secondary schools based in Redhill, Board and governance Reigate and Tower Hamlets, London.
Following completion of the merger, I have the pleasure of introducing a new We continue to support our colleagues Board to the shareholders.
We introduce fundraising and make charitable all the new members in full on pages donations to organisations important to 50 to 53 of this report and describe how our staff and customers.
These include: we work on pages 54 to 65.
Alzheimers Research UK: Dementia UK: Meningitis Now: St Catherines Hospice: In summary, I take great pride in leading a charity local to the Surrey offices: and the Board and the Groups governance the Northern Ireland Hospice.
function, and I am pleased to introduce the Chairmen of our Board committees: New brand At the beginning of 2017 we introduced Keith Nicholson is Senior Independent a new retail brand, Just, and the Director and is Chairman of the Risk Board is proposing that the name and Compliance Committee.
of the Group be changed from JRP Group plc to Just Group plc.
Paul Bishop is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Future prospects Adjusted operating profit Our Group CEO, Rodney Cook, and Ian Cormack is Chairman of the members of his executive team presented Remuneration Committee.
the Groups strategy at a Capital Markets Day in October 2016.
Our strategic focus Michael Deakin is Chairman of the is to grow our addressable markets, Investment Committee.
164m select the higher value risks and use our capital wisely to generate value for our I would like to offer special thanks to 2015: 104m, up 58% shareholders and enable us to deliver all of our departing Board members market-leading services for customers.
from our predecessor companies I am confident we will deliver our stated for their hard work over the years, cost and growth synergies as we finalise not least during a demanding but Dividend in respect of calendar integration and capture the benefits of successful merger process.
Our colleagues Our strong and experienced The Board and I would like to show our management team, which has repeatedly gratitude to all our current and former overcome challenges presented to the colleagues across the Group who have business, will deliver that strategy with contributed so much to the success 3.5p the support and commitment of our of our two predecessor companies.
We are proud of the quality of our Up 6% on a calendar year basis service and the products we provide Finally I would like to thank our suppliers to our customers: it is a testament to and business partners: we look forward all our colleagues that we have again to continuing to work with you in 2017 been awarded the Financial Adviser to deliver the best service and outcomes 5 Star service award for the Life & for our customers.
We would also like to thank them for maintaining their focus on delivering outstanding service during a very demanding and successful integration.
