Chairmans statement Achieving our potential 2016 has been an exceptional year for KAZ Minerals in which we completed the construction of our major growth projects.
With Bozshakol and Aktogay now operational, this is an appropriate point toreflect on our transformation over the past few years.
Simon Heale Chairman With the completion of Bozshakol and ofthe copper price in the fourth quarter Reflecting on our progress Aktogay, KAZ Minerals has built and was driven mainly by improved expectations 2016 has been an exceptional year for launched two major new copper mines in fordemand growth in China.
KAZMinerals in which we completed the Kazakhstan, the result of over $4 billion of construction of our major growth projects, Following the commencement of investment.
These mines are of national and Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The project budget commissioning at Bozshakol in December international significance given their large for Aktogay was reduced by $200 million 2015, production began in February scale and low cost position and will generate and the Groups copper production rose 2016 and after a relatively smooth ramp economic growth and employment by 73% accompanied by strong cost up, we were able to declare the project opportunities in Kazakhstan over the management.
Bozshakol began production commercial in October 2016.
We are proud to be of copper in February 2016 and Aktogay a major achievement for the Group and a leading developer of natural resources in commenced output from sulphide ore demonstrates our ability to successfully Kazakhstan, working in partnership with in February 2017.
With the projects now execute projects of this scale.
operational, it is an appropriate point to Our projects division completed the reflect on the transformation of the Group Delivering value and growth construction of the Aktogay sulphide over the past few years.
KAZ Minerals has entered 2017 with a processing facilities ahead of schedule After securing long-term finance facilities portfolio of first quartile assets which are and the expected budget for the project from the China Development Bank and expected to produce between 225 and has been reduced by $200 million.
I am assembling a world class project team, the 260 kt of copper this year and we are on delighted to report that in early 2017 we Group began the construction of Bozshakol track to achieve our medium-term guidance commenced production from sulphide ore. in 2011 and Aktogay in 2012.
In 2013, the of around 300 kt in 2018, representing We look forward to ramping up production sale of non-core assets focused the Group a compound annual growth rate of over in 2017 and delivering the growth and highly on copper and realised $2.2 billion of 50% per year from 2015.
Whilst the Group competitive operating costs that we believe cash proceeds.
A restructuring in 2014 delivered on its strategic objectives in 2016, our projects can deliver.
disposed of higher cost assets and reduced the market backdrop remained challenging During 2016, the Groups operational focus headcount from around 56,000 to 9,000, for copper producers.
Copper prices has been on achieving our production with the Group retaining the high grade were at low levels throughout most of the targets whilst maintaining strict control polymetallic underground mines in the year, although it was encouraging to see over costs and capital expenditure.
We East Region of Kazakhstan, the Bozymchak a recovery in November, with the LME successfully met our production targets mine in Kyrgyzstan and two greenfield sites price rising by 18% and finishing the year andwe have reported first quartile net in development.
The strengthening 12 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For more information, see pages 64 Corporate governance overview 68 Governance framework cash costs at Bozshakol, the East Region and with returns of $2,095 million in ordinary Managing the balance sheet Bozymchak.
Sustaining capital expenditure dividends, buy-backs and special dividends The ramp up of Bozshakol to commercial was also managed closely, resulting in since its Listing in 2005. production and the commencement of expenditure below the guidance we output from sulphide ore at Aktogay Whilst the outlook for the Groups financial gavefor 2016. has greatly reduced the Groups project position is positive, given the ramp up of execution risk and the growth from Bozshakol and Aktogay and with net debt to Health and safety the major projects is improving our EBITDA expected to fall rapidly, the Group The safety of our employees and debt metrics.
Our near-term financing has invested heavily in the projects and it contractors is of the utmost concern to priority is to continue fide-gearing to more is our near-term priority to continue to the Board.
It is disappointing to report that, normalised levels.
Accordingly, the although injury rates have declined slightly, Board does not recommend a dividend in Since drawing the Bozshakol and Aktogay there has been an increase in the number respect of the 2016 financial year, although CDB facilities, and the PXF facility that of fatalities in 2016 compared to the prior it is the Boards intention that the Group was put in place at the time of the 2014 year.
The Health, Safety and Environment resumes dividend payments in the future.
restructuring, the Group has made debt Committee, of which I am a member, visited repayments of over $1.1 billion.
We have key sites in Kazakhstan in 2016 and it is clear Outlook now passed the point of peak gearing, that every effort is being made to improve The progress made in bringing the major reporting Gross EBITDA of $492 million in safety performance through a number of growth projects into production positioned 2016 and net debt of $2,669 million at the ongoing initiatives.
The goal of zero fatalities KAZ Minerals for a period of strong organic year end.
We have significantly reduced the remains our highest strategic priority.
We growth, which we are now delivering.
The ratio of net debt to Gross EBITDA and we are confident that the transition to open pit recent recovery in copper prices is welcome expect to continue this trajectory in 2017. mining and the implementation of enhanced and the combination of increasing output, safety procedures at our new operations KAZ Minerals liquidity position during the higher prices for our products and low across the Group will lead to lasting ramp up period of the two projects has operating costs should generate significant improvements in workplace safety.
been supported by a new $300 million value for shareholders.
I look forward to facility with the Development Bank of reporting on our continued success and Governance Kazakhstan, obtained in December 2016. further progress towards achieving our The Company is a UK incorporated, It is the Groups intention to refinance goals in 2017. premium listed, FTSE stock with a majority its PXF facility in the first half of 2017, in free float and is subject to the full provisions advance of which we obtained and drew of the UK Takeover Code.
Therewere an additional commitment of $50 million no changes to the Board in 2016. inDecember 2016.
KAZMinerals continues to comply fully Simon Heale withthe requirements of the UK Corporate Dividends Chairman Governance Code, with more than half The Groups dividend policy, established of the Board excluding the Chairman at the time of Listing, is for the Board to comprising independent non-executive consider the cash generation and financing Directors.
We have commenced a thorough requirements of the business and then review of Board succession planning to recommend a suitable dividend.
This due to the current stage of the Groups maintains flexibility which is appropriate development, with the Aktogay sulphide given the underlying cyclicality of a plant entering commissioning in 2016 commodity business.
The Group has a bringing to an end the construction phase strong record of payments to shareholders, ofthe major growth projects.
