Chairmans statement A year of significant progress Daniel Bernard Chairman around 600 million of capital to shareholders over the next three years, most likely via share buy-back, in addition to the annual We have an exciting plan, ordinary dividend.
that I very much believe Referring now to last year, we delivered a is worth riving for.
good business as usual performance with retail profit up 7.4% to 746 million and adjusted pre-tax profit up 0.3% to 686 million.
In France, our businesses traded well despite the soft economic backdrop, delivering broadly at profit, It has been a year of significant progress of 311 million.
In the UK & Ireland, our businesses and change for Kingsher.
Having launched delivered an impressive 18% increase in retail the ONE Kingsher plan to create a single, profit to 326 million, led by another very strong unied company where customer needs come performance from Screwx where total sales first, we announced in January the detail of our rose 26% and passed the 1 billion mark for the long-term strategy and five year transformation.
We believe there is scope for Screwx This transformation aims to deliver 500 million to have around 600 stores in the UK, with 50 of sustainable annual profit uplift by the end of planned for this year.
In our Other International year five, over and above business as usual.
operations retail profit grew by 6.4% to 109 We also announced a continuation of our capital million, with a strong performance in Poland return programme with an intention to return oset by lower profits in Russia.
in constant currencies 4 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Investment in new country development I am delighted to welcome Rakhi Parekh Financial highlights continued with the expansion of Screwx Goss-Custard to the Board of Kingsher, Germany where we currently have nine stores, following her appointment as a non-executive Adjusted pre-tax profit with nine more planned to open this year.
Rakhi is a highly experienced pleased to report that we are proposing a full director in digital retailing having recently spent 686m year dividend of 10.1p per share, up 1%, having 11 years at Amazon.
Her digital skills and already returned an additional 200 million last experience, as well as experience gained from 0.3% year to shareholders via a share buy-back.
other non-executive roles, will be of great benefit to Kingsher.
She will further enhance our board, Adjusted basic During the year we also delivered solid progress which already includes directors with experience earnings per share on our first sharp decisions, announced in March gained at Apple and IKEA, among others.
Work on developing a unied oer for the Kong stepped down from the Kingsher Board 22.0p first time started in earnest, focusing initially on after nine years as a non-executive director and 3.3% the first 20 categories within our core essential I would like to thank Janis for her distinguished ranges.
These started to arrive in our stores from service.
Her wise counsel has been greatly Full year dividend spring this year.
Good progress was also made on appreciated and we wish her well.
the development of unique Kingsher ranges in 10.1p the bathroom and outdoor categories.
In our retail And as always, I would also like to thank our operations the space rationalisation programme 74,000 colleagues across Kingsher for their 1% at B&Q UK & Ireland is very much on track, and hard work and commitment during the year.
profit before in infrastructure and processes our new unied This is a time of great change for the business taxation IT platform was successfully piloted at B&Q and I recognise that this will not always be easy in Ireland leading to an acceleration of our for our people.
But we have an exciting plan that 512m roll-out plans.
This really is a great step forward, I very much believe is worth striving for.
If we and will be a key enabler for ONE Kingsher.
always put our customers first and help them - 20.5% have a home they feel good about, then that We have a clear longer-term road map alongside is something we can all be proud of.
profit for the year operational milestones for 2016 17.
These include establishing our new ONE Oer & Supply Chain 412m organisation, with global unied functions for the Daniel Bernard - 28.1% first time: achieving 4% unied cost of goods sold: Chairman and building the Brilliant Basics digital platform Basic earnings in B&Q UK & Ireland.
You can read more about per share the road map and milestones on pages 22 to 23.
We also remain committed to being a 17.8p truly sustainable company and we continue - 26.7% to make good progress in this area.
As we Adjusted measures develop our unied ranges we are improving exclude the impact sustainability performance in areas like materials, of exceptional items.
See the Financial manufacturing and transport.
Sales of sustainable Review on pages home products were 2.9 billion in 2015 16, 25 to 30. accounting for 28% of sales across the year.
Through sales of energy ecient products and services we have helped customers save 10.8TWh of energy since 2011 12.
We also aim to have a positive impact on the communities we work in and source from.
For example, to If we always put increase the impact of our community investment, our customers first we updated our communities strategy in 2015, identifying three areas where we can have and help them have a positive impact both at a local and global level.
These are homes, skills and forests.
a home they feel good about, then Read more about our ainability perormance on page 19 that is something we can all be proud of.
Read more about our rategy in the CEO interview on pages 6 to 9 and in the rategy section on pages 14 to 19 www.
