Strategic report Chairmans statement At the start of the year our task was clear.
Build on the encouraging signs we had seen in the business and deliver themerger with the Gala Coral Group.
It is pleasing to report that on both targets we have succeeded.
We enter 2017 a stronger, bigger business alive to the opportunities that exist but not complacent about the size of the task and the politically febrile environment in which we operate.
With opportunities, come challenges and expectations.
We believe that to be successful in this sector you must have a clear long-term plan and a daily focus on execution.
We have both of these and a confidence in the new teams ability to deliver.
2016 A Historic Year Much as 2016 will be seen as historic because of the completion ofour merger with Coral, we are equally proud of how well both businesses traded through the year.
Both Ladbrokes and Coral demonstrated real trading momentum inthe 10 months ahead of the merger completion.
This was all themore pleasing when you consider the amount of work required to meet the competition authority concerns, agree to the shop divestment programme and complete the preparations for Day 1 ofthe merger.
This focus helped the business to deliver a strong performance in the year.
Ladbrokes as a standalone business delivered ahead of ourexpectations and Coral continued to deliver impressive growth.
These are strong foundations upon which to build a new business.
Delivering on the Opportunities The successful completion of the merger creates the UKs number one betting and gaming business and opens up an exciting future.
In the UK, we have three of the best loved betting and gaming brands.
In Ladbrokes, Coral and Gala we have a combined heritage of more than 230 years and the biggest high street presence in the industry.
When you add to this our digital capacity and an exciting multichannel offer, we have confidence that we can be the customers first choice however, wherever and whenever they choose to bet.
This capability extends beyond our traditional UK base into all regulated markets.
Underpinning the drive for growth will be the delivery of the synergies that come with the scale we have created.
It really is an exciting time for the business, but we will not mistakethis excitement for over confidence.
As I said earlier, with opportunities come challenges and expectations that the business can deliver on the promises made in securing your support for the merger.
It is a daily focus for Jim and the team and for the Board.
com 4 A Responsible Business Board Structure and Focus Having the largest betting shop estate on the UK high street and Understandably, the merger has meant that your Board has being one of the biggest online operators, we are very clear that undergone some change.
wehave a duty to be a leader in social responsibility.
We have a In creating a new Ladbrokes Coral team throughout the business, belief that runs through the executive team that the health and Iam delighted that Carl Leaver, Paul Bowtell and Rob Templeman safety ofour employees and responsible gambling must be at have joined from Gala Coral as Executive Deputy Chairman, theforefront of our thinking in how we run the business.
ChiefFinancial Officer and Non-Executive Director respectively.
On responsible gambling we are proud of the journey we have been The merger also saw Ian Bull, Sly Bailey and David Martin step on, but know that this is an area where we must continue to seek downfrom the Board after five, seven and three years respectively toimprove.
Our linking of responsible gambling to executive and I would like to thank them for their hard work.
remuneration has meant that in 2016 the reward of our senior managers was impacted after some of our advertising fell below We have welcomed Mark Clare as our Senior Independent Director thestandards we expect.
This is how it should beand something and Chair of the Social Responsibility Committee and Stevie Spring wewill continue to develop as the DNA of Ladbrokes Coral.
We have also been joined by Annemarie Durbin as Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board has a It is almost impossible to talk about responsible gambling without wide range ofrelevant expertise and experience which will prove the debate on machines being ignited.
Let me be clear: machines invaluable aswe look to take advantage of the opportunities the are a legitimate customer offer for us to be providing and without merger hascreated.
them, many shops would close.
However, we accept that in offering machines we have a duty to do so responsibly.
That is why we One key focus for the Board in establishing the governance havea Social Responsibility Committee: why we have responsible framework of Ladbrokes Coral has been that of remuneration.
gambling targets as part of the remuneration of the executive Lastyear, shareholders told us loud and clear of their dissatisfaction team: and why we work to improve the identification of potential with elements of the remuneration policy at Ladbrokes.
At the problem gambling and effective interaction.
We believe we lead in AnnualGeneral Meeting I accepted the challenge to revisit executive this area and we believestrongly that we must continue to do so.
remuneration and ensure payment is aimed at rewarding success andnotto insure executives against failure.
We have done that and Health and safety, remains a key priority and there has been much ournew policy is clearly linked to performance targets that benefit work since we completed our merger on looking at what was done shareholders.
We have been pleased with the positive response during in both businesses, what worked and what should be rolled out.
Wehave to accept that in this vital area we must be critical of ourselves and vigilant in asking ourselves the difficult questions.
Looking ahead This includes the difficult debate over single scheduling inour shops.
2016 ended with a new, bigger and more confident business At Ladbrokes in the last year a significant step was taken to move established in Ladbrokes Coral.
to a, voluntary only, Policy after 7pm in the evening, which is in line with the Coral policy.
We now have a scale in retail, online and international that gives us a solid and vibrant platform to grow from.
In the longer term, our Across the Group we will look to ensure we have appropriate scale and expertise will help position us as one of the companies policiesand procedures in place around both health and safety able to influence their destiny rather than be at the mercy of a andresponsible gambling that reflect the changing nature of changing market place.
I make no apology if further necessary changes are made, even if they mean costs have to beincurred We also have a duty to run the business well, set stretching but orsavings found elsewhere to support them.
achievable growth objectives and hold people accountable for delivery against them.
We have to run the business in the rightway, Regulation one that creates a safe and responsible environment forour people While we cannot control regulation, we do continue to argue that to deliver for customers.
In pursuing our growth agenda and aiming thereis a need for stability in our regulatory regime.
We are a major to be the best player in every market we operate in, wewill not employer, offer competitive benefits and every year celebrate hundreds sacrifice our principles of doing things in the right way.
of colleagues who have served for over 10, 20, 30 and 40 years.
We are None of this would be possible without the thousands of colleagues a major sponsor of sports and seek to play a role in the communities in who every day don their uniform or wear their Ladbrokes Coral which we serve.
All of this is continually being eroded as the burden of lanyard and represent us and our brands in the workplace.
I would regulation and taxation increases on our business.
like tothank everyone for their hard work and hope that they will We paid more than 500 million in UK tax, duties and levies and takepride in the business they helped to create and in the future more than 600 million globally in 2016.
All actual, not collected success that we intend to enjoy.
taxes, paid out of our profits.
Too often in our sector, people seeeffective regulation as being harsh and penal and fail to acknowledge the impact it would have on profitability and thepositives that we bring to society such as jobs, investment andthesupport of sports.
We do not ask for special treatment John M Kelly orfavour but do want stability, fairness and evidence-led decisions Chairman to govern the sector and allow us to operate effectively, profitably and responsibly.
We accept that the betting and gaming sector is changing.
Ourmerger has not been the only one in a consolidating sector and it is likelythere will be more.
As I indicated earlier, the pressures of regulation and taxation mean that scale is becoming a necessity.
Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
