Chairmans Statement Introduction Performance I am pleased to report another set of good results for the Company.
2016 Over the year, JLIFs share price increased from an opening value was a significant year for JLIF in many ways, not least in the area of new of 116.7 pence to a closing value of 129.7 pence.
This, together investments and markets with the Fund making its first investments in with dividends paid in the year of 6.82 pence per share resulted Spain and the US.
Continued active management of the existing Portfolio in a total shareholder return TSR for the 12 months of 17.5% resulted in delivery of a number of value enhancements and underlying with dividends re-invested.
Since launch through to the end of Portfolio growth was once again ahead of the discount rate unwind.
December 2016, JLIF delivered a TSR of 76.5%, equating to a Overall, distributions from our Portfolio continued to support the ongoing simple-basis annualised TSR of 9.8%.
JLIFs NAV increased from operation of the Company and dividends paid to investors that, together 883.1 million to 1,080.6 million over the year, a 10.9% increase with growth in the share price, resulted in a total shareholder return for on a NAV per share basis.
In addition, as at 31 December 2016 the year of 17.5%.
171.4 million was drawn on the revolving credit facility compared to 17.0 million the previous year.
For the UK as a whole, 2016 also saw the UK public voting in favour of leaving the European Union, an event that caused disruption to financial The value of JLIFs Portfolio grew signicantly in 2016, driven markets both in the run up, but particularly in the aftermath.
While perhaps largely by new investments, positive exchange rate movements not as extreme as some had feared, these times of increased volatility unrealised, a reduction in discount rates, discount rate unwind will require the Company to be increasingly adaptable.
As at other times and value enhancement activities.
of market uncertainty, listed infrastructure stocks are often seen as safe As at every balance sheet date, the discount rates used to havens and this once again proved true with JLIFs share price peaking for value the Portfolio are reviewed to ensure they continue to the year in August.
With Sterling depreciating, JLIFs balance sheet also reect our market experience.
While this resulted in a reduction benefitted with the valuation of its non-Sterling projects increasing.
in the discount rates applied to the projects comprising the However, commensurately investing in new overseas projects has Portfolio at the start of the year, this was offset by the acquisition become more expensive.
of certain projects during the year at higher discount rates.
The weighted average discount rate WADR therefore increased Dividends and Share Issuance marginally from 7.82% as at 31 December 2015 to 7.87% as at In 2016, JLIF paid dividends to shareholders of 6.82 pence per share, 31 December 2016. representing a dividend yield on the closing share price as at 31 December Underlying portfolio growth was ahead of discount rate unwind for 2016 of 5.3%, the highest dividend yield amongst the London-listed the sixth consecutive year, the result of active management and infrastructure equity funds.
Today we are announcing a dividend relating value enhancement efforts across the Portfolio.
Examples of such to the six months ended 31 December 2016 of 3.48 pence per share, areas of value enhancement included cost efficiencies including representing further progression of 2.0% on the most recently paid insurance and SPV management at both project and Portfolio level, dividend in October 2016. prudent management of lifecycle costs, and reduced margins In March 2016, the Company issued a further 81.2 million shares via a resulting from the renancing of senior debt.
Additionally, during shareholder tap issue that was accretive to the Companys Net Asset 2016 JLIF completed the sale of its interests in two projects Value NAV.
This resulted in gross proceeds of 92.9 million that were Newham Hospital and Barnsley Building Schools for the Future, used to repay debt drawn in relation to the initial investment made in the further details of which are provided below.
Barcelona Metro Stations L9T2 project earlier in the year.
As at the end JLIFs Portfolio at 31 December 2016 was valued at 1,217.6 million, of 2016, JLIF had in issue 899.0 million shares.
an increase of 349.8 million including underlying growth of 4 92.0 million on the valuation as at 31 December 2015.
Of the 92.0 million of underlying growth, 12.8 million of this represented outperformance: i. e. growth beyond that expected from the simple unwind of the discount rate adjusted for the timing of acquisitions, disposals and distributions received in the year.
The table below shows the underlying growth of the Portfolio for the past four years, and shows that JLIFs Portfolio has consistently outperformed.
2013 2014 2015 2016 Underlying portfolio growth 7.24% 9.22% 8.34% 8.18% Adjusted unwind of the discount rate 6.38% 7.81% 8.12% 7.04% Outperformance 0.86% 1.41% 0.22% 1.14% Investments and Disposals JLIF made a record 306.0 million of investments in 2016.
This included two metro stations projects in Spain, a motorway service stations project in the US, and a rail rolling stock project, road project, social housing project and justice project in the UK.
All of the investments were made on a bilateral basis, outside of competitive auction processes.
In June 2016, JLIF sold its entire interests in the Barnsley BSF and Newham Hospital projects.
This was having received offers that valued JLIFs interests in both projects at a level signicantly above that which the Board considered could be achieved by retaining the interests.
It was decided that it was in the best interests of the Company to accept the offers and to redeploy the sale proceeds at better value elsewhere.
The disposal proceeds were redeployed almost immediately in July 2016, being used to partfund the investment in the Connecticut Service Stations project.
4 See the Investment Adviser Report for further detail on the drivers of this growth.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2016 05.
The sale value represented an uplift on JLIFs valuation of the One of the risks identied in recent reports to shareholders has investments as at 31 March 2016 of approximately 36% and saw been in relation to the OECDs Base Erosion and profit Shifting JLIF realise an aggregate IRR of approximately 16%.
The Board and BEPS initiative.
Based on the most recently published draft Investment Adviser will continue to consider and evaluate potential legislation in December 2016 we believe that this no longer disposals, taking account of the best interests of the Company.
represents such a significant risk to JLIF, with our analysis meaning that we do not expect introduction of the legislation to have a material impact on the valuation of the Portfolio.
While recognising Gearing that draft legislation is not enacted legislation, this risk has been At the Companys AGM in May 2016, shareholders approved an downgraded in the Companys risk register.
increase in the gearing limit in the articles of association and investment policy from 25% to 35% of JLIFs Total Assets.
Board & AGM Subsequent to this, JLIF signed the terms of an accordion facility I would once again like to thank my fellow Directors for their regular in June 2016, providing it with access to an additional 150 million and meaningful contribution to the Board.
We have met a number of debt, with the same financial institutions as those who provide of times outside of the regular scheduled meetings during the the Companys 180 million revolving credit facility.
The margin on year to support the execution of the Companys business plan and the accordion facility of 175bps is the same as on the main facility.
I offer my thanks to the Board for their continued commitment.
JLIF drew on its revolving credit facility several times throughout The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30am the year to finance new investments.
In July, JLIF drew on its BST on 19 May 2017 at The Douglas and Dalrymple Rooms, facility in Euros 63.0 million to finance the acquisition of a Old Government House Hotel, St Anns Place, St Peter Port, follow-on interest in the Barcelona Metro Stations L9T2 project Guernsey, Channel Islands.
and a new interest in the Barcelona Metro Stations L9T4 project.
As noted at the time, given the relative weakness of Sterling Market Outlook against the Euro subsequent to last Junes referendum on The markets in which JLIF invests continue to provide opportunities EU membership by the UK, JLIF intends to use income from for growth, although increasingly these opportunities are outside its portfolio of Euro-denominated projects to repay this debt of the UK.
Consequently, attached to investing in these markets so as to provide a natural hedge.
is exposure to exchange rate risk.
While there are diversication As at 31 December 2016, JLIFs revolving credit facility was drawn benets that come with holding a portfolio of investments spread by 171.4 million.
We are today announcing a proposed share across a number of geographies, and there are ways to manage issuance by way of a shareholder tap issue for up to approximately exchange rate risk, investing increasingly overseas creates a 89.8 million new ordinary shares, the maximum that can be issued greater exposure to non-Sterling income.
The proceeds of the issue will be used This trend is both a function of a lack of UK greeneld PPP pipeline to repay most of the outstanding Sterling-borrowings, with the in recent years and consolidation of the majority of UK operational Euro-borrowings remaining drawn as JLIF does not wish to use a PPP projects into the ownership of long term investors.
While historically weak Sterling to repay Euro debt.
As at 31 December there is discussion around the announcement of a pipeline of 2016, the Euro-borrowings totalled 59.0 million 57.0 million as PF2 projects, it is likely that most opportunities that do arise will at the start of March 2017.
With the intention being not to raise be brought to market via competitive auction processes.
These against the Euro-borrowings, it was deemed by the Board more tend to attract very high pricing because of asset scarcity and cost effective to undertake a shareholder tap issue as opposed to a an attractive investment environment i. e. strong credit rating full open offer and placing which is a more expensive process and of public-sector counterparties, strong legal and regulatory therefore only appropriate when seeking to raise larger amounts.
frameworks to support the contractual structures of projects etc.
Governance & Regulation More active PPP markets can be found in parts of Continental The Company applies the UK Corporate Governance Code and Europe, North America and further aeld in Australia and Latin is required to comply with the EU-wide Alternative Investment America.
The US in particular, as a less developed PPP market, Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and the Company remains is likely to present further good investment opportunities over a self-managed non-EU Alternative Investment Fund AIF.
the next few years, especially with the new Administrations We continue to comply with all of the reporting requirements stated policy to use private finance to support infrastructure with respect to AIFMD including quarterly reporting in the development.
The scale of the infrastructure investment need jurisdictions in which the Company is marketed, and disclosures in the US is significant.
JLIF was pleased to complete its first contained within the annual and interim reports.
investment in the US market in mid-2016, thereby establishing a presence and foothold for further acquisitions.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, as revised in 2010, In 2016, each of the seven investments made by JLIF were AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance completed on a bilateral basis.
Four of these 31% by value were Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, acquired from members of John Laing Group plc under the First as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set Offer Agreements, and three 69% by value from other vendors.
out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out JLIF and its Investment Adviser invest significant time and effort additional principles and recommendations on issues that are into developing and maintaining relationships with primary of specic relevance to the Company.
More information is on developers and vendors, as well as sale advisers who often advise page 38 of this report.
The Company intends to continue vendors on potential investors to approach.
The JLIF Board complying with the AIC Code in this financial year.
remains confident about the prospects of the business and is optimistic for the future growth of the Company.
Risks & Uncertainties While the Investment Adviser manages the risks facing the Paul Lester CBE Company on a day-to-day basis, the Board retains ultimate Chairman responsibility.
JLIFs Risk Committee continues to review 20 March 2017 on a regular basis the principal risks facing the Company and the controls that we have in place to manage those risks.
An overview of JLIFs risk management strategies, a description of what the Board considers the principal risks, as well as the ways by which these are mitigated, are contained in the Risk Committee report on pages 10 to 15.
