STRATEGIC REPORT | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Welcome Sir John Kingman became our new to our shareholders of a rate of dividend Chairman on 24 October 2016. growth which is sustainable in a wide range of potential economic scenarios.
I am delighted and privileged to have Accordingly, the Board is recommending been asked to be Chairman of such a full-year dividend of 14.35p for 2016, a successful and respected company.
In my previous roles, I have worked with Legal & General for many years, Recent Board changes SEE THE VIDEO and I know how special the groups Page 52 of this report describes recent culture is.
In 2016, Olaf Sir John Kingman Swantee, Stuart Popham and Liz Zlatkus discusses his appointment I would like to thank my predecessor, stood down from the Board and Richard John Stewart, for his wise leadership and recent activities.
Meddings leaves at the 2017 AGM.
Julia as Chairman over the last six years, www.
Wilson has succeeded Rudy Markham taking the group from the depths of com investors shareholderas Senior Independent Director.
Rudy the financial crisis to consolidating its centre.
asp remains on the Board until the AGM.
position as a highly successful UK I would like to thank everyone for their financial services group.
I also want important contributions and especially to thank Rudy Markham, the groups thank Mark Gregory who retires from longest-standing non-executive the Board on 9 March, being replaced director, for his great service in acting Annual General Meeting2017 as Group CFO by Jeff Davies.
New 11am on 25 May 2017, at the as a hugely effective interim Chairman Honourable Artillery Company, Board appointments in 2016 were for five months during 2016.
Armoury House, City Road, Lesley Knox and Philip Broadley, with LondonEC1Y 2BQ The groups strategy continues to be Toby Strauss joining in January 2017 and very successful.
Our commitment to Dividend policy Kerrigan Procter who joins the board as being economically and socially useful Were a long-term business and set an Executive Director on 9 March 2017. our dividend annually, according to will continue to be embedded in the agreed principles, which we set out companys values and culture.
Our An impressive management team in our results.
businesses have formidable further Since my appointment was The Board has adopted a progressive potential.
Working with Nigel Wilson announced, Ive worked closely with dividend policy, reflecting the Groups and the wider Board in the next phase the management teams across our expected medium-term underlying business growth, including Net of our development, we continue to businesses and have met many of our Release from Operations and build growth for our business, its employees.
Ive been hugely impressed Operating Earnings.
by their hard work, professionalism and specialist knowledge, which enable us Profit growth continues Full year dividend to focus on looking after the financial Five year progress pence We started 2016 with the security of over 15 million people in the implementation of the new Solvency II UK, US and India.
Our employees make capital regime.
The strength of our Legal & General the exceptional group capital base enabled our balance sheet it is today.
to demonstrate its resilience to market volatility through 2016 and provide a A confident future strong platform for business growth.
The companys strategy has benefited Im pleased to report that we increased by taking advantage of the opportunities operating profit by 7% to 1,562 offered by long-term growth drivers.
million and IFRS profit after tax by 7% I believe the UK and the US are very to 1.3 billion, with adjusted earnings attractive markets where we can take 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 per share now 22.20p 2015: 18.58p.
advantage of the many investment and growth opportunities which continue Since the financial crisis, the group to emerge.
Im looking forward to my has been able steadily to rebuild its 10.35p first AGM in May and hope to see as dividend, with annual compound many of you as possible there.
Having reached this level, the Board Our dividend policy is has considered carefully the best described above.
medium-term trajectory of dividend growth, taking into account both Sir John Kingman excellent continuing financial Chairman performance, and the importance LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 1 7.65 9.30 11.25 13.40 14.35
