Strategic report Chairman's statement Our purpose as a UK focused bank isto help Britain prosper and we are playing a vital role in supporting people, businesses and communities across the UK.
Lord Blackwell Chairman Overview and strategy Corporate culture 2016 was another year of good progress for the Group, both The Board and senior management have a vital role to play in financially and strategically.
Our strong financial performance, the shaping and embedding a healthy corporate culture, and this strength of our capital position and the progressive return of the continued to be a major focus in 2016.
At the heart is our core Group to private ownership are testament to the hard work of our valueof doing the right thing for customers rebuilding trust colleagues to transform and simplify our business since the depths thatis the foundation for our customer franchise.
On the back of that recovery, the agreement Over the last year the Group has made significant strides in toacquire MBNA is a significant strategic step which reinforces our removing past practices and organisational barriers that we ability to deliver sustainable growth whilst helping Britain prosper.
believed were inconsistent with those values.
We have also taken However, we recognise that future success will depend on adapting important steps in defining the culture and behaviours we believe our business model to provide the cost and quality of service we need to support our values and embedding those in the way we required to meet customer needs effectively in a rapidly evolving operate.
While we still have further to go, I know that this approach digital future, and we are working hard to ensure we have the is aligned with the commitment of our dedicated colleagues across strategy and plans to achieve that transformation.
the organisation who come to work every day wanting to deliver Meanwhile, the UK financial services sector continues to face a great customer service.
Getting this culture right will be critical to number of near term challenges.
The economic environment our success in an increasingly competitive environment.
remains uncertain, the level of regulatory change remains high, Communities competition continues to be fierce and the pace of technological change requires continuing innovation while posing new threats As well as their commitment to customers, I am extremely proud from data and cyber security.
This reinforces our conviction that our ofthe way our colleagues support communities across the country differentiated, simple, low risk, UK retail and commercial strategy is another aspect of helping Britain prosper.
I am particularly the right approach.
It has helped us deliver over the last few years pleased that so many have once again taken the time to volunteer and will, I believe continue to do so going forward.
and raise funds for charities and community groups.
Over the course of this year 34,000 of our colleagues took part in volunteering As a result of our business performance and strong capital position, activities, contributing 240,000 hours of their time by sharing their I am pleased to announce that the Board has recommended a final skills and experience to help make sustainable differences to local ordinary dividend of 1.7 pence per share, bringing the total ordinary charities, schools, colleges and businesses.
dividend for 2016 to 2.55 pence per share, an increase of 13 per cent on last year.
In addition the Board has felt able to propose an Another way we support millions of people across Britain is additional distribution of 0.5 pence per share as a special dividend throughthe funding of our independent Foundations.
Since the after prudently holding back sufficient capital to cover the expected Foundations were set up over 30 years ago, they have donated cost of the MBNA acquisition.
This is in line with the Groups policy almost 600million to charities across the UK.
This year, I have once to deliver a progressive and sustainable ordinary dividend whilst again beendelighted to meet with the Foundations and some of the distributing surplus capital when appropriate to do so.
amazing charitable organisations they support, and to see the hugedifference our funding makes to so many local communities.
Our purpose Our charity partnership provides another part of our overall Our purpose as the UKs largest retail and commercial bank is to approach to addressing social disadvantage throughout the UK.
This means not only providing outstanding Over the past two years our colleagues have raised more than service to our customers, but also responding to the UKs social 12.5million for BBC Children in Need, 4 million more than our andeconomic issues we believe we are best placed to address.
There is no doubt that this will make a significant Ourinvestment programmes and extensive range of clear and impact across the UK, directly benefiting more than 40,000 simple products and services already support this ambition, helping disadvantaged children and young people.
to meet the needs and grow the prosperity of people, businesses Our target is to raise 22 million by 2020 for our chosen charity and communities across the UK while building the deep, long-term customer relationships that are vital to our future.
Starting this year, our new charity partner is Mental Health UK.
There is a growing recognition that mental health and financial to do even more.
Our Helping Britain Prosper Plan sets out our targets to support housing, growth, trade and infrastructure and to health are closely linked, and yet there is no single source of support in this area.
By bringing our two organisations together we aim to tackle social disadvantage.
We are not just a British bank we take pride in being a bank for Britain, at the heart of the UKs economy.
create the perfect partnership to start developing this support for people across the UK.
06 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Directors CONTINUING TO HELP BRITAIN We review the Boards composition and diversity regularly and arecommitted to ensuring we have the right balance of skills and PROSPER IN TIMES OF CHANGE experience within the Board.
As announced last year, Stuart Sinclair In 2014 we launched our Helping Britain Prosper Plan, focused joined the Board in January 2016 and Dyfrig John retired from the on the social and economic issues that we believe we are best Board at our AGM in 2016.
We are very grateful to Dyfrig for his placed to help people in Britain address.
The Plan contains contribution to the Group.
measurable targets to support people, businesses and We have agreed a number of changes to our Board composition for communities in the UK.
Anthony Watson, our Senior Independent Director, will retire Despite the uncertainty created by the political and economic at the 2017 AGM after serving more than eight years on the Board.
events of 2016, we have continued to achieve many of our Anita Frew will succeed Anthony as Senior Independent Director, targets.
Highlights include: combining this with the role of Deputy Chairman, which she has held since May 2014.
Nick Luff, an independent Non-Executive provided 1.2 billion of new funding to UK manufacturing Director, has notified the Board that in light of his other businesses commitments he does not intend to seek re-election at the 2017 helped more than 10,000 clients to start exporting AGM.
Nick will be succeeded as Chairman of the Audit Committee for the first time by Simon Henry.
Both Anthony and Nick leave with our thanks and helped more than 75,000 first-time buyers best wishes for the future.
supported more than 121,000 start-up businesses Remuneration created more than 1,000 new apprenticeship positions Our approach to reward aims to provide a clear link between We operate the UK's largest digital bank and, in response to remuneration and delivery of the Group's key strategic objectives, the rapidly evolving digital environment, wehave also met our namely, becoming the best bank for customers whilst delivering overall target to create 20,000 digital champions of which 7,000 long-term, superior and sustainable returns to shareholders.
We were in 2016 to help improve thedigital skills and financial believe in offering fair reward where colleagues are rewarded for capability of individuals and organisations.
performance aligned to the long-term sustainable success of the business, our commitment to rebuilding trust and changing the Looking ahead we have set a new target to support the low culture of the Group.
carbon economy by incentivising energy efficient commercial property development through Britains first Green Loan Initiative.
Despite the uncertain environment, the Group continued to perform strongly with good underlying profits, significantly increased statutory profits, strong capital generation and increased ordinary dividends.
As a result, the Groups total bonus outcome has increased to 392.9million.
This is after a 19per cent collective performance adjustment reflecting additional conduct-related provisions which impacted negatively on profitability and shareholder returns.
Read more about our Plan on page 18 and online Total bonus outcome remains a small proportion of underlying at www.
Cash bonuses are capped at 2,000 with additional amounts paid in shares and subject to deferral and performance adjustment.
More information on how we ensure our approach to remuneration A STRONG FOCUS ON supports our strategy can be found in the Directors remuneration CORPORATE CULTURE report on page 84.
The Board places great emphasis on shaping and embedding Outlook a healthy corporate culture.
Our core values of 'putting I would like to thank all my colleagues across the Group for their customers first', 'keeping it simple' and 'making a difference continued hard work and commitment.
We have made significant together' are central to our next stage of cultural progress.
There is always more to do and we will have further transformation.
challenges to face as we transform the bank to reflect the changing Measurement and monitoring environment.
However, we remain committed to our strategy and The Responsible Business Committee RBC provides believe that our customer focus and simple business model with its oversight of the work being done to develop measures multi-brand, multi-channel proposition continue to provide the best forreporting on cultural change.
The RBC is supported opportunities for competitive advantage and future success.
As we inparticular by the work of two executive committees: the rebuild trust, my ambition is for Lloyds to earn its place as one of the Responsible Business Management Committee and the great British institutions, in which both colleagues and customers GroupCustomer First Committee, who drive the development can take shared pride.
of a culture framework and a culture dashboard to enable ustomonitor progress.
Quantitative components we measure include our net promoter score, complaints data, colleague engagement surveys, whistleblowing, regulatory engagement information and assurance from risk on compliance with policies and the Risk Framework.
We also host breakfasts, dinners, branch visits andstaff engagement events.
Lord Blackwell Chairman The culture of the Board itself is measured in the Board Effectiveness Review which is facilitated externally every three years.
You can read more about this review in our corporate governance report on page 66.
Read more on corporate culture in the corporate goverance report on page 52 07
