London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Chairmans statement The Group is strong, financially and operationally, as a well diversified and global market infrastructure business with highly valuable franchises.
Donald Brydon CBE Chairman Overview Governance 2016 was characterised by periods of exceptional unpredictability as geo-political On my appointment in mid-2015, I led an appraisal of the skills and backgrounds events dominated the headlines.
Despite the accompanying global market of the Board members with the aim of developing a Board with the right skills volatility and uncertainty, London Stock Exchange Group has maintained focus on balance, diversity and appropriate size.
As a result, a number of changes were the execution of its agreed strategy in Capital Formation, Risk and Balance Sheet made to the Boards composition in December 2015 adding additional buy-side, Management and Intellectual Property with the delivery of a number of new plc, clearing and regulatory expertise to the Board.
We remain true to our Open Access philosophy, having enhanced our customer partnerships across the business.
As a Group, we have also continued to This year, Baroness Sharon Bowles, Sherry Coutu, CBE, and Stuart Lewis stepped focus on cost discipline, while investing for growth, focusing on new opportunities down from the Board as Non-Executive Directors in April and Andrea Munari also and achieving the benefits of recent acquisitions.
announced his resignation in September after nine years on the Board.
I would like to thank them all for their valuable contributions and to Andrea for his deep Following the UKs decision to leave the EU, the Group will continue to monitor financial experience through a period of significant development and expansion developments to ensure that our businesses are well prepared.
Our priority is to for the Group.
I would also like to welcome Andrea Sironi who joined the Board in ensure continuity of service and the orderly functioning of our markets and other October, maintaining our strong link with Borsa Italiana.
In addition, I am pleased activities for our customers, members and other stakeholders.
The Group operates that the LSE plc board will continue to benefit from Baroness Bowles and successfully, and at scale, a full range of market infrastructure services in the UK, Sherry Coutus skills and experience whilst Stuart Lewis continues to support Europe and around the world including the provision of trading platforms, indices, the Risk Committee.
data services, clearing and settlement platforms and technology expertise.
We are well placed to respond to the needs of our clients and to regulatory changes with a Good governance involves having expert independent advice when required and strong footprint and licensed operations in the UK, Europe and the United States.
last year the Board set out plans to form Regulatory and Technology Advisory Groups to give Directors access to this external counsel.
Appointments were made Financial performance to both groups in the year and we will keep shareholders updated on the progress The Group has delivered another good financial performance with growth across of these groups.
Total continuing income rose to 1,657.1 million, up 17%.
Adjusted operating profit increased 17% to 685.8 million and operating profit As explained in greater detail in the Governance Report on page 56, the Board is increased 6% to 426.8 million.
in transition in terms of its composition and fully supports the aims of improving gender balance of corporate boards and the wider workforce.
During 2016, LSEG The Board is proposing a final dividend of 31.2 pence per share which results in signed the UKs HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter, signalling the Groups a 20% year-on-year increase in the total dividend to 43.2 pence per share.
The ongoing commitment to equality in the workplace and to actively challenge final dividend will be paid on 31 May 2017 to shareholders on the register as at both ourselves and others in the financial sector to keep addressing these issues.
Our Womens Inspired Network WIN also expanded its global footprint with events and networks established in all of our major operational hubs.
4 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Chairmans statement Corporate Social Responsibility Nevertheless, the LSEG Board remains convinced of the strategic benefits of the As the Groups scale and reach grows we continue to seek opportunities to expand Merger and recognises the strong support from shareholders for the transaction.
through four distinct pillars: our markets: our services: our people: and in our LSEG will continue to take steps to seek to implement the Merger.
In addition to surrounding communities.
In 2016, the Group donated almost 1.1 million to Commission clearance, the Merger is conditional on regulatory clearances from charities and worked closely with global and regional partner charities that focus Italian regulators and all relevant regulators including the Bank of England, FCA, on helping young people to develop the life and business skills they need to fulfil BaFin and the Hessian Exchange Supervisory Authority HESA, as well as all their potential.
We also introduced paid volunteering days for all employees other relevant regulators and authorities in all other countries in which LSEG to encourage them to become involved in local charity work, which can make operates.
While discussions are being progressed with a number of these a difference not only to our community but also for an individuals personal regulators, the regulatory process has not yet been concluded and formal development.
A number of our employees have taken the opportunity to get engagement has not yet begun with HESA.
involved, offering their time and expertise and we will look to continue to roll this out more broadly over the coming year.
A summary of our activities can be found The LSEG Board is highly confident in the strength of LSEGs business, strategy on pages 36 37 as well as in our standalone Corporate Responsibility Report, and prospects on a stand alone basis, under its strong management team led by which can be accessed from our website www.
Conclusion Proposed Merger I thank all employees who have contributed to the Groups development and In March 2016, London Stock Exchange Group announced the terms of a success over the past year.
It is a year in which the innovative and partnership recommended all share merger with Deutsche Brse.
The transaction received culture of the company has been in particular evidence.
The Group is strong, approvals from our shareholders and those of Deutsche Brse and we remain financially and operationally, as a well diversified and global market infrastructure focused on obtaining the necessary regulatory and anti-trust approvals.
At the business with highly valuable franchises.
We have many opportunities to deliver time of publication, we expect a decision from the European Commission on or further growth and we look forward to our future prospects with confidence.
We have worked through the regulatory requirements in a systematic manner and, as part of that process, in January 2017 announced the disposal of LCH SA, LCH Groups French-regulated operating subsidiary to Euronext N. V. The sale is Donald Brydon subject to the review and approval by the European Commission and fulfilment Chairman of other customary conditions including relevant regulatory approvals and is 3 March 2017 conditional on the successful closing of the merger.
In February 2017, taking all relevant factors into account, and acting in the best interests of shareholders, the LSEG Board concluded that it could not commit to the divestment of MTS, a leading regulated electronic trading platform for European wholesale Government bonds and other fixed income securities.
Based on the Commissions current position, LSEG believes that the Commission is unlikely to provide clearance for the Merger.
