Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chairmans statement Growth Organic growth remains a key focus of the Board.
The Board spent time during the year looking at research within AHL to develop new products, thegrowth of GLGs long only business, the development of innovative solutions within FRM and new product opportunities at Numeric.
Potential acquisitions were also a key focus, withtime spent evaluating a number of different opportunities, and ultimately reviewing and approving the acquisition of Aalto and the launch of Man Global Private Markets.
We have a strong track record of successfully integrating acquired businesses and plan to do the same for Aalto.
In structuring the acquisition, we endeavoured to align the interests of Aalto management with those of our shareholders, with the majority of the consideration payable in future periods based on the performance of the business over time.
Overview of the year majorshareholders to understand their Return of capital 2016 has been a challenging year.
Historic and viewsregarding remuneration, and has In October, we announced the return of $100 unexpected political events were coupled with madeanumber of changes.
A programme million to shareholders through a share buyback volatile and unpredictable market reactions.
ofshareholder engagement is ongoing ahead programme.
At 31 December 2016, around $35 Themarket environment was not positive for a ofour formal review of the overall Remuneration million worth of shares had been repurchased, number of our funds but we performed creditably policy during 2017.
Richard will also be taking and the remainder will be purchased over the against benchmarks and peers in many areas.
over from Phillip Colebatch as our Senior coming months.
In line with our dividend policy, Independent Director following this years AGM.
Britains decision to leave the EU in June came the Board has announced a recommended final Ishould like to thank Phillip, who will remain on asa surprise to many and will inevitably create dividend of 4.5 cents per share, subject to the Board, for his service in this role.
aperiod of uncertainty and transition.
We will approval by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
continue to monitor events carefully but currently In July, Manny Roman made the decision feel we are well positioned to deal with potential tostep down from the Board and his role as Community changes.
Many of our funds are already based CEO for the Group to take up the opportunity We believe that Mans long-term future is outside the UK for distribution across Europe to become CEO of PIMCO in the US.
Manny helped by our contribution to the communities under current legislation.
We will seek clarity for changed Man for the better, managing through in which it operates.
The Man Charitable our EU nationals working in the UK, although a period of substantial rebuilding for the Group.
Trust continued its involvement with charities wenote the positive views from government I was delighted to be able to appoint Luke Ellis, that focus on raising the levels of literacy and regarding continued residence and the previously President of the Group, as CEO.
Luke numeracy in areas of social deprivation to help recognition of the needs of our industry and brings a wealth of knowledge and experience give more people a chance to achieve their theUK economy to attract and retain highly to the role and he has quickly settled into his potential.
Our supported local community skilled staff from around the world.
I am very much looking charities also benefited from the time of Man challenges, there is some benefit in the weakness forward to working with him and our other employees through our volunteering programme, of the Pound as much of our cost base is sterling executive directors: Mark Jones, our new CFO, which included transforming outdoor spaces denominated and our UK shareholders can and Jonathan Sorrell, our previous CFO who and packaging food at local foodbanks.
benefit from our US Dollar based dividend.
became President, in charge of Sales and People Marketing, FRM and Man Global Private Markets.
Since becoming Chairman in May, I have Despite this backdrop, funds under beenimpressed by the experience and talent management grew, with net inflows of In February 2017, I was delighted to announce ofthe people at Man and their enthusiasm, $1.9 billion for the year.
The difficult market the appointment of Dame Kate Barker teamwork and dedication to meet clients needs.
environment had an impact on the Groups as a non-executive director.
Kate will be This has been especially evident in 2016 during profitability, with adjusted management fee a valuable adviser and contributor to the such a volatile period and I wanted to thank our profit before tax of $178 million for the year business and I very much look forward to employees for their hard work during the year.
Performance welcoming her to the Board in April 2017. fees, which are volatile, fell.
Our review of the Remuneration Delivering superior risk adjusted investment goodwill balances in GLG and FRM led to a Executive remuneration is an increasingly performance to our clients and the millions of non-cash write down resulting in a statutory controversial area.
At Man, we strive to attract pensioners and investors they represent is at the loss before tax of $272 million for the year.
and retain people who create value for our heart of all we do.
If we serve them well and run Board changes clients and shareholders alike whilst being the business efficiently, we can provide good In May, after almost nine years as Chairman, acutely aware that this is a highly paid industry long-term returns for our shareholders.
Whether JonAisbitt retired from the Board.
On behalf and there is wider societal concern over pay.
you are a shareholder, client or employee of Man ofthe Board, I would like to thank Jon for his We have responded to shareholder concerns Group, I will seek to serve you as Chairman in the leadership and the significant contribution he by being more transparent in linking directors best way I can.
Thank you for the opportunity to made to the firm.
I wish him the very best for short-term bonuses to quantitative results and do so.
reducing the shareholder approved maximum Lord Livingston of Parkhead long-term bonus potential.
We will continue to Chairman In May, we also had a change to the Groups work with shareholders and others to find the Remuneration Committee, with Richard Berliand right balance, particularly as perceived best appointed as Chairman.
Since his appointment, practice evolves.
This area is explained fully in Richard has consulted with most of our the Directors Remuneration Report.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 03
