STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement Our vision is to   Overview Our objective is to improve profitability I am pleased to report that Marshalls has made continued progress and deliver long-term sustainable value during 2016 and delivered strong results.
Profit before tax has increased by 31 per cent during the year with strong operational for our shareholders whilst taking into gearing supported by the positive impact of improvements in account the interests of all stakeholders.
The Groups core values of leadership, excellence, trust and Summary sustainability continue to support our strategic objectives, which remain unchanged.
Our primary objective is to improve profitability Core values remain leadership, excellence, and to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders whilst trustand sustainability.
taking into account the interests of all our stakeholders.
32% increase in earnings per share reflecting The continuing development of Marshalls corporate culture is a key continuing strength of the Marshalls brand.
theme for 2017 and is closely aligned with the Groups core values.
Following the Financial Reporting Councils paper your Board has Strong balance sheet and prudent capital reviewed its role in respect of culture and established a more formal structure.
framework to ensure culture is a clear area of ongoing focus for Full-year dividend of 8.70 pence up 24% theGroup.
A healthy and positive corporate culture, supported byaconsistent approach and strategic message from the Board, andadiscretionary supplementary dividend willboth protect and generate shareholder value.
Results Marshalls revenue is up 3 per cent to 396.9 million.
The Domestic end market performance has been particularly strong with revenue growth of 10 per cent during the year.
Profit before tax was 46.0million 2015: 35.3 million and EBITDA has grown by 17 per cent to 60.8million 2015: 51.8 million.
The Groups earnings per share at 18.95 pence are up 32per cent.
These results reflect the continuing strength of the Marshalls brand, our emphasis on customer service and our enduring objective of providing innovative, quality products and integrated solutions.
Dividends Marshalls has strong cash generation and a robust balance sheet which underpins our progressive dividend policy.
The Group maintains the objective of 2 times dividend cover over the business cycle.
The Groups core values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability continue to support our strategic objectives.
08 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT TheBoard is recommending a final dividend of 5.80 pence ofthe business and seek to improve the effectiveness of the Board 2015:4.75pence per share which, together with the interim dividend asa whole and of individual Directors.
No areas of material concern of 2.90 pence 2015: 2.25 pence per share, makes a total ordinary were highlighted as a result of the 2016 evaluation.
dividend for the year of 8.70 pence 2015: 7.00 pence per share.
Under our remuneration policy, executive remuneration is closely Given the strong performance in the year, the Board is also recommending linked to performance and the achievement of stretching financial a supplementary dividend of 3.00 pence per share 2015: 2.00 pence.
and strategic targets that are closely aligned with the Groups strategic Thissupplementary dividend is discretionary and non-recurring.
These include specific customer service and health and Itrecognises the Boards objective of maintaining an efficient safety targets.
Management continues to receive a large proportion andprudent capital structure and providing increased returns ofits remuneration in shares which must be retained for up to 5 years.
forshareholders whilst at the same time retaining flexibility This ensures a strong alignment between the interests of management forcapitaland other investment opportunities.
Strategy Board changes Our vision is to establish Marshalls as a world-class hard landscape Alan Coppin retired from the Board following the Annual General business and in formulating the Groups strategy the objective is to Meeting in May 2016 having served as Non-Executive Director, Senior deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value whilst taking into Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee consideration the interests of all our stakeholders and the wider since May 2010.
Following Alans retirement from the Board, Janet contribution we make to society.
The Groups culture is to create open, Ashdown was appointed Senior Independent Director and Chair rewarding and transparent relationships across all key stakeholders.
The key elements of the Groups strategy include further development People Marshalls has an outstanding workforce and I would like to thank of the Marshalls brand, the introduction of new and innovative products, excellent customer service, operational improvement and improving allour employees for their professionalism and ongoing support, commitment and dedication to Marshalls.
the performances of the smaller businesses.
The Groups capital structure continues to support our strategic objectives whilst also We continue to promote a pay and rewards structure that recognises reflecting the economic and sector background.
Given the cyclical performance and that is fair to all employees.
Marshalls continues to nature of our sector, a conservative financial profile remains appropriate exceed the Living Wage Employer criteria.
The Group is establishing for Marshalls.
The Groups capital allocation policy has 3 supporting a new defined contribution pension scheme within a market leading principles, which are security, flexibility and efficiency.
We continue Master Trust operated by Aviva Friends Life.
This will be fair, flexible tosupport a prudent capital structure and at 31 December 2016 and fit for the future and will create a framework that will provide a Iampleased to report that the Group has become cash positive.
much improved pension proposition going forward that will benefit Governance all employees.
We continue to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code as The Marshalls 2015 Sharesave Scheme encourages wider ownership outlined in our Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 41. of Marshalls plc shares across the entire workforce, which ensures The Board remains committed to the highest standards of corporate thatthe interests of employees remain firmly aligned with those governance and to strong ethical and professional practices.
Marshalls has again been awarded the Fair Tax Mark for responsible Outlook tax behaviour and transparency in its tax affairs.
The underlying indicators have remained supportive in Marshalls The Group continues to enhance the Annual Report disclosures to main end markets while order intake, revenue growth and cash ensure they represent a fair, balanced and understandable assessment generation have remained robust.
The Board is mindful of market of the Groups position and prospects.
We hope this years Annual volatility and the more cautious growth levels highlighted by recent Report provides further improvements for shareholders.
Construction Products Association forecasts, but continues to support The Board action plan for 2016 included further consideration of the growth objectives and operational priorities that remain central to our 2020Strategy.
longer-term strategic planning, risk management and business resilience.
Additional consideration has also been given to Board Marshalls has a strong balance sheet and your Board believes that the succession planning along with greater focus on succession Groups innovative product range and strong market positions mean planningbelow Board level.
I am pleased to report that we have it is well placed to deliver continued growth and operational profit made good progress against our action plan, which is reported in improvements as it implements its 2020 Strategy.
Sales and order more detail inthe Corporate Governance Report on pages 36 to 41. intake have been strong in the first couple of months of 2017.
The Board continues to maintain an open and transparent culture where all Board members are able to contribute effectively and without Andrew Allner constraint todiscussions.
Chairman Board development continues to be a priority and during the year anexternal evaluation of Board performance was undertaken by an independent evaluator.
Such reviews recognise the changing needs Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 09
