Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Chairmans Statement Marston's attention to quality, service and value means we are well-placed to further our track record of market outperformance.
We are alert to changing consumer tastes and trends, and this is reflected in our plans.
We remain highly focused on the execution of our strategy.
Roger Devlin Chairman Overview Dividend I am pleased to report good progress in 2016, including turnover up We propose a final dividend of 4.7 pence per share, an increase of 7.1% to 905.8 million, underlying profit before taxation up 7.1% to 4.4%, providing a total dividend for the year of 7.3 pence per share.
98.0 million, and underlying earnings per share up 8.5% to 14.0 pence Dividend cover increased to 1.9 times 2015: 1.8 times.
Our stated financial objectives are sustainable growth, Board to increase return on capital, and to reduce leverage.
Each of these Neil Goulden will stand down from the Board at the 2017 Annual objectives was met this year.
Neil joined the Board in 2007, and we have benefited Against a background of intense competition, operational effectiveness significantly from his industry and financial experience.
I thank him for and good controls have been key to our success, which this year included his contribution.
Neil will be succeeded as Senior Independent Director performance ahead of the market in our pubs, and market-leading by Carolyn Bradley, and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee by growth in our beer brands.
Our objective is to demonstrate further Catherine Glickman.
Consistent with our aim to ensure that the Board improvement from this already strong market position, and during the has the right blend of skills and experience, we will consider a further year your Board reviewed plans for the training and development of our non-executive appointment to the Board in the coming months.
staff, marketing activity in our pubs and pub-restaurants, and approved People continued investment in IT which will see our EPOS systems replaced This years engagement survey confirmed the extent to which our people and upgraded in 2017. are proud to work for Marstons.
Our culture and values are important We have also reviewed carefully the basis of capital allocation across strengths in an age when authenticity and integrity are values recognised the business.
As described in detail within this report, we made capital by customers and colleagues alike, and I thank our employees for their investments of 143.7 million in 2016.
We have continued to expand our dedication.
In February this year we opened our refurbished head office in estate, opening 22 pubs and bars and six lodge developments during Wolverhampton, a necessary investment but one which also contributes the year.
to our ambition to make Marstons The Place To Be for the best in the industry.
In approving capital investment, the Board is careful to ensure that return on capital targets are met, that leverage remains appropriate for Outlook a pub and brewing business with a 97% freehold estate, and that we Although much has been made of Brexit uncertainty, Marstons attention are aware of the impact of competition.
We continue to strengthen our to quality, service and value means we are well-placed to further our balance sheet with leverage reducing and fixed charge cover continuing track record of market outperformance.
We are alert to changing to increase.
We are satisfied that we are creating shareholder value and consumer tastes and trends, and this is reflected in our plans.
We remain have good opportunities for growth.
highly focused on the execution of our strategy.
