04 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We are focused on strengthening our position as a modern, pro table business rooted in ful lling the needs of our customers.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN INTERIM FINAL TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR 2015 16 6.8p 11.9p 18.7p PAID ON 8 JANUARY 2016 TO BE PAID ON 15 JULY 2016 EXCLUDING SPECIAL DIVIDEND OVERVIEW Steve is straightforward, authentic and M&S.
com outperformed the market and decisive.
These are qualities that will it continues to reap the bene ts of the At the end of the financial year Marc carry our people with him.
These qualities, investment made over the last few years.
Bolland retired as Chief Executive.
He was together with his clear focus on our Performance against all metrics improved succeeded by Steve Rowe at the beginning customer, simplicity and teamwork, are during the year.
Our Castle Donington of April.
I would like to thank Marc for the reasons Steve was chosen to lead the automated distribution centre has leading the company through a period business.
Under his leadership, our aim is signi cantly strengthened our of necessary modernisation over the past to again become as distinctive in Clothing infrastructure and its performance this six years.
Much essential work has been & Home as we now are in Food.
Over the year done during Marcs tenure to build our we saw sales through mobile and tablets infrastructure and capabilities, particularly PERFORMANCE grow strongly as customers shopping in support of the online and digital behaviour continues to evolve.
We are a more capable company Our performance during the year was with signi cantly improved digital, design mixed.
We delivered a good performance Our International business faced and sourcing skills in Clothing & Home in Food and a substantial improvement signi cant headwinds due to currency and industry leading performance and in our Clothing & Home margins, but uctuations, the slowing global economy outstanding innovation in Food.
M&S is Clothing & Home sales were not and geopolitical unrest alongside some now better equipped to meet todays satisfactory.
The overall result is that operational challenges.
underlying pro t before tax rose by 3.5% saw good growth in India, our business in to 684.1m, although due to nonEurope is not producing satisfactory The start of Steves tenure in April underlying items of 200.8m, statutory returns.
We are looking at every part of opened a new chapter which will see us pro ts were down 19.5% to 483.3m.
our International business to make sure continue to accelerate the pace and scale our strategy remains relevant.
of change across the business.
The focus In Food, we had another strong year, will be on execution and implementing despite the market remaining extremely A VALUES AND PLAN A the actions required to complete the competitive.
Customers continue to be transformation of M&Ss infrastructure drawn to our distinctive off er.
They love Our values of Inspiration, Innovation, and its business to compete eff ectively our high levels of newness and innovation Integrity and In Touch are as important in a modern, digital age.
and our emphasis on convenience.
The work we do in planned, we were able to grow the business communities and the steps we take to A NEW CHAPTER pro tably, including opening 75 new Simply help disadvantaged people into work are Food stores, which are performing strongly.
daily proof that these values are authentic.
Steve has a deep understanding of M&S, This year, over 1,000 of our employees having worked at the company for over Our Clothing & Home business took part in Spark Something Good: 25 years.
He has been a Board member underperformed.
Although it delivered a co-ordinated series of community since 2012 and has a proven track record of signi cant margin gains due to better and charity action days in cities across delivering results.
He also understands the design and sourcing skills, our sales the UK.
Among the many charities we were need for change.
It is this insider knowledge performance was unsatisfactory.
delighted to support this year was Style coupled with an appetite for transformation Steves number one priority is to return for Soldiers, an organisation that provides that makes him uniquely quali ed to lead Clothing & Home to sustainable, pro table bespoke out ts for wounded servicemen.
With his direct control of the Nine years after its launch, Plan A continues division and his detailed understanding of to in uence the decisions we make.
the issues it faces, this underperformance Our work with our suppliers and other is being addressed as a matter of urgency.
05 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 THIS YEARS REPORT KEY FEATURES OUR GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES We continue to keep the structure of our The Governance report provides: LEADERSHIP See p34 reporting suite under review, in line with our A clear and honest review of the year: Board members rigorously challenge each other ambition to encourage more shareholders to The outcome of our Board Evaluation: on strategy, performance, responsibility and use digital communications and to therefore accountability to ensure that the decisions we reduce the number of documents we print.
Greater disclosure around Board discussions make are of the highest quality.
and associated actions: In line with our simpli ed management structure and approach, we have updated how we report Our approach to the assessment of the on our performance, with a new combined long-term viability of the business: and EFFECTIVENESS See p39 Operating Performance chapter that focuses Our approach to risk and risk appetite.
The Boards performance is scrutinised in an annual on our products and how we serve and engage eff ectiveness review.
This examines the progress our customers.
As a Board we regularly discuss and debate: we are making against our plan, our collective and The report focuses on ensuring key messages Strategy and Cyber and IT individual eff ectiveness, and the independence of are easy to locate, and addressing the factors Company The M&S brand our non-executive directors.
that have impacted the business during the performance International year and the factors that are most important Culture and to the businesss long-term prospects.
Supply chain ACCOUNTABILITY See p47 behaviour We consider this report to be fair, balanced Risk All of our decisions are discussed within the Succession planning and understandable.
It is a re ection of how ntext of the risks involved.
Eff ective risk co Property Ecommerce we operate as a business and how the Board management is central to us achieving our Plan A 2020 has served its stakeholders.
We believe this practical approach is authentic, meaningful, will support our performance for ENGAGEMENT See p49 the long-term and should protect the trust and integrity of our values, and the M&S brand.
Maintaining strong relationships with our shareholders, both private and institutional, is crucial to achieving our aims.
We hold numerous events throughout the year to maintain an open dialogue with investors.
See Governance Section p32-77 stakeholders lies at the heart of our ethical candidates thoroughly and at the end of SHAREHOLDER RETURNS sourcing and provenance policies.
These what was an exceptionally rigorous process, Our dividend policy remains a progressive are pivotal elements in ensuring the trust we were unanimously convinced Steve was one, with dividends broadly covered our customers place in us is soundly based.
We intend to pay a final dividend of 11.9p, taking the total dividend Doing the right thing is genuinely The shape and composition of your Board to 18.7p, up 3.9% on last year.
In addition, embedded in this business.
Just as I believe has changed signi cantly over the year.
a special dividend of 4.6p will be paid at the that people should behave in the right way We now have fewer executive directors and same time as the final dividend.
towards their neighbours, so I believe that a more streamlined reporting structure.
businesses should do the right thing in their We have strong, competent leaders running LOOKING AHEAD local communities and this focus on our our Business Units and our new structure customers and communities will continue is simpler, more agile and re ects the trust People and succession planning will under Steves leadership.
Plan A and our we have in our teams to deliver.
remain one of the Boards three priorities, strong values guide how we behave.
alongside strategy and its execution, BOARD CHANGES and values.
Much of our focus will be on SUCCESSION supporting Steve and his team as they In July, John Dixon, Executive Director of implement their plan to improve our Since I became Chairman I have had General Merchandise, resigned and left Clothing & Home performance and make a consistent commitment to focus on the business to pursue career opportunities us a more pro table and valuable business our people and succession planning.
I would like to thank for our shareholders.
M&S has evolved Our people are the backbone of our John for his service over many years and signi cantly since I joined as Chairman, business and identifying talent and his many contributions to the success of and there will be further changes ahead supporting development continues the business in that time.
as we strengthen our position as a modern, to be one of the Boards key priorities.
In December, Andrew Fisher, the Chairman pro table business rooted in ful lling the At several moments during the year of Shazam, one of the worlds leading digital needs of our customers in a digital world.
our executive team succession planning businesses, joined our Board as a nonFinally, I would like to thank all our and processes were tested and proven executive director.
Andrew brings strong employees for their hard work.
This approach to succession digital, customer insight and international much time as possible with employees at has allowed us to replace and reallocate experience with him.
He has joined our all levels in our offi ces and stores all over responsibilities quickly and seamlessly, Nomination and Audit Committees, and the country.
I have always found our people reacting to both planned and unplanned I would like to extend him a warm welcome.
to be professional, positive and dedicated changes.
Steves appointment as Chief Martha Lane Fox, who has served as a nonto our customers.
Wherever they work, they Executive is an example of this in action.
executive director for nine years, stepped show huge pride in working for this unique The appointment was the culmination of down from the Board in April.
Martha business, and I would like to extend my very careful discussion and preparation, brought the perspective and energy of gratitude to every one of them.
They are with particular emphasis on both Steves an entrepreneur to the role and made what makes M&S genuinely special.
development and our top talent over a diff erence to our business well beyond a number of years.
The Board is grateful her strong digital background.
I would like to Marc for his planning, enabling the to thank her for her major contribution.
Nomination Committee to work carefully and systematically on his succession.
The Committee assessed external and internal ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
