STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 5 Chairmans statement core markets.
CSS launched its regional retiring on 27 April 2017.
We thank model halfway through 2016 and is Brendafor six years of excellent service nowresponsible for 40% of Meggitts and contribution to the Board.
In a trading experience in the fast-moving automotive environment that differs profoundly industry will help sharpen Meggitts fromthat of Meggitts original equipment operational focus.
operations, CSS is meeting the targets weset for it and improving the level of Results service we provide to our aftermarket Group revenue increased by 21% to customers.
1,992m, driven by foreign currency Through the Meggitt Production System translation and the composites MPS, we have made excellent progress acquisitions completed in late 2015. onsafety, quality and delivery, and this Organic revenue grew by 1% with 4% hasplayed no small part in our recent growth in civil aerospace and 1% in programme wins.
As the first of our military, partially offset by continued sitesenters the Bronze stage of the MPS, challenges in the Groups energy our focus turns to accelerating the markets.
Underlying operating profit financial benefits.
During 2016, a series increased by 17% to 380m and Over the past four years, Meggitt has ofpilots have demonstrated the potential underlying earnings per share by secured increased content on a new of the programme to drive meaningful 10%to34.8 pence.
generation of large civil aircraft during reductions in inventory and improvements In a year, where we have seen the aperiod of unprecedented product in productivity.
As more ofour sites enter UKpublic vote to leave the EU and a renewal by the major airframe and engine the latter stages of MPSover the coming significant change in the political manufacturers.
The value of our products years, we expect tosee margin and cash landscape in the US, Meggitt remains a that will be installed on each of these move decisively as aresult.
resilient business that is well positioned aircraft has increased between 20% and The lifeblood of Meggitt is smart for the future.
We are pleased to see the an outstanding 250%.
As we mostly supply engineering for extreme environments.
UK Governments Industrial Strategy has products as sole-source provider, we will What we are today represents the efforts committed 3.9bn of funding to aerospace be the only provider of spare parts.
of past generations of engineers.
We have had good recent With Meggitt products installed on over increasingly global approach to doing success in securing research grants 67,000 military and civil aircraft, increased business, our centralised Applied andwill continue to benefit from content on over 20 new aircraft platforms Research & Technology AR&T function is fundingas we look to develop further and the continued growth in demand for investing now for the next bid cycle, likely thetechnologies that will propel our air travel, Meggitt is well-positioned to begin in the mid to late 2020s.
Meggitts growth into the future.
forgrowth over the coming years AR&T programmes closely follow our Reflecting this confidence in the anddecades.
customers technology roadmaps and are mediumterm outlook, the Board is further validated by contributions from Winning contracts triggers significant proposing a final dividend of 10.3p per EU and UK funding institutions.
Designing and developing share 2015: 9.8p per share, taking the products is complex and painstaking work full-year dividend up 5% to 15.1p per that is highly regulated and subject to Board changes share 2015: 14.4p per share.
Manufacturing In December, Tony Wood was appointed On behalf of the Board, I would like to capability and capacity is needed to bring asan executive director and Group Chief thank all of the Groups employees for these products to market.
Tony has outstanding their significant contribution to Meggitts experience in civil aerospace and defence.
Meggitt has now passed the peak of performance over the past year.
In senior leadership positions at Rollsinvestment in research and development, Royce and Messier-Dowty, he has run with capital expenditure ramping up to aftermarket businesses, consolidated ensure that we have the capability and production across sites and introduced capacity to deliver these new programmes continuous improvement systems.
Nowthat we have passed the peak of investment in new product development, Progress on strategic initiatives Tonys appointment enables Meggitt to While we have been winning new business accelerate the pace of operational Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman and investing in new programmes from initiatives, whilst ensuring that we deliver the current cycle, we have continued to onour commitments to our customers.
invest across the Group to leverage our In April, Nancy Gioia will join the Board scale and boost customer satisfaction.
ofDirectors and will serve on the Audit, After its formal launch in 2015, our Remuneration and Nominations centralised Customer Services & Support Committees.
She offers the critical US CSS organisation has made great and manufacturing experience currently progress, growing revenues ahead of its provided by Brenda Reichelderfer, who is
