JPM Mercantile pp01 18 05 04 2016 16:47 Page 1 A message from your Chairman Please find enclosed this years Annual managing your capital for long-term growth and as such, we Report and Accounts.
encourage you to look through the current volatility and recognise that it is simply an integral part of stock market investment.
You will note that we have made some changes to the format of our Annual You have entrusted us to grow your wealth and we take that Report, and I hope that you feel that responsibility very seriously.
Our confidence in our sector focus these are helpful and that the reading and our strategy remains undimmed.
I would encourage you to of this document is clearer and more read my full statement on pages 3 to 5. enjoyable.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank you for continuing to We recognise that for many investors, support the Company.
the events of 2015 will long since have been superseded by the market volatility since the start of 2016.
It Hamish Leslie Melville has certainly been an interesting start to the year.
However, we are Features Objective Management Company and Company Secretary Long term capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and The Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the smaller companies.
Manager as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
JPMF is approved by the Financial Conduct Authority and delegates the management of the Companys Investment Policy portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM.
- To emphasise growth from medium and smaller companies.
- Long term dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
Website - To use long term gearing to increase potential returns to The Companys website, which can be found at shareholders.
The Companys gearing policy is to operate within www.
co. uk, includes useful information on the a range of 10% net cash to 20% geared.
Company, such as daily prices, factsheets and current and historic half year and annual reports.
- To invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other UK listed investment companies including investment trusts.
FCA regulation of non-mainstream pooled investments Benchmark The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares The FTSE All-Share Index excluding constituents of the FTSE 100 issued by the Company can be recommended by independent Index and investment trusts, with net dividends reinvested.
financial advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products Capital Structure and intends to do so for the foreseeable future.
At 31st January 2016 the Companys share capital comprised The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to 95,957,040 ordinary shares of 25p each.
non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in At 31st January 2016, the Company also had in issuea an investment trust.
3.85 million 4.25% perpetual debenture and a 175 million 6.125% debenture repayable on 25th February 2030.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1
