Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHAIRMANS Statement SIR JOHN SUNDERLAND Chairman 14 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CHAIRMANS Statement Trading and strategy Corporate social responsibility CSR This has been a year of good progress for Merlin Entertainments.
There are two overarching themes to Merlins CSR approach.
The LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group continued to deliver Firstly, we take our responsibility to be a Good Corporate growth although Midway Attractions saw security concerns and Citizen seriously.
There are then other specific areas where exchange rate volatility affect trading at some of our largest city we feel Merlin is uniquely placed to be a Force for Good.
Within Resort Theme Parks there was the start of what we believe is an encouraging recovery at Alton Towers.
Key to this are our employees who are proud to be part of and to support their communities, demonstrating to all of Merlins We continued to make longer term strategic progress, developing stakeholders the strength of the Companys core values.
This is more accommodation across our resorts, opening a LEGOLAND underpinned by robust governance standards and practices to park in Dubai, with another soon to come in Japan.
We also help us operate our businesses responsibly and safely.
announced our new Little Big City concept to add to the existing suite of chainable Midway brands, where our pipeline All our attractions are tasked with delivering plans to reduce for future attractions remains strong.
energy consumption and carbon emissions in our commitment to the environment.
I am pleased therefore that we again Health, safety and security exceeded our carbon reduction target.
In September the Group was fined following a prosecution brought by the UK Health and Safety Executive in connection Our partner charity, the SEA LIFE Trust, protects marine wildlife with the accident at Alton Towers in 2015.
That accident shocked through its worldwide campaigns.
In 2016, as part of our focus on marine protection, we campaigned worldwide and were proud to Merlin deeply and we have been rigorous in our response.
support President Obamas expansion of the worlds biggest marine protected area in Hawaii.
While we are never complacent in this area, I am reassured by the outcome of independent reviews we subsequently Merlins Magic Wand is our own childrens charity, delivering commissioned into our ride safety and our health and safety magical experiences around the world to children who are governance arrangements.
disadvantaged through sickness or disability.
We have now installed 31 magical spaces across four continents, ranging from We provide more details on further enhancements to our themed areas at childrens homes and hospitals to the complete approach in this most important area in our Health, Safety refurbishment of an orphanage.
We continue to arrange visits to and Security Committee report on pages 70 to 75. our attractions over 86,000 in 2016 and to take the magic to local childrens organisations with community outreach activities.
Governance and the Board Anne-Francoise Nesmes joined Merlin as Chief Financial Officer Our aspiration is to become industry leaders for guests with in August following Andrew Carrs retirement.
Our initiatives are aimed at improving finance and international experience across a number of guest information, providing employees with tools and training industries will be of great value to the Group as it grows and delivering environments that are accessible to all.
More details can be found on pages 53 to 59.
Rachel Chiang was appointed as a Non-executive Director at the start of the year.
Rachel brings relevant sector and geographical Our people experience as we continue Merlins expansion into the Asia As always it is Merlins management team and our many Pacific region.
thousands of employees around the world who have driven our results and strategic progress.
They are the foundation of I have enjoyed welcoming them to Merlin and look forward to our relations with our communities and all stakeholders.
working with them both in the coming years.
We have a diverse They have my ongoing gratitude for their contribution.
Board that has a wealth of knowledge and experience to help guide Merlin through the next phase of its growth story.
Looking forward As we enter 2017, I am confident that Merlins strategy of Dividends continued diversification and expansion, together with the The Board will be recommending to the AGM in June that we commitment of the Groups employees, stand us in good pay a final dividend of 4.9 pence per share in June.
stead as we deliver further growth.
Taken together with the interim dividend of 2.2 pence per share paid last September, this will equate to a full year dividend of 7.1 Sir John Sunderland pence per share, up 9.2% on 2015.
