Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Chairmans statement 2016 was the first full year of operations for the growthin the medium-term.
We are building a strong platform and with the addition of Serena we have annual pro-forma cash generated neworganization formed following the acquisition from operations in the year ended 30April 2016 of approximately ofTheAttachmate Group TAG.
This created a $524m per annum and free cash flows of approximately $274m, from GlobalInfrastructure Software business with revenues which we can achieve significant returns of value to our shareholders of$1,245.0m and EBITDA of $532.5m which has since and or further highly accretive acquisitions.
traded in line with our expectations of revenue and Following our integration review in 2015 we decided that the Group ahead of expectations for EBITDA.
This was achieved should operate two product portfolios, Micro Focus and SUSE, and during a yearof significant change as we began have reported the business this way since 1 May 2015.
InDecember implementation of the outputs from our integration 2015 we announced that effective from 1 February 2016 Stephen review.
In addition, we announced the acquisition of Murdoch would become Chief Executive Officer CEO of the Serena Software Inc. Serena on 22 March 2016 which Micro Focus Portfolio and Nils Brauckmann CEO of the SUSE Portfolio.
Stephen and Nils discuss the operating performance was subsequently completed on 2May 2016.
Serena oftheirrespective portfolios in their CEO reports.
wasacquired for an enterprise value of $540m having delivered $162.3m of revenue and $80.9m of Underlying Our Business Model strong and established Adjusted EBITDA in theyearended 31January 2016. technology franchises As the Linux market and Open Source business have unique It is increasingly clear that there are significant segments of the characteristics, we have a dedicated focus on the SUSE Product infrastructure software market that have matured.
This focus is essential if we are to capitalize on the growth to this is consolidation.
To be successful in this stage of a market potential of these offerings and be responsive to the Open Source bothoperational effectiveness and scale are critical.
We believe community and strong heritage of SUSE.
In 2016 we increased the thatMicro Focus is now well positioned to lead in this space.
headcount dedicated to development, customer care and sales and marketing of the SUSE Portfolio.
Following a year of significant Like the TAG acquisition, the acquisition of Serena has clear business growth we will be further increasing this investment in 2017. logic to extend Micro Focus market presence in mature infrastructure software segments: to increase the operational efficiency of the Micro Focus specializes in managing mature infrastructure software combined Group: to deliver effective product management and assets which have been delivering value to significant numbers of improve sales productivity.
It is 100% consistent with the Companys customers over long periods of time.
Our product portfolios have strategy which, as you will see in the following pages, has not had some or all of the following attributes: anysignificant changes from the plan laid out four and a half years ago.
Micro Focus sets out to deliver consistent long-term shareholder 1.
Broad based covering all industrial sectors returnsof between 15% and 20% per annum.
The board is confident that medium-term low single digit revenue growth, industry leading 2.
Significant numbers of customers margins and strong cash conversion will ensure that Micro Focus can deliver on that strategy.
These returns can be further enhanced by the 3.
Significant maintenance streams appropriate deployment of capital in value enhancing acquisitions.
Relatively high switching costs The Company has a business strategy, a financial strategy, an operating plan and an incentive strategy that all support our objective 5.
Significant market positions to achieve 15% to 20% compound annual return for shareholders.
Since IPO in 2005 until 30 April 2016 the annual compound In any IT system the customers business logic and data remain critical shareholder return over 11 years has been 26.4%.
Adjusted diluted to their competitive advantage.
The key is unlocking this competitive earnings per share have grown from 14.23 cents in 2006 to 146.70 advantage through exploitation of the latest technology innovation cents in 2016 and dividends per share have grown from 6 cents such as OpenStack, Software-defined Distributed Storage, to66.68 cents with respective compound annual growth rates mobility, big data, virtualization and cloud.
All of this needs of26.3% and 27.2% respectively.
tobe done with the appropriate security to ensure customer data, company data and intellectual property are protected at all times.
When we announced the acquisition of TAG on 15 September 2014 Typically customers would be forced into costly, disruptive and risky weset out a four phase plan see inside front cover for the change to make thispossible but with Micro Focus, customers can combination of the businesses whilst continuing to deliver take a different approachthat we characterize as bridging the old sustainable shareholder returns.
The only changes to this plan are that our detailed review concluded By enabling our customers to link their investments in established that the integration of systems supporting the new business will technology with the latest innovation, Micro Focus helps customers extend throughout the four year period and the rationalization gain incremental returns on investments they have already made oflegal entities will extend through FY17 and beyond.
and to preserve and protect their data and business logic.
The most striking example of this is that an application written in Micro Focus The acquisition of Serena does not change this plan but may slightly COBOL 39 years ago before anyone had thought of Linux, Windows, delay the return to revenue growth as we consolidate the Serena virtualization, cloud or wireless communications will work today products.
As with prior transactions we expect Serenas revenue trend inall of those environments.
Micro Focus has made this a reality.
tocontinue its historic decline until significant change has been Bycontrast, if a COBOL application had been rewritten in another implemented.
This further integration will be included in the remaining language, to execute in Java or.
NET the customer would have to two stages of the plan that will consolidate and strengthen the undertake additional incremental re-writes and incur significant combined business, with the goal of delivering modest revenue costs every time there was a major technology change.
03 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Chairmans statement continued Our acquisitions broaden the range and depth of our core Current portfolio underpinning the business model infrastructure software solutions and bring outstanding new with clear execution and investment discipline capabilities in Linux, OpenStack Cloud Infrastructure and The typical stages of a product life cycle are from new product security, the combination of which enables us to further introduction through to high growth to broad adoption and extendthephilosophy of bridging the old and thenew maturity, to decline and ultimately obsolescence.
acrossmuch moreof our customers I. T. footprint.
Product life cycle: Industry maturity stages Introduction Growth Maturity Decline Change trajectory Targeted investment Reduce rates of decline Me too models Optimize returns Opportunity identification New models When considering investment priorities, both organic and inorganic, we evaluate our options against a set of characteristics mapped to each stage of this adoption cycle enabling the categorization of our product portfolio into one of the four quadrants represented in the chart below.
Portfolio management FOUR BOX MODEL New Models Growth Drivers Products or consumption models cloud and subscription Products with consistent growth performance and market that open new opportunities could become growth drivers opportunity to build the future revenue foundations of or represent emerging use cases that we need to be able theGroup toembrace Optimize Core Products with declining revenue performance driven by the Products that have maintained broadly flat revenue market or execution where the trajectory must be corrected performance but represent the current foundations to move back to the core category or investments focused oftheGroup and must be protected and extended tooptimize long-term returns 04 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our approach to each category is summarized below: In addition to strengthening and developing our strong franchises across the product portfolio, we are uniquely positioned to help New Models: here our focus is on identifying new innovation in customers solve key challenges as they seek to be more effective, more competitive and more efficient.
Decades of technology the marketplace that is applicable to our core and growth driver innovation has opened up tremendous opportunities for companies propositions.
This is the case where new innovation is needed in almost every market but typically this has resulted in very complex toconnect or leverage existing IT or application assets to deliver IT environments.
Most organizations operate infrastructure and returns or open new opportunities.
An example of this is Silk applications which have emerged over time, often years apart, Performer Cloudburst, a cloud based implementation of our suchthat core legacy platforms sit alongside distributed systems, highly successful on premise Silk Performer product.
This which more recently have been extended further again with web, combination enables customers to execute a hybrid on premise cloud and mobile technologies.
cloud solution ensuring day-to-day operations are handled effectively on premise but offering broadly unlimited additional This is set to continue as todays business environment is capacity as and when needed to support business operational characterized by unprecedented levels of change.
Companies peaks, underpinned by the flexibility and ease of use of a needto embrace this change in a way that protects their most common solution in both cases.
In SUSE our investments prized assets their intellectual property: their business logic: inOpenStack Cloud Infrastructure and Software-defined andtheir business data.
Distributed Storage are also clear examples.
Growth Drivers and Core: this represents the majority of our Our core objective is to deliver consistent revenue and investment focus.
We look to identify critical shareholder returns of 15% to 20% over technologies that have delivered significant value for customers thelong-term and where the costs and risks of replacement or re-write are The underlying premise behind Micro Focus business strategy high and the returns from such activities are questionable.
isthat the Company should consistently and over the long-term Wedetermine how to enable these technologies for the latest IT deliver shareholder returns of at least 15% to 20% per annum.
innovations whether new operating environments such as Linux, Todeliver this objective the Company has adopted an operational OpenStack, JAVA or.
NET or new use cases such as the cloud or and financial strategy underpinned by consistent and effective mobile.
For example, Visual COBOL enables customers to take management and reward systems.
This strategy is capable of COBOL applications forward with confidence into the next phase execution over the long-term.
of IT industry innovation, specifically cloud and mobile, whilst protecting their investments in business logic and data built The Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange on 12 May upthrough prior investments.
Security is a major focus area for 2005 at a price of 130 pence and in the year ended 30 April 2006 customers as they seek to balance being open and accessible to Diluted Adjusted EPS was 14.23 cents and total dividends for the their customers with the need to protect confidential data and year of 6 cents per share were declared.
In the year ended 30 April intellectual property.
Through our suite of identity, access and 2016 Diluted Adjusted EPS is 146.70 cents and the proposed full security solutions we offer industry leading capabilities to help year dividend is 66.68 cents representing a compound annual customers find this balance.
These capabilities span multiple growth rate of 26.3% and 27.2% respectively.
portfolios and significant opportunities for leverage and crossportfolio synergies exist.
Dividends paid on our shares since the IPO to 30 April 2016 have totaled 167.64 pence 270.74 cents and in addition since January Optimize: as the I. T. landscape shifts in response to new 2012 we have made four Returns of Value totaling 215 pence per opportunities or challenges some technologies require share.
On 30 April 2016 ourshare price had increased to 1,529 pence.
repositioning or to be re-focused to identify and exploit A shareholder who invested at the time of the IPO and had reinvested remaining or new growth potential.
This requires much more the Returns of Value would have grown their investment by 1,205% granular analysis and targeted investment.
Our model forces which is a compound annual return of 26.37%.
Inevitably, some technologies eventually approach end of life as some customers replace them with new solutions.
On 28 March 2011, on the back of two profit warnings and For the remaining customers they still represent significant value.
poorperformance in the year ended 30 April 2011, the Company Ourapproach is to continue to offer flexible commercial and announced a share buy-back programme.
The closing share support models to enable customer access to the intellectual priceon 25 March 2011, the day before the announcement, was property and capabilities of these technologies for extended 308.6pence and the dividends received since IPO at that time periods, again ensuring protection of customer investment were43.56 pence.
The annual rate of return for the shareholder foraslong as possible technically and commercially.
from IPOto 25March 2011 was 18.5% per annum.
The Companys market capitalization on that date was 635.0m and by 30 April Within this overall portfolio we have some products that are 2016 this had increased to 3,496.5m.
The Company made cash growing significantly and others that are stable or in decline.
returns to shareholders during this period of 625.1m, consisting Ourbusiness model means the way we manage the portfolio ofshare buy-backs of 65.0m, ordinary dividends of 220.5m and isanalogous to a fund of funds with the objective of generating Returns of Value of 339.6m.
These cash returns represent 98.4% moderate growth over the medium-term, delivering high levels of ofthe market capitalization of the Company on 25 March 2011 profitability and strong cash generation and cash conversion ratio andthe annual compound return for shareholders from that with a balanced portfolio approach.
We will continue to focus dateto30April2016 is 38.9% per annum.
investment in growth and core products and will not dispose ofdeclining products unless we can achieve greater than the Micro Focus intends to remain a high growth company in terms discounted cash flow they would generate in our ownership.
05 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Chairmans statement continued Adjusted diluted earnings per share and dividend per share in cents c 160 146.70 140 129.43 120 97.48 100 84.87 80 70.93 66.68 56.07 53.81 60 48.40 44.00 40.32 40.00 40 31.27 31.60 23.72 23.40 21.80 16.00 14.23 20 13.00 10.00 6.00 0 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 CAGR FY2006 to FY2016 Adjusted diluted EPS 26.3% Dividend per share 27.2% Our performance in the year Operational strategy to deliver our core objective Micro Focus Group delivered revenues and Underlying Adjusted Operational excellence EBITDA of $1,245.0m and $532.5m respectively which is at the Micro Focus has set out to be the most effective company at topend of the guidance given at the beginning of the year.
managing a portfolio of mature infrastructure software assets.
Ournetdebt at 30 April 2016 was $1,078.0m and once we Thisshows in our industry leading EBITDA margins and ourstrong hadcompleted the acquisition of Serena this had increased cash conversion.
We believe that our proven ability toexecute not to$1,625.0m on a pro-forma basis.
only delivers significant amounts of cash and consequently great flexibility, but also a competitive advantage in the acquisition of We would like to thank our employees for their continued other similar assets as demonstrated this year.
dedication, commitment and hard work in delivering the full yearresults.
The aims of our portfolio focus and operational strategy are: For the year ended 30 April 2016 bonuses were paid to executive 1.
Revenue growth: management and non-commissioned staff in Micro Focus in linewith the improvement in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of the 2.
Operating leverage: and Group on a constant currency CCY basis excluding the impact ofin year acquisitions.
Staff bonuses were paid at 100% of their 3.
ontarget amount reflecting a10.0% increase in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of MicroFocus attheir budgeted exchange Our key areas of operational focus in order to deliver single digit ratesand this applied alsoto executive management who are revenue growth to achieve our core objective are Financial Discipline capped at 100%.
Non-commissioned staff fully aligned with in M&A, GTM including indirect channels and Product Development.
SUSEwere targeted 50% on improvement in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of the Group and 50% on delivery of Annual Contract Financial discipline, mergers and acquisitions M&A Value ACV growth targets in SUSE.
Their bonus payment Micro Focus has a strong financial discipline around the uses of cash.
was126% of their on target amount, reflecting stronger than TheCompany has a base case model that estimates the returns to targeted achievement in the ACV component.
The amount shareholders from organic execution and the return of excess cash.
This chargedto the consolidated statement of comprehensive income gives a sound basis on which to evaluate M&A where any acquisition inrespect of the Corporate Bonus plan in the actual results for contemplated would need to generate a risk adjusted return greater than theyear ended 30April 2016 was $45.6m.
Successful execution of M&A has been instrumental in achieving an annual compound return of 26.4% since IPO compared to a base case target of 15% to 20%.
The TAG and Serena acquisitions demonstrate this strong discipline and the returns that are achievable.
06 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Industry and market dynamics mean that there are significant At the time of the TAG acquisition shareholder approval was numbers of potential assets that could fit with our business model.
obtained for an Additional Share Grant ASG of up to 5,412,240 These are either: ordinary shares, representing a maximum of 2.5% of the Enlarged Groups share capital at announcement which could be awarded to 1.
Bolt-on transactions like those completed in FY13 and FY14: up to 15 senior managers in the 18 months following completion.
The performance period expires on 1 November 2017 and vesting is 2.
Significant transactions such as Serena: or dependent upon shareholder return of between 50% and 100% over the performance period, with straight-line vesting of the ASG 3.
Transformational deals such as the acquisition of TAG.
between 50% and 100% of shareholder return.
As at 30 April 2016 ASGs are outstanding over only 3,262,420 ordinary shares granted Each year the world of IT gets another year older and we should to seven senior managers representing 1.4% ofthe voting rights of remember that IT is still a relatively young industry.
Whilst the vast the Company at 30 April 2016.
As it is morethan 18 months since the majority of companies will chose to focus on the new and exciting: completion of the acquisition, nofurther ASGswill be made.
we believe that there will be an increasing opportunity to help clientsderive value from their existing and often highly complex The ASG was essential to the delivery of value and has proven to ITinvestments.
bea very effective incentive from a shareholder perspective costing far less than schemes operated by other companies.
Since the completion of the TAG acquisition the Company continues to receive significant numbers of approaches from owners of companies As we look to the consolidation of the market the Company will who would be interested in becoming part of the larger Group.
beat a disadvantage to US listed companies and private equity firmswhen negotiating acquisitions if it is not free to negotiate GTM and Product Development are covered in the CEO reports.
appropriate management compensation with targets.
To mitigate this risk, the board will be seeking shareholder approval to use theASG mechanism again if appropriate.
Linkage of management incentive to shareholderreturns Key performance indicators to check that we are on track are Micro Focus has deployed a simple model to link management Underlying Adjusted EBITDA absolute amount and growth incentives to the delivery of shareholder returns.
This model percentage, cash conversion absolute amount and conversion hasworked successfully in motivating management to deliver percentage and earnings per share.
exceptional returns to shareholders and is well understood andsupported by our investment manager population.
Delivering value to shareholders The board has adopted a very clear plan of value creation.
The annual cash bonus applies to all members of staff in MicroFocus excluding those on sales incentives.
If the Companys Our priority is to improve the performance of the business in order Underlying Adjusted EBITDA is no greater than the prior years to maximize the opportunity to generate modest revenue growth CCYcomparative at budgeted exchange rates there is no bonus.
At the same time we have created flexibility The bonus for executive directors and executive committee toallow value creation to shareholders through cash distributions members is maximized on achieving 10% growth over the oracquisitions as appropriate.
We will do nothing that will constrain prioryear CCY Underlying Adjusted EBITDA with a straight line our ability to achieve organic growth and we are currently investing betweenthe two points and for other staff there is no maximum.
significant amounts on activities designed to enhance growth.
The staff neither benefit nor lose from elements outside of their control suchas exchange rates with the board taking a view that The TAG transaction was transformational in terms of the size of these items balance out over the business cycle.
In year acquisitions theGroup from an operating point of view.
It involves the type of are not included for bonus purposes.
As the Serena acquisition transformation that many companies would have said that they wasannounced in FY16 and completed on the first business needed to go private to achieve out of the public eye.
The board dayofFY17it will be included in the FY17 bonus calculation and management of Micro Focus believe that it is quite possible  added into the base for todo this on the public market and provide the increase in value measurementpurposes.
The board sees no value in bonuses being based on soft or The transaction was also transformational in terms of market non-financial measures as evidence would suggest that these capitalization.
The day before the announcement of the transaction tendto serve to increase bonuses to levels not merited by financial Micro Focus had a market capitalization of 1,178.6m which had performance.
Such targets are best achieved by executives managing increased to 2,296.0m by the date of completion.
This increased and having appropriate management and control systems in place.
scale drew the attention of a new set of public company institutional investors and also meant that some existing institutional investors The normal stock plan starts to vest at EPS annual growth over the would be unable to hold their investments as we had become too big.
performance period of RPI plus 3%, with maximum vesting at RPI We also knew that Wizard Parent LLC Wizard, the consortium plus 9%.
With RPI per annum over the three years of approximately offour private equity companies that owned TAG prior to the 2.15% and dividends of approximately 3% this means that full MicroFocus acquisition and who owned 40% of the Enlarged vesting is aligned to the overall objective of 15% to 20% returns.
Group, were unlikely to be long-term holders of those shares duetothe underlying nature of their investors.
07 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Executive Chairmans statement continued Working with our brokers, Numis Securities, we set about establishing The dividend will be paid in Sterling equivalent to 37.40 pence per a significant increase in our investor relations activities in order to share, based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.33, the rate applicable address the needs of the newly interested public company investors on 13 July 2016, the date on which the board resolved to propose the and the potential perceived overhang from the Wizard shareholding.
The dividend will be paid on 7 October 2016 to shareholders In July 2015 we announced that following the completion of the on the register at 2September 2016. integration review and given the strong outlook for the Company the independent board released Wizard from its restriction on trading In line with our target net debt to Facility EBITDA multiple of 2.5 during the 365 day period following completion of the transaction.
times and consistent with our shareholder return policy it is the Subsequent to that release Wizard has placed the vast majority of its boards current intention, absent a significant acquisition, share holding through four placings with institutional investors.
In May 2016, buy-back opportunity or unforeseen circumstances, to make a Wizards remaining holding of 2.6% of the Company has been further Return of Value to shareholders in calendar year 2017. distributed to a subset of the underlying investors such that Wizardis no longer on our share register.
Board changes and succession planning Since April 2011 I had held the roles of both Chairman and Chief Separate from the Wizard placings the Company raised additional Executive.
In December we announced that effective from 1 February funding of $222.7m net of expenses through a 5% share placing 2016, I would be Executive Chairman and that Stephen Murdoch inMarch 2016 to partially fundthe acquisition of Serena.
andNils Brauckmann would become CEO of Micro Focus and CEOofSUSE respectively.
Following this activity 30% of the Companys shares are now held in North America.
During the year there were a number of other board changes.
The Companys market capitalization at 30 April 2016 was 3,496.5m.
At the AGM in September 2015, Tom Skelton stepped down from The original Micro Focus shareholders prior to the announcement of the board after serving as a non-executive director for nine years.
the TAG transaction who now own 56.8% of the Company have We would like to thank Tom for his contribution tothe success of seen their total investment increase from 1,178.6m to 1,986.0m Micro Focus.
Karen Geary who joined the board asa non-executive overa period of 19 months and during that period have received in January 2015 has now become Group HR Director and a member aReturnof Value of 83.9m and ordinary dividends of 55.0m.
of the senior management team.
Prescott Ashe and David Golob stepped down from the board on 1 February 2016 inanticipation The board is targeting a net debt to Facility EBITDA multiple of ofWizards shareholding reducing below 15%.
This is a modest level of gearing for a company with the cash generating qualities of Micro Focus.
We Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann joined the board on areconfident that this level of debt would not reduce our ability 1February 2016 as CEOs of Micro Focus and SUSE respectively, todeliver growth, invest in products and or make appropriate whilst on thesame day Steve Schuckenbrock joined as an acquisitions.
As the integration of the businesses continues the independent non-executive director.
boardwill keep the appropriate level of debt under review.
Finally, we were delighted to welcome Amanda Brown to the In order to complete the acquisition of Serena the Company extended boardon 1 July 2016 as a non-executive director.
its revolving credit facility from $225.0m to $375.0m on 2 May 2016 and raised money from shareholders for the first time since the IPO We welcome the new members of our board and biographical inMay 2005 when it placed 10.9m shares with institutional investors details of all board members are available on pages 46 and 47. raising $222.7m net of expenses in March 2016.
Outlook At 30 April 2016 we had net debt of $1,078.0m which was prior During FY17, in accordance with our four phase plan, we intend to tothe completion of the Serena acquisition.
Once the transaction stabilize revenues around a solid core from which we aim to grow in completed the pro-forma net debt was $1,625.0m representing a FY18.
As a result we anticipate revenues in FY17 being in the range pro-forma net debt to pro-forma Facility EBITDA of 2.51 times.
of minus 2% to 0% on FY16 on a CCY basis, pro-forma for the acquisition of Serena as set out in the Financial review section on On completion of the TAG acquisition the board adopted a progressive page 9. dividend policy whilst the net debt to Facility EBITDA was above 2.5times.
Absent a significant acquisition, share buy-back opportunity Having delivered 11 years of approximately 26.4% compound returns or unforeseen circumstances the net debt to Facility EBITDA multiple to investors we believe we have a strong operational and financial will be below 2.5 times at the end of April 2017 and so the board is model that can continue to scale and provide excellent returns to proposing an increase in the dividend payout such that it is two times ourshareholders.
covered by the adjusted earnings of the Group.
This policy will take effect from the proposed final dividend of 49.74 cents 2015: 33.00 cents per share, which represents a 50.7% increase on last years finaldividend and gives a total proposed dividend for the year of 66.68cents per share 2015: 48.40 cents, an increase of 37.8%.
Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman 13 July 2016 08
