Chairmans Statement Continuing strong performance Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Our three leading brands give us significant strength, breadth and diversity, generating growth and increasing the predictability of the business.
All of our brands are consistent in their ambition to help every household make the most of their money.
New Chief Executive Officer Mark Lewis joins the Group on 13 March 2017 and, following a period of handover, will become Chief Executive Officer on 10 April 2017.
Our results Mark has a successful track record of leading fast 2016 was another year of growth with the Groups growing digital businesses with strong customer revenue increasing by 12% from 281.7m to satisfaction, trust and values.
His experience and 316.4m and adjusted operating profit increasing values are aligned with our goal of helping every household make the most of their money.
Growth was particularly strong in Peter Plumb will step down from the Board on MoneySuperMarkets Insurance and Home conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 4 Services channels.
Peter was first appointed to the Board in January 2009 and became Chief Executive was 20% ahead of last year with growth driven by credit cards, current accounts and energy, which Officer in February 2009.
Since then his benefitted from attractive products and the contribution has been significant, with a focus on success of the collective switches and Cheap improving our technology and product offering to Energy Club.
TravelSupermarkets revenue fell by ensure we continue to help customers meet their financial needs.
He was instrumental in the 9% for the full year although it returned to revenue growth in the final quarter of 2016. acquisition of MoneySavingExpert in 2012 and integrating it into the Group.
I would like to thank We continue to maintain a strong financial position him for his commitment and dedication to the with good cash generation.
Cash generated from Groups vision to help every household make the most of their money and to recognise the operations during the year was 106.0m.
After paying dividends, the Group ended the year with shareholder value which the Group has created net cash of 44.6m.
under his leadership over the last eight years.
2 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Adjusted operating profit m Total dividend per share p 107.8m 9.85p 8% 8% important for the growing number of customers Business model The Board who access our services using smartphones.
This 2016 has again demonstrated the value of The composition of the Board continues to be investment will help us to support additional Moneysupermarket Groups business proposition.
appropriate to the Groups requirements with the growth from the business and will further The Group has delivered its seventh year of right diversity of experience and technical differentiate our brands from those of our revenue and earnings growth and has distributed expertise to support the strategic and operational competitors.
In parallel, we continued to invest nearly 7 million products during the year to direction of the Group.
significantly in our marketing strategy, including customers across a broad range of financial and the strengthening of our digital marketing household services.
More and more customers During 2016, following Peter Plumbs indication capability and the continuation of our Youre So wish to engage digitally with their service providers that he intended to step down as a Director, we MoneySuperMarket advertising campaign, both of across a wide range of devices and want to test conducted an extensive search for a new Chief which helped to attract visitors to the Groups the value of the services being provided to them Executive.
Mark Lewis will join the Board on 13 websites.
by comparing prices on an increasing range of March and will become Chief Executive Officer on services.
The continuing structural shift in 10 April 2017.
Peter Plumb will step down as a While no acquisitions were made in 2016, the consumers engagement from offline to online Director on conclusion of the 2017 Annual Group continues to review acquisition and from desktop to mobile, and their continuing General Meeting.
In addition, Rob Rowley, our opportunities against a disciplined set of demand for a better customer experience and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will risk and return appetite metrics.
better execution from providers of these services step down as a Director on conclusion of the 2017 all support the growth aspirations of Annual General Meeting.
Rob is our longestIn recent years, the price comparison industry has Moneysupermarket Groups key brands.
serving Director, having joined the Board shortly attracted greater scrutiny from our regulators, in after the flotation in 2007 and chaired the Audit part due to the growing importance of the sector Dividend and share repurchase Committee until the 2016 Annual General to consumers looking to make informed decisions In line with our progressive dividend policy, the Meeting.
I would like to thank Rob for his about their choice of service providers.
In Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.1p significant contribution to the Board over this time particular, the Competition and Markets Authority per share 2015: 6.6p representing an increase of and his wise counsel will be missed.
launched a review of digital comparison tools 8% on the final dividend in 2015.
If approved by ranging from price comparison websites to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Sally James will succeed Rob Rowley as Senior smartphone apps in September 2016.
During Meeting, this will bring the total dividend for the Independent Director.
Following the publication of 2016 we have continued to engage on a proactive year to 9.85p 2015: 9.15p per ordinary share, an the Hampton-Alexander Review, we have now basis with key regulators and we share the vision increase of 8% year over year, and will be paid on revised our diversity policy and are aiming for a of regulators to make products more accessible 12 May 2017 to all shareholders on the register minimum of 33% of women on the Board by and understandable to consumers.
We will continue to focus on broadening and strengthening the diversity of the Board and Governance Details of our dividend policy can be found on Group in the years to come.
The identification and management of risk has page 25. continued to be a focus for us and during the year Our employees we oversaw the introduction of a series of Group Whilst the Board continues to consider dividends Our results this year once again reflect the Risk Policies which underpin the Groups Risk to be the primary method of returning capital to dedication and quality of all our employees across Appetite Framework and define the Groups key shareholders, it will also undertake share the Group, operating now out of three locations in risks and activities to mitigate those risks.
We also repurchases when advantageous.
In line with this London, Ewloe and Manchester.
We rely on their carried out a detailed assessment of the risks policy, we are announcing our intention to initiate skills, experience, competence and hard work to associated with change management and our a share repurchase programme for up to 40 drive our business forward.
Most importantly, software development life-cycle and arranged for million to return surplus capital to shareholders, their passion for our mission and their external consultants to conduct a review of our which will be conducted during 2017. commitment to delivering the best for our current risk management framework and control customers are key assets for the Group and environment.
Further information on risk Strategic progress critical to its future success.
On behalf of the management and the key risk focus areas during Our three leading brands give us significant Board, I would like to thank all of our employees the year are set out on pages 27 to 31. strength, breadth and diversity, generating growth for their significant contribution to the and increasing the predictability of the business.
During the year we conducted formal competitive All of our brands are consistent in their ambition tenders for audit and tax services.
We have also to help every household make the most of their Outlook continued to enhance our approach to corporate money.
The new year has begun positively in our governance, introducing new policies and Insurance and core Money business and we procedures to meet requirements under the EU During the year, we have continued with our remain confident about our prospects in 2017.
Market Abuse Regulation and building on areas significant capital investment programme which We will continue to improve our data capabilities for improvement identified during our 2015 Board commenced in 2014 to improve our technology, and customer journeys enabling customers to evaluation.
More information on our approach to our data capabilities and our customer journeys.
find it easier to use our websites, benefit from governance is set out in my Introduction to The investment allows for greater flexibility and greater personalisation and save more money.
Governance, the Corporate Governance Report scalability across our different channels and any Our brands give us strength, breadth and diversity and the reports of each of the Committees on future channels.
The technology platform creates and are consistent in their ambition to help every pages 36 to 73.
These reports describe how we a base for launching innovative new products household make the most of their money, have applied the main principles of the 2014 which, in 2016, included MoneySuperMarkets enabling us to continue to build our business for edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code mobile app and MoneySavingExperts Credit Club.
the Code during 2016 and reports upon our Customers will find it easier to use our websites compliance with the Codes provisions.
and will benefit from greater personalisation of Bruce Carnegie-Brown our services and improved customer journeys on Chairman mobile and tablet devices, which is especially 27 February 2017 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 3
