Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 16 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement, has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans Statement In March 2015 the Board announced a change to the Buybacks, Treasury and Discount management team responsible for Monks, with a switch to Baillie We monitor the level of discount and have authorised the Giffords Global Alpha team led by Charles Plowden.
The repurchase of shares when deemed appropriate.
In future, any Managers describe their investment approach on pages 3 to 5 of shares bought back are likely to be held in Treasury rather than this report.
In short, they focus their attention on companies cancelled automatically, as has been the case historically.
At this expected to grow at an above average rate over periods of 5 years Annual General Meeting the authority of shareholders is years or more and build a diversified portfolio of the best ideas being sought to enable the Company to re-sell shares held in drawn from across Baillie Giffords 96 investment professionals.
Treasury at a premium to the prevailing net asset value per share They have followed and refined this approach since 2005 and further details are set out in the Directors Report on page 19. have established a strong performance record.
We believe this is This means that any issuance would increase the net asset value a natural fit with our investment policy and objective which per share for existing shareholders.
remains long-term capital growth from global equities.
Outlook and Portfolio Following the significant reorganisation of the portfolio which took Our portfolio is constructed on a bottom-up basis, with the place in April 2015 there have been relatively modest further strength of each individual investment case determining whether changes to the equity portfolio, which is discussed more fully in any stock should be held and in what size.
Diversification is the Managers Report.
The main change has been to the Balance across growth types as highlighted on pages 6 and 7 and the Sheet with the Managers increasing the Companys exposure to allocation to industries and regions is a function of where the equities through the use of borrowings and the sale of the US portfolio managers identify the most attractive investment ideas.
Some gearing was invested opportunistically The resulting portfolio consists of a wide range of stocks from all across the existing portfolio of stocks following the markets sharp declines in September 2015 and again in January 2016, at which around the world.
Indeed, the Managers currently feel the choice of investments which meet their growth criteria is as wide as it time the Company repaid its 15.5bn loan and replaced it with a five year multi-currency revolving credit facility, drawing has been at any point over the last decade.
The diversity of opportunities is healthy and is enhanced by rapid technological US$67.5m.
As at the financial year end, the Companys equity gearing stood at 6.2% compared to nil a year ago, with effective progress across a range of industries.
With over 40% of the portfolio considered to be economically agnostic, it has a broad gearing including bonds at 6.9%.
balance which ought to serve shareholders well over time and in The Managers have been active in presenting the new approach most scenarios.
Following the sale of the US Treasury bond in to existing shareholders and to prospective investors in the October 2015, listed equities now account for over 97% of total Company.
No shares were bought back during the year, for the assets.
Further information on the portfolio in various forms is first time since 2004, and the discount at fair value ended the shown on pages 6 to 11. financial year modestly higher at 9.5% compared to 8.6% at the prior year end.
It is too early to judge the success of this new The Board approach, which is about long-term investment, but we are Carol Ferguson will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General encouraged by the quality of our portfolio and we are optimistic Meeting.
We are grateful for her very considerable contribution to about its prospects.
Monks over the last thirteen years.
Performance AGM In the year to 30 April 2016 the net asset value total return capital I would encourage shareholders to attend the Annual General and income, with borrowings at fair value, was minus 0.4% and Meeting, which will be held on 3 August 2016 at 11.00am at the the total return for the FTSE World Index was a positive 0.5%.
Institute of Directors see map on page 49.
Our Managers will The share price total return was minus 1.3% after the slight give a short presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask widening in the discount.
For a discussion of performance please questions and to meet them and the Directors informally.
see the Managers Report on pages 4 and 5.
Earnings and Dividend James Ferguson As flagged at the interim stage, earnings per share for the financial 15 June 2016 year, 2.31p, were notably lower than the 4.74p of the previous year, a decrease of 51%.
We are recommending a final dividend of 1p, the minimum required to maintain investment trust status.
Together with the interim 0.5p already paid, this makes the total dividend for the year 1.5p, a decrease of 62% from the 3.95p paid last year.
Future dividends will be paid by way of a single final payment, reflecting our priority which is capital growth.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
