Strategic Report Chairmans Statement which pay dividends in local currencies that are then translated into Sterling upon receipt.
The Companys revenue streams are therefore highly susceptible to the strength or weakness of Sterling.
The Board and the Manager conducted a study during the year to consider the merits of hedging expected annual revenues arising from the portfolio.
The analysis showed that these hedging strategies would add complexity and for certain currencies be very expensive to implement, and therefore concluded that they would be unattractive to deploy.
Kevin Carter Chairman The inevitable consequence of this is that the annual revenue from the portfolio, when translated into Sterling, Performance will experience volatility caused by Sterlings movements I am pleased to report that, during the year to 31 against the currencies of the underlying assets of the December 2016, the Companys net asset value NAV Company.
These effects can be large as evidenced by the posted a total return i. e. with net income reinvested of favourable impact of Sterlings decline in 2016.
In other 40.3%, a very strong performance when compared with years the effect may be in the opposite direction if Sterling the total return of 25.8% from the Companys benchmark generally appreciates.
The Board intends to maintain a 40% FTSE World UK Index and 60% FTSE World ex UK progressive dividend policy given the Companys Index.
Over the period, the share price posted a total investment objective.
This means that in some years return of 50.5%, reflecting the move from a discount to a revenue will be added to reserves, while in others revenue premium to NAV.
The most significant influence on the may be taken from reserves to supplement earned revenue NAV outperformance of the benchmark was the 15% for that year, to pay the annual dividend.
Shareholders depreciation in the value of trade weighted Sterling over should not be surprised or concerned by either outcome as the year.
The proximate cause of this was the result of the over time the Company will aim to pay out what the European Referendum in the UK on 23 June 2016, in the underlying portfolio earns.
immediate aftermath of which, for example, Sterling depreciated from US $1.49 to US $1.32, a decline of 11%.
Management of Premium and Discount At the Annual General Meeting held in April 2016, The Managers Review on page 14 gives further details of shareholders renewed the annual authorities to issue up to the performance outturn, including an attribution analysis 10% of the Companys issued share capital for cash at a which shows the factors affecting NAV performance.
premium and to buy back up to 14.99% of the issued After a difficult performance period in the prior three share capital at a discount.
During the year, we purchased years, the continuing focus on geographical diversification in the market 1,221,463 Ordinary shares at a discount to and investment in companies with strong business NAV for holding in Treasury and we issued 155,625 shares franchises and shareholder friendly managements was from Treasury at a premium to NAV.
The Board will be rewarded in the period.
seeking approval from shareholders to renew both authorities in 2017.
As in previous years, both new shares Dividends and Dividend Policy and shares from Treasury will only be issued at a premium Three interim dividends of 10.5p per share 2015: three to NAV and shares will only be bought back at a discount interims of 10.5p have been declared during the year.
Resolutions to this effect will be proposed at the Your Board is now recommending a final dividend of 16.0p Annual General Meeting and the Directors strongly 2015: 15.0p which, subject to the approval of encourage shareholders to support these proposals.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 16 May 2017 to shareholders on the register on 7 April During the year the Ordinary shares have traded at an 2017.
If approved, the total Ordinary dividends for the average premium to exclusive of income NAV of 0.4%.
year will amount to 47.5p, an increase of 2.2% from last The Board continues to believe that it is appropriate to year 2015: 46.5p.
After accounting for the payment of seek to address temporary imbalances of supply and the final dividend, the surplus revenue of approximately demand for the Company's shares which might otherwise 4.85 million will be transferred to the Companys brought result in a recurring material discount or premium.
to existing shareholder permissions given at the last AGM and prevailing market conditions over time, the Board As I have alluded to in previous years, the Companys intends to continue to buy back shares and issue new revenue is substantially derived from overseas companies, shares or sell shares from Treasury if shares trade at a 4 Annual Report 2016 persistent significant discount to NAV excluding income Directorate or premium to NAV including income.
The Board believes I would like to reiterate the Boards sincere thanks to Lady that this process is in all shareholders interests as it seeks Balfour of Burleigh, CBE, following her retirement at the to reduce volatility in the premium or discount to AGM held in April 2016.
Mrs Alexandra Mackesy joined underlying NAV whilst also making a small positive the Board on 1 May 2016 and we are already benefitting contribution to the NAV.
At the time of writing, the from her extensive experience.
Alexandra is a former exclusive of income NAV per share was 1190.8p and the investment equity research analyst by background and, share price was 1180.0p equating to a discount of 0.9% having spent the majority of her executive career in Asia, per Ordinary share.
she brings significant global perspective to the Board.
Gearing Aberdeen At the year end, total borrowings amounted to 185 The Board notes the recent announcement of the million, representing net gearing calculated by dividing proposed recommended merger between the Company's the total assets less cash by shareholders funds of 12.5% Manager, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, and Standard 2015: 17.4% all of which is now drawn in Sterling.
It is still early days in this transaction which is May 2016, the Company agreed a new 15 million loan subject to shareholders' and regulatory approvals.
"The facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc ""RBS"" which Board has sought and obtained assurances that the was drawn in full on 16 May 2016 and fixed for three existing investment management and client servicing team years at an all-in rate of 1.467%."
The new facility was from Aberdeen will remain in place and focussed on the used to replace a maturing 15 million loan with RBS.
At Company's affairs, and we will be vigilant to ensure this the same time, the Company also repaid from its cash remains the case.
balances the YEN 1.6 billion loan with ING Bank N. V. The Company also has a loan totalling 60 million that is due Outlook to mature in May 2017 and the Directors are in the It is seldom relevant to focus too intensively on politics process of reviewing options for the replacement of this when considering the global investment outlook, but the facility outcomes of the Referendum on 23 June in the UK and the Presidential Election on 8 November in the United States Annual General Meeting carry serious ramifications that cannot be ignored.
Whilst This years Annual General Meeting will be held in it is premature to draw firm conclusions about the likely Glasgow on 25 April 2017 at 12.30 p. m. at the Glasgow consequences, we do know that additional uncertainty will Royal Concert Hall, 2 Sauchiehall Street, Glasgow G2 3NY.
History teaches us how much financial markets As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation from the dislike uncertainty.
There is an unquantifiable threat to Manager and an opportunity to meet the Directors and global trade and currency stability, and a potential change Manager over lunch.
I should be grateful if you would in the rules of free-market economics is unlikely to sit confirm your attendance by completing the separate comfortably with capital markets.
notice that will accompany the Annual Report, and returning it together with an indication of any particular This environment is likely to produce abnormal shifts in questions.
I hope to see as many shareholders as possible sentiment in markets as investors gather on one or other at the AGM in Glasgow.
side of the perceived merits of being exposed to risky assets.
This will produce opportunities for patient Final Conversion of B Ordinary Shares investors who remain focused on holding a broadly Following receipt of approval from shareholders at the diversified portfolio of companies with robust business general meetings held in April 2016, all remaining B models, strong market positions and solid financial Ordinary shares in issue on 30 June 2016 were converted disciplines.
The Board and the Manager intend to continue into Ordinary shares with effect from 1 July 2016 and with such an approach as the means of delivering the there was a bonus issue of one new Ordinary share for Companys investment objective over time.
Even so, 2017 every 100 B Ordinary shares held.
The final conversion is likely to provide a stern test for financial markets and and bonus issue resulted in the issue of 948,124 new the delivery of the Companys investment objective.
The Board believes that the Companys capital structure is now simpler and more Kevin Carter straightforward for both existing and potential Chairman shareholders, in addition to which there will also be future 10 March 2017 cost savings achieved from the exercise.
