Strategic Report Chairmans letter A clear, constant strategy presented by the income it would generate as representing the best value for shareholders.
Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman Dividend It is because of the continued strength of our performance, especially with free cash flow again beating our target, and ourpositive outlook, that the Board has recommended a 10% increase in the final dividend, bringing the full year dividend to 12.28pence.
Subject to approval by shareholders, this will be paid on 19May2017 to shareholders on the register on 28 April 2017.
Board Matthew Ashley will be moving to become the President and Chief Executive officer of our North American division, following David Dukes long-planned retirement.
I am delighted that we are able to draw on existing senior management and enhance Matthews experience within National Express.
Equally, it is very pleasing that David has agreed to remain as a senior counsel to Matthew, retaining his experience and nationwide connections in an advisory capacity.
Matthew will move to North America Dear fellow Shareholder after the AGM in May, and take over fully from David in September.
Matthew will remain a member of the PLC Board.
Chattanooga tragedy The tragedy in Chattanooga, Tennessee in November shocked I am pleased to welcome Chris Davies, who will replace and saddened us all.
The thoughts of everyone at National Matthew as Group Finance Director.
Chris will join National Express remain with the families and friends of those six Express in early May and join the Board after the 2017 AGM.
children who so tragically lost their lives at such a young age, Chris joins usfrom Inchcape plc, where he has been Group and the others who were injured.
Financial Controller and Treasurer since 2013, and brings significant international financial experience.
The Executives response was swift and comprehensive.
DeanFinch was in Chattanooga within 20 hours of hearing I look forward to continuing to work with Matthew and welcome ofthe accident, and met by senior members of the North Chris to National Express.
I should also like to again thank David American divisions management team.
He provided a detailed Duke and also our Managing Director, Rail, Andrew Chivers, report to the Board within 48 hours, and this and the ongoing who retired at the end of 2016 after 16 years with us for their response has been discussed extensively at both the Safety & significant contributions to National Express and wish them all Environment Committee and the full Board.
The Board is the best for the future.
satisfied with the speed and depth of managements response and we will learn any necessary lessons and implement any Sir John Armitt CBE appropriate changes that the ongoing investigations identify.
Chairman 23 February 2017 Business performance While this tragic accident will live long in our memory, I am pleased that in 2016 the Groups performance has again been Governance highlights very strong.
With revenue, profit and free cash flow all growing Strong governance is a foundation stone for a healthy again, I believe we are seeing the benefits of the consistent corporate culture of values, attitudes and behaviours delivery of and rigorous focus on our strategy.
demonstrated by a company, not only within its operations but also in its relations with its stakeholders It is very encouraging that we continue to combine both organic and the wider community and environment affected by growth with secure significant acquisitions that deliver strong a companys conduct returns.
I believe we have developed a particular strength across The way we live and breathe our culture can be seen the Group in identifying new acquisition targets and integrating by how our Values are becoming increasingly them to deliver excellent services and efficiencies, especially embedded across our businesses and how they through synergies.
underpin our business model and strategy of deliveringlong-term shareholder value We have also recently completed the sale of c2c to Trenitalia.
The Board considered this sale very carefully and judged both i Read more p58 the offer from Trenitalia and the new investment opportunities 4 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016
