CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder, It is my pleasure to present to you the Annual Report of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Performance 2016 was a volatile year for global markets as investors digested the United Kingdoms decision to leave the European Union Brexit and the surprise election of Donald Trump as the 45th President of the United States.
United States and European senior secured floating rate loans performed well during the year as fears over increasing default rates failed to materialise and favourable economic indicators led the Federal Reserve to increase rates in December 2016 for only the second time in a decade.
The Board remains pleased with the performance of the Company and the progress made by the Investment Manager.
During the year the Companys NAV total return NAV plus dividends was 8.17% and 8.41% for the Sterling Ordinary Shares and U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares, respectively.
During the same period the Companys share price total return was 5.6% per Sterling Ordinary Share and 6.9% per U. S. Dollar Ordinary Share, respectively reflecting a narrowing of the Companys discount from 2.63% per Sterling Ordinary Share and 2.66% per U. S. Dollar Share at the start of the year to 0.99% per Sterling Ordinary Share and 0.06% per U. S. Dollar Share.
As at the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report the Companys Sterling Ordinary Shares and U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares trade at a premium of 0.04% and 2.75% respectively.
Discount Premium Management During the year the Companys discount premium ranged between -8.24% and 0.22% per Sterling Ordinary Share and -9.37% and 0.90% per U. S. Dollar Share.
For periods in the year, both share classes traded at a discount wider than the Boards previously stated target of 3% in normal market conditions.
Throughout these periods the Board continued to address temporary imbalances between supply and demand in the Companys shares by proactively repurchasing shares.
In the year to 31 December 2016, the Company repurchased 190.7 million Sterling Ordinary Shares at a total cost of 171.5m and 4.0 million U. S. Dollar Shares at a total cost of $3.7m representing 15.9% and 7.7% of the share capital less shares held in treasury at the start of the year, respectively.
The Company has not repurchased any shares from 21 November and up to the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report.
Your Board will remain vigilant in its approach to discount and premium management on behalf of shareholders and reaffirms its belief that it is undesirable for the Companys shares to trade at much wider than a 3% discount in normal market conditions.
Nor does the Board believe it is desirable for the Companys shares to trade on a wider than 3% premium for a sustained period of time.
Dividend As at 31 December 2016, the annualised dividend based on the previous four quarterly dividends declared was 4.18% for the Sterling Ordinary Shares and 4.12% for the U. S. Dollar Ordinary.
As at the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report, the Companys current dividend yield is 4.15% and 4.03% per Sterling Ordinary Share and U. S. Dollar Share respectively calculated as the last four quarterly dividends declared in the period up to 31 December 2016 expressed as a percentage of the share price.
This reduction is primarily a result of the fourth quarter 2016 dividend which was paid on 17 February 2017 falling from 0.0109p to 0.0085 per Sterling Ordinary Share and $0.0110 to $0.0086 per U. S. Dollar Share when compared against the third quarter 2016 dividend.
This reduction was primarily driven by a high volume of repricing transactions by loan issuers, particularly in the second half of the year.
Your Board believes this dividend yield continues to represent attractive value on both an absolute and a risk-adjusted basis given the current low interest rate environment and taking account of the prudent investment approach taken by the Investment Manager.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 9 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Portfolio Construction The Portfolio remains fully invested and continues to take advantage of global opportunities.
As of 31 December 2016, 92.99% of the Company was invested in U. S. Dollar denominated assets, with 5.81% invested in Euro denominated assets and 1.20% in Sterling denominated assets all excluding cash.
These allocations reflect the investment opportunities available in the two markets with the United States, as measured by the S&P LSTA Leveraged Loan Index, being $880bn as at the end of 2016 versus 113bn for the European market S&P European Leveraged Loan Index.
These geographical allocation levels have been relatively constant over the last 12 months reflecting both the market sizes and relative value between the two geographies.
During 2016 the Investment Manager kept the Portfolios bond allocation well below the 20 per cent.
of NAV permitted, being below 5.0 per cent.
at each quarter end and closing December 2016 at 3.48%.
The majority of the allocations were floating rate securities and only 1.57% of the Portfolio was fixed rate as the Investment Manager remained focused on keeping duration low and limiting potential areas of volatility.
Additionally, allocations to higher rated assets continued with BB and above loans accounting for 51.69% of the NAV at the end of December 2016, up from 48.18% at the end of 2015.
The Investment Manager has constructed a diversified Portfolio of investments as at 31 December 2016, consisting of 301 investments across 234 issuers and 30 different sectors.
The Company's Sterling Ordinary Share class hedges all U. S. Dollar and Euro exposure back to Pound Sterling.
Continuation Vote In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, on 5 April 2017 the Company held an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM to consider the Companys continuation as a closed-ended investment company.
I am pleased to report that shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of the Companys continuation at this meeting.
At the same EGM shareholders approved an amendment to the Companys Articles to align the date of future continuation resolutions with the Company's Annual General Meeting AGM.
Outlook Your Board believes that the outlook for 2017 is favourable for short duration asset classes such as senior secured floating rate loans.
We expect to see further rate rises in 2017 and President Trumps anticipated expansionary policies will, if delivered, likely result in moderate U. S. economic growth and the pace of these rises may increase.
The Investment Manager believes that default rates will stay below historical levels and credit quality is expected to remain favourable with the exception of some identifiable areas, such as commodity sectors.
Furthermore, the restraints put on lending banks by regulators through the Interagency Guidance on Leveraged Lending will help to limit excess leverage in new issuance.
Still, all of these positive tailwinds come with the caveat of significant uncertainty in political events, such as the upcoming European elections, Brexit negotiations, trade relations and the shaping of fiscal and monetary policies under Trumps administration, which have the potential to derail any positive momentum and could lead to increased volatility across global markets.
The Investment Manager will continue to update you on the Companys progress by way of the monthly fact sheets and Investment Manager updates.
I would like to close by thanking you for your commitment and support.
William Frewen Chairman 5 April 2017 10 NEUBERGER BERMAN
