THE STRATEGIC REPORT Assurance Division Board responsibility Cyber security and the associated risk mitigation It is the responsibility of the CEO and the main Information security Today, cyber crime is the single biggest threat to should be the Boards responsibility and in particular board as it is the most significant issue facing & security consulting businesses and individuals around the world.
All Directors must be fully businesses today.
this into perspective, a recent Kaspersky survey accountable and a lack of understanding or The strategic direction and cultural philosophy of the stated that the damage from cyber-attacks costs UK knowledge is not an acceptable excuse.
No FTSE 350 company currently has a separate Assurance Division is about constant evolution and business more than 27 billion each year.
The Cyber Security Committee that reports to the Board therefore research is key to being successful in the average cost to recover from a DDoS attack is A recent government cyber survey of FTSE 350 monthly.
Most, incorrectly, believe that this market place.
Information security and cyber 275,000 and more than 90% of businesses have companies indicated that only 33% of boards responsibility is that of the Audit Committee which security continue to change at a rapid pace with experienced some form of cyber security threat.
On understood their appetite for cyber risk, so 67% usually meet at most, on a quarterly basis.
new areas of concern or vulnerabilities frequently average, it takes almost 120 days for an organisation do not.
The Group is committed to putting cyber and regularly discovered.
To stay ahead in the to find out that it has been compromised.
security onto companies main board agenda.
Audit committees do not always have the necessary cyber-arms race, our global corporate culture is skill, gravitas, capability or mandate to deal with aligned with this rapid and constant change.
We In the UK, the public is still largely in the dark about Currently companies do not have any responsibility what is a daily threat.
It is also unclear what have created boutique ways of working with cultural what data of theirs has been compromised or how to report on cyber breaches or the costs spent expertise and know-how a non-executive accountant values that encourage individuals to fulfil their full poor companies are at safeguarding their data.
mitigating or remediating after a breach has would bring.
Nor is it clear why cyber risk would be creative potential.
Individuals should have the right to expect their data occurred.
Boards fully discuss and become expert managed in a domain where the CEO is not the key to be protected to the highest standards and if it is on accounting policies, health & safety, CSR and member of a committee since it is the biggest risk Apart from determining security weaknesses, the not, they should be made aware of what has executive remuneration and report on them in detail on his watch.
Group is also committed to making the Internet a happened to it.
in their Annual Report and Accounts.
This is not the case with a companys most valuable assets, its safer place for the world to interact, communicate data and information.
A cultural change is needed as the majority of and transact.
While combatting the threat of cyber Furthermore, from our own research into the safety boards do not have executives with the necessary crime is a clearly stated objective, so is finding a of the Internet, almost two-thirds of consumers While the measure and assessment of cyber risk IT skills, let alone an understanding of cyber safe way for the world to navigate, communicate believe an online data breach will compromise their can be contracted out to third parties, the security.
Most board directors who have extensive and transact on the Internet.
financial information within the next year.
The fact determination and judgement of what is an operational and financial expertise in their industries that some 60% of consumers are more worried than acceptable level of risk and what appropriate and the corporate world, have minimal, if any, ever before about protecting their personal and mitigations can be used to reduce or minimise that formal education in IT.
financial information online should certainly confirm risk, cannot be outsourced.
the threat as the greatest to face business today.
As directors undergo training for anti-bribery or health and safety, they should also undertake It is no longer acceptable for cyber training for cyber security, as without it they will not security to be passed down to an be able to judge or score the threat on the corporate IT director or risk manager.
Business performance measures Group Group Escrow Group Assurance Group Domain Escrow operating Assurance Domain Services Revenue Revenue Revenue Services Revenue profits operating profits operating losses The Group manages the business using the Key Performance Indicators shown on the 56% 10% 74% 5% 6% 52% 65% following pages.
Reporting is daily, weekly and monthly and has different levels of granularity 4.9m 4.9m 4.7m 35.3m according to each managers responsibility.
25.8m 168.9m 209.1m 32.0m 20.1m 18.9m The provision of accurate and quickly 17.0m 133.7m 97.0m produced management information has 1.7m always been integral to the Group.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT Divisions strategy and positioning Integrity and credibility, alongside technical capability, are the leading The Divisions strategy is to constantly demand the The Group has been product agnostic and avoided cultural values of the Group and generation of new ideas and initiatives.
Not all ideas being a reseller of third parties products, software the fundamental underpinning make it to product development or design but each or services, but this can in certain situations of its strategy to innovate, is critically, technically and commercially appraised compromise the Groups ability to effectively deliver before any financial commitment is made.
The acquisitions of Accumuli and create and make safe.
Fox-IT required the Group to ensure that these businesses channel and product models did not In conjunction with this creativity, the organisation is This will ensure the Group remains an independent, blur the Groups product independence positioning, committed to remaining independent and listening to unbiased organisation and maintains its place nor its independent service capabilities.
its clients requirements as well as looking to supply as the trusted provider of choice in the security complementary Group capabilities and services that services marketplace.
are currently not supplied to them.
Following a detailed due diligence process, the Group is satisfied that its clients are being supplied Since much of the work carried out by the Group is To that end, new product or service lines are the right set of products from a controlled process research based, in order to maintain its equitable reviewed from a make or buy standpoint.
of recommendation even if the product is not sold and ethical disclosure policies, research paid for by Acquisitions are carefully analysed and decisions by the Group.
third parties and customers is not disclosed, unless to acquire Assurance businesses are based upon requested by the paying organisation.
culture, fit and service but never on the basis of As one of the worlds largest service led security profit enhancement by cost reduction or the ability consultancies, the Group is capable of leading Self-funded research by the Group will always be to turn around an ailing business.
all bids rather than having to look for support provided to the organisation that it affects in full, free from larger third parties.
NCC Group does not of charge and without disclosure, until such time as Threat intelligence and cryptology is the most provide white label solutions for third parties the vulnerability has been resolved in a reasonable recent example of this, where the Group acquired to resell, nor does it enter into any strategic timeframe.
This does not preclude the Group a business, Fox-IT, to directly fill a product and alliances that compromise the Groups objectivity making a full public disclosure if there is a threat to service need and will be rolling its services out to or independence.
life or to the general publics online security, and the multinational customers during 2016 2017.
Threat third party is unwilling to remediate the issue.
intelligence is one of the most important tools in an organisations armoury to help prevent and mitigate cyber-attack.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT Escrow Domain Services The Escrow Division remains the foundation of the The Escrow business has continued to develop its Following a strategic review, the Group has decided It is clear that the open generic domains and city Group and is the platform upon which the SaaS service and although not yet a major to withdraw from the Domain Service marketplace codes have not been taken up by businesses and organisation has been built.
The fundamentals of the contributor to profitability, it is a very important tool and reinvest some of the assets and resources in consumers as well as expected with all of these Group are fully encapsulated in this division, which in providing a complete service for clients as they areas that will provide a more suitable return in the falling well short of their initial registration targets.
is based around the very highest standards of seek to mitigate risk.
Coupled with the fact that the branded domains are customer care and equitable treatment to both still either undelegated or those that are, are unused, customers in the contractual relationship.
This year has been very successful as the team has While this will involve the diminution and realisation it is clear that the market is not ready for the very worked hard to consolidate the positive of assets, the Group is still committed to the necessary changes that need to happen to Escrow offers a high value product for a low, in performances of previous years in both Europe and concept behind domain services and has retained strengthen security on the Internet.
As it appears comparison, investment.
Due to its importance to the US.
The performance is underpinned by a stable the ability to provide a secure, managed environment that the process for new applications is unlikely to clients, it provides the Group with excellent recurring management team that has driven success from the when the market place changes, with the objective happen in the near term, so actual use of those revenues along with good margins and cash UK to the rest of the world.
being to create a safer Internet for all who traverse newly applied for domains is still years away, the generation.
Escrow can be provided both in the and use it.
The Internet will only survive as a usable Group has decided to cut its losses at this stage.
traditional software market as well as in all iterations The cash flow and profitability of Escrow are vehicle for commerce and industry if there are of the outsourced model, as the basic underpinnings reinvested to produce not only better Escrow radical changes to operators and users behaviours.
The Group will maintain and continue to publish the are the same, protection from an event that disrupts products and services but also other areas of.
trust security standards since these are the relationship between the owner and licensee of complementary services across the Group to fundamental to a safer Internet regardless and will a software product.
help clients mitigate their information and cyber continue to use.
trust as the Groups domain.
Escrow is also a requirement for all registrars and registries of domains.
The Group provides registry data escrow services, where the IP address of each domain registered within a TLD is safely secured along with Registrar Data Escrow particularly to support European customers.
trust THE STRATEGIC REPORT Revenue For the financial year ended 31 May 2016, the The Groups recurring income is significant and has Group increased revenue by 56% to 209.1m increased.
Assurance, benefiting from the Local Government 2% 2015: 133.7m with the revenue split being H1 acquisition of Fox-IT, saw 94% of its revenues 45%: H2 55% 2015: H1 47%: H2 53% between renewed 2015: 83%, representing 61% of all Education 2% the first and second halves of the year.
91% of the performance monitoring revenues Housing 2% renewed and are recurring.
Professional & On a constant currency basis, the Group revenue Support Services 4% Manufacturing 2% growth would have been 54% 2015: 19% as both The increasing number of customers that are the dollar and euro exchange rates against the renewing in Assurance has resulted in renewing pound varied considerably during the year.
Due to Assurance customers annual expenditure increasing Other 4% the natural hedging through the intercompany loans, from 73.7k to 83.2k with total average customer Healthcare 1% the impact on the Groups operating profits was spend moving to 51.9k from 53.7k.
The Group does not hedge against Travel 3% Leisure 1% currency fluctuations.
In Escrow UK nearly 90% of all contracts renewed 2015: 89%.
The Group continued to have minimal reliance on Continental Europe contributed 34.2m 2015: any one customer or sector.
Within Assurance the 13.5m or 16% of Group revenue, with the Rest of largest customer represents 4% of Assurance the World revenue increasing to 52.9m 2015: revenue which is 3% of Group revenue.
The largest 48.1m, some 25% of Group revenue.
customer in Escrow is 1% of total Escrow revenue.
Financial 38% Assurance accounted for 81% of the Groups The majority of revenue for Domain Services came revenue 2015: 73% as it continues to see faster from the withdrawal of the application for.
secure organic growth as well as benefiting from six and so has not been included in the sector analysis.
months revenue from the newly acquired Fox-IT.
Domain Services saw revenues reach 4.9m 2015: 4.7m.
The Group expects to withdraw from the sector by the end of the financial year 2017.
Telecoms 8% Assurance Escrow Top three sectors by 42% 38% Finance Sector Division Finance Sector Retail 7% 19% 20% Software & Software & Computer Computer Software & Services Services 9% 8% Computer Services 19% Telecoms Retail National Government 5% 20 20 21 NCC GR NCC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPOR OUP ANNUAL REPORT AN T AN D AC D A COCCOUNTS UNTS www.
