com stock code: NTG Chairmans statement Our core objective is to grow shareholder value and we will do this by developing a business capable of delivering long term, sustainable and growing cash flows, achieved through a disciplined approach to deployment of capital and a rigorous focus on execution andrew page I Chairman bob mackenzie I Chairman I became Northgates Chairman nine The Groups Spanish business performed months ago and therefore this is my first well during the year and ended the Report to our shareholders.
period with a modest increase in vehicles on hire.
In contrast, the UK Performance business was more challenged with During the year we have made good a lower level of demand than the progress in a number of key areas and, prior year, particularly from customers on an underlying basis, the Groups operating in the renewable energy profit before tax was 82.9m.
After sector as well as a result of our reduced further adjusting for accounting changes focus on short term rentals to domestic, to depreciation and the impact of non-business customers and vehicles on exchange rates this represented an hire at the end of the year was 2,900 increase of 3.3m compared to the below the prior year.
Dividend Cash generation has continued to be The Group remains in a strong financial strong with free cash flow of 62.9m position, with healthy cash generation and this provides good scope to further and a robust balance sheet.
This expand our business and also to return underpins our progressive dividend cash to our shareholders in the form of policy and the Boards continued increased dividends.
confidence in the outlook for the Group means we are proposing a full year dividend of 16.0p, an increase of 10% compared to the 2015 full year dividend of 14.5p.
This means a final dividend of 10.9p 2015 10.2p.
This gives a 3.1 cover on underlying earnings, in line with our intention to keep cover in the range of 3.75 to 2.5.
10% DIVIDEND INCREASE TO 16.0p 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 REVIEW REVIEW 02 03 Heading The way forward Board changes The Groups strategy Our core objective is to grow Since last year we have welcomed focuses on three key areas: shareholder value and we will do this several new Board members.
In | To optimise our core by developing a business capable of November 2015, Claire Miles joined as business: delivering long term, sustainable and a non-executive Director, in February growing cash flows, achieved through | To expand our addressable 2016, Paddy Gallagher was appointed a disciplined approach to deployment as Group Finance Director and, since markets: and of capital and a rigorous focus on the year end, Bill Spencer has been | To maximise end execution.
Our touchstones will be cash appointed as a non-executive Director.
flow and returns on investment.
am sure that each will make a significant contribution to the future development During the year we have been assessing During the past six months we have of Northgate.
the opportunities for Northgate and recruited a new UK senior management how best to position the business Our people team and structured it in a similar way to capture and maximise these.
This I would like to record the Boards thanks to our highly successful Spanish team.
has involved reviewing the potential to all of our 2,900 team members A Group Executive Committee has addressable market, determining how throughout Northgate.
They are the also been formed which includes the we can effectively widen Northgates people who, day in and day out, make senior management from both the UK offering and brand so as to appeal to sure that our customers receive a superb and Spain.
This will benefit the Group a broader customer base and building service and we are most grateful to in several ways, including alignment a senior management team which them.
of objectives, clarity of focus, sharing possesses the skill and ambition to drive of best practices and securing further We now have experienced senior teams our business forward.
in both the UK and Spain and they are eager to demonstrate what can be This sharper focus on the quality of As such, we have renewed the Groups achieved.
There is much to do and I am business, a customer proposition strategic focus on three key areas: confident that our team will be looking with wider appeal, improving brand | To optimise our core business: to drive the business forward to secure recognition, clear lines of responsibility profitable progress.
| To expand our addressable markets: and more efficient and consistent and execution I believe will generate Andrew Page improved performance.
Chairman | To maximise end of life value.
