02 | Chairmans statement Realising our vision Our vision Nostrum has not wavered during one of the most challenging years for the oil and gas industry in over a decade.
We have navigated 2016 with caution and great care to ensure our vision remains intact.
As a result, we can continue to target our aim of becoming one of the leading independent oil and gas companies in the FSU.
While many in the industry have had to change course, we remain on track to deliver our main objectives.
We are making good progress to complete our third Gas Treatment Unit GTU3, which will double production capacity to over 100,000 boepd.
Additionally, we continue to seek expansion of our reserve base through appraisal work at Chinarevskoye, our core producing asset, and our three neighbouring fields.
We maintain our clearly defined strategy of balancing organic growth with carefully considered expansion through acquisitions.
Our main priority remains to continue to deliver value to all stakeholders in a responsible and efficient manner.
Read more on pages 36-49 Operational performance Over the course of 2016 we have successfully met our operational targets.
The drilling programme was the growth and success of completed and average production was over 40,000 boepd.
We have ourbusiness revolves around alsobegun appraisal work at Rostoshinskoye, where we are looking thequality and commitment to establish an additional material amount of reserves to further add to ofour people the future cash flows of the Company.
The operations were all achieved whilst reducing our opex below US$4per barrel.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 03 100,000 boepd average daily productiontarget Over US$2 billion invested since 2004 GTU3 and growth thepetrochemical and upstream We remain on track to complete the oilbusiness and brings some greatly CSR priorities for construction of GTU3 in 2017.
This valued diversity to the Board.
2017 marks a significant milestone in the Iwouldalso like to thank Eike for his Fostering diversity at every Companys growth and its progress contribution over the years to Nostrum.
level within the Group towards achieving an average daily Reducing health & safety production in excess of 100,000 boepd.
Corporate social responsibility incidents Once the Gas Treatment Unit is CSR has always been important to the Continuing to finance local operational the focus of the Company Board and I am pleased to highlight social infrastructure projects will move towards ramping up the how our corporate social responsibility Targeting a reduction in our drilling programme in order to fill GTU3.
programmes continue to grow and emissions intensity ratio support the sustainability of our Underpinned by strong financial business.
A key example is the annual position evaluation for greenhouse gas The key to Nostrums sustainability is emissions which allows us to plan for Read more on pages 36-49 the Companys prudent management the subsequent introduction of energy of its financial position.
We finished the and resource saving measures.
With the year with over US$100 million of cash ongoing construction of both GTU3 onour balance sheet and our hedge and our entry into the KTO connection The future remains in place until December 2017. pipeline, we have focused particularly We look forward to an extremely The hedging strategy allows the on our health and safety processes exciting future at Nostrum.
The next Company to execute its strategy within the Company and developed 24 months will see the completion of unencumbered by shocks in the oil new campaigns to target the highest our Gas Treatment Unit and the start price.
During 2017 we look forward to standards amongst Nostrum employees of the ramp-up in production towards building on this solid financial platform and contractors.
Alongside this we and working hard to refinance our topayclose attention to these as the continue to look at opportunities debtmaturing in 2019.
Company enters its next growth phase tocreate value through acquisitions.
and moves towards its 100,000 boepd We will also closely monitor how Governance and Board production target.
bestto balance the reinvestment The Board has been invaluable in ofour cash flows into the business helping the Company to navigate Our people andreducing our leverage against challenging operating conditions As ever, the growth and success of our re-establishing dividends.
andhas unanimously supported business revolves around the quality managements decisions on how to and commitment of our people and protect the Company whilst not also Ibelieve we have an excellent team sacrificing future growth.
This is best demonstrated with two new Board members.
After by the earlier reference to how the nine years of dedicated service to Company has remained on track to Nostrum, Jan-Ru Muller has stepped deliver all its objectives despite an Frank Monstrey down as CFO to be replaced by extremely challenging oil price Chairman TomRichardson, our former Head of environment.
Tough decisions have Corporate Finance.
On behalf of the hadto be made in relation to cost Board I want to use this opportunity cutting but in all areas we have tried tothank Jan-Ru for all the hard work toensure stability is maintained.
and effort he has put into Nostrum.
Weremain committed to developing Wealso welcome Kaat Van Hecke as an local content and we continue to Independent Non-Executive Director, develop our employment practices replacing Eike von der Linden.
Kaat andpolicies to ensure we can attract joins with 20 years of experience in and retain the best talent.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
