Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2016 21.
Directors Remuneration Report 76 Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Douglas McCallum Dear Shareholder, Review of Directors Remuneration Remuneration Committee Policy On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Chairman the Directors Remuneration Report for 2016.
One of the Remuneration Committees key activities during 2016 was to undertake its We believe that the remuneration of the Executive periodic review of the Directors remuneration Directors appropriately reflects the performance of policy, which is due for renewal in 2017.
In 2016, the retail business continued Remuneration Committee are not proposing to to see strong growth despite a difficult retail make any substantive changes to the policy, and environment.
The Groups Revenue grew 14.8% propose that the broad remuneration framework to 1,271.0 million, average orders per week grew in terms of structure and the levels of incentive A 17.9% to 230,000 and EBITDA grew 3.3% to 84.3 opportunities remains unchanged.
However, We believe that the million for the financial year ended 27 November in order to bring the Directors remuneration 2016.
While the Group achieved strong sales remuneration of the policy further in line with best practice, a number and customer growth, it and the wider market of relatively minor changes are proposed.
The suffered declining product prices, which impacted Executive Directors policy changes, including the introduction of LTIP business Revenue and hence achievement against holding periods, are intended to further align it appropriately and profitability targets under the incentive plans was with best practice from a corporate governance modest.
fairly reflects the perspective and with the expectations of many shareholders and representative investor bodies.
Relationship Between Pay and performance of the A new Directors remuneration policy will be put Performance to all shareholders for approval at our Annual We have recommended a bonus payment to the Group.
The Remuneration Executive Directors based on 43.7% to 44.1% Policy Report on pages 80 to 96 contains details achievement against objectives under the bonus of the new Directors Remuneration Policy that we plan for the period.
This echoes the strong growth propose to apply from the date of the AGM.
Key Changes to Executive Director During the period, we reviewed the performance Remuneration against the 2014 LTIP award targets, which had a performance period ending on 27 November We believe that our remuneration framework 2016.
The 2014 LTIP awards were subject to helps support and drive our strategy, which is the achievement of two equally weighted focused on growing the retail business through performance conditions, which were Group improvement in the customer proposition and on Revenue and earnings per share.
Based on the maximising operational and capital efficiency of 2016 results, the Directors achieved 42.76% the retail business.
This was a result Our objective is also to invest in the Groups of an increase in the Groups EPS, excluding IP and technology to drive growth both in exceptional costs and share scheme awards, to our retail business and platform business.
The 2014 LTIP awards are The Remuneration Committee reviews the expected to vest in March 2017. remuneration framework annually, to make sure Base salaries, which underpin retention of the that the AIP, the LTIP and the GIP contain specific Executive Directors, were reviewed during the performance measures that support this strategy.
An increase of 3% was approved, which During the financial year, we undertook a is in line with the Groups employee salary review of the Executive Director AIP structure percentage increase.
and concluded that the financial measures of A A The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 97 EBITDA and Gross Sales Retail remained to 115 contains details of the remuneration paid to aligned with the Companys strategy and should Executive Directors during the period.
be retained for 2017 in order to encourage continued strong retail business growth.
The proportion allotted to individual objectives has been maintained at 30%, to reflect the importance of delivering key strategic objectives in 2017, including new technology and CFCs.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 194 slugline Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com Directors Remuneration Report 77 The financial performance measures for the 2017 LTIP awards remain aligned with previous years awards.
One of the targets for the platform business will, unlike previous years awards, be focused on expanding the Ocado Smart Platform business rather than the cost efficiency of the platform solution.
This reflects the Boards focus on rewarding the delivery of both a broader platform solution that includes store pick fulfilment and sales of the platform solution to new customers, while continuing to incentivise improvements in operational efficiency.
Changes to Non-Executive Director Remuneration The Non-Executive Directors annual fees were subject to annual review and the basic fees for Non-Executive Directors were increased to 50,000 per annum 2015: 48,000.
Fee levels have not changed since April 2014.
Shareholder Feedback and Remuneration Disclosure In preparing the new Directors Remuneration Policy, we sought feedback from shareholders on the main changes proposed.
No concerns were raised by shareholders.
Each year, we review how shareholders voted on the remuneration report, together with any feedback received.
We are aware of shareholders concerns regarding transparency of performance-related remuneration.
To enhance our reporting of performance we included actual performance targets for incentive schemes for the first time in last years report.
We have included this information again this year and hope that it provides shareholders with clear and understandable information about the operation of our performance-related incentive schemes.
Shareholder support for the resolution on the Directors Remuneration Report has seen meaningful improvement in recent years, with 91.48% support at the 2016 annual general meeting.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Douglas McCallum Remuneration Committee Chairman 31 January 2017 slugline
