Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 02 CHAIRMANS MESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS This has been a year of significant change for the Group and for its four businesses, against a backdrop of unprecedented political and economic turmoil in some of our key markets.
Managed separation involves dividing Positive Futures Plan requires our four Dear Shareholders the Group into its four strong businesses businesses to embed programmes dealing Overview of the year unlocking the value in the current corporate with stakeholders and to position themselves Stock markets and currencies have been structure by allowing each business to be as responsible business leaders in their especially volatile in the aftermath of the held by the most appropriate shareholders regions.
I am proud of the progress UKs EU referendum and the US presidential and removing the risks of the current Group we have made to date and we will election.
The forces at play in the financial structure.
To ensure that each business can update you as we complete managed world, with increasing emphasis by stand alone, we have begun a process of separation.
You can read our Positive regulators and politicians on ring-fencing enhancing underlying performance relative Futures Plan on our corporate website and protectionism, support our strategy to each peer group.
This has involved, and at www.
in ways that could not have been foreseen will continue to involve, making material a year ago.
Outlook improvements to our businesses where The dual focus of readying the four In March 2016, we announced that we necessary.
In addition, we are reducing businesses for separation and enhancing would unlock value for shareholders by the cost of central activities and reducing underlying performance, balancing separating our underlying businesses, in holding company debt.
stakeholder interests against value, cost, what we are calling a managed separation.
During 2016, teams at the Companys time and risk, will continue to demand Since then we have made steady progress Head Office and in the businesses have exceptional leadership and commitment towards this goal: please see our Group been developing the optimal strategies, throughout the organisation.
Though the CEO Bruce Hemphills statement on page 3. board composition, operating models, global outlook is clouded in uncertainty, leadership and business composition Despite the challenging external the Board looks forward to delivering for the businesses as they move towards environment, our businesses performed further milestones on our road to managed separation.
This is a major exercise, resiliently during 2016.
We are focused on sustained especially in OMEM and OMW: your share were 19.4 pence, broadly flat in results and the opportunities to enhance Board has been kept closely informed constant and reported currency basic stakeholder returns.
and provided oversight and guidance earnings per share was 1 1.
9 pence per There has been no alteration to Board to Bruce Hemphill and his team.
This was a membership since Paul Hanratty stepped also spent more time with the subsidiary satisfactory performance.
We are very grateful to boards than ever before, exchanging 2016 was the Groups first full year under the Paul for his dedication to the Group in both expertise and insight to position each Solvency II regime.
Our Solvency II capital South Africa and the UK for over 30 years.
ratio at the year-end was 124%, lower than On behalf of my Board colleagues, I have also had greater interaction with in 2015, largely due to currency movements.
I would like to sincerely thank all our people, our various regulators than in previous As in 2015 it did not include the 1.
7 billion particularly those in the Companys Head years, to keep them appraised of the Boards of surplus relating to OMEM and Nedbank, Office, for their contribution in this time involvement with the managed separation.
which we are not permitted to include for of great change within the organisation.
However, the solvency Achieving the managed separation is capital position of all our individual a complex task but we expect it to be businesses remains robust.
materially complete by the end of 2018.
Managed separation Responsible business Our managed separation strategy follows We recognise the role which corporates the extended period since the original have as agents of transformation, and are demutualisation and listing during which conscious that our long-term success shareholder returns have been in aggregate depends on operating in sustainable disappointing, particularly for South African societies.
We have previously expressed our shareholders.
Performance has significantly support for the Sustainable Development improved since late 2009 when we launched Goals a UN initiative and have signed the original restructuring programme: the World Economic Forum Compact for from end-2009 to end-2016 our market Responsive and Responsible Leadership.
capitalisation on the London Stock Exchange Patrick OSullivan I am focused on ensuring that, during rose to 10.2 billion R173.3 billion, a total Chairman and after the managed separation, our shareholder return of 16.0% per annum in commitment to operating as a responsible sterling and 22.4% per annum in rand.
