Chairmans statement Whilst we are still in transition, we are confident in our strategy and excited by the prospects for PayPoint One and MultiPay.
I am pleased to report on a year of substantial change in the business.
Following our decision last year to dispose of our mobile and online payment businesses, the executive team have begun the process of simplifying structures, reviewing ways to improve efficiency, adopting values that will help address our service to retailers and improving engagement generally across the business.
We have concluded our review of the Company strategy, which recognises the importance of our retail networks and our non-cash payment channels.
We are engaged in putting the retailer at the heart of our service offering, improving our response times to retailers and the quality of our service.
Our new terminal, PayPoint One, now entering commercial trials, will help us to gain a more central role in independent and symbol group retailers, providing them with our payments and services solution and a retail electronic point of sale system in one device, PayPoint One.
We have developed our MultiPay product, now performing well with our pilot client, Utilita.
MultiPay is in the process of being sold to others.
It is important that we reach agreement with our fellow shareholder in Collect and this remains a priority for this year.
Our track record of innovation to drive differentiation 1996 2000 2004 2008 Congestion charge Bill payments Payments Mobile top-ups Online payments eMoney Transport ticketing ATMs Retail Money transfer services Card payments Technology T1 terminal T2 terminal 2 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I have set out the strategic process more fully in my letter Given the high level of current changes in the business, we to shareholders on Corporate Governance on page 26. are adopting a cautious approach to the return of capital and plan to release the surplus over a period of five years at We have made changes to the board following the 25 million per annum.
We will continue with a progressive departures of Eric Anstee and Stephen Rowley, the dividend policy.
It is our current intention not to borrow contributions from whom, since joining the board in 2008, more than one times our earnings before interest, taxes, are greatly appreciated.
During the depreciation and amortisation.
The first special dividend is year, we are pleased to have found two experienced nonplanned for December this year.
If there is a potential executives in Gill Barr and Giles Kerr.
Gill brings a wealth acquisition which offers better returns, we may defer the of experience in marketing and Giles, a seasoned finance special dividend as appropriate.
In addition, we will director, is chair of our Audit Committee.
This has distribute the sale proceeds from the sale of online strengthened our board, but conscious not to make too payments business, together with the final dividend from many changes in the context of much change in the the year under review.
We also intend to distribute sale business, we have decided to defer further appointments proceeds from the mobile payments business once the until the annual general meeting in 2017, when David sale is completed.
This means we are not able to meet the minimum number of independent non-executive Whilst we are still in transition, we are confident about our directors until then.
strategy, excited by the prospects for PayPoint One and MultiPay and will continue to drive value from the business Following our decision to sell the mobile and online for our shareholders.
payments businesses, we have reviewed our capital requirements and allocation.
Focussing on multi-channel Nick Wiles payments where we have retail networks, simplifies our Chairman business and reduces the capital headroom we require.
26 May 2016 2012 2016 Cash Out Transport smart ticketing MultiPay Simple Payment Service Approved Payment Institution Parcels Money transfer Net settlement EPoS SIMs PayPoint One PPOS T3 terminal Rapid PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 3
