04 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Chairmans introduction In my first full year as chairman, I have met a great number of our shareholders in person to discuss our strategy and plans.
This will be a priority for me again in 2017 as we move forward together.
The board has been fully engaged with the managements review of the business andour plans to Sidney Taurel Chairman return Pearson back to growth.
All this will lead to faster progress in our We will continue to reduce our exposure Dear shareholders, high-growth businesses, such as virtual to large-scale direct delivery services which 2016 has been a di cult year for Pearson schools and online programme have fewer synergies with the rest of our shareholders.
The challenges facing the management while also stabilising our portfolio, and focus increasingly on more business that we thought would begin to largest content and assessment businesses.
scalable online, virtual and blended services, dissipate have become more acute, and across our portfolio.
We will continue to forge successful as a consequence, we have cut both the partnerships combining our expertise We will continue to focus on cost control and short-term outlook for our pro ts and with that of schools, colleges, universities will be managing our cost base very tightly the future dividends we can return to and franchise partners to meet the biggest and e ciently.
The board will also continue shareholders.
Clearly, this is disappointing needs and seize the largest opportunities to support the team to ensure capital is for everyone involved in the company.
allocated in an appropriate way for our The management team has a clear view of fellow shareholders.
With our lower pro t the issues we face, particularly in our largest Becoming a simpler, expectations for the next two years, we division, US higher education courseware.
more focused business made the di cult decision to rebase our There is a rigorous plan to address the dividend from 2017 onwards.
We will use In 2015, Pearson sold the Financial Times challenges, and to accelerate the transition the proceeds generated in exiting Penguin and its stake in The Economist Group, to to a more digital, more sustainable Random House to maintain a strong balance become a more focused company.
As we complete this transition, sheet, invest in our business and to return now taking the final step towards focusing we will create more stable and predictable excess capital to shareholders, while 100% on education, through our decision revenues for Pearson, and ultimately create retaining a solid, investment grade to exit our stake in Penguin Random House.
Like the decision to sell our news Priorities for the year ahead In my first full year as chairman, I have met businesses, our announcement to plan to a great number of our shareholders in exit Penguin Random House is a strategic When companies face severe tests, it is person to discuss our strategy and plans.
decision that was not taken lightly.
Penguin important to act with clarity.
This will be a priority for me again in 2017 as Random House is a high-quality business The goals I set out last year to pursue we move forward together.
The board has with a rich heritage, and has contributed fewer, bigger opportunities, to simplify the been fully engaged with the managements greatly to Pearson for nearly 50 years.
company, to run Pearson e ciently and to review of the business and our plans to Any deal will be in the best editorial and allocate capital responsibly are more return Pearson back to growth.
We will commercial interests of Penguin Random important than ever.
continue to apply our digital expertise House, as well as for Pearson shareholders and understanding of the North American and as and when we part ways, we will I will continue to support our management market in the important coming period.
become leaner and more focused.
team to stay focused on our strategic growth objectives.
This means ensuring What the future holds The board will continue to work with we are totally focused on businesses which management to focus on simpli cation Di cult periods such as the one we deliver our core capabilities content, across Pearson.
In 2016, we successfully are currently experiencing are tests of a assessment and services.
It means creating delivered a 10% reduction in the cost base, companys character, and any business with products which are scalable and replicable and began to build global platforms for the longevity Pearson has will undergo across the globe.
And it requires us to move finance, marketing, e-commerce and other challenges from generation to generation.
more quickly to digital business models.
As the business continues to become better integrated, we will Great companies ones which stand the be introducing more global tools and test of time harness these moments and platforms, and better ways of working.
the urgency they create to renew their purpose and their strategies for growth in a new or changing context.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 1 Overview 05 Governance at Pearson Leadership & e ectiveness Accountability Engagement Remuneration Board members challenge and Detailed risk assessment and Building strong relationships with Our remuneration policy aligns debate strategy, performance, management information shapes our diverse stakeholders is crucial with strategy and adapts to market responsibility and accountability all strategic and operational to our sustainable success.
We aim conditions and performance.
to ensure that the decisions we decisions, with clearly fide ned to engage through many forums, See our Remuneration report on p82106 make are robust.
Board activity and board and management and channels, to build trust.
See our Governance report on p5681 Education is a crucial sector which requires P Key performance indicators improvement right around the globe.
We draw great con dence from the fact Total shareholder return: Five years % change that Pearsons products meet the needs of millions of students and teachers every single day.
We already have world-class -15.6% content, world-class authors and an ability to work at scale that is unparalleled in the Pearson -15.6 sector.
We have maintained our leading FTSE 100 54.5 share of content.
FTSE All-Share 61.8 FTSE All-Share Media 126.2 Digital o ers signi cant opportunities for companies involved in education areas like STOXX 600 Media 107.3 new digital services for universities, online Five year TSR in 2016 was -15.6% which compares to a 54.5% return on degree programmes and virtual schools give the FTSE 100 Index of large UK listed companies.
Our recent shareprice us much more long-term growth potential performance has been disappointing but we are con dent that the than the traditional textbook.
The board is plans and strategy laid out in this report will make Pearson a simpler, con dent that Pearson is well-placed to stronger company, and that they set the company up for a sustained seize these opportunities in the long term.
period of growth and value creation.
With market leading positions, and the most widely used digital products in higher education, Pearson is in a strong position to 'LYLGHQG SHU VKDUH LQ VFDO HDU Pence weather the storms better than others, and be the leading digital education company.
The dividend will be rebased in 2017 to re ect portfolio changes, increased product investment, and our outlook for 2017.
See our other financial KPIs on p30-33 See our nonfinancial KPIs on p37
