| STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SIR JOHN PARKER, CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER HEALTH AND SAFETY In my first annual statement to you as I have been impressed by the level of commitment of the Board and the senior management teams to the health, safety and Chairman of Pennon Group, I am pleased to wellbeing of our people.
As reported last year, tragically there was an incident in June 2015 involving a Viridor vehicle, which resulted report another year of strong performance in the death of a Viridor employee.
The Group continues to work and solid financial results, which translate with the authorities in relation to this incident.
Reflecting the Boards desire for a consistent and effective Group-wide approach, we have created a new role of director Following my appointment as Chairman in August 2015, I took of Safety, Health, Environment, Quality and Sustainability time to familiarise myself with the Groups operations and SHEQS, and recruitment is underway.
The Group has strategic the strengths of the business, and concluded that a strong improvement plans in place and continues to invest in platform exists upon which we can further build to achieve a programmes and initiatives to further embed the change in successful future.
It was clear to me that Pennon was ready to culture and attitudes necessary to achieve its target of zero move to the next phase: South West Water had embarked on accidents and incidents.
a new five-year regulatory cycle whilst working towards the SUSTAINABILITY full integration of Bournemouth Waters business acquired in Environmental, social and governance ESG matters are integral April 2015, and Viridor was progressing from construction to to our strategy and business model.
The Sustainability Committee operation, with eight Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs operating of the Board continues to oversee our performance in maintaining successfully and the construction of three more progressing well.
a responsible approach to business operations.
The Groups In addition, I found talented and committed people throughout notable achievements include another year of high quality drinking the organisation, with a very strong executive leadership team water, benefits to local economies as a direct result of our in place.
The autumn of 2015 was therefore a natural time for investment in energy recovery infrastructure, strong performance reflection in terms of the Groups strategic priorities.
against new EU bathing water standards, preliminary work on Whilst this strategic review has not given rise to a new Group a new water treatment works with cutting edge technology strategy, it has led to differences of nuance and focus.
In particular, for the Plymouth area, investment in further customer service we identified that with the maturity of Viridors business, as it improvements, further work to reduce the risk of sewer flooding, moves away from waste disposal to landfill, greater commonality recognition for our apprenticeship programmes, and acclaimed exists between the Groups businesses.
We also recognised that education programmes and community engagement activities we were able to move towards a more homogeneous risk profile across the Group.
across the two businesses, with Pennons investment proposition Further information on the Groups approach to sustainability is now premised on an increased proportion of contracted provided throughout the strategic report and in the Sustainability long-term, index-linked revenues over a long-lived asset base.
Committee report for the year on pages 70 to 73.
As part of the strategic review, the Board decided to create a new role of Group Chief Executive Officer, a position to which Chris DIVIDEND Loughlin who was Chief Executive of South West Water at the I am pleased to report that the Board is recommending a final time was appointed with effect from 1 January 2016.
Chris has dividend per share of 23.12p, representing a 6.0% increase on been tasked with driving forward our strategy, which will involve last years final dividend.
This will result in a total dividend for looking across the business at how we can share best practice, the year of 33.58p, an increase of 5.6%, which is in line with our deliver synergies and capitalise on emerging opportunities.
Both dividend policy of year-on-year growth of 4% above RPI inflation Viridor and South West Water have a breadth and depth of to 2019 20 and reflects the Boards confidence in the future experience in managing large asset bases and in using engineering financial performance of the Group.
We will again be offering a excellence, technology and innovation to deliver efficiency scrip dividend alternative to shareholders in respect of the final and effectiveness.
By sharing knowledge across the Group and dividend for which the timetable is given on page 173. harnessing our combined skills we can provide even better service to our wide customer base of local authorities, major corporate clients and household customers throughout the UK.
By driving integration across the Group we will also be able to extract tangible efficiencies and synergies.
8 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUILDING ON A STRONG PLATFORM DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE PROFIT AND DIVIDEND GROWTH NEW GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK DIVERSITY On my appointment, I was pleased to see that a strong The Board continues to promote equality and diversity across the commitment to the three essential pillars of a successful board Group in all areas, including gender and ethnicity.
I am pleased to strong financial control, sound administration and good governance say we exceeded our target of 25% female representation on the was in evidence in the boardroom.
To ensure we are well placed Board by 2015. to continue to deliver solid growth and efficiency, I reviewed We remain committed to ensuring our Board pursues a our Board structures, in consultation with the Non-executive progressive diversity agenda and you will find further details in Directors, and identified opportunities for streamlining the Groups our Nomination Committee report on page 74. governance framework and decision-making processes.
Changes were implemented after agreement with Ofwat in respect of South MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES West Water and Bournemouth Water governance arrangements.
The success of any company is down to the quality of its This involved simplifying the subsidiary board structure to achieve leadership, not just in the boardroom, but throughout the more efficient governance whilst preserving the regulatory ring organisation.
The strong and effective leadership we have fence around the water and wastewater business.
Further details along with well-trained and skilled personnel, including our are provided in the governance report on page 62. award-winning apprenticeship schemes, underpin the success of Pennon Group.
OTHER BOARD DEVELOPMENTS Ken Harvey, our long-serving and distinguished Chairman of 18 May I take this opportunity to express my thanks and that of years, retired at last years AGM.
The success of Pennon Group our Board to all our employees who make the difference to our today is in no small measure due to his professional leadership performance and to the service we render to our communities and integrity.
Our Senior Independent Director, Gerard Connell, every day.
also stepped down at the AGM and we acknowledge the significant contribution he made to our Board during his 12 years LOOKING TO THE FUTURE of service.
We also wish both a happy retirement.
I am pleased With its refreshed strategy Pennon will continue to capitalise on to report that Gill Rider has been appointed as our new Senior strategic opportunities, whilst developing our people, protecting Independent Director.
the environment, helping the communities in which we operate and enhancing shareholder value.
We have built a solid foundation As reported above, Chris Loughlin was appointed to the new for the future.
role of Group Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2016.
Prior to that, Chris served as an Executive Director of Pennon Group Plc in his capacity as Chief Executive of South West Water.
Stephen Bird was promoted to the position of Managing Director of South West Water with effect from the same date.
As at 1 April 2016, Susan Davys title changed from Group Director of Finance to Chief Financial Officer.
Changes to the governance structure, which were implemented on Sir John Parker 1 April 2016, have seen our existing independent Non-executive Chairman Directors, Martin Angle, Neil Cooper and Gill Rider, additionally Pennon Group Plc being appointed as non-executive directors of South West Water 24 May 2016 Limited.
I continue to serve as chairman of South West Water, an office to which I was appointed on 31 July 2015.
In addition, the Board has been pleased to welcome three non-executive directors of South West Water, Martin Hagen, Steve Johnson and Lord Matthew Taylor, to participate in plenary sessions of the Pennon Group Board and its Committees.
Steve Johnson resigned subsequent to the year end due to taking up another appointment.
Ken Woodier, our Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, decided to retire in the year.
He has served the Board in a diligent, professional and committed way for some 18 years.
We thank him and wish him well in the future.
He is succeeded by Helen Barrett-Hague from Alent Plc and we welcome her to Pennon.
