CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The investment policy of Personal Assets is to protect and increase in that order the value of shareholders funds per share over the long term.
In practical terms this means that we try to make as much profit as we safely can when markets rise and minimise losses or even achieve modest gains when markets fall.
This we succeeded in doing over the twelve months to 30 April 2016.
While the UK equity market as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index All-Share fell by 9.0%, our share price rose by 6.2%.
Having begun the year at 350.70, and after hitting an all-time high of 375.90 in April, it ended the year at 372.50.
80, which accompanies this Report, Robin has set down some thoughts on performance and how we should measure it.
Personal Assets has always been prepared to be different, if we think this is the right thing to do: and this includes being prepared to analyse our performance in an atypical way if we think this useful to shareholders.
Over the coming year the Board will be devoting further thought to the subject, which is important not only for its own sake but also as a contribution to the efficient management of the portfolio.
I commend the Quarterly to you and hope you will feel free to join in the debate.
Ive mentioned before that we see two sides to performance the result achieved and the degree of risk accepted in achieving it.
Personal Assets has always been risk averse, and how this works in practice is shown in the bottom chart on page 10.
This illustrates how since 30 April 2000 Personal Assets has been not only less volatile than UK equities in general but also less volatile than most investment trusts in the AIC Global Sector, in which we were included until December 2015, and the AIC Flexible Sector, in which we have been included since January 2016.
In pursuing our investment objectives we aim also to be able to sleep at night even during stormy market conditions.
Although our yield may be low, we know how important the dividend is to some shareholders of long standing.
At a General Meeting on 15 April 2015 shareholders voted overwhelmingly to amend the Companys Articles of Association to permit the Company to distribute realised profits as dividend.
This has enabled the Board to commit to paying the dividend at the present annual rate of 5.60 for the foreseeable future without having to resort to scrabbling for income in a yield-starved world in a way that would inevitably have lowered the quality of the portfolio.
In future years we will use any surplus income to repay the capital so distributed before increasing the dividend.
You may have noticed that after last years slimming down of the Annual Report and Accounts from 50 pages to 33 the length this year has increased to 36 pages.
This, however, is entirely the result of the expansion of the Independent Auditors Report from two pages to five.
During the year we issued or sold from Treasury 55,625 shares for a total consideration of 20.5 million and bought back 53,739 for 18.4 million.
This was in keeping with the Boards undertaking, enshrined in our Articles of Association, that our shares will always trade at close to net asset value NAV through a combination of share buybacks at a small discount to NAV and the issue of new or Treasury shares at a small premium to NAV when demand exceeds supply.
At 30 April 2016 we had 1,744,842 shares outstanding and a market capitalisation of 650 million.
23 June sees the long-awaited referendum on Brexit in other words, whether the UK should remain a member of the European Union or should leave it.
The Board is taking no collective stance on the question itself, but has followed the debate keenly.
Like many other investment trust Boards, we are of the opinion that no action can usefully be taken before the result of the referendum is announced.
By the time of the Annual General Meeting the result will have been known for a month and it should then be possible to have a clearer idea of what lies ahead for the UK economy and stock market.
Finally, I am delighted to announce that Jean Sharp has accepted our invitation to join the Board of Personal Assets.
She is a Chartered Accountant and since 1998 has been Chief Taxation Officer of Aviva and its predecessor companies.
Jean, who has for many years been an enthusiastic private shareholder in the Company, will take up her appointment at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and we look forward to welcoming her to our deliberations.
