Chairmans statement Our progress throughout the year has ensured we have retained our place as the leaders in the UK pet market I am pleased to report another year of good progress for the Group.
We have continued to deliver on our strategic goals and have improved shareholder returns.
Tony DeNunzio Non-Executive Chairman This year marked a number of key milestones in the Groups development.
We created a divisional operating structure based around Retail and Services, each headed by its own divisional CEO to help focus resources and better manage our future growth: we made our entry into the Specialist referrals area of the veterinary market with the acquisitions of Northwest Surgeons and Anderson Moores: and we continued to innovate in terms of new retail store formats with the expansion of Barkers for dogs and the introduction of our Whiskers n Paws concept.
In line with our strategic objectives, we have grown like-for-like sales, improved gross margin and expanded our footprint.
In the year as a whole, revenue increased 6.7% to 777.8 million, with like-for-like growth of 2.2% supported by the rollout of new stores and the expansion of services.
Our growth was underpinned by our strength in Advanced Nutrition, our award-winning VIP customer loyalty programme, where we have seen membership grow to 4.5 million, and the development of our seamless approach to shopping, with traffic to our website www.
These factors offset the weakness Pets at Home Group Plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance These appointments are consistent with in our Health & Hygiene ranges where Board of Directors the Boards succession plan.
Ian has seasonal factors induced a revenue decline Read more about the Board and demonstrated a strong vision for the Group compared to a particularly strong prior year.
our governance on page 60. and I am sure he will continue to provide We expanded gross margin by 31bps to excellent leadership.
I would also like to 54.5% and pre-exceptional basic EPS grew Tony DeNunzio CBE welcome Mark to the Group as Interim by 11.2% to 15.1 pence.
We also expanded Non-Executive Chairman CFO and to thank Nick for steering the our core business further with net openings business so capably over the last four of 20 Pets at Home Superstores, 60 grooming Dennis Millard years, particularly in overseeing the Groups salons and 50 veterinary practices.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Initial Public Offering in 2014.
I believe Independent Non-Executive Director we have an excellent executive team to Shareholder returns provide strong leadership to the business Pets at Home is a growing business Ian Kellett in the period ahead.
with consistently strong cash generation.
Group Chief Executive Officer Recognising the importance of dividends Amy Stirling Colleagues to shareholders, the Board intends to Independent Non-Executive Director As we enter our 26th anniversary year increase the target for ordinary dividend I would like to thank our colleagues payments from 40% to around 50% of Paul Coby throughout the business for their loyalty earnings.
Accordingly, for the financial year Independent Non-Executive Director and enthusiasm.
It is their knowledge and 2016, the Board has recommended a final passion that creates the bond we share dividend of 5.5 pence per share, resulting Tessa Green CBE with our customers the love of pets.
in a total dividend of 7.5 pence per share.
Independent Non-Executive Director The Governments introduction of the National Living Wage from April provides a With significant opportunities for expansion, Paul Moody cost challenge for all retailers.
The Board particularly in the veterinary market, our Independent Non-Executive Director believes it is vital that we stay true to priority remains to invest to support our Brian Carroll our core values if we aim to retain our future profitable growth.
Since the year end Non-Executive Director market leading colleague retention levels.
we have acquired two further specialist Consequently, we have decided that all referral centres, Dick White Referrals and colleagues, irrespective of their age, should Eye-Vet Referrals, and we anticipate further receive the National Living Wage rather bolt-on acquisitions in the UK veterinary than only those aged 25 or over.
Should we not foresee appropriate have decided to retain our Learn to Earn investment opportunities in the future, then model that allows colleagues to increase we will return surplus capital to shareholders.
their hourly rate in increments as they complete additional specialist training.
Management changes At the end of the financial year we Membership of the Board Looking ahead announced the appointment of Ian Kellett We remain confident that growth in the as Group Chief Executive Officer.
Ian has Non-Executive Chairman 1 UK pet market will continue to support been a member of the Groups Board for Executive Directors 1 our growth ambitions for the business.
ten years as Chief Financial Officer and Non-Executive Directors 1 With a strategy that is working, a strong more recently as Chief Executive Officer of Independent Non-executive Directors 5 leadership team in place and an the Retail Division.
Ians appointment follows organisational structure that focuses the resignation of Nick Wood who wishes to on the potential for profitable growth return to London to be with his family after in both retail and services, we remain a period of more than eight years based in confident in the outlook for the Group.
the North West of England.
Nick will remain in an advisory role until 1 July 2016 to Gender breakdown ensure a smooth transition of responsibilities.
Board of Directors Male 75% A search is underway to identify a Group Female 25% Chief Financial Officer.
Until a permanent appointment is made, Mark Adams has Tony DeNunzio been appointed as Interim CFO.
Non-Executive Chairman 25 May 2016 As a consequence of Ians appointment to Group CEO, Peter Pritchard has been promoted to the role of Chief Executive Officer of the Retail Division following his successful tenure as Chief Operating Officer in that division.
Completing the executive management team, Sally Hopson remains as Chief Executive Officer Governance overview on page 60 of the Services Division and Louise Stonier as All 2016 financials refer to the 52 week proforma period to 24 March 2016.
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 13
