04 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans statement Commitment to growth and leadership Playtech has continued to successfully execute its strategy for strong operational and financial performance, strategic M&A and shareholder returns.
Alan Jackson Chairman I am pleased to report that during 2016 Towards the end of the year the Group Finally, the Board was delighted to Playtech continued to successfully execute acquired CFH, enhancing Playtech's announce the appointment of Andrew its strategy with a strong operational and position as it continues to build a B2B Smith as Chief Financial Officer following financial performance, delivering important offering within its Financials division.
Andrew replaced Ron M&A and significant capital returned Hoffman who became full time CEO of the to shareholders.
Playtech spent a total of 240 million on Financials division.
The move has provided acquisitions during the full year.
At the a greater depth of management resource The Gaming division continued to deliver, beginning of 2016 Playtech outlined its and focus on Playtechs Financials division with exceptional growth in the flagship intention to utilise the capital raised from following the acquisitions of Markets Casino offering driven by the largest shareholders to maintain its market leading Limited and CFH.
In addition, the Board was further strengthened in 2016 by the portfolio of games boasting some of position by acquiring complementary the most popular content across the technologies and premium content.
The appointment of Claire Milne as a Nonexecutive Independent Director in July.
Sports saw a good second half acquisitions of BGT, Quickspin and ECM performance following the acquisition of will augment organic growth in the Gaming Claire joined the Board as a recognised industry expert in eGaming and technology BGT, and later in the year with the newly division in 2017, whilst the acquisition of formed Playtech BGT Sports bringing CFH was a landmark transaction for the law and regulation, with 20 years experience advising gaming and financial together all aspects of Playtechs Financials division.
The acquisition of sports offering creating the only true Eyecon in February 2017 demonstrates services clients as both an in-house and private practice lawyer.
Claire was the Chair omni-channel, best-in-class sports betting Playtechs continued focus on value technology.
Playtech will always remain enhancing M&A.
of the Isle of Man Gambling Commission, and Playtech is already seeing the benefits a customer focused business and 2016 saw the signing of more than ten new The strength of Playtechs cash flows and of her depth of expertise.
customers with ten new customer the flexibility of its balance sheet enabled go-lives.
The trend of securing longer the Company to return 296 million Given the progress outlined above and Playtechs proven ability to achieve term agreements with key customers to shareholders in 2016 including a 150 continued with nine out of ten now on million special dividend announced at the its strategic objectives and drive operational performance, the Board long-term contracts following the renewals time of the half-year results and a 50 with Paddy Power Betfair, William Hill, million share buyback programme before remains confident of a strong Betfred and Rank all renewing in the the year end.
Strong cash generation performance in 2017 and beyond.
first two months of 2017 alone.
continues to be a key characteristic of the Group and the high levels of shareholder The Financials division went through a returns had no impact on the Groups significant transition in the first half of the acquisition capabilities.
In accordance year with an encouraging performance with the new progressive dividend policy Alan Jackson delivered in the second half.
adopted in 2016, the 2016 full-year dividend Chairman has been increased by 15% taking the total full-year increase to 15%.
