2 2 S St tr rat ate eg gic ic R Re ep po or rt t S Se ec ct tio ion n Chairmans Statement Michael Moule Results Directors It has been a frustrating year in world equity markets, Every three years we engage an outside consultant to with a protracted sideways movement punctured by assess the Board of Directors, the Chairman, and the severe setbacks of a similar magnitude and duration in work and effectiveness of the committees.
We hired both July 2015 and January 2016: a full explanation behind Lintstock to carry out this task, which involved a very the market movements can be found at the start of the detailed online questionnaire and personal interviews of Managers Report on page 8.
The global technology sector all Board members by Oliver Ziehn, the senior partner performed better than the broader indices for most of our of Lintstock.
We have received a positive report in most financial year but finished in line with the FTSE World areas but there is still room for improvement.
Index after a sharp decline in several of the leading Rupert Montagu and I both joined the Board in technology stocks in April.
Our investment team led by January2007 and Rupert has decided to retire at our Ben Rogoff had a challenging year, but I am pleased to forthcoming AGM in September.
With his venture capital report a 1% increase in Net Asset Value NAV versus a background he has in his words found some of the decline of 0.1% in our benchmark.
In local currency terms increased corporate governance tedious and unnecessary, most markets were down slightly over our financial year, but he has made a huge contribution to our investment but a 4.7% decline in Sterling versus the US Dollar debates and we will miss his sage advice.
He and his family provided us with a fortuitous tailwind.
The seemingly are moving to Northern California and on behalf of the pedestrian performance of the past year should be viewed whole Board we all wish them well for this next chapter in against the 30.7% increase in our NAV the year before, and their lives.
Peter Hames has accepted the Boards invitation our longer term performance versus the benchmark is to become the Senior Independent Director following positive over all periods in the last 6 years.
Regulation As a FTSE 250 company we are mindful of Board tenure, Staff at the regulators must enjoy acronyms as we now succession planning, and particularly diversity, in age, have a new one to add to AIFM, FATCA, MAD and MiFID experience, gender and background, and we will be 1and 2.
After long consultations since 2011 the latest looking to appoint an additional new Director.
As I have model to roll off the EU production line is MAR: Market reported to shareholders previously the Directors Abuse Regulation which came into effect on 3July2016.
consider that having Brian Ashford-Russell on the Board MAR replaces MAD Market Abuse Directive and is helpful given his long experience of technology introduces greater regulation regarding insider dealing, investing and market cycles despite his length of service the definition and disclosure of insider information, and and his connection with our Investment Manager.
Brian stricter rules and regulations of PDMRs Persons has always indicated to me his willingness to step down Discharging Managerial Responsibility.
Fortunately our from the Board at any time should his co-directors wish.
management company has kept us up to date with how to comply with this increased regulation.
MiFID 2 has been postponed for a year, and is now expected to be enacted in January 2018, although it is already having aneffect on the quality and quantity of research provided bystockbrokers.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 06 Looking at the performance of developed equity markets, Manager Presentation and AGM I have been amazed at how well companies have adapted The AGM will again take place in the elegant to change during a period of internet driven deflation and surroundings of the Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, oversupply of goods and services.
We are now over London at 2.30pm on 9 September followed by tea, 7years into this stretched bull market, mainly supported and I urge shareholders not to miss this event.
As usual by Central Bank largesse rather than rising GDP growth.
our manager, Ben Rogoff, will give shareholders a There has been no shortage of uncertainty for markets presentation which provides a fascinating insight into to climb the proverbial wall of worry but the unexpected the development and impact of new technologies and referendum result adds a new dimension particularly for allows shareholders to ask Ben questions as well as the UK and Europe.
The increased level of volatility in meet him and his team after the meeting.
A video of the both currency and equity markets may endure for some presentation will be placed on the Companys website time given the current political and economic shortly after the AGM.
The formal business of the AGM is uncertainty, combined with a potentially lengthy and contained in a separate circular and also on our website, bitter divorce from the EU, and a possible break up of along with my explanation of the resolutions.
I would like the United Kingdom.
For your Trust, the near term to thank all shareholders who voted for the continuation consequences are less serious as our exposure to UK of the Company at last years AGM, where 99% of the and European technology stocks is very small and the votes cast, were in favour, a record level and we look circa 10% fall in Sterling versus the Dollar has tended forward to the future withconfidence.
to compensate for the decline in the prices of US tech stocks.
Investment trust discounts tend to widen with Outlook investment anxiety and the Board will monitor events The overblown promise and excitement of how technology closely.
Our management team have a good record in would transform our lives during the turn of the century difficult markets in the past, and so feel confident they TMT boom is now turning into reality 16 years later.
can ride out any storms that lie ahead.
Without an online offering few businesses can survive, and the disruption to well established industries by the My thanks to my fellow Directors for their patience and rapid roll-outs from Silicon Valley are self-evident.
support, to Ben and all the talented members of his tech Undoubtedly the spread of smart phone technology and team, and the whole support team at Polar for steering us its many applications is a huge benefit to young price through a difficult year where there appeared to be more conscious consumers but for investors there are many snakes than ladders.
Similar to the formation of oil, railroads, and telephone companies it is apparent that we are in the middle of a massive winner takes all land grab that John D Rockefeller would approve of, so the likes of Michael Moule Google, Amazon and Facebook have managed to acquire or crush all opposition.
The increased efficiency of putting Chairman all records and transactions online for both businesses 4 July 2016 and individuals has sadly given rise to cybercrime where huge losses, both financial and reputational, can take years to recover.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2016 07
