CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Operating sustainably in a volatile market Dear fellow stakeholders I am pleased to report on Polymetals robust financial performance and consistent operational delivery throughout the year.
In 2016, Adjusted EBITDA grew by 15% to US$ 759 million, and underlying net earnings increased by 31% to US$ 382 million.
In the meantime, the Company delivered strong free cash flows and paid its shareholders significant dividends.
By the middle of 2016, there was an air of optimism and hope that the down-cycle in the precious metals market was finally at an end.
However, this turned out to be short-lived as the unexpected results of the US elections had a strong impact on markets and asset types across the globe towards the year-end.
Unpredictable geopolitical developments continued to drive high volatility in all of Polymetals key markets: directly in the gold and silver markets, where we sell our product, and in the oil market, a key component of our cost base, but also indirectly through the exchange rates in Russia and Kazakhstan which are closely linked to oil.
However, more recently, we have begun to see an improvement in the development of macroeconomic conditions, with exchange rates stabilising and inflation going down.
There has also been a certain relaxation in geopolitical tensions, which has led to increased investor interest in Russian assets, alongside significantly better cost and availability of debt funding.
Despite ongoing global and local challenges, Polymetal continued to deliver on its strategy in the reporting year.
We further expanded our operations into Armenia, adding another geologically and economically attractive asset to our portfolio within the Former Soviet Union, which we view as our home market.
I am also pleased to say that this was among several important steps made towards building the long-term future of the Company.
Performance in 2016 Sadly, there were four fatalities at our operations during 2016.
While this is fewer than in 2015, it is still four more than it should be.
I send my personal condolences to the families affected and the assurance that the Board and executive management are placing ever-greater focus on this matter, determined to achieve a major improvement in the health and safety of our employees in 2017 and beyond.
Our production performance across the portfolio was solid, allowing us to meet our production guidance for the fifth year in a row, notwithstanding the increased production target set in May following the acquisitions in Armenia and Kazakhstan.
Delivering on our promises has become a distinguishing feature of Polymetal in the sector.
We are fully on track with the construction of Kyzyl, our flagship development project.
We also acquired new assets during the year: Kapan and Komar through M&A activities and Nezhda through a joint venture.
At the same time, our strong operating performance and low costs enabled us both to finance these projects and to generate a meaningful free cash flow of US$ 257 million during 2016 2015: US$ 263 million.
This, in turn, allowed us to sustain a sectorleading dividend yield and provide cash returns to our shareholders through regular and special dividends while maintaining a strong balance sheet.
Our Group Chief Executive, Vitaly Nesis, expands on this and other activities in his detailed report on Polymetals operating performance on the following pages.
Dividends deliver value Polymetal continues to maintain a track record of substantial dividend payments and delivering meaningful cash returns to our shareholders.
The Company has consistently followed its dividend policy, reaffirming our commitment to capital allocation discipline and value distribution, while retaining flexibility to invest in attractive projects.
In 2016, dividend payouts totaled US$ 158 million and the dividend yield over the last 5 years has averaged 4.1%.
The Board proposes a final dividend for 2016 of US$ 0.18 per share subject to approval at the AGM, in May 2017.
This was underpinned by healthy free cash flow generation in both 2016 and 2015, which remains a key differentiator for Polymetal.
We remain fully committed to translating this into cash returns for our investors.
Polymetal International plc 5 The year ahead Given Polymetals track record, I am confident that the strength of our operating performance will enable us to deliver on our production plans for 2017 and make good progress with our project pipeline for the ambitious future growth of the Company.
At all of our operating mines, particularly given the increased proportion of underground mining, there will be a greater focus on health and safety issues.
The dedicated Safety and Sustainability Committee, formed in 2015, has already started a broader review of safety and other environmental, social and governance ESG matters.
These challenges, faced by every company in our sector, are a priority and the Board will ensure that they are addressed effectively.
On a strategic level, we will concentrate our efforts on progressing with the construction of Kyzyl within the approved budget and timeline.
We will also continue to explore other strategic opportunities within the Former Soviet Union, such as the recently formed joint venture for the development of the Nezhda deposit.
The Board remains committed to ensuring prudent liquidity management and a sound approach to leverage while maintaining cash returns to our shareholders in the continuing complex macro-economic environment.
Attractive investment opportunity Within its sector, Polymetal is a remarkable example of a company that is both able to acquire and explore attractive investment opportunities, and deliver on them.
Our set of strategic competitive strengths is unparalleled: selective mining, processing refractory ores, trading precious metals concentrates and in-depth knowledge of the precious metals mining space in the Former Soviet Union.
Together, these allow us to select individually attractive assets whether large, high grade, synergistic or a suitable combination and then leverage these strengths for future growth.
We have ambitious growth plans, projecting 40% production growth by 2020 combined with strong cash flow generation from existing mines, which should allow us to pay dividends to shareholders throughout the cycle.
This is backed by our strong track record of meeting, and often exceeding, our operating and cost guidance, as well as the excellence of our project execution.
As Chairman of the Polymetal Board, I commend the dedication and skills of the management and employees of the Company and their contribution to the outstanding success of the business during 2016.
With their continued support, we look forward to another year of delivering consistent growth and value creation.
Bobby Godsell Chairman Polymetal International plc 6
