Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION OVERVIEW STRATEGY I am delighted to present the Polypipe During 2016 the key objectives of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Board were: following a record year for the Group.
{ Developing our ventilation business Despite the economic and political while realising synergies in our uncertainty in the weeks and months integration of Nuaire into the Group following the EU Referendum in June I would like to record both the Boards { Commencing manufacturing in the and my own personal thanks to Peter 2016, our end markets continued to Middle East region perform well, with the Group growing for his significant contribution to { Prioritising selected development and making Polypipe the successful Group UK revenue considerably ahead of the acquisition opportunities, whilst the UK construction market and delivering that it is today, and wish him well in his Group rapidly reduces leverage retirement.
Martin Payne was appointed significantly improved profits.
As well { Launch a long-term incentive as managing this growth, the Group Group CFO following Peters retirement programme LTIP for senior managers and both I and my Board colleagues has also completed a number of key to align their interests with those of projects in the period, most notably have been impressed and encouraged shareholders by the significant impact he has made in successfully commissioning our new 3.6m manufacturing plant in the Middle Excellent progress was made against a relatively short period of time, at the these objectives during 2016.
Board table, within the Group businesses, East, and completing the integration of our newly acquired Nuaire business into and with advisers and shareholders.
In addition to our ongoing initiatives, His personal qualities and extensive the Polypipe Group.
Martin Payne joined in 2017 our attention will be focussed the Board as Chief Financial Officer in experience in manufacturing and building upon: materials together with his plc experience May 2016, with a seamless transition { Targeting investment to support following Peter Shepherds retirement.
give me confidence that he can the continued growth of our main contribute significantly to the continued The Group achieved a further notable businesses milestone in the year with promotion to growth and success of Polypipe in the { Continued investigation of acquisition future.
the FTSE 250 index on 29 January 2016. opportunities The Group issued invitations to join a RESULTS { Investigation and development of second SAYE scheme during the year Performance throughout 2016 has been new export markets which was well received, resulting in very strong with a 23.8% increase in 38% of our employees investing in the PEOPLE revenue or 9.1% on a like for like basis Company through the scheme.
I was excluding acquisitions and at constant The outstanding effort and commitment particularly pleased to note the excellent currency.
UK like for like revenue growth of our employees continues to be the take up within Nuaire of 37%, which of 10.5% was significantly ahead of the primary driver of the Companys success is a good indicator of the strength of market and resulted from strong growth and their hard work has resulted in commitment from the employees within in the UK Commercial and Infrastructure our record performance during 2016. this newly acquired company, suggesting sector and improving performance in I have been able to spend time visiting to me that there is already a good level the UK Residential sector in the second sites and meeting employees at our of understanding and support of the half of the year.
This like for like growth UK and European production facilities Groups overall objectives.
together with a full year contribution and continue to be impressed by the from our Nuaire acquisition which knowledge and enthusiasm of our SUMMARY continues to perform to expectations, people across the Group.
Managing Once again, the Group has made resulted in UK revenue growth of 25.3% those facilities effectively is critical to the significant progress during 2016 overall.
Underlying operating margins success of the Group, and it is clear to me on all fronts.
The excellent revenue improved further to a record 15.9% and that the strength in depth of our senior performance in the year is testament underlying diluted earnings per share management is a key differentiator, with to the strength of the growth drivers increased by 28.9% to 25.0p.
Another each business unit being managed by on which the Groups strategy is based, year of strong cash generation saw the enthusiastic, focussed and experienced namely legacy material substitution, Group beat its net debt target, delivering management teams.
Our track record of tailwinds from both water management on our commitment to deleverage after filling a good balance of our vacancies and carbon reduction legislation, the Nuaire acquisition in August 2015. from within is evidence of our investment and development of selective export into the development of our employees markets.
With a focus on investment DIVIDEND at all levels and this breadth and depth into engineered solutions to meet We have again maintained our dividend of expertise and experience leave us well those needs, a strong and dedicated policy and I am pleased to recommend placed to support business growth for senior management team, committed a final dividend of 7.0 pence per share the longer term.
workforce, and a clear strategy, I am making 10.1 pence per share for the confident that the Group will continue to Peter Shepherd retired at the 2016 year ended 31 December 2016, a 29.5% thrive during 2017.
AGM having been Group Chief Financial increase on the prior year.
Officer during its prior ownership and transformation into a public company.
