Chairmans statement Paul Manduca A well balanced business creating value for customers and shareholders I am pleased to introduce Prudentials 2016 Annual Report.
The Company has once again produced a strong set of results over a year of great change and challenge.
Mike Wells has made substantial progress in his first full year as Group Chief Executive and, while economic and political events across the globe bring uncertainty to our operating environment, we will continue to focus on building a sustainable business by providing our customers around the world with quality products and services.
Global context these benefits, the Board also ensures it The stability we have created at Board level engages with our regulators and wider civil has enabled us to continue to strengthen 2016 was a year that saw volatile markets in society to promote the interests of our our governance framework for example, China, the UKs decision to leave the customers more broadly.
by building closer relationships between European Union and a change of our material subsidiary boards and the plc administration in the US.
Performance and dividend Board, with regular communication Against that backdrop, Prudential has Despite the challenging global established between the newly appointed demonstrated that we have the right environment, Prudential has delivered material subsidiary board, Risk and Audit strategy, management team, geographic another strong operating and financial Committee Chairs and their Group mix and business diversity to succeed.
Our performance, driven in particular by our counterparts.
robust governance and decision-making Asian operations.
processes have enabled us to react swiftly Our shareholders and The Board has decided to increase the to the unexpected and unpredictable.
stakeholders full-year ordinary dividend by 12 per cent With strong customer propositions in the A well governed company engages to 43.5 pence per share, reflecting our UK, Asia and the US, our business is regularly and effectively with its strong 2016 financial performance and our well balanced and well placed to thrive.
At Prudential, we have an confidence in the future prospects of the active programme of engagement.
It is Most importantly, it is during times of great Group.
In line with this, the Directors have important to us that we hear the views of uncertainty that Prudential adds most approved a second interim ordinary our investors and have an open and value for our customers.
We look to dividend of 30.57 pence per share constructive dialogue with them.
As provide financial peace of mind to 2015: 26.47 pence per share.
In 2015, a Chairman, I have found this regular customers, whatever the external special dividend of 10 pence per share was engagement particularly helpful and environment.
Our expertise in reducing also awarded.
receiving shareholders input has ensured risk allows customers to plan for the future high-quality and well informed Board with confidence: whether by protecting Governance discussions.
them against ill health in Asia, helping them In order to keep the promises we make to save for retirement in the UK or managing our customers Prudential needs to be Regulators and policymakers remain their retirement income in the United well run, which means it must display important stakeholders for Prudential, and States.
The capital we generate from these robust governance in supporting an have a legitimate interest in how we treat activities then allows us to invest in outstanding executive team.
While this our customers and run our business.
companies across the globe, driving has long been the focus of our Board, Prudential engages regularly with our economic activity and growth.
All of this is policymakers have continued to highlight regulators around the world and we place possible because the Board is focused on the importance of effective governance.
great importance on having an effective building a sustainable business.
This focus We welcomed Anne Richards as Chief relationship with those who supervise us ensures we are able to keep the vital Executive of M&G in June 2016.
The Chair and our markets.
Our customers interests promises that we have made to our of our Audit Committee, Ann Godbehere, are best served when we work customers.
is in her ninth year of service, and hence constructively with our regulators.
will not stand for re-election at this years Customers have been at the heart of AGM.
Ann has been a valuable asset to the Prudential for 168 years.
It is by serving all Board and we are most grateful for her our customers well that we are able to contribution and wise counsel.
We are generate strong returns for our delighted that David Law will be taking shareholders, provide rewarding roles for over as Audit Committee Chair from the our people and invest in our local next AGM.
Alongside acknowledging 2 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
