PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2016 01 chairmans letter to shareholders dear shareholder, We are committed to creating I am pleased to report a steady set of results for the year ended 31 May 2016 and the completion of several strategic business sustainable value for all.
The Board is focused on the Despite a very difficult trading environment in our largest principles of good governance market Nigeria and the impact of weaker currencies in Asia and Africa, we have finished the year with revenue flat and profit and being Good4Business.
only slightly lower than last year.
Performances in our European region and newly acquired Australian food businesses have been particularly pleasing, helping to rebalance the Groups profits and offset foreign exchange impacts.
We have also completed a three year business transformation programme to move to a new operating model and gone live with Eagle, our SAP-enabled transformation programme, in Asia.
our Board The Board is committed to the principles of good governance, particularly as set out in the Financial Reporting Councils 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
This provides an effective framework for how the Board should discharge its responsibilities in respect of leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and communication with Shareholders, and how the business is governed through the Audit and Risk, Remuneration, Nomination and Good4Business Committees.
During the year I announced that I will be retiring from my position as Chairman on 31 December 2016.
Caroline Silver, Non-executive Director, will take over the post of Chair from 1January 2017.
John Nicolson also joined the Board as a new Non-executive Director in May 2016. dividend & outlook The Board is pleased to declare a further increase in the full year dividend, marking 43 consecutive years that we have increased our dividend year-on-year.
The Groups balance sheet remains strong and gives us the flexibility to take advantage of new investment opportunities to evolve the Groups portfolio as they arise.
The following pages discuss in more detail the Boards various activities during the year, explaining the different roles of the principal standing committees and how we govern our business.
richard harvey Chairman 6803 PZ Cussons PLC AR16 GOVERNANCE Text pages TP2.
