Chairmans statement The next chapter forQinetiQ Key highlights FY16 Performance Solid operating performance in challenging markets Board appointments Steve Wadey appointed as CEO Lynn Brubaker appointed as Non-executive Director Defining QinetiQs futuredirection Set out a vision and strategy Capital allocation policy published Shareholder returns 6% increase in full year dividend 150m capital return completed 50m buyback announced in November 2015, 47m remains to be completed FY Financial year to 31 March.
Results FY17 outlook Employees and leadership In a year that marked the tenth anniversary The UK Governments Strategic Defence and On 27 April 2015, the Board was delighted of QinetiQs listing on the London Stock Security Review has brought clarity to key to appoint Steve Wadey as CEO.
We were Exchange, it was appropriate that we defence programmes but will require further looking for an outstanding leader with a track embarked on the next chapter as a publiclysavings to be delivered from ongoing defence record of driving growth, a deep understanding listed company.
During the year, we transformation.
This will provide future of the defence sector and the technological appointed Steve Wadey as our new Chief opportunities for EMEA Services to build know-how to lead our people: Steve met all Executive Officer CEO, set out a vision and on its strong record of delivering more for these criteria.
strategy for QinetiQ and delivered a solid less, whilst recognising that in the short term operating performance in challenging markets.
there will continue to be uncertainty and the Steve was attracted to the role by the potential for interruptions to order flow.
expertise of our employees who are held In the year to 31 March 2016, orders grew Although revenue under contract for FY17 in high regard across industry.
In an 8% to 659.8m 2015: 613.6m, Group is slightly below that of a year ago, the environment where we are witnessing revenue was 755.7m 2015: 763.8m, and divisions performance as a whole is increasing security threats, many of which underlying operating profit was 108.9m expected to remain steady this year.
can only be met through innovative thinking, 2015: 111.3m.
Full year underlying there is strong demand for this expertise: we earnings per share were 16.3p 2015: 15.2p.
The Groups Global Products division has would like to thank employees across QinetiQ Total Group profit after tax was 106.1m shorter order cycles than EMEA Services.
for their hard work and dedication this year.
Underlying operating At the beginning of the financial year, FY17 cash conversion remained strong at 96% revenue under contract was slightly above Steves first move as CEO was to establish 2015: 103% with net cash increasing that of a year ago, but the performance a Leadership Community QinetiQ, bringing to 274.5m 2015: 195.5m.
of Global Products remains dependent on together the top 100 leaders every month for the timing and shipment of key orders.
I have seen first-hand how this community is contributing to the future Overall, the Boards expectations for Group direction of the company and would like performance this financial year remain to put on record my appreciation for this unchanged.
04 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Not only are our leaders accountable for A 150m share buyback, which Current Board driving business performance, they also commenced on 28 May 2014, following the ensure that we are behaving responsibly to disposal of US Services, was completed by Committee members the benefit of all our stakeholders so that 30 September 2015 with 72.5m shares we operate safely, uphold strong governance, purchased in total.
In November 2015, Page 58 support environmental stewardship of the we were pleased to be able to announce sites which we operate, and invest in our a further 50m share repurchase, of which Audit Committee local communities.
Paul Murray, Committee Chairman Lynn Brubaker Customers Strategy Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent Over the last year, this new leadership team Strategic growth, balanced with capital Michael Harper has injected great energy and fresh thinking discipline, is the top priority we have set as Ian Mason to accelerate our transformation to a more a Board this year and the mandate we gave Susan Searle customer-focused company.
Achieving our to Steve on his appointment.
The Board has ambition of becoming the chosen partner been actively engaged in the development Nominations Committee will require a relentless focus on continuing of a revised strategy for QinetiQ and fully to meet our customers needs in both Mark Elliott, Committee Chairman endorses the future direction.
We are defence and commercial markets.
There is Lynn Brubaker encouraged by the progress that has been much more to do, but QinetiQs customer Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent made this year and will continue to support the satisfaction scores remain strong, so we Michael Harper leadership team with the successful delivery have a good foundation to build on.
Ian Mason and implementation of strategic priorities.
Paul Murray Shareholders Susan Searle The Board Along with customers and employees, Steve Wadey The other priorities we have set as a Board shareholders are key stakeholders in QinetiQ are succession planning and ensuring the Remuneration Committee as the owners of the company.
We would effective stewardship of QinetiQ through like to thank our investors for their continued appropriate governance processes and Michael Harper, Committee Chairman support this year and for their constructive systems of control.
The Board recognises Lynn Brubaker dialogue, particularly during the CEO transition.
that good governance is fundamental to Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent the successful delivery of our strategy as it Mark Elliott We are clear that continued capital discipline ensures the continued support of customers, Ian Mason underpins growing, sustainable returns and employees and other key stakeholders.
Paul Murray that unlocking QinetiQs unrealised potential This year has seen an external evaluation of Susan Searle requires focused investment in growth.
the effectiveness of the Board and details Risk & CSR Committee In recognition of this, our priorities for can be found on page 61. capital allocation are: organic investment Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, complemented by bolt-on acquisitions In January 2016 we announced the Committee Chairman where there is a strong strategic fit, the appointment of Lynn Brubaker as a NonLynn Brubaker maintenance of balance sheet strength, executive Director.
Lynn has spent her career Mark Elliott a progressive dividend, and the return of in the aerospace industry, culminating in Michael Harper excess cash to shareholders.
her appointment as Vice President and Ian Mason General Manager of Commercial Aerospace David Mellors The Board proposes a final dividend of 3.8p at Honeywell International.
Her international Paul Murray per share for the year ended 31 March 2016 experience is particularly relevant to QinetiQ Susan Searle 2015: 3.6p, making the full year dividend and we were pleased to welcome her to Steve Wadey 5.7p 2015: 5.4p.
Subject to approval at the the Board.
Annual General Meeting, the final dividend Security Committee will be paid on 2 September 2016 to I would like to thank Board members for Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, shareholders on the register at 5 August the support they have given me this year.
The full year dividend represents an Michael Harper increase of 6%, reflecting our commitment Mark Elliott Ian Mason to a progressive dividend.
Non-executive Chairman David Mellors 26 May 2016 Paul Murray Susan Searle Steve Wadey D efinitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 149.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 05
