Strategic report Chairmans letter Delivering long-term sustainable growth Financial performance Dear shareholder The Group had a solid year with Group Ranks strategy is to achieve revenue growth of 2%.
Group operating long-term sustainable growth for profit grew by 4%, after adjusting by the Group through the following 4.8m to reflect the additional five five strategic pillars: months of Remote Gaming Duty RGD incurred in the year.
1. create a compelling multi-channel offer Our digital brands continued to grow 2. build a strong digital capability revenue strongly, up 11%: however our 3. continue to develop our venues venues suffered from a particularly weak Q4 resulting in disappointing revenue 4. invest in our brands and marketing growth of 1%.
5. use technology to drive operating efficiency and improve Adjusted earnings per share was up 5% our customer experience in the year to 15.40 pence.
The Group continues to make good progress towards its strategic objectives with 2015 16 being a year of investment for future growth.
More detail on progress made in 2015 16 is outlined on pages 15 to 25.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 6 More information Operating responsibly 37 Rank remains in a strong financial Governance 47 position, possesses market-leading brands and has a clear strategy for long-term growth.
National Living Wage Board changes Recognising the contribution of our On 1 September 2015, Susan Hooper This will take the full-year dividend to 6.50pence per share, a 16% increase employees, the Group decided to award was appointed to the Rank board all employees, irrespective of age, the as a non-executive director.
The Groups dividend cover has as a result reduced to 2.4 times from new National Living Wage.
Grosvenor serves on the remuneration and Casinos implemented the increase from nominations committees.
January 2016, three months earlier than On 30 November 2015, Tim Scoble, Finally, the board and I would like required, with Mecca from 1 April 2016. non-executive director, stood down to thank all of the Groups 10,700 The introduction of the National from the Rank board.
Tims other employees for their continued Living Wage resulted in 1.4m of commitments had grown substantially passion and dedication in exciting additional operating costs for the year, in the months preceding and hence he and entertaining our customers.
In both concluded he must relinquish some of Current trading and outlook Mecca and Grosvenor Casinos, mitigating his responsibilities.
I would like to thank Trading in the short seven-week period actions have been implemented and will Tim for his invaluable contribution to 14 August 2016 has been positive and continue to be worked through during whilst on the Rank board.
in line with managements expectations.
2016 17 in preparation for the next On 1 March 2016, Steven Esom increase which comes into effect Rank is predominantly a UK-facing was appointed to the Rank board as a from April 2017. business with limited exposure to non-executive director.
Steven was also non-sterling costs and earnings.
The Taxation appointed chair of Ranks remuneration UKs decision to leave the European Union From 1 December 2014, RGD at 15% was committee and serves on its audit and is expected to have little or no direct applied to all online gambling revenues nominations committees.
Any generated by customers in the UK.
The Dividend likely impact would however be driven incremental cost to the Group in 2015 16 The board targets a progressive and by the macro-economic impact of lower was 4.8m.
This dividend UK growth rates or loss of consumer Management team changes policy reflects the strong cash flow confidence and spending power.
At the end of 2015 16, Mark Jones characteristics and long-term earnings Rank remains in a strong financial left the Group after serving seven years, potential of the Group, whilst allowing position, possesses market-leading initially as managing director of Mecca it to retain sufficient capital to fund brands and has a clear strategy for and latterly as managing director of ongoing operating requirements, long-term growth.
I would like to take investment and balance sheet this opportunity to thank Mark for his management.
The board is pleased Ian Burke tremendous contribution to Rank over to recommend a final dividend of Chairman the seven years.
A search is underway 4.70 pence per share to be paid on 22 August 2016 to select a new managing director for 20October2016 to shareholders on Grosvenor Casinos.
