Chairmans statement We therefore decided to initiate a member consultation to close the schemes to future accrual.
Since closure generates a short term increase in our regulatory capital requirements, we undertook a share placing raising 36.9 million, net of placement costs.
Thesefunds are retained on our balance sheet.
Our strategy In 2014, the board approved an ambitious medium term strategic plan, which did not change or dilute our core discretionary investment management model, but sought to add strategic growth initiatives.
One such initiative was the establishment of the Rathbone Private Office serving clients at the higher end of the wealth spectrum.
A second was the enhancement of our distribution capability to position ourselves more favourably with the professional intermediary market, whilst a third, more recent, initiative has been to expand our financial planning service.
The aim of all of these initiatives is to Overview of 2016 meet the demands of both existing and prospective clients for a After a nervous start to 2016, the FTSE 100 performed more comprehensive range of services complementary to pure increasingly strongly as the year progressed, largely reflecting investment management.
the impact of a sharp fall in sterling after the EU referendum vote.
This vote, and the Trump victory in the US, are perhaps The board remains well aware that delivery of these initiatives examples of events that Harold Macmillan was alleged to have imposes demands on our people and impacts upon our been fearful of.
Nevertheless, the recovery in the second half had profitability and financial resources.
These pressures are kept a favourable impact on our financial performance, helping our under continuous review to ensure that we do not undermine total funds under management to grow by 17.1% to 34.2 billion.
our profitability or increase risk unnecessarily.
For investors though, the full ramifications of these events, and the possibility of further political change to come, have still to Culture, governance and the board play out.
One of my priorities this year has been to ensure board oversight of the firms culture and its development.
As a first stage, the In February 2017, we moved our London office from Curzon board worked with the executive committee to establish a Street to Finsbury Circus.
This move will not only manage our balanced assessment of our current culture.
This assessment property expenditure going forward, but will also enable our was then debated with the executive committee at our strategy growing headcount in London to remain under one roof.
The culture of the firm is healthy in most respects, Profit before tax for 2016 reflects the full impact of acquisition particularly in terms of our professionalism, putting clients first and head office relocation costs of 13.0 million, so at and integrity.
It was also recognised that even though the right 50.1 million represents a fall of 14.5% on the 58.6 million tone must be set at the top, there is a need to continue to earned in 2015.
Accordingly, earnings per share of 78.9p fell cascade this throughout the organisation through a 19.0%, also reflecting the impact of the placing in the last quarter combination of strong leadership, inspiring role models of the year.
Underlying profit before tax was 74.9 million for the year The board has formed initial views on what our target culture ended 31 December 2016, up 6.4% from the previous year should be and the nature of the management information we and representing a profit margin of 29.8% 2015: 30.7%.
need to monitor our cultural development.
Metrics and other This translates into underlying earnings per share of 122.1p information will be collated and reviewed by the conduct risk for 2016, up 4.4% on the 117.0p last year.
committee in the first instance and a report will be presented to the board quarterly.
This will provide useful background, but will The board is recommending a final dividend of 36p per share, be supplemented by the direct personal experiences of directors which brings the total dividend for the year to 57p per share, both executive and non-executive as they engage with the an increase of 3.6% over last year.
Particularly in times of change, I believe that it is very In October 2016, the board concluded that we could not important that all directors are close enough to the pulse of a continue to tolerate the risks of the open-ended pension fund business to ensure the best aspects of a culture are promoted.
obligations of our legacy defined benefit pension schemes.
6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 Strategic report During the year, in addition to regulatory matters, the board Remuneration paid particular attention to the progress of our strategic growth The report from the chairman of the remuneration committee, initiatives referred to above, the bedding-in of management David Harrel, is set out on page 60.
All executive directors have structures put in place last year, the volatility associated with our clear objectives, both corporate and personal.
At the beginning defined benefit pension schemes and the financial implications of 2017, a new remuneration scheme was introduced for of our London office move.
The last of these included the investment managers throughout the firm.
The scheme adverse impact of the Brexit vote on the availability of contains a larger performance element to encourage  tenants for our existing space in Curzon Street.
taking and organic growth, balanced by a more direct link to We have also discussed how we operate as a board and the performance against risk and compliance standards.
interaction between executive and non-executive directors as well as considering both management and non-executive Employees succession plans, which remain a work in progress.
The high quality of our employees is a major differentiator for us In November, we announced that Paul Chavasse was stepping and they are the most valuable asset of our firm.
They are always down as an executive director.
The responsibilities of Pauls role a pleasure to work with at all levels and I take great pride in the as head of investment have been split among the executive unsolicited, positive feedback I receive from clients about their team.
The board would like to thank Paul for his very significant dealings with the firm.
contribution to Rathbones over the 15 years he has been with the firm.
As the former chief operating officer and head of Shareholders investment, Paul has played a very important part in helping to We are fortunate to have a number of positively engaged steer the company through a period of growth and success and institutional shareholders with a significant investment in we wish him well for the future.
Both my executive colleagues and I welcome opportunities to talk to shareholders and we will continue to David Harrel, senior independent director and chairman of our remuneration committee, is standing down at this years AGM maintain a regular and constructive dialogue with them.
The board has benefited hugely from Outlook Davids wisdom and sense of humour.
I am particularly grateful for his advice when reshaping the board appropriately for the In spite of continuing political and economic uncertainties, we challenges of a changing industry.
will pursue our planned strategic growth initiatives and continue to take advantage of growth opportunities in the sector.
We also had a helpful and positive board effectiveness review carried out this year.
Details of this can be found in the corporate governance report set out on page 57.
Mark Nicholls Chairman Risks 22 February 2017 The report from the chairman of the group risk committee, Kathryn Matthews, is set out on page 80.
We continue to enhance our risk management framework.
Particular attention is being given to identifying and monitoring emerging risks such as cyber crime, money laundering and data theft.
We remain vigilant to risks associated with our defined benefit pension schemes and subletting our existing space in Curzon Street.
Beyond this, we believe that other significant risks to our business are operational risks that arise from growth and regulatory risks that may arise from continual changes to rules and standards in our sector.
Maintaining our regulatory standards has always been a high priority for our senior management and is highlighted in the personal objectives of the executive directors.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2016 7
