8 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements An important year Chairmans This was an important year for RB.
One of the Boards top priorities has been absorbing the lessons from the tragic events in South Korea Statement surrounding humidifier sanitisers HS, and Oxy RBs involvement in this industry-wide issue.
Oxy RB has expressed their sincere apologies to all individuals and their families who have suffered from lung injury as a result of the HS issue.
Consumer safety is the Groups fundamental priority.
Developments in South Korea as described on pages 14 to 15 caused both management and the Board to review the Our review in September once Groups quality, compliance and safety procedures.
We have established a new again confirmed that the strategy Board committee, chaired by Pamela Kirby, to support the Board in fulfilling its duty was working well and that the focus to safeguard and advance RBs reputation for responsible and sustainable corporate on Health and Hygiene positions us conduct.
In addition, we have brought together our consumer safety, health and for further outperformance.
safety, quality, compliance and sustainability functions into a single team.
The objective is to further strengthen our safety, quality and Adrian Bellamy compliance culture, and to drive continuous Chairman improvement in these critical areas.
The Board has also engaged law firm Linklaters LLP to advise the Board on the Groups management of the HS and related safety issues.
Business performance Performance was affected by the HS issue and by weak conditions in key markets such as Russia.
Even so, our successful strategy delivered Revenue growth that compared favourably with our peers and Profit growth that was well ahead of the industry.
Total Net Revenue rose by 11%, which equated to a 3% increase on a like-for-like basis.
Reported Operating Profit was up 8% in actual currency and down 3% in constant currency terms.
Adjusted Operating Profit rose 17% in actual currency and 6% in constant currency, resulting in a 130bps increase in our Adjusted Operating Margin.
Reported Diluted Earnings Per Share were up 6% to 256.5 pence, while Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share were 17% higher at 302.0 pence.
Our Profit growth enables us to reward Shareholders through rising dividends.
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 95.0 pence per share, up 7%.
When added to the interim dividend of 58.2 pence per share, this gives a total dividend for the year of 153.2 pence per share, an increase of 10%.
Subject to Shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 25 May 2017 to Shareholders on the register on 18 April 2017.
RB is a highly cash generative business and we continued to use surplus free cash flow to buy back shares, with the aim of keeping our net debt broadly constant.
In 2016, these buybacks totalled 802 million.
This policy leaves us with a healthy Balance Sheet, while retaining the financial strength we need to implement our strategy.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB As a business, we are resolutely focused on Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 9 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements outperformance and it is pleasing to see this We remain focused on succession planning and reflected in our Total Shareholder Return TSR, regularly review the composition of the Board Board which shows the increase in the share price and its committees.
In July 2016 a new assuming dividends are reinvested.
Since we Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics achievements adopted our current strategy in 2012, RB has and Compliance Committee was established delivered a TSR of 153%, compared with the see Board achievements.
We have also approved changes to our The right strategy committees.
Andr Lacroix will become The Board formally reviews RBs strategy each Chairman of the Audit Committee from the New Board year.
Our review in September once again conclusion of the Companys AGM.
Ken Hydon confirmed that the strategy was working well will step down as Chairman but will remain a committee and that the focus on Health and Hygiene member of the Committee to support Andr in positions us for further outperformance.
Mary Harris will move from the The new Corporate Audit Committee to the Remuneration Responsibility, Sustainability, During the year, we invested US$50 million to Committee following the conclusion of the Ethics and Compliance acquire a stake of around 1% in China AGM and transition to the role of Chair of that Committee has a key role in Resources Pharmaceutical Group CRP.
CRP is Committee on 1 November 2017.
Judy Sprieser reviewing, monitoring and Chinas largest manufacturer of over-thewill remain on the Remuneration Committee to counter OTC drugs.
While the investment is support Mary in her new role.
I would like to assessing our approach to small in the context of RB, it opens up some thank Ken and Judy for their many years of these critical issues.
interesting strategic possibilities for us.
We service as Chairs of their respective committees.
have signed a non-binding memorandum of See more on pages 74-75 understanding with CRP, which will see us More information about RBs approach to explore ways to cooperate with respect to corporate governance and the Boards activities certain designated OTC medicines, medical during the year can be found in my Statement devices and healthcare products in the on pages 60 to 61 and in the full Corporate Chinese market.
Governance Statement on pages 62 to 67.
RBs betterbusiness strategy recognises that A culture of outperformance long-term success depends as much on As this Annual Report explains, RBs unique meeting our obligations to society and the culture is one of the most important environment as it does to strong financial contributors to its success.
We further improved our people hungry to achieve more and frees their environmental performance in 2016 and entrepreneurial instincts, while encouraging continued with our social programmes, which them to work in partnership and act as if they support our business purpose by helping own the business.
This drives us on to do better people benefit from better health and hygiene.
for consumers, customers and Shareholders.
The Mead Johnson acquisition: Our approach to reward is a fundamental part A good strategic fit of this culture.
While average performance On 10 February 2017, RB announced that leads to average reward, we give our people Board highlights an agreement has been signed to acquire the chance to earn exceptional long-term Mead Johnson for US$16.6 billion.
The reward for exceptional long-term performance.
from 2016 acquisition of Mead Johnson is aligned with RBs well-established strategic focus on AGM resolutions Reviewed the Groups strategy growing in consumer health and on investing in The AGM is on 4 May 2017 and the resolutions Reappraised the Groups risks Powerbrands with attractive growth prospects.
that Shareholders will vote on are fully Considered the Viability Statement RB already reaches millions of mothers through explained in the Notice of Meeting.
Offsite visit by Board to China as part its hygiene education programmes and, of the Strategy Review, which included: through world-class brands such as Nurofen A General Meeting GM will be held to approve review of e-commerce platform, and Mucinex, provides parents with relief and the acquisition of Mead Johnson Nutrition.
in-depth analysis of Chinese social and reassurance when their children are unwell.
Shareholders will receive details separately.
economic issues, consumer and market This will be enhanced by Mead Johnsons deep trends, logistics and trade visits, understanding of a new mothers journey and Conclusion visit to sexual wellbeing plant and well-established relationships with healthcare The Board remains confident in RBs future.
meeting with local management professionals.
The Company has the right strategy and is Meetings with functional and strongly positioned to outperform categories operational management heads, Robust governance with robust long-term growth characteristics.
e. g. Finance, Tax, Treasury, Investor RB has strong governance and our annual Combined with our outstanding people and Relations, HR, Safety, Quality and evaluation showed that the Board and its culture of achievement, we look forward to Compliance, Supply, IT, programme committees continued to work effectively.
creating further value for all our stakeholders.
leaders and divisional heads The Boards membership was stable during Reviewed and updated corporate the year, with the only changes being the I would also like to express my personal governance policies and procedures in retirements of Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim and appreciation to my fellow Board members, connection with the EU Market Abuse Doug Tough, all of whom stepped down at to Rakesh Kapoor and his team, and to Regulation which came into force on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting everyone in RB around the world for their 3 July 2016 AGM in May.
On behalf of the Board, I thank substantial efforts during a challenging year.
External evaluation of the Board them for their contributions.
Adrian Bellamy Chairman 20 March 2017 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
