Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Chairmans statement 3 Chairmans statement Balance sheet With the majority of our debts dollar and euro denominated, net debt was 4.7bn 5.5bn on 31 December 2016, compared with 3.8bn 5.1bn last year.
Net debt EBITDA on a pensions and lease adjusted basis for 2016 was 2.2x, the same level as last year and on an unadjusted basis, it was 1.8x, also the same as last year.
Adjusted cash flow conversion was 95%, up from 94% in 2015, with capital expenditure at 4.8% of revenues.
Share buybacks During the year, we bought back shares worth 700m.
In 2017, we intend to deploy a total of 700m on share buybacks.
By February, 100m of this years total had already been completed, leaving a further 600m to be deployed during the year.
The Boards We continue to refresh the Boards.
Lisa Hook and Robert Polet retired as Non-Executive Directors following the AGMs in April Anthony Habgood 2016.
After a search by external consultants, Carol Mills and Chairman Robert MacLeod joined the Boards also in April.
Carol has nearly 30 years experience in technology companies including extensive US Board experience.
Robert is Chief Executive Officer of Johnson The gradual improvement in our Matthey, the FTSE 100 speciality chemicals company and global leader in sustainable technologies.
I would like to thank Lisa and revenue growth rate reflects the Robert for their advice and help over many years and am delighted that Carol and Robert have joined RELX Group.
progress that has been made as Corporate responsibility RELX Group has continued to Good governance is the foundation of our business.
We prioritise training on our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the guide execute well on its strategic toour corporate and individual behaviour and other key policies.
Our compliance courses are clear and engaging to ensure priorities.
employees understand how to act ethically in conducting our business: we achieve a 100% course completion rate within Our largest markets remained resilient during 2016 and we 90days of issuance.
We have a strong focus on data privacy and continued to execute against our strategic priorities aimed at security given its importance to our customers.
In the year, we achieving more predictable revenues, a higher growth profile and developed a comprehensive plan for complying with EU General improving returns.
As a result, growth of underlying revenues Data Protection Regulations coming into force in 2018, and gradually improved to 4% and underlying adjusted operating reviewed and updated internal privacy policies.
profits grew 6%, as we continued to grow revenues ahead of costs.
The mid-year reduction in the value of the pound associated with We are guided in our understanding of the role companies must the UKs decision to leave the European Union was the reason why play in furthering human rights by the UNGC, the UN Guiding sterling adjusted operating profit increased by 16% to 2,114m Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the OECD while euros adjusted operating profit increased by 3% to 2,579m.
In 2016, we published our first Modern Slavery Act Statement, available on our Constant currency adjusted earnings per share EPS grew at 8%.
homepage, to outline the steps we are taking internally, in our The devaluation of sterling was a major contributor to the growth supply chain and through research, partnerships and advocacy of adjusted EPS of 19% to 72.2p for RELX PLC while the growth in toavert slavery and human trafficking.
euro EPS was 5% to 0.880 for RELX NV.
Reported EPS increased 21% to 56.3p for RELX PLC and 1% to 0.687 for RELX NV.
By focusing on excellence in governance and compliance, as in other areas, we perform to our highest ability.
In doing so, we Dividends realise our aim to make unique contributions to society, including The other major impact of sterlings downward movement was on universal, sustainable access to information, as described in the dividends where the Boards are recommending final dividends of Corporate responsibility section of this report.
There we highlight 25.7p for RELX PLC and 0.301 for RELX NV.
This brings the total our support of the ADAM programme which applies our expertise dividends for the year to 35.95p for RELX PLC, up 21% and to in the search for missing children and the Rule of Law Impact 0.423 for RELX NV, up 5%.
Our long-term dividend policy Tracker, which we developed in 2016 to demonstrate the link remains unchanged.
between the rule of law and development.
