243977 Renewable R&A pp001-pp007 22 02 2017 15:56 Page 3 SECTION 1 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT September enabling acquisitions in the year of 78.5 million including acquisition costs.
Cash balances increased from 15.2 million to 18.7 million over the year.
The net asset value NAV per share was 100.1p as at 31 December 2016 31 December 2015: 99.0p.
Excluding the impact of the accelerated payment of an additional quarters dividend during the year, NAV per share increased 2.6p.
This increase reflects mainly a reduction in discount rates applicable to the valuation of the investment portfolio outweighing reductions in the forecast power curves.
During the year, the Company launched a second share issuance programme effective until 26 April 2017 of up to 300 million new shares, of which 92 million have been issued to date.
Ordinary shares in issue, including as a result of these offerings as well as shares issued by way of scrip dividend and as part payment of fees to the Managers, increased to approximately 833.0 million as at 31 December INTRODUCTION 2016 31 December 2015: 732.8 million.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2016 For 2016, using the methodology of the Association of report and accounts for The Renewables Infrastructure Investment Companies AIC, the Companys Ongoing Group Limited TRIG or the Company, and with the Charges Percentage was 1.10% 2015: 1.20%, reflecting holding companies and investments, the Group.
the benefits of the fixed costs spread over an expanded In 2016 the Company continued to perform well against a asset base.
challenging global political backdrop, heightened economic uncertainty, weak power prices and lower wind speeds.
The Portfolio Update cornerstones of this performance are the Companys strategy During the year TRIG invested, in aggregate, 77.7 million to invest in a high quality, predominantly operational portfolio excluding acquisition costs increasing the net generation diversified by technology and geography and the specialised capacity by 8% to 710MW across 53 projects.
Most notably, capabilities of our Managers InfraRed Capital Partners in January 2016 TRIG acquired an interest in 15 French InfraRed as Investment Manager and Renewable Energy solar parks in both mainland France as well as in Corsica, Systems RES as Operations Manager.
Total shareholder Reunion and Guadeloupe in partnership with Akuo Energy.
return was 9.3% on a NAV basis and 15.7% on a share price In the second half of the year, TRIG acquired an interest in basis, compared to a total return of 6.7% for the FTSE-250 another solar park in the South of France also alongside Index of which TRIG is a constituent and 16.8% for the Akuo Energy and bought out some third party minority broader FTSE-All Share Index.
interests in the main Akuo portfolio, furthering the companies collaboration.
In November, TRIG acquired a FINANCIAL RESULTS AND Scottish wind farm Freasdail under construction from RES, the Companys Operations Manager, under its right of first PERFORMANCE offer agreement.
Financial Results TRIGs annual electricity production increased by 9.2% in Profit before tax for the year to 31 December 2016 was 2016 to 1,469 GWh including an allocation for 67.9 million 2015: 17.0 million and earnings per share compensated downtime, reflecting the increase in the were 8.8p 2015: 3.0p, reflecting mainly an uplift in the generating portfolio.
Total portfolio production was 9.3% portfolio valuation.
Cash received from the portfolio by way below P50 forecasts for the year 2015: 2.3% above.
The of distributions, which include dividends, interest and loan main driver of this shortfall was wind resource, with grid repayments, was 59.5 million 2015: 42.4 million.
After availability also having an adverse impact.
costs, net cash inflows from the investment portfolio were 50.3 million 2015: 34.0 million as measured under the Wind speeds in the UK were significantly below the longExpanded Basis see Section 2.6 for further details.
Cash term average in 2016, in particular in March, June, October dividend cover adjusting for the movement from semiand November.
This was in part mitigated by the portfolios annual to quarterly dividends which resulted in five quarters geographical and technological diversity: wind in France was worth of dividends being paid during the year was 1.2 times within 1% of the long-term average, whilst solar irradiation 2015: 1.2 times.
TRIG raised new equity capital of was fractionally above budget overall.
The newly acquired 91.2 million net of costs in two issues in May and THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 3 243977 Renewable R&A pp001-pp007 22 02 2017 15:56 Page 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued French solar portfolio performed well and exceeded its production target for the year.
Following relatively good meteorological conditions experienced by the portfolio in previous years, the production in 2016 brought down the average performance since IPO to 3.7% below long-term expectations.
Multiple projects underwent remedial activities in 2016, placing them in a stronger position to perform well in the coming years.
Valuation The Investment Manager has prepared a fair market valuation for each investment in the portfolio as at 31 December 2016.
The valuation is based on a discounted cash flow analysis of the future expected equity and loan note cash flows accruing to the Group from each investment.
The valuation uses key For the 2017 financial year, the Company is targeting an assumptions which are set by the Investment Manager using aggregate dividend of 6.40p per share to be paid in four its experience and judgement having taken into account quarterly instalments.
This target dividend represents an available comparable market transactions and financial increase of 2.4%, consistent with UK inflation, on the aggregate market data in order to arrive at a fair market value.
dividend of 6.25p per share for the 2016 financial year.
The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the While TRIG benefits from support scheme revenues which methodology used and the assumptions adopted, and have are generally inflation-linked and currently comprise the approved a valuation of 818.7 million for the portfolio as at majority of the portfolio revenue, the shape of cash flows 31 December 2016.
This is an increase of 14.9% on the will also be affected, in particular, by the outlook for 712.3 million valuation of the portfolio as at 31 December electricity prices as well as by other factors.
The valuation takes into account the addition of new stated, TRIGs distribution policy assumes, in particular, projects, a reduction in power price forecasts year-on-year, steady growth in UK and European wholesale power prices a reduction in discount rates applied to the valuation and on-target operating performance.
After successive falls reflecting a keen appetite in the market for investment in in power price forecasts since launch, future dividend renewables and the beneficial impact of movement in increases may trend beneath inflation unless there are foreign exchange rates.
sustained real long-term increases in power prices.
The Board will keep TRIGs distribution policy under review, DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTION POLICY taking into account these factors as well as the prevailing The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend for the rate of inflation and their impact on dividend cover when year ended 31 December 2016 of 1.5625p per share to considering whether it would be prudent to move to a complete the aggregate 2016 dividend of 6.25p per share progressive dividend policy rather than one directly linked to set as a target at the beginning of 2016.
The fourth interim inflation in the future.
dividend is payable to those ordinary shareholders on the The Managers will continue to seek to optimise cash flow register on the record date of 17 February 2017 and will be through actions such as the negotiation of long-term power paid on 31 March 2017.
There is a scrip dividend alternative purchase agreements, through prudent financing for those electing to receive their distributions in TRIG arrangements and through the deployment of new and shares.
If not made already, this election may be made by surplus capital into selective investments with attractive cash contacting Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 or by flow profiles.
completing and submitting an election form available at www.
RISKS Since its IPO in 2013, TRIG has consistently met its dividend With a track record of more than three full years of operating targets, surpassing 100 million in shareholder distributions performance, a significant portfolio and a wide variety of the first London-listed renewables investment company to external conditions experienced, it is an appropriate point to do so, and has maintained dividend growth consistent with reflect on how TRIGs diversified investment strategy has UK inflation rates in accordance with its medium-term performed, with focus on the three key risk factors: operating objective set at IPO and most recently restated in April 2016 performance with particular regard to meteorological at the launch of its current 12-month share issuance conditions, changes in wholesale power prices and the programme.
maintenance of appropriate government support schemes.
4 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 243977 Renewable R&A pp001-pp007 22 02 2017 15:56 Page 5 Operating performance particular the Climate Change Act 2008.
Therefore the vote The Operations Manager continues to deliver innovative to leave the European Union does not appear to have any ways of enhancing production.
Significant savings were direct negative impact on the UKs commitment to achieved in 2016 through various proactive management renewables or on TRIGs performance, albeit broadening as strategies.
it does the scope of policy decisions available to the UK government and reintroducing some question over the long Technical performance of the assets is closely monitored, so term future of Scotland within the union.
Some outcomes, that changes in performance are detected early and action including sterlings weakness post-Brexit and the UKs is taken swiftly to minimise losses.
The Operations Manager imperative to secure long-term energy security in a postseeks to schedule remedial works during periods of low Brexit world, look to be positive for TRIG.
Additionally, condition monitoring techniques identify deteriorating components, After the Theresa May-led administration came into power in allowing them to be fixed or replaced before breaking and the second half of 2016, the UK made significant long-term thus reducing unplanned outages.
low-carbon commitments in the form of new offshore wind projects as well as new nuclear generation with the longOperational performance also benefitted from the portfolios awaited approval in September of the Hinkley Point C plant.
Diversification within the portfolio For now it appears that no new support schemes will be mitigates the impact of localised issues, while scale enables forthcoming in the UK for additional onshore wind and solar investment in strategic spare parts and efficient deployment projects following the expiry of the final Renewables of operating resources.
Obligation Certificate ROC schemes and beyond the initial round of  back in 2015.
However, Power prices TRIGs portfolio benefits from long-term grandfathered 2016 started with another warm winter as well as the subsidies and does not depend on new projects to provide continued oversupply of natural gas.
This contributed to a investors with the targeted returns.
Nonetheless, TRIG further overall decline in wholesale power prices both expects to continue to find suitable investment opportunities, current and forecast in Europe over the course of the year.
including in the UK offshore wind and power storage In the second half of the year, following the Brexit vote, segments and in other Northern European countries which power prices showed a reversal in movement specifically in strive to meet their respective 2020 EU deployment targets the GB market due to weaker sterling gas being traded in and longer-term UN COP21 goals.
euros in the European market as well as from some smaller factors including reduced imports from France due to some Furthermore, projects without fixed subsidy components to French nuclear capacity being offline and some crosstheir revenues may represent viable opportunities with channel interconnector unavailability due to repairs.
In appropriate structuring e. g. corporate PPAs, hedging and or France and in the Irish Single Electricity Market, the longmore cautious capital structures.
term forecasts have continued to decline, reflecting an Overall, we believe that TRIGs strategy has performed well underlying continued oversupply of gas.
since IPO, enabling the Company to manage through TRIG maintains a prudent strategy of mitigating changes in challenging conditions in terms of weather, energy prices and power prices by using some fixes and floors in its contracts government support schemes.
by referencing prices paid to average season-ahead prices, as well as by investing in a number of projects without power SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE price exposure during the term of the subsidy the latter CULTURE comprising 29 projects representing about 26% of the Corporate culture has a critical role to play in sustaining the portfolio by value.
business model and providing the basis to achieve the Companys long-term objectives.
Accordingly, the Board of Government support schemes TRIG and its Managers work together in enhancing its While the broader political backdrop carries uncertainties processes, team and individual performance, whether in the into 2017, the commitment to renewables in the UK and context of the day-to-day routine, scheduled meetings or across Europe remains strong, based on the key factors of special events.
This subject also continues to be one of environmental benefits, energy security localisation and particular importance to me, across a raft of aspects, for increasing cost competitiveness provided by the sector.
example safety, governance procedures, carbon efficiency 2016 saw the formal enactment of the Paris agreement of and diversity, to name a few.
As Chairman, I believe it makes the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate a difference when we challenge ourselves in the corporate Change COP21 following legislation so far undertaken by world whether it be furthering engagement with investors more than 125 authorities.
In the UK, policies on renewables to find out ways to improve our offering or advocating in a generation are enshrined in domestic legislation, in broader sense for a better world and behaving accordingly.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 5 243977 Renewable R&A pp001-pp007 22 02 2017 15:56 Page 6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued I am delighted that TRIG aspires to make a difference As part of good corporate governance, all of the Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General externally and internally.
In the Strategic Report in 2.11, we Meeting to be held on 3 May 2017. give some examples of what we have been doing.
Fundamentally, TRIGs investments play an important role OUTLOOK in society, now providing power for the equivalent of 390,000 Looking ahead, we are both challenged and excited by a households and preventing the emission of 570,000 tonnes number of evolving features of the renewables market which of CO annually.
2 we expect may provide significant opportunities for TRIG.
Beyond the deployment of capital into such projects, TRIG The market for secondary purchases is becoming and its Managers continue to pursue excellence in details increasingly competitive, driven by the steady increase in of environmental efficiency and social sensitivity across all global investor allocation to the infrastructure asset class aspects of the portfolio and the management of the of which renewables is now an important component.
TRIG also continues to sponsor a broad programme applies a judicious approach to what is a healthy pipeline of of community activities music, sport, craft, education and potential additions to the portfolio, based on the backlog of childcare across a range of its sites, including, through our historic developments available for transfer from utilities and Managers, InfraRed Capital Partners and Renewable other developers.
Energy Systems, our first Dragons Den style event!
These initiatives forge a closer dialogue with local communities as TRIG has focused to date primarily on investing in fully well as enhancing amenities in often remote localities.
We operational projects but has also invested in a solar give some examples of these in the Strategic Report.
construction project an extension at Marvel Farms completed in 2014 and, more recently, a wind farm under As a member of the Association of Investment Companies construction Freasdail, which has recently achieved AIC, TRIG reports governance against the AIC Code of energisation ahead of schedule.
Corporate Governance endorsed by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Company continues to monitor and contribute While TRIGs portfolio will remain predominantly operating, to best practices in the industry as a leading participant in investing judiciously in some construction stage projects will the fast-growing renewables segment of the infrastructure position TRIG well to secure new opportunities at attractive investment market.
TRIG benefits from the extensive construction-stage experience of both of its Managers, InfraRed and RES.
As in previous years, TRIGs Managers continued to make themselves available to existing and potential institutional So far, the Brexit vote in 2016 has not had any materially investors in one-to-one meetings and conferences and negative impact on TRIG.
In fact, as mentioned above, hosted a number of investor representatives as well as currency effects of the vote have been positive so far for the market analysts on site visits.
The Board prioritises portfolio in terms of the power price curve as it increases engagement with shareholders, with the aim of providing the sterling cost of imported fuels and currency gains on our market-leading disclosure regarding our fast-evolving sector overseas assets.
Developments in UK onshore wind and and TRIGs performance.
solar PV will slow, in the absence of new subsidies.
The British Isles from the International Space Station Source: NASA 6 THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 243977 Renewable R&A pp001-pp007 22 02 2017 15:56 Page 7 However, the scope afforded to TRIG under its investment In 2017 we look forward to further solid financial performance from the existing portfolio and the addition of policy enables the Company to look at other markets for new projects, where appropriate, to bring additional scale investment and we expect TRIG to continue to benefit from and diversity.
We appreciate the consistent and strong scale and diversification.
The Managers have been support of our shareholders in enabling TRIG to generate reviewing opportunities not just in the UK, France and real value not only in financial terms for investors Ireland, but also selectively elsewhere in Northern Europe, themselves but for the broader stakeholders for which in particular Scandinavia.
renewable energy plays an important role.
During 2016, shareholders approved an amendment of the investment policy to permit a higher allocation to technologies other than onshore wind and solar PV as the renewables market matures.
While to date we have not utilised this expanded mandate, it allows TRIG to consider broader opportunities in the energy market including offshore wind and electricity storage, the latter dovetailing well with intermittent renewables generation in providing grid-balancing.
Helen Mahy CBE Chairman The current healthy pipeline includes in the region of 100 million of projects at an advanced stage of discussions, 20 February 2017 including a number of projects under exclusivity, mostly in the onshore wind sector but also in the electricity storage sector.
Having successfully navigated a range of challenges in recent years in power markets, in the regulatory framework for renewables and in the weather, your Company has proven the resilience of its diversified portfolio.
This has been supported by a conservative and detailed approach to portfolio and operational management provided by InfraRed and RES, as appropriate for this exciting and evolving market.
The TRIG Board of Directors on-site at Rothes, Scotland.
THE RENEWABLES INFRASTRUCTURE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 7
