46 Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder Our values 2016 has been a particularly busy year Creating the right culture forthe business, culminating in our proposed joint venture with Haniel to combine our Workwear and Hygiene Service operations in Benelux, Sweden and We are passionate about delivering excellent service to every customer.
I am pleased with Relationships our achievements thisyear and the Great relationships are the bedrock of our business.
successful manner in which the Board Teamwork and the executive team have worked Our business is all about great teamwork.
together to accomplish thissignificant step in the Companys development.
Strategy The Board has once again allocated a considerable portion of its time to addressing the long-term strategic aims of the Company, in particular with regards to the ongoing Group structure and the ability to deliver consistent progress against our financial targets.
The Companys The Companys RIGHT WAY plan, which was set out in 2014, continues to be delivered effectively, and Andy and his executive team completed an impressive 41 acquisitions and four disposals during the year.
To ensure we as RIGHT WAY plan, a Board are able to have sufficient understanding and oversight of the business, the practice of conducting annual deep dives with the which was set out in executive teams of the five geographic regions has continued and proven an informative and effective process.
More information on this can be found on page 58.
2014, continues to be The Board also held its annual strategy away day in November, providing the opportunity to focus solely on the strategy of the Company delivered effectively.
and each of its core businesses.
It gives us ample time to properly address our areas of interest, concern and the strategic plan for the next John McAdam, Chairman three years 2017 to 2019.
The key areas covered are discussed in more detail on page 55.
Diversity The Board is always mindful of diversity and we believe that a diverse company, in all regards not just gender, provides a more balanced, effective and innovative organisation with a broader skill set from which to draw.
The Board is currently 25% female and we aim to achieve the recommendation under the Davies Review to reach 33% women on the Board by 2020.
The Board has also reviewed the Hampton-Alexander Review on women in leadership positions and further information on this can be found in my introduction to the Nomination Committee Report on page 67.
Details of employee engagement and diversity can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 40.
The Board currently operates under the diversity policy which applies to Rentokil Initial plc and its subsidiaries.
However, in light of the changes being made to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules in relation to board diversity policy reporting, we intend to review this in 2017 and to adopt a separate policy if this is felt to be appropriate.
During the year, we have also reviewed the new requirements under the gender pay reporting legislation and have undertaken a trial review which will also be used to inform our talent planning as detailed below.
The Company intends to report fully with the requirements next year.
Further information on diversity can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 69 and in our Corporate Responsibility Report which can be found on our website.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 47 Chairmans Introduction Health, safety and environment Board changes I am very pleased to be able to report that we have once again reduced There was one change in the Board composition during the year as our rate of lost time accidents and level of working days lost, which Peter Bamford stepped down as a Non-Executive Director and member havereduced by 19% and 20% respectively, building on a similarly of the Nomination and Audit Committees at the Companys Annual significant decrease in 2015.
We now have a clear majority of our General Meeting AGM in 2016.
Chris Geoghegan was appointed to businesses operating at world class levels of safety, with one of our UK the Board as a Non-Executive Director in June and brings with him manufacturing sites, Dudley Industries, achieving 2,000 days without extensive general management and commercial experience as well anaccident.
Weare never complacent on health and safety and asbroad non-executive experience.
regrettably, as detailed on page 43, general improvements throughout Further information on the Boards succession planning and recruitment 2016 did not mean the year was without incident.
There has been a processes in 2016 and early 2017 can be found in the Nomination noticeable increase in major incidents whilst working at height, three Committee Report on pages 67 to 70.
Details of the induction that new fatalities from collisions with our service vehicles and a fatality in North Non-Executive Directors such as Chris Geoghegan undertake following America after amember of the public broke in to an apartment that we their appointment are contained in the Corporate Governance Report were fumigating.
We have accelerated our training programmes and on page 55.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, review ofdriving safety, working at height and fumigation where we Chris Geoghegan will be subject to election by shareholders at the have robust processes but where the activities necessarily involve a Companys AGM on 10 May 2017, being the first such meeting since his heightened level of potential risk.
We are also upgrading aspects of appointment.
ourpost-acquisition processes in this area, to implement our industryleading standards more quickly and effectively in acquired businesses, It is intended that Alan Giles will step down as a Non-Executive Director since wehave identified some issues in North America in companies and the Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the Companys that had only recently joined the Group.
We continue to make health and AGM.
He will also resign as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee safety our top priority and will challenge the leadership team to maintain and as a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees at this time.
a constant focus on the safety of our colleagues and customers.
Alan has served as a Non-Executive Director for over 10 years and Iwould like to thank him for his significant contribution to the Company With regards to the environment, the Company successfully achieved during his time on the Board.
I would further like to thank all the Board its target of a10% reduction in emissions.
The 2011-2016 target was members for their ongoing support and challenge, and for the input and met in 2015, a year early.
As a result, the Board has set a new emission value they continue to bring to both the boardroom and the Company.
targetfor an overall reduction in emissions of 20% from 2016 to 2020.
Full details on this can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section Compliance on page 44.
I am pleased to confirm that the Company has once again fully complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code and further information can Talent be found on page 51.
A revised and updated version of the Companys Succession planning has been identified as a key area of focus in Code of Conduct was published in 2016, which was accompanied by previous Board evaluations.
As such, with the help of the Company the roll-out of online training across our global business using our U Secretary, I have tried to ensure that as a Board, we are allocating learning management platform.
Further details on the Code of Conduct sufficient time and resources to succession planning and talent can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on page 40 and development.
We now have a more rigorous talent development inour Corporate Responsibility Report on the Companys website.
strategy that is focused on the key challenges our business faces in succession planning, in particular development of operational In addition, the Board approved a Modern Slavery Act statement management, fast-track talent and increasing diversity in our executive in relation to the business during 2016 which can also be found on teams.
As usual, the Nomination Committees focus has been on the the Companys website.
The introduction of the EU Market Abuse composition of the Board and on refreshing the Boards range of skills.
Regulation in July 2016 meant that a review of the Companys share In addition, as a business we need to ensure that there is a pipeline of dealing code and procedures was also undertaken during the year executive talent in place for the future and that the appropriate skills andas a result the Board adopted a new share dealing policy and code are available to allow the Company to remain both competitive and to ensure full compliance.
The Board have also been considering the progressive.
More information on this is contained in the Nomination proposed changes in legislation brought in by the EU Audit Directive Committee Report on page 68. and EU Audit Regulation as detailed in the Audit Committee Report and we are confident that we will be able to report our full compliance in 2017.
This year, we also wanted to feature some of the key ways that we attract, develop, inspire and retain our Rentokil Initial colleagues in the Yours faithfully Annual Report.
These can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 40 and 41.
John McAdam Chairman 22 February 2017 Read our Corporate Responsibility Report at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery Read our Code of Conduct at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery code-of-conduct Read our Modern Slavery Statement at rentokil-initial.
com responsible-delivery policies Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
