Strategic report | Chairmans statement Scott Forbes Chairman I am pleased to present Rightmove plcs results for the year We are still a relatively young organisation, but during our ended 31 December 2016. progression over the last 16 years we have remained steadfast in our commitment to serving the housing market Amid the attention devoted to economic and political events and this has consistently delivered strong results.
We are on both a local and world stage this past year, we are proud to committed to continue that focused path in a manner that say that Rightmove has once again delivered a set of is appropriate for all of our stakeholders.
Financial results We are not insensitive to the macro-environment, however The strength of our business model and core value we continue to be confident in the strength of our business.
proposition underpin record financial results in 2016.
Our confidence is derived from an in-depth knowledge of the 1 Underlying operating profit was up 15% to 166.2m market in which we operate together with the power of our 2015: 144.3m driven by strong organic revenue growth subscription-based business model, which benefits from of 15% to 220.0m 2015: 192.1m and continued focus strong network effects, and a relentless focus on continual 2 on cost control.
Underlying basic earnings per share was improvement for both our customers and consumers.
up 18% to 142.8p 2015: 121.4p, even greater than the Our approach has further cemented our position as the percentage increase in profits and in part attributable to 2.2m UKs number one property portal with customer numbers shares bought back during the year at a cost of 88.1m as reaching a record high of over 20,100 and our unrivalled part of our policy of returning cash to shareholders.
audience reaching new highs too.
We are in an enviable Returns to shareholders position to fulfil our aim of creating a more transparent and Our commitment to return excess cash promptly to efficient property marketplace and ultimately making home investors continues to be as strong as ever.
Cash conversion moving easier in the UK.
remains in excess of 100% of operating profit.
Our audience, best in class platforms and significant property In 2016, we returned a further 131.3m 2015: 112.5m to inventory advantage coupled with our focus on innovation at shareholders through dividends and share buybacks bringing the core of our business drives our value proposition for the our total cash returned to shareholders since our flotation in benefit of both our trade customers and consumers.
We have now bought back data has always been at the core of what we do and we are 39.7m shares since we commenced our share buyback excited about continuing to harness the power of our data to programme in 2007 reducing our share capital by 30%.
drive further transparency and efficiency in the property market, predict market opportunities and drive success for our customers and consumers.
1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
2 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements We are proud to say that Rightmove has once again delivered a set of outstanding results.
Dividend Nick will pass the baton to Peter Brooks-Johnson, our The Board previously announced that it would increase the Chief Operating Officer and Board director since 2011. interim dividend to 19p H1 2015: 16.0p per ordinary share, The Board always has a focus on long-term succession which was paid on 6 November 2016.
Consistent with our plans and in Peter we have a strong, experienced and policy of increasing the total dividend for the year broadly in ready successor who has held positions of responsibility line with earnings, the Board proposes to pay a final dividend of for nearly every functional area within Rightmove.
32.0p 2015: 27.0p per ordinary share for a total dividend for Having completed three full terms, Colin Kemp will retire the year of 51.0p 2015: 43.0p, an increase of 19%.
The final from the Board in May 2017.
I am grateful for his valuable dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 2 contribution and insights over the past nine years, in June 2017 to all shareholders on the register on 5 May 2017. particular his championing of the voice of the customer Corporate governance and we wish him well in his next venture.
One of the Boards responsibilities is ensuring that the On 30 December 2016 Jacqueline fide Rojas joined us as a Group applies good governance to facilitate effective non-executive director.
Jacqueline is currently Managing management of a high growth business.
As the Companys Director UKI-Northern Europe for The Sage Group plc and is Chairman I am pleased to note that the Group is continuing a recognised technology leader in the UK and a passionate to foster an environment of entrepreneurial leadership and advocate for increased opportunities for women and innovation in a framework of responsible governance and diversity in both the boardroom and technology workplace.
risk management as set out in the Corporate Governance We look forward to Jacquelines support in our continuous Report on pages 30 to 42. quest to deliver innovation to our customers as they seek to Board changes and Chief Executive Officer succession reach the UKs largest home moving audience.
After 16 years of leadership, as remarkable for his success as Outlook with the modest way he has achieved it, Nick McKittrick has The Board and I are grateful for the confidence and support decided to retire as Chief Executive Officer and as a Board of all our customers and for the talent and dedication of our director at the forthcoming AGM on 9 May 2017.
We are clear that our goal is to continue to work remain in the Company until 30 June 2017 to ensure a together to position Rightmove as the essential marketplace smooth transition process.
for home hunters and for property advertisers to reach by far I speak on behalf of the Board and Rightmove employees the widest possible audience.
The Board is confident of when I say that we will miss Nick on both a personal and continued success in 2017. professional level.
We have greatly appreciated his contribution to Rightmoves success and we wish him the very best for the future.
Scott Forbes Chairman Rightmove plc annual report 2016 5
