Chairmans letter 20 years, almost as much steel as in the past and growth.
During the first eight months in his Dear shareholders, 30 years, and almost as much aluminium as in role, J-S and our newly shaped executive team In 2016, your company delivered a strong the past 40 years.
have continued the focus on generating cash, performance despite challenging while maintaining a disciplined approach to macroeconomic conditions and significant Consistent strategy capital allocation and balance sheet strength, geopolitical uncertainty, which led to and progressing our high-value growth options.
Given the increasing complexity and commodity price volatility throughout the year.
uncertainty in the external environment, we are In 2016, your board visited Mongolia to see our Change was a feature of 2016, both in the focusing more than ever on understanding the management teams and employees in action.
external environment and within the company.
macro trends that may impact our company Site visits by the board allow us to meet with It is critical that, in uncertain times, a long-term and our industry in the future.
the companys dedicated employees and we perspective prevails.
continue to be greatly impressed by their During the year, the board and management It is pleasing to report we made progress expertise and commitment.
reviewed these global trends and our strategy against each of our strategic priorities during to address them.
In September, the board 2016, delivering robust earnings and cash Regulatory matters endorsed the companys ten-year strategy.
This generation, while maintaining balance sheet remains consistent: our aim is to generate value I cannot reflect on 2016 without acknowledging strength and progressing our high-value by focusing on assets that are long life, low cost the events of the final months of the year.
9 November 2016, we announced, following an investigation supported by external counsel, Strength through the cycle Economic and social contribution that we had notified the relevant authorities in In 2016, average prices for our products were the US, UK and Australia about contractual  slightly down on the previous year, yet we payments totalling US$10.5 million made to a primary objective, there is no doubt that we achieved underlying earnings of US$5.1 billion, consultant who had provided advisory services need to get better at explaining the economic up 12 per cent on 2015.
At US$8.5 billion, in 2011 on the Simandou project in Guinea.
and social contribution we make to our host operatingcashflowwas, however, tenpercent countries, particularly during uncertain times.
lower than in 2015, primarily due to interest On 1 December 2016, Rio Tinto confirmed that paid on bond early redemptions and working it was co-operating with relevant authorities in In 2016, your company paid US$4 billion in capital movements.
connection with an investigation into the , withpayments impairment included in the companys accounts During the year, your company continued to  in 2012 in respect of Rio Tinto realise considerable savings from its cost US$32 billion.
Over the past five years, Coal Mozambique.
The Group has now Rio Tintos direct economic contribution has a achieved US$7.8 billion in pre-tax operating exceeded US$235 billion of which almost half The outcome of the regulatory investigations, cash cost improvements and reductions in was through payments to suppliers for goods and any potential litigation, is uncertain.
exploration and evaluation expenditure and services.
 compared with 2012. this time, other than to assure you that the Our stakeholders have an increasing interest in board is giving these matters its full and  Returns to shareholders proper attention, and that we are continuing contribute to a low-carbon future.
In response Lastyear,  to co-operate fully with the relevant to a shareholder resolution at our 2016 annual pricing environment and exceptional volatility, authorities.
Under my chairmanship, we have general meeting, this month we will publish our we determined that it was no longer established a dedicated board committee to first climate change report, which provides appropriate to maintain our progressive monitor progress.
We announced a new dividend policy with a more flexible approach which National pride, international spirit Board and management better reflects our underlying earnings profile Despite the changes and uncertainties of the Over the last 12 months, we made a number of and outlook.
past year, the world remains deeply connected changes at both the board and management It balances three factors: maintaining a strong through bilateral agreements, shared cultural levels.
In May 2016, Richard Goodmanson balance sheet: reinvesting for future growth: histories and friendship.
These factors will be stepped down as a non-executive director and and rewarding shareholders.
We expect total the foundations of future global growth.
in February of this year, we announced that cash returns to shareholders to be in the range Robert Brown and Anne Lauvergeon will also National pride and international spirit have of 40-60 per cent of underlying earnings in step down from the board at the Rio Tinto gone hand in hand since Rio Tintos formation aggregate through the cycle.
Limited annual general meeting on 4 May 144yearsago.
, as In February 2017, we announced cash returns 2017.
Richard, Bob and Anne contributed we partner with our stakeholders to build to shareholders of US$3.6 billion with respect significantly to the board over the years and we enduring businesses.
This comprises total dividends of wish them well for the future.
directors I would like to thank our hard-working US$3.1 billion and a share buy-back of employees and you, our shareholders, for your In February 2017, we appointed three new US$500 million in Rio Tinto plc shares, ongoing support.
independent non-executive directors to the representing, in aggregate, 70 per cent of 2016 board.
Former Sasol Ltd chief executive David underlying earnings.
Constable and former Centrica plc chief executive Sam Laidlaw joined on 10 February Global growth 2017.
Royal Dutch Shell plc chief financial After five years of global GDP growth below officer Simon Henry will join the board with the long-term average, and with the impact of effect from 1 July 2017. interest rate policy stimulus nearing saturation, growth is now increasingly On 1 July 2016, Sam Walsh retired as chief influenced by geopolitical matters.
The tectonic executive of Rio Tinto, and I thank him for the Jan du Plessis political shifts in the UK and the US during significant service and transformative Chairman 2016 are yet to translate into clear global leadership he gave to the company during his  1 March 2017  tenure as chief these events have contributed to a high level executive.
Since taking over as chief executive of uncertainty across the globe.
in July, Jean-Sbastien Jacques has set about driving a new era of productivity, performance However, if we look to the long term, we believe there is plenty of opportunity.
Over the next 15 years the world is expected to consume more copper than in the past a Summarised on page 26.
