243514 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 27 02 2017 14:40 Page 3 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Chairmans Statement am pleased to report that your Companys Inet asset value per share during 2016 increased to 1,730 pence, representing a return of 12.1%.
Lord Rothschild, OM GBE Against a background of daunting uncertainty and political On currencies, we became cautious on the outlook for turmoil, I am pleased to report that your Companys net Sterling over the course of the year, increasing our asset value per share during 2016 increased to 1,730 exposure to currencies outside the UK, in particular the pence, representing a return of 12.1%.
This represents a continuation of RITs longshares traded at a premium which averaged 4.6% during standing policy of an unconstrained approach to currency the course of the year and total shareholder returns positioning.
Timing is paramount in achieving investment performance Your Companys net assets increased by 299 million and our 2016 returns reflect a cautious approach in a before dividends of 48 million to 2,692 million, an period of increasing uncertainty.
Since the last World War, all-time high.
There has been a further modest increase of we have enjoyed some 70 years of patiently crafted 1.3% in January, with the month-end NAV at 1,753 pence.
international cooperation, which is now threatened.
Over the last three and five calendar years, the shareholder Against this deeply worrying geo-political situation one returns have amounted to 59% and 71% respectively.
can point to a number of positive investment factors, for example in the US, the proposed tax reduction for Our investment policy throughout 2016 has been one of companies and individuals, reforms of an over-regulated continuing caution with an emphasis on capital system and increases in fiscal and infrastructure preservation.
Quoted equity exposure was reduced, expenditure.
These, however, come at a time late in the averaging 46% over the year, and we cut our allocation to business cycle, when the labour market is close to full Sterling, ending the year at 24%.
We continue to hold employment, with wage increases up by some 4% over gold and gold mining shares amounting to 6% of the the last few months.
Valuations are at the high end of portfolio.
their historical range, inflation is returning and in these circumstances, it is likely that interest rates in the US will On equities, some of our best performing managers of rise meaningfully.
recent years produced negative results in the year under review.
Against this, your Company increased its asset The impact on China of either straightforward tariffs or of allocation to Absolute Return and Credit which delivered a border-adjusted tax would be negative, at a time when satisfactory results, including for example Eisler Capital, Chinese economic momentum is fading and when it has the macro manager where we were a founder investor.
to deal with the problem of misallocation of capital on a Overall our focus has been to invest in companies which huge scale.
China will be choosing between becoming a stood to benefit from policymakers continuing efforts to more open or closed society and while its economy reflate economies, such as US financials and the transitions from industrial growth and exports to being industrial sector.
Private investments, both direct and those managed by We are all conscious of the risk of the European Union third parties, met our expectations, for example, disintegrating following last years Brexit vote and in benefiting from the sale of our defensively structured having to deal with the problem of migration.
The investment in Williams & Glyn, which generated a 1.8x character of the European trading block remains complex, return over three years.
Two significant new investments unpredictable and in need of reform.
We should take into were made during the course of the year into Acorn and account however that the most significant forecast CSL.
Acorn is one of the worlds largest coffee improvement in growth for 2017 is in Europe and that its businesses incorporating fide Master Blenders, Keurig stock markets are relatively undervalued.
Green Mountain and Mondelezs former coffee business.
CSL is the UKs second largest alarm signalling company.
Both were co-investments with industry partners with whom we have developed close relationships Acorn alongside BDT Capital and CSL with ICONIQ Capital.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2016 3 243514 RIT R&A pp001-pp018 27 02 2017 14:40 Page 4 Chairmans Statement In the UK, investors will be waiting for greater clarity Dividend about the outcome of Brexit negotiations and the risks of We are intending to pay a dividend of 32 pence per share upheaval which will arise in leaving the EU.
Short-term, in 2017, some increase above the current rate of inflation.
the UK economy has performed surprisingly well.
We This will be paid in two equal payments of 16 pence in should bear in mind however, that the World Bank and April and October.
We intend to maintain or increase this others have recently forecast a slowing of growth in the level in the years ahead, subject to unforeseen current year and beyond while the current account deficit circumstances.
In these circumstances, our positioning is likely to remain defensive, with an emphasis on returns uncorrelated to the overall performance of equity markets.
We have increased our exposure to situations which should benefit from an environment of higher inflation, for example by Rothschild being short of Government Bonds after a long period of 27 February 2017 declining inflation and low interest rates.
The success of our asset allocation depends on capturing the right market themes, the excellence of our external managers, stock selection, private investments and a continued emphasis on Absolute Return and Credit strategies.
At this time of upheaval and uncertainty, our investment portfolio will continue to be well diversified.
There could well be a period ahead of us when the avoidance of risk is as high a priority as the pursuit of gain.
4 Report and Accounts December 2016 RIT Capital Partners plc
