CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Well placed to profit from market rebalancing 2016 provided no shortage of surprises for the energy Investors in REL have benefited from this environment industry.
At the time of RELs results last year, the price with the Companys first substantial realisation, which of oil hovered around $30 per barrel, effectively closing highlights the success of Riverstones build-up approach.
the capital markets for energy producers and driving vast Rock Oil was established in March 2014, when oil traded reductions in spending across the industry.
Companies above $100 per barrel, to focus on development-stage with high levels of debt, inadequate hedges or expensive acreage positions in well-established North American sources of production were forced to take drastic actions plays.
The company focussed on the Midland Basin of the to remain afloat, and in some cases, these measures Permian, where it accumulated a 24,500 net acre position were not enough.
However, this dynamic soon proved through a series of acquisitions.
Having received an unsustainable for both North American producers and unsolicited offer for the company, Riverstone launched members of OPEC, with the latter agreeing its first cut to a targeted sales process, and swiftly agreed terms for production in eight years, thus bringing the market closer a sale which resulted in a gross return of twice RELs to balance and returning oil to the $50 range.
invested capital and a 55 per cent.
uplift to its fair market value prior to the announcement.
Following completion This cycle has provided a fertile environment for of the sale, Riverstone re-invested the net proceeds of its Riverstone to deploy capital, with $537 million of performance fee, through the purchases of approximately investment across 12 companies in 2016.
The prolific, 590,000 shares in REL in the secondary market, increasing low-cost Permian Basin of Texas attracted more than the Investment Managers ownership, through RELCP, two-thirds of total capital invested, led by Centennial, to 6.7 per cent.
a new investment managed by Riverstone partner and former chief executive of EOG, Mark Papa.
REL initially The Board continues to be excited about Western invested $175 million through a Riverstone sponsored Canada, which accounts for 27 per cent.
of RELs invested special purpose acquisition company listed on the capital to date.
In December, REL held an EGM in order NASDAQ stock exchange, which was renamed Centennial to approve a change in investment policy to allow CIOC upon completion of a marquee asset acquisition consisting to comprise up to 35 per cent.
of the Companys gross of 42,500 net acres in the Delaware Basin of the Permian.
I am pleased to report that this change was Shortly thereafter, the Centennial team identified and approved by 98 per cent.
of votes cast, which will allow completed the acquisition of Silverback Exploration, the Company to exercise its warrants, which are due to another Delaware-focussed independent oil and gas expire in March, at a significant discount to the current company, with 35,000 net acres directly offsetting valuation.
The proceeds will allow CIOC to continue Centennials existing position.
This created an opportunity development of its extensive asset base in the prolific for REL to invest an additional $93 million in Centennial.
Montney and Duvernay plays in Western Canada.
The two acquisitions provide Centennial with a highly While the portfolio overall has benefited from the attractive, low-cost asset base of over 2,000 identified stabilisation in energy prices, the fair market values drilling locations from which the team will look to apply for two companies remain below cost.
Castex 2005 is their technical expertise to expand production and grow valued at 10 per cent.
of cost due to its weak balance reserves.
Centennial shares closed at $19.72 per share sheet and focus on Gulf Coast and Gulf of Mexico shelf at year end, a 76 per cent.
uplift on RELs average cost gas-production, while the fair market value for Origo of $11.21 per share.
has been reduced to approximately 50 per cent.
of cost The attractiveness of the Permian region reflects due to the challenging environment in the North Sea.
the broader shift by industry towards top quality basins, several of which feature prominently in the REL portfolio.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Fortunately, RELs capital exposure remains limited, to maximise flexibility, and portfolio companies are often with the two investments in aggregate accounting fully or partially monetised prior to drawing the full for approximately 4 per cent.
Furthermore, the Company actively RELs capital discipline, conservative balance sheet monitors funding requirements to maintain maximum flexibility in deploying capital, as evidenced by the sale of management and focus on low-cost resources have allowed the portfolio overall to deliver strong results interests in Sierra, a loan interest in CIOC and utilising a despite challenges facing these particular investments.
bank loan for Centennials follow-on investment.
At year end, REL, including the Partnership, had a cash balance During the year, REL announced changes to its Board of over $270 million.
as Sir Robert Wilson and James Hackett stepped down from the Board at the Companys AGM in order to focus In total, REL has net invested $1,172 million, equating on other activities.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 76 per cent.
of net capital available at the end of 2016. to thank them again for their contribution.
While their This was an increase of $536 million over the course contributions will be missed, Jeremy Thompson and of the year as REL continued to take advantage of Ken Ryan have joined the Board and we are very pleased opportunities presented by market distress.
Over 80 per to have their wealth of energy and investment sector cent.
of capital invested in 2016 was deployed to the experience and expertise.
onshore U. S. to support acquisitions by companies such as Centennial, Three Rivers III and Carrier II, and provide funding for initial drilling and delineation programmes.
Performance I am pleased to report that the portfolio continued to REL closed 2016 with NAV of $20.11 per share.
This make strong operational progress in 2016.
The successful equates to an increase of $4.16 dollars 26.1 per cent.
completion of Meritage IIIs initial midstream infrastructure when compared to NAV per share at 31 December 2015. in Western Canada has allowed CIOC to continue to The impact of Brexit through the devaluation of Pounds grow production.
In addition, Meritage III has signed an Sterling contributed to the Sterling NAV per share agreement with a third party which will support volumes increasing by 5.47 50.5 per cent.
as the company invests in additional infrastructure.
The strong NAV growth was driven primarily by the sale of Eagle II and Three Rivers III have commenced their initial Rock Oil and valuation uplifts by several large investments, drilling programmes in the SCOOP and Delaware Basin, including CIOC, Three Rivers III and Centennial.
Altogether, respectively, with encouraging initial results.
In the Gulf these three investments now account for close to two-thirds of Mexico, ILX III made two additional discoveries in the of the portfolios gross unrealised value.
fourth quarter, helping drive a 75 per cent.
success rate for the eight wells drilled since inception.
Fieldwood Shares in REL performed very well in 2016, with completed a comprehensive debt restructuring in the a 70 per cent.
increase during the calendar year.
The first half of the year and made strong progress with Companys share price has increased by 34 per cent.
from recompletions and workover activity to maintain IPO through the end of 2016, significantly outperforming production at approximately 85,000 boepd.
benchmarks such as the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index and the S&P Oil & Gas E&P Index.
While the discount Throughout another year of immense upheaval for to NAV at which shares trade has narrowed, the Board will the energy industry, RELs best-in-class management continue to monitor the discount and evaluate open market teams continued to take advantage of attractive purchases as authorised by the Shareholders at the AGM.
opportunities, execute their strategies and deliver value for shareholders.
This is the result of thoughtful capital In addition to the new investment in Centennial deployment towards basins with low costs of production, mentioned earlier, REL increased commitments to prudent balance sheet management and an unwavering existing portfolio companies CIOC, Carrier II, Liberty II, focus on operational excellence.
With the stabilisation Meritage III and Eagle II by $267 million in total.
These in energy prices and a recovery in North American commitments are focussed on North American energy production underway, shareholders in REL remain well production and midstream services, and will support placed to reap rewards.
these businesses as they continue to execute their strategies.
In addition, REL released $188 million of commitments throughout the year.
As of 31 December 2016, REL has commitments of $1,928 million to 16 current investments, equating to 126 per cent.
Richard Hayden We believe it is appropriate for the Company to Chairman maintain a level of over-commitment, in order to optimise 28 February 2017 the level of invested capital.
Commitments are structured 1 Based on total capital raised of $1,320 million plus realised profits and other income net of fees, expenses and accrued performance allocation.
The Board does not expect to fully fund all commitments in the normal course of business
