Chairmans statement Chairmans statement 2016 was another difficult year for RBS shareholders, even though there is good progress to report on our strategy to rebuild a strong bank focused primarily on retail and commercial customers in the UK and Ireland.
The core bank performed strongly, and adjusted operating profits were up by around 4%, in a year of political and Howard Davies economic uncertainty.
That progress Chairman reflects growth in our market share in the mortgage market and a resumption of growth in business lending, after many years of decline.
It shows, too, that the strong focus on reducing costs is beginning to pay off.
Nonetheless the attributable loss, at The Economic and Regulatory Environment around 7 billion, was more than three times as large as in 2015.
It is hard to The UK economy grew by around 2% in 2016, a little less rapidly than present that as a positive outcome for shareholders, though in fact it does in 2015, but still at a healthy rate in what is now a mature recovery.
reflect the impact of stronger efforts to resolve the banks legacy problems.
Unemployment remained low, We settled a number of regulatory inflation stayed well below the Bank and legal actions and made a large of Englands target rate and house provision for future costs, we retired prices rose, on average, by around 5%, the Dividend Access Share and made though the regional variations were a large number of disposals of legacy wide.
These might, overall, seem to be assets.
Restructuring costs were also benign conditions for banks, but the large in the year.
As a result, the bank low interest rate environment, and is better placed than it was a year ago, especially a relatively flat yield curve, though there are still some sizeable are challenges to profitability.
Some legacy problems to resolve.
The Board central banks are charging negative and I are determined to press ahead interest rates, and while the Bank of with resolution of those issues and England has not followed them, the to continue with the strategy Ross base rate was reduced from 0.5% to McEwan first outlined in 2014.
We 0.25% in August, after the referendum are confident that we have the right on European Union EU membership.
management team in place to deliver effectively in both areas.
06 This lower interest rate environment Banking.
We are implementing our own settlements were costly reminders of puts further pressure on banks to plans and expect to meet the statutory past behaviours that have no place in control their costs.
deadline of 1 January 2019. the industry or the bank we are building.
The vote to leave the EU was widely Strategy The treatment of some of our small expected to have a negative impact on Set against that backdrop our strategy business customers has been under the economy.
So far, we have seen a remains consistent.
The aim is to make scrutiny.
Although the Financial significant fall in sterling, but consumer RBS a simpler bank focused on doing Conduct Authority FCA review into spending has remained robust, and fewer things, built around a low risk the historical operation of our former growth has continued.
Of course the UK and Irish retail and commercial Global Restructuring Group GRG UK has not yet left the EU, and we do bank and markets business: a safer continues, I am pleased that with the not know the terms of our departure, bank with a long-term target of a CET1 endorsement of the FCA we were able so the long-term impact remains ratio of at least 13%: and a customerto announce a new complaints impossible to predict.
The short-term focused bank that is easier to do process, led by Sir William Blackburne, effect on banks was felt primarily business with.
Our aspiration remains a retired High Court judge, alongside through the reduction in interest rates.
to be the best UK bank for customer an automatic refund for some of the service, trust and advocacy by 2020. complex fees charged to customers There has been much debate about We will retain a smaller markets who were in GRG between 2008 - 2013. the impact on the City, and on UK business, which complements our While we have acknowledged we did financial services in general, if, as strong domestic franchises.
The Board not treat all these troubled business now seems likely, we also leave the are confident that this is the right path customers as well as we should have single market.
As I write, the Article to follow and that the bank will deliver done, we do not accept that the bank 50 negotiations have not yet begun, good returns for shareholders when its artificially distressed otherwise viable so it is idle to speculate.
RBS as a legacy problems have been resolved.
SME businesses or deliberately caused primarily UK bank will be less affected them to fail.
The FCAs skilled person than most, but we own Ulster Bank in In early 2016 we renewed our longand our independent investigators Ireland and have modest presences in term targets of 50% for the cost to have also found no evidence that the major EU corporate markets.
We will income ratio and 12% for return on bank either inappropriately targeted take steps to protect those assets as tangible equity.
Given expected slower businesses to transfer them into GRG the regulatory environment becomes economic growth over the mediumor drove them to insolvency.
term, we now think we will achieve those objectives in 2020, a year later Another legacy problem on the way to Our prime focus through this uncertain than previously communicated.
resolution is the shareholder litigation period has been, and will continue to That change aligns the timing of our related to the 2008 rights issue.
We be, to provide high quality banking financial targets with our customer announced in December that we made services to our customers and to help service ambitions.
It is not yet possible an offer to affected shareholders to them to understand the implications of to give a reliable forecast of when the resolve that litigation and four out change for their businesses and their bank will be able to restore a dividend.
of five groups involved have already families.
Conduct, litigation and legacy issues The regulatory environment continues As I have said, during the year we Following the Governments injection to be challenging for banks.
The Basel made good progress in dealing with of capital into the bank in 2008, RBS Committee is discussing a new set of a number of legacy issues that have undertook to carry out five major proposals which could have the effect been clouding our performance and divestments as part of the State of increasing capital requirements shareholder investment case.
Aid commitments agreed with the materially, though no agreement has European Commission EC.
Four have yet been reached.
In the UK, the Bank We were able to remove one of the been successfully implemented.
The of England stress tests are built on very main barriers to paying a dividend by fifth entailed a divestment of assets to rigorous assumptions about growth paying the final 1.2 billion to retire the enhance competition in the UKs SME and asset prices.
RBS failed its stress Dividend Access Share.
The bank identified a test in 2016, primarily on the basis of collection of branches and customer assumptions reflecting the uncertainty In January 2016, the Board took the relationships, identified as a new bank of future conduct costs, especially from decision to make an accelerated 4.2 to be known as Williams & Glyn.
legacy problems in the US.
We agreed billion payment to our main pension measures to strengthen our balance scheme.
Taking this action reduced the Implementing that divestment has sheet as a result, which are already scheme deficit considerably and proved extremely difficult, partly for underway.
helped provide certainty on our capital technological reasons.
In addition, management of the pension scheme the lower interest rate environment UK banks are also now heavily for both members and regulators.
The threatened the viability of the new engaged in preparations for the next valuation is scheduled for 2018. bank.
implementation of ring-fencing, as required by the legislation We also resolved a number of litigation In the light of these changed implementing the recommendation cases relating to foreign exchange and circumstances, on 17 February of the Independent Commission on interest rate fixing allegations.
These this year, the EC and HM Treasury 07 Chairmans statement announced a consultation on a plan, Supporting our communities stakeholder voice was of particular intended to promote competition We refreshed our main customer facing interest.
This is a cause that we care in different ways, which can be brands during the year, with a new about.
As noted in our response implemented more easily and rapidly.
advertising campaign, emphasising to BEIS, we are looking at ways of The plan is not yet firm, but we have their contribution to the communities improving and building upon our prudently provided for its cost to the in which they operate.
In England existing arrangements in order to bank in our accounts.
We are grateful our principal brand is NatWest, in promote the stakeholder voice at to the EC for its willingness to consider Ireland it is Ulster Bank, and of course board level.
We are supportive of the alternative means to the same end.
If in Scotland it is The Royal Bank of proposal to increase wide stakeholder carried through, they will relieve the Scotland, which has been providing engagement, including via a panel bank of a major operational burden banking services to the country since arrangement.
As an organisation, we which has constrained our ability to 1727.
We also have a vital role to play in have maintained active engagement upgrade and enhance our IT systems in these communities that goes beyond with stakeholders over several years the interests of our customers.
Our through our Sustainable Banking support of small businesses continues Committee which, since 2011, But there are other issues from the to strengthen through our partnership has regularly met with external past which remain to be resolved, and with Entrepreneurial Spark.
In 2016 we stakeholders and asks them to where it has been frustratingly difficult opened a further six accelerator hubs.
challenge the most senior decision to make progress.
By a distance the These accelerator hubs, which are makers in RBS.
We see increased most financially significant relates based in our buildings, provide startformal engagement as the natural to the banks participation in the US ups with free office space, mentoring evolution of that committees work.
subprime mortgage market in the run and access to our networks.
Over up to the financial crisis, and especially 7,000 entrepreneurs will be supported Board changes in 2007.
The Massachusetts Attorney in this way over five years, helping Frank Dangeard is the one new Generals Office has been investigating to grow the economy and create face around the boardroom table the circumstances of some of the thousands of jobs.
He joined the Board transactions for some years, and we in May 2016 and brings a wealth of have been in parallel discussions with Our financial education programme, experience from a number of senior the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
MoneySense, continues to deliver vital roles and directorships across a range Shareholders will be aware that a skills to young people that will help of technology and financial services number of other banks, both US and them be more financially aware in later companies.
This knowledge is vital European, have settled their claims life.
This year we have helped over as the bank adapts to increasing over the past year, but RBS remains 300,000 young people in the UK.
customer use of digital channels, under investigation and as we have and to the need for ever heightened said, faces potential criminal and civil In 2016 we also celebrated our 40th awareness of the risk of cyber attacks.
At this point we cannot say anniversary of supporting The Princes when the issues will be resolved, as the Trust.
To mark this milestone, we Conclusion timing is out of our hands.
raised over 470,000 in just five days, I am uncomfortably aware that the with 566 colleagues cycling across the reconstruction and rehabilitation of Remuneration country in fundraising efforts.
RBS has taken longer than expected, While RBS continues to report losses and is still not complete.
We can now it is vital that the bank remains This year, we have taken the first see clearly the shape of a profitable disciplined in its approach to step towards combining our 2016 bank which serves its customers remuneration.
On the other hand, we Sustainability and Strategic reports, and communities well.
There is still need to fairly reward our colleagues bringing together in one place a road to travel before we reach who work with customers from day to our financial and non financial that destination, and of course the day and who bear no responsibility for performance to demonstrate how we competitive environment for banks the decisions which led to those losses, are building a more sustainable bank continues to evolve.
I assure you that and it is important for the long-term to deliver long term value to all our the Board and management are singlevalue of shareholders investment in stakeholders.
mindedly focused on delivering value the company that we attract and retain for our shareholders, and are grateful well-qualified and motivated people.
Stakeholder Engagement for your patience as we proceed.
We believe the decisions we have made We welcomed the opportunity to this year, on the bonus pool which has participate in the Department for been further reduced and on the Business, Energy and Industrial proposed new long-term incentive Strategys BEIS Green Paper scheme, strike that balance appropriately.
consultation on Corporate Governance They are more fully explained in the Reform.
The chapter on strengthening 2016 Remuneration report.
the employee, customer and wider 08
