Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 03 Strategic report VIEW FROM THE CHAIRMAN opportunities to combine and improve operations.
The Board would like to welcome all of those new OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR The Group continues to evaluate a significant number colleagues who have joined the Group and thank I am delighted to report another year of good of further consolidation opportunities in Europe.
everyone who has contributed to what has been performance.
We delivered strong like-for-like growth yet another successful year.
The Group is able to in volumes, profits and returns and at the same time The Groups presence outside of Europe has been provide many opportunities for individuals to make successfully integrated the Promens business that we enhanced by the aforementioned acquisition of GCS.
their own contribution to the business and I would acquired in February 2015, improving its profitability In the Far East, further progress has been made in like to take this opportunity to thank all employees and delivering enhanced synergies.
We also made developing RPCs packaging sales presence, whilst for their outstanding efforts, often in challenging further significant progress in realising the Groups further investment has been made in the North circumstances, and look forward to their continued strategic growth objectives, with five further American businesses and a start-up business is being contribution in achieving our strategy going forward.
acquisitions made in the year, including GCS, a global established in Brazil in support of a major customer closures and dispensing systems business, which product launch.
DIVIDEND was completed just before the year end and which The year has also seen good growth in nonThe Board considers the dividend to be an important provides RPC with a further platform for growth in our packaging markets, with further investments made component of shareholder returns and, as such, packaging segment.
in electroplating capabilities for the automotive has a policy to deliver a progressive dividend year The results for the Group were significantly impacted industry in China, the acquisition of Strata Products on year targeting a dividend cover of 2.5x adjusted by the full year benefit of recent acquisitions.
November 2015 in the UK and strong growth in earnings through the cycle.
It is recommending a Sales for continuing businesses grew to 1,642m the supply of Promens specialty vehicle parts and final dividend of 12.3p per share making a total 1 2015: 1,222m, adjusted operating profit reached Splast rotomoulded insulated fish tubs.
for the year of 17.1p restated and 2015 restated: 174.3m 2015: 131.6m, whilst adjusted earnings 14.3p, which is a 20% increase on the previous The organisational integration of the Promens 2 per share increased to 43.3p 2015 restated: 38.0p.
This will be the 23rd successive year of business was completed during the year and the Net cash from operating activities was 150.9m dividend progression since RPCs flotation.
The total second phase of the associated synergy realisation 2015: 92.7m.
Net statutory profit for the year was dividend and 2015 comparator have been adjusted is progressing well.
for the bonus element of the rights issue in the year were incurred in the year relating to Promens, and connected with the GCS acquisition.
the expected restructuring investment to optimise STRATEGY the overall cost base following both the Promens and Subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM, the As a leading design and engineering company in GCS acquisitions is estimated at 170m, delivering final dividend will be paid on 2 September 2016 plastic products for both packaging and selected benefits of 80m over a two year period which is toshareholders on the register on 12 August 2016. non-packaging markets, the Group continues to focus 15m higher than previously estimated.
on delivering the Vision 2020 strategy.
Its objectives are continuing focused organic growth based on BOARD innovation: selective consolidation of the European I am pleased to welcome Heike van fide Kerkhof market through targeted acquisitions: creating a J R P Pike who was appointed a non-executive director meaningful presence outside Europe where growth Chairman on 24 November 2015, and a member of the rates are considerably higher: and pursuing added 2 June 2016 Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
value opportunities in non-packaging markets.
As announced last year both Ilona Haaijer, on In terms of organic growth, the underlying sales 13 May 2015, and Stephan Rojahn, on 15 July for continuing operations were 3% higher than 2015, retired from the Board as independent nonthe previous year with innovation and investments executive directors.
A key strength of the Board providing opportunities for further organic growth.
lies in its breadth of skills, experience, gender and In recognition of the Groups innovation capabilities, nationality, and our discussions this year have RPC was named the UK Packaging Company of the benefited from this diversity.
I have been well Year for the second consecutive year in 2015. supported by the members of the Board and am grateful to them all for their valuable contributions.
The selective consolidation in Europe was progressed through the acquisitions of Innocan May 2015, GOVERNANCE Depicton June 2015, and JP Plast March 2016 The Board continues to focus on ensuring that which have provided access to new technologies, JAMIE the UK Corporate Governance Codes principles of products and markets.
The recent acquisition of GCS PIKE leadership and board effectiveness are applied.
March 2016, with 23 sites in 13 countries in Europe, Chairman Corporate governance continues to evolve and the Americas and Asia, represents another major emerging practice has remained a regular subject step change for the Group, creating a new platform 1 Adjusted operating profit is defined as operating profit for continuing for discussion at the Board.
We seek to run our for growth in plastic packaging in the closures and operations before restructuring, impairment charges, other exceptional businesses in a responsible way, recognising that items and non-underlying items and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Significant synergies good corporate governance supports the long-term 2 Adjusted earnings per share is defined as adjusted operating profit for will be delivered through enhanced purchasing, continuing operations after interest and tax adjustments but excluding health of the Group.
eliminating corporate overhead costs, cross non-underlying finance costs divided by the weighted average number ofshares in issue during the year.
selling across a wider product range and further
