Strategic report Chairmans statement Welcome to our 2016 Annual Report I am very pleased to report a year of excellent progress for RSA.
Despite the uncertainty and turbulence created by some of the external political events, we have seen the organisation deliver a very strong performance.
The extensive restructuring groundwork of the recent past, which has seen the company operationally streamlined and financially strengthened, is now bearing fruit.
This year we completed the disposal programme we have been undertaking.
The conclusion of the sale of our Latin American and Russian operations in 2016 and the sale of our UK legacy liabilities post the year end, leaves us with a business that is now focused on our three Martin Scicluna Chairman 4 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our Board engaging with employees and operations RSA networking breakfast Women in Leadership Event in Peterborough The More Th n brand launch Visiting our John Lewis team core regions of the UK & International, Premiums were up 6 percent for the Hudson, both of whom have extensive Canada and Scandinavia.
This has enabled Core Group to 6.3bn, although flat at insurance industry experience.
management and the organisation as constant FX.
Underwriting profits have We welcome them and look forward a whole to focus on improving our again improved significantly to 380m to the insights they will bring.
After nine customer service, our insurance offer 2015: 220m with a combined ratio years on the Board, Johanna Waterous, and our returns to shareholders.
our Senior Independent Director, will Operating profit of 655m was up retire on 5 May 2017.
On behalf of the I am delighted to say that RSA has also 25 percent, with profit after tax of Board and the Company I would like delivered a year of significantly improved 20m reflecting the one-time impacts to thank Johanna for her contribution results for the third year in a row, building of disposals.
As a result we are proposing to the Group over the past nine years on the momentum created in the business.
a final dividend for 2016 of 11p which and for her work as Senior Independent As a result, we have exceeded the would bring our total dividend for the Director since May 2014.
Isabel Hudson strategic and financial objectives we year to 16p 2015: 10.5p, up by 52 percent.
will succeed as Senior Independent set out in 2014, and remain on course for Director with effect from 5 May 2017. the new performance ambitions we set The Board and management of the I want to thank the whole Board for out a year ago.
We have the opportunity business have every confidence that their unwavering commitment this to be a long-term winner in all three there is plenty more to come.
Stephen year, and look forward to working of our core regions as we now focus Hesters leadership has put us back with them during 2017. on improving the strength of our offer on a path to success, and the strength to customers and consolidating our and depth of the very capable team he Your Board believes the Company is very market position.
We are in a position has put in place is now really showing well positioned to drive further value.
to become the best-in-class performer through.
On behalf of the Board I would I would like to thank all our shareholders that I believe RSA should be.
like to thank Stephen and his management for their continued support and look team for their hard work and success in forward to seeing many of you at our The sense of energy and commitment 2016.
However, the effort of restructuring AGM in May.
that our employees have shown this and refocusing the organisation was year is a key pillar of our success.
I am only the beginning, and we need to extremely grateful to everyone who has keep raising our ambitions to accelerate played such a part in helping to improve what we have begun and to harness our efficiency and effectiveness whilst that sense of strength and pride which ensuring that we remain focused is flowing through the organisation.
on serving our customers better and Martin Scicluna meeting their needs.
On behalf of the As a Board we are there to support, Chairman Board, I would like to thank them for as well as to challenge, and to ensure 22 February 2017 their determination, dedication and that we become the best company professionalism.
The high standards they we can be.
To this end we added two have set show through in the financial new independent directors in 2016 with results we have delivered for the year.
the arrival of Martin Strobel and Isabel RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
