STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement The AB InBev offer values the company at US$106 billion, representing a total return to shareholders of about 1,500% since listing in London in 1999.
Dear shareholder The recommended offer from AB InBev has naturally made this a momentous year for your company.
The proposed transaction has inevitably been a distraction for the senior leadership team and potentially for the entire organisation, which is why it gives me so much pleasure to report on another year of strong underlying business performance.
Notwithstanding the impact of the transaction and a volatile economic environment, we achieved beverage volume growth of 2% and group net producer revenue NPR and EBITA growth, on an organic, constant currency basis, of 5% and 8%, respectively.
EBITA margin, as a percentage of group NPR, on the same basis, expanded by 60 basis points, enabled by both top line performance and by our cost reduction and productivity improvements.
These results are driven by our strategy to expand the beer category and strengthen our brand portfolios through our affordability and premiumisation initiatives, supported by innovation.
They tell us that we have the right strategy and that it works.
The continued depreciation of key operating currencies against the US dollar had an adverse impact on our reported results.
Reported group NPR, EBITA and adjusted EPS declined by 8%, 9% and 6%, respectively.
Despite these adverse currency movements, we delivered free cash ow of US$2,969 million, which has enabled continued investment in our growth markets in Africa and Latin America.
The strength of the groups performance amply justifies the boards decision to recommend a final Total dividend payment dividend of 93.75 US cents per share, bringing the total dividend for the year to 122 US cents, an increase of 9 US cents 122 US cents over the prior year.
2015: 113 US cents On 11 November 2015, AB InBev announced a recommended cash offer, with a partial unlisted share and cash alternative, for your company.
The most important task for the board in the year was our consideration of this offer.
The boards initial rejection of terms that it considered did not adequately value SABMiller resulted ultimately in signicantly improved offer terms, after six increases, before agreement was reached between 4 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The agreed cash SABMiller and AB InBev.
Under the However, these impressive statistics tell only agreement, AB InBev has agreed to use part of the story.
SABMiller has always aimed offer represents a its best efforts to secure the regulatory to play a positive role in the communities clearances and authorisations necessary where it operates, right across the world.
significant premium to satisfy the pre-conditions and regulatory Our global sustainable development ambition conditions to the transaction, with a break is called Prosper, and this sums up our and cash return fee of US$3 billion being payable if these philosophy that when communities prosper, clearances are not achieved.
The agreed our business prospers.
Prosper includes for our shareholders, cash offer represents a significant premium commitments in five areas that promote: and cash return for our shareholders, accelerating growth throughout our value securing early securing early delivery of the companys chain: responsible and moderate alcohol long-term value potential.
consumption: secure water supplies: delivery of the reducing waste and carbon emissions: At the time of writing, the transaction is and supporting farming.
All of our Prosper companys long-term going through the regulatory processes initiatives are designed to protect our and good progress is being made.
However, business and improve livelihoods, to support value potential.
until AB InBevs offer is made to and long-term sustainable growth, and therefore approved by shareholders, and the to create value for shareholders.
It has been transaction completes, the board remains a privilege over the past year to see for myself focused on the need for our business to how deeply management and employees continue to perform strongly and for our believe in SABMillers stated purpose: to strategic objectives to be executed as an bring refreshment and sociability, improve independent business.
We have therefore livelihoods and help build local communities.
continued to uphold rigorous standards, and in the corporate governance report I am honoured to acknowledge the role on pages 54 to 69, there is a detailed played by successive boards over the years description of the directors approach for their stewardship of the company and for to corporate governance, our application their consistent support and encouragement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, of management.
I am also most grateful to and our views on the role and effectiveness my fellow board members for their support, of the board.
commitment, skill and wisdom over the last year, especially as we navigated the AB InBev In the months before becoming Chairman, offer.
There were a number of changes in the I was delighted to have the opportunity to board this year: we welcomed our new CFO, introduce myself to most of our major Domenic fide Lorenzo, as well as two new shareholders and to listen to their comments non-executive directors, Javier Ferrn and and concerns.
These meetings provided Dave Beran.
Dave succeeded Howard Willard invaluable background when, later in the as an Altria nominee to the board.
Our sincere year, I had to discuss with them the offer thanks to John Manser, John Manzoni from AB InBev.
Our conversations were open and Howard Willard for their invaluable and constructive, and I am grateful to our contributions since joining the board in shareholders for their continued support.
SABMiller is an extraordinary success story.
The boards sincere thanks and From its origins in Johannesburg in 1895, congratulations are due to our Chief the group has grown to be a highly admired, Executive Alan Clark and the members high-performing global beer and beverage of the executive committee, and indeed to business.
SABMiller has created significant our 70,000 people around the world, for value for shareholders since listing on the their tremendous achievements over the London Stock Exchange in 1999 with a last year.
They have continued to execute market capitalisation of US$5 billion.
The our group strategy, maintaining the energy group expanded through organic growth and momentum in our business, while and a series of highly successful acquisitions dealing with the considerable distraction and joint ventures on five continents.
Today of the ABInBev offer.
The performance our unmatched footprint in fast-growing of our business is a testament to their developing markets is underpinned by our unwavering focus on delivering for portfolio of iconic national and global brands.
The AB InBev offer values the company at US$106 billion, representing a total return Jan du Plessis to shareholders of about 1,500% since Chairman listing in London in 1999, or a compound 10 June 2016 return of around 17.4% per year.
This is a tremendous achievement and a great tribute to the vision of our leaders and the commitment of our people around the world.
