CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Strategic and financial delivery leading to enhanced shareholder returns am delighted to present a strong Andrew Goodsell set of results in an important year Chairman in the history of Saga.
This year marks the 65th anniversary of the foundation of our business when I Sidney fide Haan, the owner of the Rhodesia Hotel in Folkestone, started offering off-peak holidays to retired people.
His insight into our customers needs was the start of the Company you see today.
During all of our 65 years our focus on customer needs has been the driving force behind the growth of the business.
They remain at the heart of everything we do and our model is underpinned by the provision of exceptional levels of customer service.
We benefit from a diverse and supportive shareholder base.
I am delighted that many of our customers extended their affinity with the brand through their continued ownership of the Company.
We have also been fortunate to attract a broad range of high-profile, long-term institutions to our share register.
This combination supports our ability to deliver long-term sustainable returns and I would like to thank our shareholders for their ongoing support.
I am very pleased to announce that we have taken the decision to increase shareholder distributions through our progressive dividend policy.
This is an important decision and one that reflects the Boards confidence in the sustainability of our dividend policy given our continued strong profit and cash performance, the evolution of our capital efficient model, and our plans to generate additional free cash flow.
06 SAGA PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 Strategic Report Governance highlights Our proposed total dividend for the We built on the governance structure established last year year of 7.2p equates to a payout ratio 1 our governance framework supports and sets the tone of 57% of net earnings, an increase on last year and higher than market for the strategic direction of the business.
We are also increasing Our processes ensure good stewardship whilst allowing our target payout range going forward us to grow.
The dividend will be paid First AGM held in June 2015 all resolutions passed on 30 June 2016 to holders of ordinary with a significant majority and all directors standing for shares on the register at the close re-election re-appointed.
We now comply with the Corporate Governance Code The new team members we have 2014 'the Code' recommendation that half of the Board welcomed during the past twelve are independent Non-Executive Directors.
months, both to the plc Board and our We conducted our first Board and Committee evaluation exercise Executive Team, have had a marked and agreed action plans to focus on areas of development.
impact on the thinking and leadership within the business.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them all for Go to page 50 for more information on our governance.
their input so far and to thank the entire plc Board for their invaluable contribution throughout the year.
Hazel Matthius, Cruise Adviser, Saga Holidays Finally, I would like to thank all of our employees.
The energy and commitment of the whole team at Saga, led so effectively by our Group Chief Executive Officer, Lance Batchelor, is the driving force behind our ongoing success and without them we could not maintain the exacting standards our customers expect on a day to day basis.
Andrew Goodsell Chairman 18 April 2016 1 57% of net earnings excluding the one-off benefit of tax losses acquired from Acromas.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 JANUARY 2016 SAGA PLC 07
