Our business model Creating value Our business model is the means by which we can deliver on our strategic objectives.
As with everything we do, the Develop deeper customer relationships by bringing customer is at the heart of our business the latest technology and model, which aligns with the customer listening to the needs of our inactive customers.
Key inputs to our Att ract new customers by winning in the market, o ering business model each customer a choice of market-leading products, supporting a strong partner and Talented people accountant ecosystem and Over13,000 of ourcolleagues around the providing first-class support.
world collaborate to provide technology expertise and an exceptional customer experience.
Trusted brand Small &Medium Businesses are the engineof our economies and Sage is theirchampion.
Our Market and technology insight customer We constantly focus on the latest Unrivalled support technology to ensure our products remain journey Our knowledgeable indispensable to customers in a continually customer service team evolving market.
answers over 30,000 calls a day, providing Resource allocation support and business We ex our resources to focus on advice.
Local knowledge Our deep knowledge of the regulatory Solution migration landscapes in which we operate ensures We o er customers the ourcustomers remain compliant and lets chance to scale-up soft ware usplan for new legislation on the horizon.
as their business grows and provide mobile technology Routes to market for access to data anywhere.
Our multi-channel approach is supported by a network of direct sales channels, business partners and accountants.
12 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 e t a v i t c A t c a r tt A n i a t e R w o r G Grow with our customers byrevolutionising business, providing additional features and services.
Value created from Create exceptional customer experiences our business model toearn customers for life.
Group organic revenue growth Organic revenue 1,567m Revenue streams: Recurring: Revenue on a contract basis predominantly for maintenance and support services or bundled subscription services.
Soft ware and related services SSRS : Soft ware licences and related products and services e. g. training, implementation or hardware.
Cross selling Processing: Revenue for processing We encourage services which is volume driven customers to purchase e. g. payments or payroll processing.
several Sage products, completing the golden Full fide nitions of our revenue streams are triangle to provide a on page 170 seamlessly integrated suite of business solutions.
Organic operating pro t 427m Up-selling We enable customers to Shareholder returns upgrade features and Dividends paid services within their product to optimise 145m theexperience.
Society 67m Tax charge for the year Community 13,000 Colleagues enabled to volunteer days given bycolleagues intheir communities The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 13
