Chairmans statement 2016 again demonstrated the Market share growth in key markets importance of Savills strengths in the and the resilience afforded by the prime markets of many of the worlds breadth of our operations, resulted in key cities where we increased our record revenue and profits in 2016. share of market activity.
Nicholas Ferguson CBE Chairman Total dividend 2016 29.0p Underlying profit 2016 135.8m Savills plc 10 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Groups underlying profit margin was Under their watch Savills business showed Results stable at 9.4% 2015: 9.5% with the The Groups underlying profit for the year commendable growth and I would like to increased weighting of Investment thank both Peter and Martin for their increased by 12% to 135.8m 2015: Management and improved profitability in 121.4m, on revenue which improved by enormous contributions to the business.
UK Residential Transaction business and 13% to 1,445.9m 2015: 1,283.5m.
The Continental Europe largely offsetting a Dividends Groups statutory profit before tax reduction in margins in the US and in An initial interim dividend of 4.4p per share increased by 1% to 99.8m 2015: 98.6m.
Property Management, which both included 2015: 4.0p amounting to 5.9m was paid Overview significant levels of expenditure on business on 5 October 2016, and a final ordinary development.
dividend of 10.1p 2015: 8.0p is 2016 was a year of geopolitical changes in many parts of the world.
In addition, recommended, making the ordinary Business development dividend 14.5p for the year 2015: 12.0p.
while investors globally have continued to increase their allocation to real estate in the Savills strategy is to be a leading advisor in This increase reflects the continued growth the key markets in which we operate.
Our of Savills less transactional profits, which search for secure income in a low interest rate environment, they have experienced a global strategy is delivered locally by our underpin the ordinary dividend.
In addition, a experts on the ground with flexibility to supplemental interim dividend of 14.5p number of headwinds including material rises in property taxes in a number of adapt quickly to changes in circumstances 2015: 14.0p was declared, based upon the and opportunities.
They are supported by underlying performance of our Transaction markets.
Under these circumstances, it was understandable that Savills saw an increase our regional and cross-border investment Advisory business.
Taken together, the and occupier service specialists.
Over the ordinary and supplemental dividends in the volatility of transactional activity in many of our markets.
Furthermore, last few years we have acquired a number comprise an aggregate distribution for the of complementary businesses and added year of 29.0p per share, representing an sterlings weakness against most major currencies boosted overseas investor teams and individual hires to our strong increase of 12% on the 2015 aggregate core business.
The final ordinary dividend interest in the UK.
2016 again demonstrated the importance of Savills strengths in the of 10.1p per ordinary share will, subject to During 2016, we continued to build our US shareholders approval at the Annual prime markets of many of the worlds key cities, where we increased our share of presence with a number of team hires and General Meeting on 9 May 2017, be paid the acquisition of a commercial brokerage alongside the supplemental interim dividend market activity.
Savills Investment Management substantially increased business in North Carolina.
In Asia Pacific, of 14.5p per share on 15 May 2017 to we made some significant hires in Australia shareholders on the register at 18 April2017.
revenue and profits both organically and through the performance of the former SEB and Mainland China in particular.
In Continental Europe, we benefited from People Asset Management AG SEB, which was I would like to express my thanks to all our acquired in August 2015.
Finally, currency uncertainties facing some of our peer groupto attract a number of seasoned staff worldwide for their hard work, movements had a meaningfully positive commitment and continued focus on client effect on the Group, contributing professionals and teams across our network.
In the UK, the acquisition of GBR Phoenix service, enabling the Group to deliver this approximately 9.0m in underlying profit record performance in 2016. on translation.
Beard substantially increased our presence in the Midlands and enhanced our property Outlook Our Transaction Advisory revenue grew by management and transactional capabilities We have made a solid start to 2017 with a there and in London.
In addition, the 7%, our Consultancy business revenue by pipeline of business carried over from last 4% and our Property Management revenue acquisition of Chainbow Limited, a London year in many markets, although the impact based residential block management by 21%, including the full year effect of the company, further enhanced our ability to of global macro-economic and political 2015 acquisition of Smiths Gore and the concerns on real estate markets worldwide serve the growing Private Rental Sector 2016 acquisition of GBR Phoenix Beard, PRS market.
At this stage, we expect some both in the UK.
Against the uncertain improvement in the US as corporate backdrop to world markets Savills Technology has become a focal area in the occupiers become acclimatised to the new commercial transaction business grew administration, but we retain a more real estate industry over the last few years revenue by over 8% with strong and we constantly review emerging cautious view in relation to the effect of the performances in many markets including Brexit negotiation period, particularly on opportunities to improve or grow through its significant growth in Continental Europe.
Having sentiment in the UK residential and Our Residential businesses withstood commercial markets.
However, the strength maintained a watching brief for some time, changeable conditions and the imposition in June 2016, we made our first external of our international operations and our of tax increases in a number of the worlds strong balance sheet, position us well to investment in this arena with the acquisition prime markets, with revenue growth of 3%.
of a minority stake in YOPA, a digital hybrid take advantage of variable market Finally, Savills Investment Management conditions, and the Boards expectations residential estate agency focused on the Assets Under Management AUM reduced mass market in the UK.
for the year as a whole remain unchanged.
to 16.2bn 2015: 17.1bn as a result of the distribution of sales proceeds to fund Nicholas Ferguson CBE Board holders in advance of the anticipated Chairman On 11 May, I became Chairman on the liquidation of certain SEB mutual funds.
retirement of Peter Smith, and Tim Savills Investment Management revenue Freshwater became Senior Independent grew by over 60% year-on-year.
Director on the retirement of Martin Angle.
Savills plc 11 Report and Accounts 2016 Sp tlight on Continental Europe Investor appetite for European real estate remains high.
According to the first estimates by the European Commission, Investment in the European property markets dropped by 15% real GDP grew by 1.7% year-on-year, unemployment dropped to to 207bn but was still the third highest on record.
This was 8.5% and private consumption remained the engine of recovery.
mainly a symptom of high competition for a limited supply of prime product, which left some investor requirements unsatisfied.
As a result, the property market also performed well: office Overall, offices maintained their position as the preferred asset take-up increased significantly year-on-year in the major type and increased their share from 42.1% in 2015 to 45.4% last European cities Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, Milan, year.
On the other hand, the share of retail dropped slightly from Stockholm and there was high demand and low supply of high 25.7% to 23.1%, mainly due to less availability of product on the quality space across all sectors average office vacancy rate market.
The share of industrial investments increased from 8.7% dropped further to 8.1%.
Demand for prime retail units in the best high streets and In search of less competitive, higher-yielding, market segments, shopping centres was also high, as effective omnichannel retail some investors were shifting their attention to alternative sectors: strategies demanded investment in both online and physical hotels, student housing, senior housing, apartments and other stores.
At the same time, the expansion of ecommerce was more niche segments which represented a growing share in fuelling demand for modern logistics facilities close to major investment activity.
urban centres and transport nodes across Europe.
The peripheral and Nordic markets experienced stronger yield compression as they were impacted somewhat earlier by the investment cycle.
Nevertheless, across the markets, the spread with the risk-free rate remained historically high, due to record low interest rates.
Savills plc 12 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case study France Savills advised insurance company Groupama on the consolidation of several business units in Paris into one campus comprising 46,000 sq m in Nanterre Prefecture, Paris.
Case study Netherlands Savills advised Deka on a 2,167 sq m lease to Tribes in Amsterdam's Adam Smith building and Savills advised Union Investment on the leasing of 2,400 sq m to Tribes in the SOM building in Amsterdam South Axis.
Savills plc 13 Report and Accounts 2016
