Overview Chairmans statement Results can generate significant incremental value for Michael Dobson 2016 was a year of major change with the clients over the long term by compounding Chairman UK voting to leave the European Union and returns in excess of what can be achieved the Presidential election in the US.
This led by matching a benchmark index.
to some sharp adjustments in equity markets and currencies but, overall, financial markets The regulatory focus on asset management were resilient and offered positive returns continues to intensify and the Financial for investors in 2016.
Conduct Authority issued its interim report on its Asset Management Market Study in Schroders again delivered record results, November.
We support the regulators benefiting from our diversified business objective of greater transparency around costs model and, in particular, the strength and investment outcomes to assist investors in of our international franchise as sterling making the choices that best meet their needs.
Profit before tax and exceptional The regulatory focus may also lead to higher items increased by 6% to 644.7 million and capital requirements for asset managers assets under management and administration but we are well positioned with 1.1 billion ended the year up 27% at 397.1 billion of investment capital over and above 2015: 313.5 billion.
Dividend It is too early to predict the precise impact of Our policy is to increase dividends progressively Brexit on UK asset managers but, given the in line with the trend in profitability and to scope of our European based business with target a 45 50% pay out ratio.
The Board will operations on the ground in eleven European recommend to shareholders at the Annual centres including our 90 billion Luxembourg General Meeting a final dividend of 64 pence fund range, we are confident that we will be per share 2015: 58 pence.
The final dividend able to adapt to the new landscape.
will be paid on 4 May 2017 to shareholders on the register at 31 March 2017.
The full The Board year dividend of 93 pence per share We made a number of important changes to represents an increase of 7%.
the composition and working of the Board in 2016.
In April, Peter Harrison succeeded me Our role as asset managers as Chief Executive.
This was the culmination of As one of the largest investment firms in a succession plan designed to ensure stability Europe, Schroders plays an important role in and continuity as well as continued long term helping a broad range of investors meet their growth and expansion.
financial goals as they provide for retirement, seek to offset future liabilities or build pools Andrew Beeson stepped down from the Board of capital to fund the investment needs of in April after 11 years, including four years as the future.
We also play an important role in Chairman.
On behalf of the Board I would like actively channelling capital to companies to to thank Andrew for his contribution to support them in investing for growth.
High Schroders over more than a decade.
standards of governance and corporate and social responsibility matter to us and Massimo Tosato, Executive Vice Chairman and we believe they are likely to lead to Head of Distribution, retired as a Director and outperformance in the long term.
left the Company at the end of 2016.
Massimo joined Schroders in 1995 and was the architect In line with the asset management industry of our institutional and intermediary as a whole, Schroders faces a number of distribution capability, widely recognised challenges but we are well placed to continue as one of our key competitive advantages.
to grow the business in the long term.
Fees I would like to thank Massimo for 15 years have been reducing for several years and will of partnership and for his important role likely decline further as investors continue in our success over recent years.
to focus on costs in a low return world.
This is also driven in part by the shift into passive Ashley Almanza left the Board in May since investment strategies.
However, Schroders his commitments as Chief Executive of G4S has the scale to weather declining fee prevented him from continuing as a Director.
margins and we remain committed to active I would like to thank him for his support and investment management which we believe advice during five years on the Board and 6 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Schroders again delivered record results, benefiting from our diversified business model.
for his work as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Our people Profit before tax and Committee.
Rhian Davies succeeded Ashley The success of our business derives from exceptional items as Chairman of this committee and led the our values, our diversified business model, process for selecting Ernst & Young as our our financial strength and, above all, the proposed new auditors for 2018. extraordinary depth of talent we have at 644.7m Schroders across the world.
I would like 2015: 609.7 million I was appointed Chairman in succession to to place on record the Boards recognition Andrew Beeson in April.
At that time I said of their contribution in 2016. we would appoint two additional independent non-executive Directors to the Board by Total dividend per share the end of 2016.
After a thorough review of Pence per share the attributes we were looking for in these Michael Dobson 2012 43 two candidates and an extensive search, Chairman 2013 58 we were delighted to announce that Ian 2014 78 King, Chief Executive of BAE, and Rakhi 2015 87 Goss-Custard, formerly an executive at 2016 93 Amazon, were appointed to the Board effective 1 January 2017.
After more than 20 years with the Company as an executive, Philip Mallinckrodt, Group Head of Private Assets and Wealth Management, relinquished his executive responsibilities on 1 March 2017.
As a member of the principal shareholder group, he continues on the Board as a non-executive Director.
Philip has made a major contribution to Schroders success, particularly in the last eight years as an executive Director.
I am delighted that he will serve as a non-executive Director and I look forward to continuing to work with him in this new capacity.
We continue to hold five scheduled Board meetings a year but we have extended the duration of the meetings to allow for a fuller discussion.
In May we hold a two day strategy meeting and every eighteen months we travel to one or more of our overseas offices.
The focus of the Board in 2016 was concentrated on strategic challenges and opportunities and we intend to maintain that focus in future.
Diversity In 2016 we signed the Women in Finance Charter and we have committed to meet the target of women filling at least 33% of senior management positions by 2019.
At Board level we have also increased the level of female representation and our aim is to achieve the new target of 33% by 2020 as set out in the Hampton-Alexander report.
We also support the recommendations contained in the Parker report on the ethnic diversity of Boards.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7 Strategy and business review Group Chief Executives statement 10 Market trends 12 Strategy 14 Key performance indicators 16 Business and financial review 18 Business model 24 Our people 30 Our impact 32 Key risks and mitigations 36 8 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Intermediary investors We manage over 120 billion of assets on behalf of financial advisers, discretionary managers, private wealth managers and online platforms.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
