| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2016 Chairmans Statement The Board wishes to maintain both the long track record of dividend increases and the aim of the Company to provide dividend growth ahead of UK inflation over the longer term.
The Company has healthy revenue reserves which cover in excess of four years of the regular dividend.
The Board considers it important for the Manager to examine the merits of investments from a total return perspective and does not wish the composition of the portfolio to be dictated by the income requirements of the Company.
Accordingly, the Board believes that these reserves should be utilised, if required, in the future.
As was the case for the past two years, the Board also Performance considers that income generated in excess of the In my first year end statement, I am delighted to report requirement of the regular dividend should be distributed that the Companys performance has been strong during as a special dividend.
Over that period, the share price total return was 30.0% and the net asset value Board composition per share NAV total return was 29.4% with borrowings I was appointed as Chairman at the AGM in January 2016, at market value.
While the Companys objective is to following the retiral of Douglas McDougall.
The Company produce above-average returns over the longer term, it is benefited greatly from his knowledge, experience and nevertheless pleasing that the Companys new investment leadership over many years.
On behalf of the Board, approach has demonstrated early benefits.
I should like to thank Douglas for his outstanding contribution.
At the financial year end the Company was ranked in the first quartile of the AIC global peer group over the prior Jane Lewis and Mick Brewis were appointed as 12 months.
non-executive Directors in December 2015 and elected at the AGM in January 2016.
Jane is an investment The high conviction, global contrarian investment trust specialist and Mick is an investment management approach adopted by Alasdair McKinnon and his specialist and both bring the experience of long careers team has been deployed for the full financial year.
approach differentiates the Company from our global growth investment trust peers.
The portfolio currently Process of change contains 68 listed equity holdings and is invested without reference to the composition of any index.
The Company has undergone a number of changes over the past two years which I believe have positioned it well The Company does not have a formal benchmark but, for future success.
by way of comparison, the sterling total return of the international MSCI All Country World Index ACWI was Alasdair McKinnon was appointed as the Company's 29.1%, while the UK based MSCI UK All Cap Index total Manager in February 2015 and, since then, the return was 12.3%.
investment team has been reorganised and the majority of our company secretarial and back office operations An inflation-beating dividend have been outsourced.
Over the financial year, earnings per share rose by 35.9% An important element of the changes has been the to 21.6p 2015: 15.9p, with a higher level of income introduction of the high conviction, global contrarian generation from the portfolio and a boost from sterling investment approach which, as I mention earlier, weakness.
differentiates the Company from our global growth investment trust peers.
This approach reflects the The Board recommends a final dividend of 8.25p per investment team's natural style as independent thinkers share which, if approved, will mean that the total regular and active, long-term investors who seldom follow the dividend for the year will increase by 8.0% to 13.5p herd.
It seeks opportunities created by the tendency of and will represent the 33rd consecutive year of regular markets to concentrate too much on past performance.
The Manager's view is that fashionable companies In view of the strong income generation this year, the eventually become overvalued and unfashionable Board also recommends a special dividend of 9.0p which companies eventually become undervalued.
follows a special dividend of 3.5p in the previous financial Central to the new investment approach is the Managers year.
The total dividend for the year will, if approved, thus high conviction in the Companys underlying investments increase by 40.6% to 22.5p.
indd 3 05 01 2017 08:51 04 | 05 Chairmans Statement continued and, in reflection of this, the Board considers it However, over recent years the proportionate size of these appropriate for the portfolio to contain fewer holdings borrowings has increased due to shares being bought than the previous typical range of 70 to 120 listed back and cancelled as part of the Companys discount international equity investments.
Accordingly, we took the opportunity to portfolio will now typically contain 50 to 100 listed repurchase 21m nominal, being around 20%, of the international equity investments.
The number of listed Companys secured bonds in December 2015.
While holdings as at 31 October 2015 and 31 October 2016 this decision had a one-off negative impact on the NAV was 74 and 70 respectively.
of 0.4% with borrowings at market value or 1.0% with borrowings at par, the 1.2m reduction in the annual Following the changes outlined above, we now have a interest charge going forward means that the cost will be streamlined investment team that is focused for effective clawed back well within the lifetime of the bond.
decision-making and has a clear investment approach which is explained more fully in the Managers Review.
Discount and share buybacks We have also changed our approach with regard to The Company follows a policy that aims, in normal market marketing and communications.
We will seek to raise the conditions, to maintain the discount to the ex-income Companys profile, as we believe that it is an attractive NAV with borrowings at market value at or below 9%.
investment vehicle which should appeal to a broad range The discount at which the share price traded to the NAV of potential investors when its attributes are effectively over the period varied more than in previous years but communicated.
The first steps in this are visible in our finished the period at 8.1%.
During the year 9.2m shares relaunched website at www.
co. uk and a were purchased for cancellation at an average discount of refreshed Annual Report.
This has been achieved at a 10.6% and a cost of 59.9m.
very reasonable cost and within our longstanding annual marketing budget.
Outlook Low costs Although the UK Brexit vote to leave the European Union wrongfooted markets, the swift recovery, particularly in The ongoing charges figure for the year under review sterling terms, benefited the Company.
Since the yearwas 0.49% which compares favourably with other end, there has been a further challenge to the political actively-managed investment vehicles.
As a self-managed status quo with the election of Donald Trump as US investment trust, this figure represents the ongoing President.
Forthcoming elections have the potential to costs of running the Company rather than an ad valorem highlight further rancour towards the European Union.
The process of change over the two years, most notably the restructuring of the investment team and I do not propose to add to the large volume of material outsourcing of other functions, has helped to reduce the that exists on analysis of these events other than to ongoing charges figure from 0.68% in 2014, to 0.52% in observe that there is a view, not only confined to the US 2015 and to 0.49% in the year under review.
and the UK, that large sections of the population feel disadvantaged by the consequences of globalisation.
In Gearing and partial repayment of long-term contrast, many large corporations have benefited from borrowings these trends but it is still too early to determine what Gearing was largely unchanged and finished the year changes, if any, will emerge under new political regimes.
Regardless, politicians and bureaucrats are likely to remain sensitive to market movements and will not intend As I mentioned in the Interim Report, the majority of to damage investor confidence.
the Companys long-term borrowings, which mature in 2030, were arranged almost 17 years ago when a Finally, the Board believes that the progress made over 5.75% coupon was considered attractive.
The interest the year stands the Company in good stead as a low-cost rate environment has changed considerably over this investment vehicle focused on delivering both above timeframe.
average returns and dividend growth over the longer term.
The original purpose of the borrowings was to invest on the basis that the return from a portfolio of equities would exceed the cost of borrowings on a long-term timeframe especially if deployed at an opportune time.
The Board believes that this remains a valid assumption given that the borrowings have more than 13 years until expiry and, furthermore, the Board is conscious that a premium James Will would currently be required for early repayment of the Chairman borrowings.
