Strategic Report Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 21 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement, has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans Statement I am pleased to say that the Scottish Mortgage portfolio has Earnings and Dividends continued to produce good long term returns for shareholders.
Scottish Mortgage is clear in its focus as a growth-oriented The past financial year, taken in isolation, has not been as strong investment trust.
Our objective is to maximise total returns to as recent years, either in terms of the NAV performance or our shareholders but, in light of the growth investment mandate, the own share price, but I hope that my earlier statements have been likelihood is that the majority of returns in the portfolio will come consistent in warning that not every year can be expected to through capital appreciation, as distinct from dividend income, produce the stellar results that we have been fortunate to see in over the longer term.
Our income has fallen again this year, reflecting several aspects of I would stress once again that such flat periods are to be our investment policy: our holdings in quoted companies have expected and are consistent with the approach taken for Scottish been moving away from higher income-paying stocks, in favour of Mortgage.
Indeed, I would go so far as to suggest that longer term growth investments, and we hold more unquoted shareholders should expect that there will be periods when our companies, which currently provide little by way of income.
This investment approach is out of favour, when there is a disconnect years earnings per share were 1.66p, 26% lower than in between share prices and the underlying fundamentals of the 2014 15. companies, and in such circumstances our share price may well The Board has encouraged the Managers to pursue a total return suffer.
A pleasing outcome of the last twelve months was that policy, without regard to the expected split between dividends good individual company results managed to reverse share price and capital gains, believing that this is the best way to deliver falls, mitigating broader negative sentiments which might value to shareholders in the long run.
While we believe that otherwise have had a greater impact on the portfolio, for example Scottish Mortgage is held by investors mainly interested in capital regarding China, healthcare and technology.
growth, your Board nonetheless recognises the importance to In the context of a five year investment horizon, a single twelve many of our shareholders of the income from their holdings in the month period is an insufficient time over which to evaluate the Company.
After careful consideration and notwithstanding the investment approach taken for Scottish Mortgage.
Neither the drop in our income we are recommending an increased final Managers nor the Board make any attempt to mitigate the effects dividend, providing a total distribution for the year of 2.96 pence of short term market gyrations.
The portfolio is invested in per share, which is some 1% higher than that paid in 2014 15. individual businesses which have the potential to offer To achieve this, we are once again having to use our reserves to extraordinary growth over the long term.
supplement the income we have earned during the period.
Once the final dividend is approved and paid, the remaining reserves will Over the past twelve months, behind the turbulent movement in stand at 2.5 pence per share.
their share prices, a number of the companies in the portfolio have reported strong operational results, reaping the benefit of At this level, we are unlikely to have sufficient income and revenue prior years capital investment.
Looking ahead, the level of reserves to continue to pay a comparable dividend over the continued investment by the companies which Scottish Mortgage coming years from these two sources alone.
The Company is, holds should provide a strong base for future growth and returns.
however, permitted to make distributions from capital profits.
The This is particularly pleasing to see against a wider backdrop of Board will be willing to do this in order to continue to grow our slowing investment and companies which have been returning dividend payments so long as it believes that the total returns cash to their shareholders.
being earned by the Company over the long run justify this.
The Baillie Gifford savings scheme, and many other platforms, give The table below shows the five and ten year total returns in shareholders an opportunity to re-invest dividends in the percentage terms to 31 March 2016 alongside the Association Company, and the Board hopes that shareholders who have no of Investment Companies AIC Global Sector average for immediate need of income will take advantage of this facility.
Changes to Investment Policy Total Return % Five years Ten years Currently, whilst Scottish Mortgages investment policy specifically NAV 71.0 156.4 lists unquoted entities amongst the permissible investments, Share price 91.1 202.2 there are no formal parameters set out with regard to such.
Given FTSE All-World Index 48.0 92.9 the rising level of these investments within the Scottish Mortgage Global Sector Av NAV 46.4 87.9 portfolio and the changing nature of the investment opportunities being seen by the Managers, the Board is of the view that this is Global Sector Av share price 52.8 91.5 an appropriate moment to provide clarity for shareholders on the Source: AIC Morningstar.
maximum level such investments might reach over time.
The level of the investments in private or unquoted companies within the portfolio has been rising over the past few years and Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
02 Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report was around 12% at 31 March 2016.
The investment case for Gearing holding such companies within the Scottish Mortgage portfolio, The Board of Scottish Mortgage remains committed to the as well as the reasons why the Board believes the Managers have strategic use of gearing, in the belief that it is in the long term a competitive advantage in investing in this area, were set out in interests of shareholders to be geared into prospective long run the Interim Report to 30 September 2015.
In addition, the equity market returns.
No attempt is made to deploy short term Managers Review in the Annual Report and Financial Statements tactical gearing shifts, or to express a view on future near term will contain a more detailed exploration of this aspect of the market moves, as we do not believe this to be one of our portfolio.
As always, I would encourage shareholders to read the competitive advantages.
Accordingly, gearing levels were Managers commentary on pages 10 to 13. maintained throughout the year.
Whilst Scottish Mortgage has long been able to make The Board will continue to monitor the appropriate level of gearing investments in private companies, the increase in the level and for the long term and is mindful that further rises in the allocation number of such unlisted investments within the portfolio in recent to private companies within the portfolio may result in it becoming years has been in direct response to a shift in the balance within appropriate to reduce the level of borrowing so as to keep a the capital markets between the providers and consumers of broadly consistent level of gearing relative to the listed equity capital, rather than a change in the Managers investment portion of Shareholders Funds.
The Managers remain committed long Buybacks and Share Issuance term investors in strong growth companies.
In order to maintain Despite some dramatic swings in sentiment in the broader equity the breadth of their investment opportunities, the Managers have sought to utilise the flexibility of the closed ended capital structure markets throughout the past 12 months, Scottish Mortgage continued to see a reasonably sustained level of demand, with the of Scottish Mortgage to invest in a number of private companies.
The Managers believe that this will provide them with a greater Companys shares trading around, or at a small premium to, NAV for much of the period.
opportunity to continue to deliver long term returns for shareholders in the future.
In line with the stated policy of aiding the efficient functioning of Historically, the Board has provided guidance to the Managers on the market in its shares, Scottish Mortgage both sold shares from Treasury from time to time and, on one occasion, bought back a the appropriate maximum level for such investments within the portfolio: this guidance has been reviewed and it is now proposed small number of shares, when there were supply and demand imbalances building up in the market.
The balance of these to adapt it to reflect developments in the corporate funding markets, whereby emerging companies are able to finance operations was heavily in favour of our issuing shares and we were able to attract additional net capital of 180 million, growing themselves for much longer before coming to public markets.
The Board believes this shift in the functioning of capital markets the Company by some 5%.
is likely to persist, rendering the flexibility to undertake It is the Boards intention to continue this liquidity management investments ahead of public offerings of increasing importance for policy in normal market conditions, with regard to share issuance growth investors across the world.
The Board supports the and share buybacks, as it believes this to be in the interest of all Managers in their belief that investments made in the unquoted shareholders.
The Company has 109 million shares remaining in companies within the portfolio are entirely consistent with their Treasury and the Board is once again seeking the necessary investment philosophy and recognises that the Managers are shareholder approvals to continue to undertake such transactions agnostic as to whether a company chooses to remain private, or in the Companys own shares.
Low Cost Thus the Company is tabling an Ordinary Resolution at the Keeping costs low for shareholders continues to be a priority for Scottish Mortgage Annual General Meeting AGM on 30 June to the Board and an important competitive advantage for Scottish seek permission from shareholders to amend the Companys Mortgage, given the erosive effect of high costs on compounded Investment Policy to stipulate that the maximum amount which returns to shareholders.
may be invested in companies not listed on a public market shall not exceed 25 per cent of the total assets of the Company, with I am therefore delighted to announce that, for the year to this test applied by reference to the current values of unquoted 31 March 2016, Scottish Mortgages Ongoing Charges Ratio holdings and total assets at the time of the intended purchase of has fallen once again, this year by over 6% to 0.45%, from 0.48% the next investment not listed on a public market.
This figure remains one of the lowest reported in the investment trust sector.
This Resolution also asks shareholders to approve other minor changes to the Investment Objective and Policy: these are Board and AGM intended as simplifications and clarifications of the text, not as I would like to take this opportunity to thank Gordon McQueen for substantive changes to the existing policy.
The wording of the his considerable number of years of service to the Company as a current and proposed Investment Objective and Policy is set out Director and in particular for his dedication and diligence in his on pages 7 and 8 of the Circular dated 27 May 2016 and sent to role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He has decided that, shareholders with the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
after more than fifteen years on the Board of Scottish Mortgage, The Board believes that all of these changes are in the best he will not stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
We wish interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole and it is him all the very best in his future endeavours.
unanimous in recommending that you vote in favour of all of the Resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own holdings.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 03 Strategic Report Gordon will be succeeded in his role as Audit Committee The Board acknowledges that there are some very obvious risks Chairman by Justin Dowley, who joined the Board last year and in the world, be they political in nature as countries negotiate their brings us many years of commercial and financial experience.
We future relationships: or economic, as much of the world struggles also welcome to the Board Professor Patrick Maxwell who was with low growth, zero interest rates and a radically different appointed at the start of the current financial year and, like Justin, supply demand balance for fossil fuels.
I will confine my stands for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Amongst other comments on Brexit to noting that, by the time we meet in distinguished roles, Patrick holds the position of Regius Professor Edinburgh at the end of June, the result will be known.
of Physic at Cambridge University and it is, I hope, appropriate to There are many threats out there and your Board spends a great point out that Physic is a mediaeval term for what we now know deal of its time thinking about risk and trying to understand how as Medicine: given your Companys increasing exposure to life well diversified our portfolio really is.
We also have a suspicion that science businesses, we look forward to Patricks contributions in the real hazard is what one American politician tried to articulate this and other fields.
Beyond ensuring that we are The Annual General Meeting will be held in Edinburgh at the properly diversified from a political, geographical and industrial Merchants Hall, at 4.30pm on 30 June 2016.
The joint Managers perspective, we focus on the opportunities which such events of the Trust, James Anderson and Tom Slater, will make a may offer to Scottish Mortgage if and when they occur.
We presentation to shareholders on the investments and take believe strongly in two things: first, that passive investing is no questions.
I do hope you will be able to attend.
longer an adequate approach if investors wish to preserve capital in the medium term there are simply too many competitive Scottish Mortgage Forum for Individual Investors threats to established businesses, many of which will not survive.
In recent years, the Board has been pleased to see considerable Secondly, that many of the companies in our portfolio offer the growth in the number of individual shareholders investing directly potential for growth based on structural rather than cyclical through execution-only platforms, but we realise that it can be changes over the long term.
difficult for many shareholders to attend the AGM, which is always Looking to the future, the Board believes that, through the held in Edinburgh.
In order to provide our broad investor base consistent application of its long term growth investment strategy, with the opportunity to hear directly from those investing their Scottish Mortgage offers its shareholders a real alternative to other assets, the Managers are holding a series of shareholder events, investment vehicles.
We are about as far removed from being an starting with a session in London on 22 June.
For further details index tracker as it is possible to be and we offer an active on this event please see page 61 of the Annual Report and investment management approach at a very competitive cost.
Financial Statements or the Scottish Mortgage website www.
Investment Strategy The Statement of the Managers core investment beliefs is included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements on page 14.
The stability of their core investment philosophy and the consistency with which the Managers have applied this to the portfolio over many years is one of Scottish Mortgages key John Scott strengths.
Chairman 18 May 2016 This style of investing requires commitment and a willingness to look through short term market gyrations.
Both the Managers and the Board believe true investment risk is the permanent loss of capital.
It cannot be encapsulated or even meaningfully estimated by measuring volatility over the short term relative to a market average.
Where short term share price moves disconnect significantly from companies fundamentals, this may provide even more attractive opportunities for the Managers.
Outlook Scottish Mortgages portfolio offers shareholders access to some of the most exciting growth companies across the world, whether they be public or private, which are themselves aiming to change the future of a wide range of industries over the coming years.
We do not try to disguise the fact that our portfolio is a concentrated one and in many cases invested in businesses of which Tesla is a prime example whose intention is to disrupt the present incumbents and which has been constructed in accordance with the convictions of our Managers and with no heed to benchmarks or indices.
