Strategic Report Chairmans Statement I am very pleased to see the substantial progress that was made in 2016.
Having stabilised the business in the preceding period, we are now continuing with our plan to further improve how we operate and compete.
Once the transformation stage is complete, we are confident that the business will start to make positive progress towards our long-term goals.
have contributed to a 40% increase in the value of order Serco is a remarkable company, supporting intake, signing contracts with a total value of 2.5bn governments around the world in the during the year, or 3.2bn including our share of joint delivery of essential public services.
your Chairman, I am proud of the work we do and of the achievements being made You can read more about all of these points in Rupert Soames Chief Executives Review on pages 26 to 34. to implement the new strategy that was presented to shareholders in March 2015.
Achieving our financial targets Our five-year plan is on track and we are Revenue from continuing and discontinued operations driving hard to achieve the ambition of being for 2016 was 3.0bn and Underlying Trading Profit was a superb provider of public services by being 82m, compared to our guidance at the start of the the best-managed business in the sector.
year of 2.8bn and approximately 50m respectively.
The stronger performance reflected in part the benefit Delivering our strategic plan of foreign exchange movements over the course of the Much has been achieved over the last three years in year, but to a larger degree reflected the resolution of order to renew Serco: recruiting a new management a number of commercial matters and certain contracts team: carrying out the detailed Contract and Balance running for longer.
Whilst the benefits of these Sheet Review: developing the new strategy and its resolutions and contract timings are not expected implementation plan: improving the morale of our to repeat in subsequent periods, they are the result people: delivering the corporate renewal programme: of considerable hard work to achieve a favourable and strengthening the balance sheet.
Elsewhere, it was the result of similar now seen the necessary shift in focus to begin to build a hard work to deliver cost savings slightly ahead of target successful future on these good foundations.
and ensure our plans for operational improvements were all achieved during the year.
Over the course of the last 12 months we have therefore delivered essential elements of the Transform Operating profit before exceptional items was 98.5m.
stage of our turnaround, including: completing the After exceptional items, net finance costs, tax and rationalisation of our portfolio to achieve a strategic losses from discontinued operations, the loss for the focus on public services in five sectors and four year was 1.1m, compared to a loss of 153.1m for 2015. geographies: continued progress in reducing the burden of loss-making contracts: and rebuilding Net Debt at year-end was 109m, also ahead of our our business development capacity, which has guidance at the start of the year.
This equates to supported an increase in our pipeline of larger new EBITDA leverage of 0.7x, suitably below our mediumbid opportunities from 6.5bn at the end of 2015 to term target range of 12x and very comfortably below 8.4bn at the end of 2016.
Furthermore, we are making the 3.5x debt covenant requirement.
progress on building differentiated capabilities and You can read more about the drivers of financial strengthening our sector propositions, which includes performance in Ruperts Chief Executives Review, with the successful development of our three Centres of further detail provided in the Divisional Reviews on Excellence covering Health, Transport and Justice & pages 35 to 41 and the Finance Review on pages 42 Immigration.
These factors, together with clear progress to63.
on rebuilding customer confidence and trust in Serco, 04 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Strengthening our governance Shaping our future success On joining Serco in June 2015, I received a detailed At the start of 2016 we refreshed Sercos Values.
These briefing on the Corporate Renewal Programme and the are Trust, Care, Innovation and Pride, and sit at the independent oversight that was in place to ensure the very core of how the business operates.
I and the rest programme was fully carried out.
We have continued of the Board have continued to benefit from seeing in 2016 to put in place additional actions to improve at first hand our contracts in operation, seeing Serco further the effectiveness of our governance, operational colleagues living our Values and demonstrating an resilience and organisational change processes.
absolute commitment to delivering excellent public Of particular note has been the introduction of the services.
We have also been able to see that the new Group Risk Committee which has overseen the Values have been embedded successfully through our strengthening of the Companys risk management annual Viewpoint employee engagement survey.
I processes, and in turn has enabled a focusing of was particularly proud that, based on the responses of the responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility over 30,000 employees, Viewpoint has seen a further Committee which has replaced the Board Oversight increase in the level of employee engagement, which is Committee.
Your Board has also been actively involved a key determinant of the future success of the business.
in evaluating individual bids containing a particular As we look ahead to 2017, it will be a further challenging concentration of risks, as well as meeting regularly year in terms of financial performance, and we have with management responsible for the delivery of the reiterated our guidance for revenue of approximately Companys key operations and for the development 3.1bn and Underlying Trading Profit of between of new business.
Your Board is, however, absolutely I was delighted to welcome John Rishton as a Nonfocused on long-term, sustainable shareholder value Executive Director in September 2016, with John taking creation, and doing so by protecting the best interests over as Chair of the Audit Committee from Malcolm of shareholders alongside those of our employees, Wyman on 1 November 2016.
John brings to Serco customers, and the societies and communities in extensive executive and non-executive knowledge which we work.
Serco has a highly effective executive and experience, across a range of industries, and management team, a committed workforce that cares is already proving to be a valuable addition to the passionately about public service delivery, and a clear Board in areas that are key to strengthening Serco strategy to transform the business and position it for further.
Having joined in 2013, Malcolm Wyman made success in attractive markets.
Once our transformation a significant contribution to Serco during the prior is completed over the course of the coming year, we period of stabilising the business, and more recently expect to make good progress on restoring the growth, in 2016 during the process of appointing KPMG as the margins and returns of the business.
I am confident that new External Auditor for the Group.
Tamara Ingram the collective actions being taken will ensure that Serco also stepped down from the Board in July following is fully restored as a superb provider of public services her appointment as Chief Executive Officer of J. Walter that everyone will be proud to be associated with.
Thompson Company LLC and her relocation to the US.
I would like to thank all colleagues in the business for I and the Board would like to express our appreciation their efforts in achieving a successful 2016, and for for the contribution, time and energy Malcolm and their continued support in delivering the long-term Tamara spent supporting the strengthening of Serco.
You can read more about the background, structures and progress in our Corporate Governance Report on pages 74 to 125.
