10 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans statement This has been another positive year for market through Water Plus, our joint venture Severn Trent.
We have embraced the new with United Utilities.
This will see us combine regulatory environment put in place for Asset both of our business retail operations into a Management Plan 6 AMP6 and are seeing new focused operation, based in Stoke-onthe fruits of our preparation and hard work Trent.
Leveraging our combined experiences in improved service to our customers and the ofsuccessful operations in Scotland will returns we can deliver for our shareholders.
enable this joint venture to deliver benets and efficiencies and service quality to customers Embracing regulatory change when the market opens next year.
Following a robust regulatory challenge with Ofwat at the end of 2014, we started AMP6 We have long been industry thought leaders with a new regulatory framework that we through our Changing Course series of believe will better align the interests of our Underlying Group PBIT publications and have continued that trend this customers, employees and investors through year with the publication of our latest report, incentive mechanisms which seek to drive the Charting a Sustainable Course.
This aimed to right behaviours.
shine a light on the main policy issues facing the 522.8m Before exceptional items water sector and promote a constructive debate In 2015 we replaced our existing employee about its future.
We have been encouraged by surveys into a single global survey.
For its first Dividend the way Ofwat is progressing its thinking on a year we are delighted that response rates have number of fronts, including further developing remained strong with the overall response the role of Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs, rateat 80%.
sludge trading and water trading.
-5.0% Under the stewardship of our Chief Executive, During the terrible ooding which hit homes Liv Gareld, Severn Trent planned and prepared Dividend for the year and businesses over the Christmas and New well for the changes to our regulatory measures Year period, we helped our fellow affected for the current AMP and I am pleased to see that water companies in getting the essential water this is delivering early positive results.
80.66p services back up and running.
We have also been Last year we restructured and simplied our engaging with the Government on a number of business by bringing our water and waste ways in which water companies can help the water operations together into one division.
Environment Agency improve ood defence to We now also have in place a restructured limit the impact of such events in the future.
and refreshed management team with the Delivering returns right balance of experience and skills that will Total Group revenue fell by 0.8% to 1,787 million, enable us to differentiate ourselves on a clear while underlying Group PBIT increased by 4.4% path to achieving our vision of being the most to 523 million.
This resulted in underlying trusted water company by 2020.
We have also earnings per share of 108.5 pence, up from simplied the management structure of our 107.2pence last year.
business, removing unnecessary layers from the organisational structure, giving our managers Having agreed a tough regulatory settlement for increased responsibility and empowering them AMP6 at the start of the financial year, we revised to make the right decisions, enabling us to our Dividend Policy for the five year period.
As a refocus our resources more towards front line result, your Board is proposing a final dividend of services for our customers.
48.40 pence per share to be paid on 22 July 2016.
This will take the total dividend for the year to I am particularly pleased to see us making 80.66 pence per share.
This is 5% lower than last good progress on some of our performance year and will enable us to grow it at least in line commitments which were agreed with our with Retail Price Index RPI over the remainder customers as part of the price review process.
Not only do they clearly demonstrate our engagement with the new regulatory incentives, Investing for the future but they also reward us for delivering the things We are undertaking our largest ever our customers tell us are most important to investment programme in this AMP, with a them reafrming our core value of putting our capital investment programme of 3.5 billion.
customers at the heart of all we do.
This includes one of our most significant projects to secure the supply of water to Birmingham for Regulation in our industry is ever evolving, never generations to come, through our Birmingham more so than in the current period.
This 300 million project household retail market is due to open to will deliver resilience to the existing Elan Valley competition in 2017 and we have swiftly moved Aqueduct, currently the sole supply of water to to provide the best offering to customers in this Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 11 SERVING COMMUNITIES the city of Birmingham, enabling much more comprehensive maintenance projects on this feat of Victorian engineering.
This is an example of an infrastructure projectthat not only benets our customers and shareholders, but also makes important economic, social and environmental contributions to our regions.
Our investments this AMP will also include up to 190 million in renewable energy which will see us producing the equivalent of 50% of our energy needs from renewable sources such as solar, wind and anaerobic digestion, by 2020.
We already self-generate energy equivalent to 33% of our needs, and we are proud to be leaders in our industry in this eld to help ensure safe, sustainable sources of energy forfuture generations.
Our colleagues Our success is attributable to the fantastic work of our colleagues right across the business.
It reects the work being done each and every day to improve the services we provide to our customers and I would like to thank them for this hard work and dedication in delivering a better outcome for our customers and for the environment.
Looking forward Strong foundations have been laid leading into AMP6 and I am pleased to report that your business is in good shape, embracing, leading and adapting to the changes in our industry.
Following year end, we announced changes to the composition of our Board and I am confident that these changes will enable us to continue to deliver rewards for our customers, communities, shareholders and their stakeholders.
More information can be found inthe Governance report on pages 64 to 105.
Andrew Duff Chairman 12 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The markets The values we are we need focused on to be successful Wholesale operations and engineering We put our customers first What do we mean by this What do we mean by this Regulated water and waste Were here for our customers water infrastructure and 24 7.
We want to create a non infrastructure assets.
relationship based on empathy and respect.
Household customer services We are passionate about what we do What do we mean by this What do we mean by this Customer services for Were passionate about household customers the work we do and our in the UK.
We go the extra mile for customers and team mates.
Business retail and operating services We act with integrity What do we mean by this What do we mean by this Customer and operating We strive to do the right thing services for our business by being transparent and customers in the UK honest in all that we do.
We want to create a better future for all.
Green energy We protect our environment What do we mean by this What do we mean by this Renewable energy generation Were committed to a including gas to grid, food cleaner, greener future, waste biodigestion, wind protecting and improving andsolar power.
ourenvironment for generations to come.
New water markets We are inspired to create an awesome company What do we mean by this Opportunities in sludge What do we mean by this trading, water trading and Well all work together to upstream competition.
becreative and to make special things happen.
See our Market and industry overview See our performance reviews Page 13 Pages 28 and 36
