08 Chairmans statement Iain Cornish I am pleased to introduce the Annual Report & Accounts for Shawbrook for a year which has seen us make significant progress against the 2020 strategy laid out by Steve Pateman, our Chief Executive Officer, and his senior management team at our Capital Markets Day in May 2016.
In addition to delivering a strong financial performance, a major focus for the year has been on putting in place the sound foundations to deliver excellent service to customers, strong returns to investors and to grow the business at a sensible pace in an uncertain environment.
Results Shawbrook specialises in property finance, business finance and consumer lending and savings.
We use our specialist knowledge and traditional relationship-based approach to serve parts of the market which are poorly served by mainstream banks a model which not only benefits our customers, but also allows us to deliver attractive and stable returns to our shareholders.
In 2016 we delivered a strong return on tangible equity.
We did this without changing our risk appetite during the year, whilst growing the balance sheet and delivering a net interest margin which has remained stable throughout 2016.
All of our divisions showed growth and we maintained both a strong capital position and a prudent liquidity position.
A Charterhouse survey conducted in Q4 2016 revealed a customer satisfaction rate of 88%, well above the norms for the banking sector.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 09 ANOThEr yEAr Of SIGNIfICANT PrOGrESS Dividend People The positive results in 2016 have enabled the Board to recommend Shawbrook is a relationship business serving customers in a way a maiden final dividend of 2.7p per share, subject to shareholder which requires experience, knowledge, judgement and integrity.
approval at the Groups Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2017.
We are very fortunate to have people throughout the business This is equivalent to c. 10% of post-tax profits for the year and in line who possess these qualities in abundance, and who are passionate with the guidance set out at the IPO.
The Board continues to target about what they do, and I am extremely grateful to all my colleagues an increase in the dividend payout ratio to 30% of 2017 post-tax for their efforts throughout the year.
I am particularly grateful to profits subject to the continuing evolution of regulatory capital Steve Pateman and his leadership team for their performance requirements, the rate at which the Group continues to grow, during the year.
attractive investment opportunities that may arise and the optimal capital composition of the Groups balance sheet.
I would also like to thank the outgoing Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director, Tom Wood, who left us during 2016, for his Governance contribution to our successes.
Following Toms departure the Board Shawbrook is committed to the highest standards of corporate embarked on a comprehensive market search for his successor governance and we comply with all elements of the UK Corporate and in February 2017 was delighted to appoint Dylan Minto as Governance Code.
I am delighted to say that the Board has been Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director.
The leadership team further strengthened by the appointment in February 2017 of has also been strengthened by the appointment of Angela Wakelin Andrew Didham.
Andrew is an Executive Vice Chairman and was as Chief Operating Officer, who arrived in November 2016.
I believe formerly the Group Finance Director of Rothschild.
He takes over we now have in place a strong and experienced leadership team as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee from Roger Lovering, to deliver our vision and take the business forward.
who I am very pleased remains on the Board.
Community The Board carried out an externally facilitated review of its We seek to be a good corporate citizen and in 2016 we established effectiveness during the year.
The review confirmed that the a corporate social responsibility programme with elements Board has provided effective oversight of the business, and has covering the community, the environment, the workplace and been highly engaged both in developing robust risk policies the marketplace.
More detail on this programme is set out in the and frameworks and in guiding longer term plans and strategies.
Corporate social responsibility section on pages 57 to 62.
The review also identified areas where the Board can continue to improve its effectiveness, and its findings are covered more Outlook fully in the Corporate governance report.
As we look forward we are mindful of the uncertain political, economic and regulatory environment.
However, we have built Risk the bank on conservative foundations, established a strong franchise We have continued to invest heavily in the development of our in our chosen markets and have a great team of people.
All of these Risk Management Framework, our risk teams and the promotion things position us strongly to take advantage of opportunities as of a strong risk culture throughout the Group and we are they arise, and we are confident that we can continue to deliver confident that we have in place an effective platform to support strong and stable returns while we grow the business at a pace the continued growth of the business.
As a result of this work, appropriate to conditions as they unfold.
we identified the controls breach in the Business Finance Division see page 49 in the Risk management report for further details.
I would like to finish by reiterating my thanks to my fellow Board The Board played an active role in the oversight of the resolution members, the leadership team and all colleagues across Shawbrook of this matter.
The current Risk Management Framework is described for their contribution to everything we have achieved together fully in the Risk management report.
Iain Cornish Chairman Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
