Chairmans review A year of transformation and growth The patient is at the center of everything we do at Shire.
This drives how we discover, develop and deliver new medicines, and guides how we interact and supportour patient communities.
4 Shire Annual Report 2016 This year has been one of transformation I would like to thank Flemming Ornskov, for Shire one where we are now Shires CEO, and his leadership team for recognized as the world leader in the their vision, passion and exceptional treatment of rare diseases.
We are now a global industry leader and forward-thinking organization.
With the acquisitions of Dyax and Baxalta, This is driven by the companys focus on we have grown from 6,000 employees at innovation and high performance.
I would the start of 2016 to approximately 24,000 also like to acknowledge Shire employees today, and have expanded the reach of our for their commitment to the company, and global sales from 72 to over 100 countries.
to patients, especially during a time of During this time, Shire launched four new major transformation.
I particularly want drugs, including XIIDRA, the first and only torecognize the thousands of Shire product approved in the U. S. to treat both employees who participated in Shires the signs and symptoms of dry eye Global Day of Service, helping to improve disease.
progressed our pipeline so we now have roughly 40 programs in the clinic with about During the year, the Board played an 20 in the later stages of development.
important role, especially as the company These accomplishments set the stage completed the Baxalta acquisition, the forShires continued growth and are just largest in our history.
My sincerest afew examples of the many achievements thanksto fellow Board members for their highlighted in this Annual Report.
In 2016, Gail Fosler and Albert Stroucken, formerly Baxalta The patient is at the center of everything Directors, joined our Board as Nonwedo at Shire.
This drives how we discover, Executive Directors.
In early 2017, Ian Clark, develop and deliver new medicines, and former CEO of Genentech, also joined guides how we interact and support theShire Board.
You can read more about ourpatient communities.
During 2016, the Board in the Governance section, Shire provided a multi-year grant to the beginning on page 66.
SeriousFun Childrens Network to enable young people with rare illnesses to have a Looking forward, our priorities are to life-changing experience at summer camp progress revenue growth, further develop and to help their families bond through the product pipeline, and continue to Family Weekend programs.
Many families integrate the Baxalta business while have told us about the extraordinary reducing the associated debt.
We will impactof these experiences, a sentiment continue to be responsible and responsive echoed by our employees who volunteered to our communities while remaining with SeriousFun.
focused on delivering long-term value to shareholders.
I am confident we have the Shire is also a leader in responsibility right team, the right strategy and the right andsustainability.
The company was resources in place to accomplish these recognized by Scrips Pharma as goals.
It is my privilege to be a part of Company of the Year in 2016.
once again included in the FTSE4Good Index, which measures globally recognized standards for corporate responsibility.
Newsweek ranked Shire as the number onegreenest company in its 2016 Green Rankings.
Our commitment to transparency was recognized by AllTrials, as Shire was the only company to have published results for all clinical trials Susan Kilsby completed during the past 10 years.
Chairman Our business is not without its challenges.
We operate in an environment with significant political and market volatility.
Shires strategy is to deliver products that are innovative and differentiated, enabling us to provide value to patients and payers, while creating value for shareholders.
Shire Annual Report 2016 5 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
