SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Chairmans statement Although 2016 was a disappointing year for SIG, significant potential remains.
While we have been pursuing the right strategic direction, implementation has proved challenging LESLIE VAN fide WALLE CHAIRMAN Although 2016 was a disappointing year Ian Duncan was appointed as a NonGovernance and Board for SIG, significant potential remains.
While Executive Director with effect from 1 January As Chairman I am responsible for ensuring we have been pursuing the right strategic 2017.
Jonathan Nicholls will retire from good corporate governance and that we direction, implementation has proved the Board on 31 March 2017 as a Noncontinually aspire to meet the highest challenging.
Executive Director and Chair of the Audit standards possible at SIG.
Ian will succeed Jonathan as meet all of the disclosure requirements and A new management team is therefore Chair of the Audit Committee.
continue to closely monitor developments, refocusing the business on its customers adopting best practice in corporate and sales growth, which has traditionally On behalf of the Board, I would like to governance.
Further details can be found in been one of the Groups core strengths.
welcome Meinie, Nick and Ian, and I would the Corporate Governance Report on pages like to thank Stuart, Jonathan and Doug for With these changes already bringing 50 to 61. their contribution, commitment and service tangible benefits to SIG, we look forward to to SIG and wish them well for the future.
Doug Robertson retired from the Board as a more stable performance in 2017.
Group Finance Director with effect from As part of the Board succession plan, the 31 January 2017, and was succeeded by Strategy Nominations Committee has reviewed the Nick Maddock with effect from 1 February positions of Chris Geoghegan and Janet Our strategy is to grow in our three 2017.
Having noted their significant core markets of Insulation and Energy experience, the Committee concluded that Management, Exteriors, and Interiors by Stuart Mitchell stepped down from the they be invited to serve for a further term of combining the reputational strengths of Board as Chief Executive by mutual office until the May 2018 AGM.
SIGs local brands with the scale efficiencies agreement on 11 November 2016.
Mel and know-how of a multinational group.
Ewell, a Non-Executive Director, was Our people appointed as Interim Chief Executive from Furthermore, by working together more as On behalf of the Board and Shareholders I 11 November 2016 on a full-time basis a Group, and by leveraging its scale and would like to thank our employees for their whilst the Board conducted an external presence in the marketplace, our aim is to hard work, commitment and dedication to search for a new Chief Executive.
This make our whole greater than the sum of the the business during the year.
search has now concluded, and I am parts.
pleased to report that Meinie Oldersma has However, while enacting this strategy, we Dividend agreed to join SIG as Group Chief Executive recognise the need to balance business The Board has proposed that the final from April.
Meinie has over 30 years of change with the day-to-day operations dividend be rebased to 1.83p per ordinary distribution experience and will bring his of the Group, and ensure that we remain share reflecting the Groups lower level of considerable and relevant experience focused on our customers.
profitability, but still in line with its dividend and a strong customer focus to SIG.
He has lived and worked in a number of Leverage reduction is also a key priority as locations throughout Europe and has driven we look to return to our 1.0 1.5x target Taken together with the interim dividend of successful transformations of complexity range over the medium term.
1.83p per ordinary share, this provides a and scale in a variety of organisations.
He total dividend of 3.66p per ordinary share for has a track record of driving sales, as well the year 2015: 4.60p.
as turning around and growing businesses.
Together with the appointment of Nick LESLIE VAN fide WALLE Maddock as Chief Financial Officer, this CHAIRMAN completes the recruitment of the executive team to take the business forward.
