Chairmans statement James Murdoch Chairman Sky today has more opportunities for growth and renewal than at any point in its history.
In my 13 years at Sky I have never felt more proud of what we have achieved, or more optimistic about where we are going.
Our culture, which animates all our work, drives every one of The success of our approach is demonstrated in the sustained us to think differently to improve the experience we offer our financial and operational performance of the group, with customers every day.
Its what has enabled us to move beyond further strong revenue and profit growth delivered again our heritage in satellite pay TV to create a business that spans this year.
Our consistent, long-term performance is the result multiple technologies, products, platforms, business models of a clear strategy and exceptional execution by all of our and markets.
It has enabled the Board to propose an increase in dividend for the 12th consecutive year to 33.5 pence.
We now work across five European markets, all of which have attractive opportunities for growth.
With each at a different It is also a source of immense pride to me that across stage in their journey, the entire group now benefits from Europe we support around 130,000 jobs, contribute pooled resources and extensive expertise, accelerating almost 8 billion to GDP and 3.4 billion of tax revenues our progress and ambitions everywhere.
Our Board and experienced management team is focused on We invest 5 billion every year, delivering high-quality news, ensuring that Sky remains the home of the very best shows: sport and entertainment programming.
And we see the delivers brilliant product innovation: and always offers bigger picture, from acting responsibly in the way we run standout customer service.
Its this focus, on the areas that our business every day, to making a meaningful impact matter most to our customers, that makes Sky the clear to the confidence and motivation of the thousands of market-leader and the choice for individuals and families young people who participate in Sky Academy every year.
I must take this opportunity to thank Nick Ferguson, who stepped down as Chairman and as a Director in April after 12 years on the Board, four of which as Non-Executive Chairman.
Nick has been an exceptional leader of our Board and made an outstanding contribution during a transformative period for the company.
Sky plc 4 Strategic report Other changes to our Board were the retirements of Arthur Sky has always been a business that believes in and strives Siskind, David DeVoe and Danny Rimer, who stepped down for better.
I have every confidence that we will continue to from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, when we create opportunities for growth and pursue them with energy, welcomed John Nallen, who was appointed as a Non-Executive passion and commitment for the benefit of our customers, Director on 4 November 2015.
The Board is grateful to Arthur, our people, our industry and, of course, our shareholders.
David and Danny for their contributions during their time at Sky.
Arthur and David served Sky since 1991 and 1994 respectively, and have been a constant, steadfast, and crucial presence.
Danny, who joined the Board in 2008, has provided a valuable perspective for seven years of constant change, James Murdoch challenge and innovation.
Further to these changes, at the conclusion of this years AGM in October, Dave Lewis will step down from the Board.
I would like to thank Dave for his significant contribution since joining the Board in 2012.
On behalf of the Board I would also like to thank all our shareholders for their continued support.
Finally, thanks to every one of my Sky colleagues for their efforts this year.
Our talented and dynamic teams have continued to challenge themselves in the pursuit of excellence for our customers.
Gomorrah This is evident in so many ways, from the launch of breakthrough products like Sky Q and the NOW TV Combo, to great storytelling across each and every genre, including our hugely popular Italian production Gomorrah and our record-breaking Bundesliga coverage in Germany.
Our original productions, coupled with our exclusive partnerships with HBO, Showtime and others are testament to our constant commitment to delivering the very best television, with world-leading innovation that continues to surprise and delight our customers.
Sky Academy Arts Scholarships 2016 Ashes Series 2015 Annual Report 2016 5
