Chairmans statement Smiths Group has embarked on a new andexciting phase in its evolution.
A revitalised sense of mission and a renewed Focusing on the areas of greatest market At an important point in this great focus on technology leadership, together attractiveness, and pursuing these through engineering companys fortunes, with the diversity of our end markets, initiatives to drive organic and inorganic itis an honour for the Board to have help to provide the scope for business growth, we will create the conditions played a significant part in making the growth and security against challenging for long-term sustainable competitive circumstances for a revitalised sense of tradingconditions.
This is what the worlds great mission at Smiths Group.
More than at any companies do: relentlessly build sustainable time during my tenure as Chairman, I am Building a viable dream competitive advantage, mixed in with convinced that we are in a better position Throughout my career, Ive passionately an honourable and ethical approach to to build and grow.
Under the energetic believed that every company should have business.
Reinvigorating innovation and leadership of Andy Reynolds Smith, and the courage to build a dream.
Setting out a supporting it through more disciplined with a renewed commitment to innovation, viable dream for our employees, customers commercialisation processes, as well as asingle-minded focus on targeting attractive and shareholders, appointing great leaders through increasing resources, has a vital role markets and a relentless drive to improve and then building a compelling strategy to to play here.
Faster growth is the answer operational excellence, the next few years drive relentlessly towards that end these to our value creation challenge and in my hold out exciting opportunities for us to are the hallmarks and seeds of growing mind, the best kind of growth is organic bethe architects of our own fortune.
This is because it points to the ability Renewing our purpose and resolve Smiths Group is no different.
With a of a company to adapt, adjust and reinvent Smiths Group embarks on this journey in proud legacy of technological innovation, itself as new times and competition dictates.
a period of ongoing volatility in the external market leadership positions across many We have, and will continue to, supplement environment.
Uncharted territories are of our businesses, and a large cadre of it with acquisitions because they bring the becoming ever more commonplace on the experienced people, there is much that is additional needed element of speed.
Economic forecasts inspirational and extraordinary in what we Thanks to the progress that has been made are generally weaker, political turbulence is do every day.
Rather than feel conditioned to address our pension scheme liabilities, higher and personal security has generally and constrained by our past, or even by long-term funding arrangements are now worsened over the past couple of years.
new circumstances, we should be intent in place which will materially increase the The implications of other significant events, on recapturing the companys historical cash resources available to invest in these such as the outcome of the UKs referendum and innate spirit of enquiry and innovation growthopportunities.
on EU membership and the ongoing US in order to bring new levels of ambition presidential election campaign, will be with to our purpose.
Our employees qualities On several occasions over the past year, us for many years to come.
Continuing and resourcefulness provide a powerful Ihave reflected on the following observation platform for injecting new momentum into from that great man of letters, George our business.
But a vital part of this mission Bernard Shaw.
It might apply, equally, to is inspiring our people and instilling them companies: People are always blaming witha renewed sense of self-belief.
their circumstances for what they are.
Idont believe in blaming circumstances.
The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want, and ifthey cantfind them, they make them.
More than at any time during my tenure as Chairman, I am convinced that we are in a better position to build and grow.
Sir George Buckley Chairman 8 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts factors such as low oil prices, low interest driven by innovation, imagination and excellence and innovation now firmly on rates and currency volatility create additional creativity remain our principal objective.
the agenda at Smiths, we set great store planning uncertainties for every company.
Theworlds great companies are all byattracting, retaining, developing, engaging Add to that an evolving threat environment innovative ones.
and inspiring our many employees.
and increasing geopolitical unrest, and it Success, however, does not come overnight.
During the year, we conducted a isclear that the risks that companies must Rebuilding this kind of capability and comprehensive MyVoice employee survey navigate in todays world show little sign confidence in a company requires a good across all our divisions and we will listen of abating.
But, usually, inside every threat measure of patience and determination.
hard to what our employees are telling us, isahidden opportunity.
So we will continue to pull hard on all the and take action to improve where we can.
Rather than be disheartened by these other growth levers that the company has With the well-being and safety of our people prospects, our resolve should be steadied at its disposal, such as initiatives to improve as a vital need, I am pleased to note that by the recognition that our Groups very margins and working capital turns.
Success recordable injury incident rates are now at diversity serves us well.
Along those lines, in these endeavours will not only deliver their lowest historical level.
There is no room Smiths delivered a robust and improved akeener edge to our competitiveness, but for complacency, and our goal continues to performance this year.
Our broad end also ensure greater consistency of execution be zero incidents.
We have also continued market exposures helped us to offset across our businesses.
our long-term trend of improving our the anticipated net declines in John environmental performance, with material As someone who is passionate about Cranes oil industry oriented revenues, reductions in energy, GHG emissions, water growth and innovation, a focus on increasing with profitable growth in our other two usage and non-recyclable waste during technological differentiation has a powerful large divisions.
As a businessman concerned its record of profitable growth, fuelled in with delivering new value for shareholders, Dividend part by increased investment over recent it also happens to make perfect sense.
The Board has a progressive dividend years in product innovation and expansion Innovation is not done for its own sake, policy for future payouts, with the aim into new geographies.
For the Group as but done to create relative competitive of increasing dividends in line with the a whole, incidentally, there continues advantage, increasing customer satisfaction long-term underlying growth in earnings.
to be much opportunity to expand into and greater employee engagement.
Its an This policy will enable us to retain sufficient emerging markets.
Smiths Detections everybody wins strategy.
We have many cash-flow to finance our investment in the strong performance was built on improving compelling and recognised brands with an drivers of growth and to meet our financial sales volumes, particularly in ports and enviable reputation for quality.
In setting the level of dividend borders, and on the hard work done in that a greater appetite for innovation across our payments, the Board will take into account division to improve operational performance manufacturing, logistics, product and service prevailing economic conditions and future through value engineering and programme lines, as well as more adventurousness investment plans, along with the objective to management initiatives.
in our geographic reach, our ambition maintain minimum dividend cover of around The levers of value creation will ultimately turn these brands into 2.0.
TheBoard is recommending a final With the vast majority of our revenues enduringfranchises.
dividend per share of 28.75 pence, giving derived from markets with long-term atotal dividend for the year of 42 pence, In April, we announced the largest growth potential nearly two-thirds comes anincrease of 2.4% year-on-year.
The final acquisition for the Group in more than a from the three key markets of healthcare, dividend will be paid on 18 November to decade, with the agreement to purchase energy, and homeland security and defence shareholders registered at close of business Morpho Detection.
Completion is subject we have taken some important steps this on 21 October.
The ex-dividend date is to a number of regulatory clearances, year to equip ourselves to face the future 20October.
which we continue to expect in early 2017. with confidence.
Your Board has been The combined business will provide us Board changes deeply and vigorously engaged in assessing with technology and innovation resources As I mentioned in these pages last year, strategic opportunities to position Smiths to deploy against growing and ever more David Challen decided to step down from Group for future growth.
sophisticated global security and contraband the Board after the AGM, having served with Typical Western engineering companies threats.
In many ways, this acquisition distinction as Chair of the Audit Committee have been caught in a high margin, low should also be seen as a signal of our and as Senior Independent Director.
I am growth trap for many years.
With this intent to accelerate sustainable growth in delighted to welcome Mark Seligman financial backdrop, profitably growing the attractive markets.
We will continue to take to theBoard, who brings with him the top line is the most important lever of value an active approach to portfolio management valuable perspectives gleaned from a long creation.
Higher levels of organic growth, as we seek to simplify and strengthen the and successful career in banking.
also pleased that Sir Kevin Tebbit agreed to underscore his many years of insightful Dividend per share Behaving responsibly service to the Board by becoming our Senior Up 2% The theme of this years report is Being Independent Director.
the best at what we do, and throughout you will find numerous examples of how Sir George Buckley 42.0p our employees strive to achieve excellence Chairman across our operational, commercial and technical activities.
On my visits with Smiths Group colleagues across the world, I have continued to be impressed by their spirit, commitment and creativity.
With operational Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 9
