SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, A good Board pressure tests strategy, provides leadership on matters of governance Succeeding in and ensures their company is equipped to handle risk.
In 2016 Smith & Nephew faced and overcame challenges in all these challenging times areas, confirming my strong belief that this is a Company set well to succeed in challenging times.
In early 2016 we announced that our Chief In 2016 Smith & Nephew Executive Officer, Olivier Bohuon, had been diagnosed with cancer, and would require faced and overcame treatment across much of the year.
We were delighted to welcome him back to work full time in October.
During the intervening months my Board colleagues and I were able to provide additional support to the executive team.
I attended the Managing Directors annual meeting, and engaged with various members of the executive team, supporting them on a number of matters.
The Board met with numerous commercial and operational leaders across the year.
This culminated in a visit to our Andover, Massachusetts site in November where we saw first-hand the exciting progress being made by our Sports Medicine business.
These meetings gave Board members firsthand experience of the high quality team that has been assembled by Olivier to deliver on his strategy to transform Smith & Nephew.
Following a number of changes implemented in recent years, the structure of the organisation is fully aligned to the strategic priorities, and the commitment and dedication to the business at all levels was evident for us to see.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Smith & Nephews financial performance is shown on these pages.
Although the Group delivered revenue growth in 2016, the outturn is below where we had set our sights at the start of the year.
Whilst some geographies and franchises performed well, we were buffeted by trading conditions in the Gulf States and China, as well as a few areas where we believe we can execute better in 2017.
We faced a headwind in China entering the year, and it is pleasing to see how management delivered the improvements in this market as they said they would.
The Board continues to have great confidence in the business and is proposing a final dividend for the year of 18.5 per share, giving a total dividend distribution for 2016 of 30.8.
In-line with our dividend policy, the declared dividend is flat year-on-year despite the decline in adjusted earnings per share.
Directors biographies start on page 48 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Financial Officer on 1 March 2017 when he will Finally, Joe Papa has graciously agreed to stay GOVERNANCE AND CULTURE also be appointed to the Board as an Executive on beyond his nine-year term as we undertake Corporate governance, especially Director Director.
Having held multiple senior roles at a search for a new Chair of the Remuneration responsibilities, remuneration and diversity, AstraZeneca and elsewhere, I have no doubt Committee.
As we make this, and indeed all has been in the spotlight in 2016.
The Board that he will successfully ensure effective appointments, we are conscious of the need to has welcomed our discussions with shareholders financial stewardship and I welcome him to continue to seek individuals who bring diversity around such important topics and we are Smith & Nephew.
in its broadest sense, including background, mindful of how the landscape is changing thinking and gender.
The Board is committed to Brian Larcombe will be retiring from the Board continuing to refine our governance structure at the Annual General Meeting on 6 April 2017.
In conclusion, 2016 has been a year where we and practices to reflect what is in the best Brian has served Smith & Nephew for many have continued to make progress in the face of interests of all stakeholders.
years, as our Senior Independent Director since a number of headwinds.
As a result, I believe we 2014, and as a member of the Audit, Nomination enter 2017 as a stronger business.
There is no Culturally, we believe that openness and & Governance and Remuneration Committees.
doubt that the world is facing a period of greater transparency, accountability and responsibility I am personally grateful that he agreed to stay geo-political risk and companies need to be should run throughout the Company.
The Board on one extra year to provide continuity while robust.
The Board takes its responsibilities very takes matters of ethics and compliance very Olivier was receiving treatment.
We will miss his seriously, to ensure that we perform financially, seriously, and aims to set a tone at the top great wisdom and experience.
On behalf of the strategically and ethically against this changing which pervades throughout the organisation.
whole Board I thank him for his service.
We are and challenging backdrop.
We thank you for We review processes and practices and oversee fortunate that Ian Barlow has agreed to become your continued support and look forward to quality and regulatory matters.
We take great Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
serving you in 2017. interest in how we attract, retain and develop Ian has been a Non-Executive Director since talent and the work underway to make Smith & Yours sincerely, 2010, and has been a diligent Chair of our Audit Nephew a great place to work for all employees.
Robin Freestone will be appointed Our Chief Financial Officer, Julie Brown, left the Chairman of the Audit Committee in his place.
We are grateful for her contribution during her four years at Smith & Nephew and wish her well in her new career at Burberry plc.
Graham Baker will join as Chief Roberto Quarta Chairman Financial review page 39 $4,669m 1% 2% 30.8 0% 1 Revenue Reported Underlying Dividend per share URXS UHYHQXH ZDV PLOOLRQ XS RQ D UHSRUWHG EDVLV DQG RQ DQ, Q OLQH ZLWK RXU GLYLGHQG SROLF WKH GHFODUHG GLYLGHQG LV DW HDU RQ HDU underlying basis.
Reported growth includes a foreign exchange headwind of despite the decline in adjusted earnings.
ZKLOVW DFTXLVLWLRQV DGGHG DQG GLVSRVDOV $801m 28% $1,020m -7% 88.1 92% 1 2SHUDWLQJ SURW 7UDGLQJ SURW Earnings per share EPS 2SHUDWLQJ SURW PDUJLQ RI LV EHIRUH RQH RII 7UDGLQJ SURW PDUJLQ RI UHHFWV SUHYLRXVO 7KH LQFUHDVH LQ 36 LV PDLQO GXH WR EHQHW IURP $326 million gain from Gynaecology disposal.
disclosed transactional FX headwind, loss of the 2016 Gynaecology disposal and the absence leverage from lower sales growth and investment RID OHJDO PHWDO RQ PHWDO FKDUJH LQ%OXH %HOW RIIVHW E HIFLHQFLHV 82.6 -3% 5% 1 Adjusted Earnings per share EPSA R&D expenditure 7KH QRQ, 56 QDQFLDO PHDVXUHV DUH H[SODLQHG 7KH UHGXFWLRQ LQ 36$ IURP WKH SULRU SHULRG UHHFWV To drive innovation, we maintain our investment in and reconciled to the most directly comparable WKH UHGXFWLRQ LQ DGMXVWHG DWWULEXWDEOH SURW 5 ' DW DURXQG RI URXS UHYHQXH QDQFLDO PHDVXUH SUHSDUHG LQ DFFRUGDQFH ZLWK, 56RQSDJHV
