Chairmans statement DEDICATED TO OUR CUSTOMERS In the year of our IPO the Company has continued to deliver strong financial performance.
Brian Wallace, Chairman 4 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report View our KPIs on page 21 TEAMWORK The bedrock of Softcats success Throughout 2016 the Softcat team has continued to Our greatest asset the Softcat team focus on providing outstanding service to our 12,200 On behalf of the Board, I would like to pay tribute to the 99% customers.
This has been the bedrock of the Companys entire Softcat team so ably led by Martin.
Like the best success since its inception in 1993 and will continue to CUSTOMER SATISFACTION sports teams, Softcat benefits from having many leaders be so into the future.
We have opened a new office in Glasgow and the team now numbers 927 2015: 794.
This has enabled us to grow revenue by 13% to 672m In a year when the IPO could have been a distraction 2015: 596m and operating profit by 7% to 42.2m they have carried on relentlessly, doing what they do 2015: 39.6m.
Adjusted operating profit increased 15% best serving customers.
Softcat took 1st place in the Great Place to Work EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Institutes Best Place to Work award category in IPO and governance theUK, and placed 5th in Europe.
Softcat was admitted to the London Stock Exchange on18 November 2015 and subsequently our share price Dividend strengthened resulting in our being admitted to the On the basis that the Company has sufficient distributable FTSE250 on 21 March 2016.
During the IPO process reserves at the time, the Board intends to operate a dividend many potential investors took the time to visit our offices policy which targets an annual dividend of between 40% and we were very gratified by their feedback that the and 50% of the Companys profits after tax in each financial visit brought to life the spirit, culture and differentiated year before any exceptional items.
Subject to any cash approach of Softcat which is hard to communicate in a requirements for ongoing investment, the Board will consider one-hour off-site meeting.
We hope to welcome other returning excess cash to shareholders over time.
The Board investors in the future.
may revise the Companys dividend policy from time to time.
In reshaping the Board for the IPO, we carried out a The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.6p per meticulous search process for Non-Executive Directors ordinary share and a special dividend of 14.2p per ordinary and, in Lee, Peter and Vin, I believe we have assembled share to be paid on 16 December 2016 to allordinary a very capable and committed team who bring strong shareholders who were on the register of members at the entrepreneurial, commercial, sector and public company close of business on 18 November 2016.
Shareholders will experience to the table to support our executive leadership be asked to approve the final and special dividends at team.
Most importantly they are excited bythe Softcat the AGM on 8 December 2016. approach and prospects.
As a Board we take our responsibilities veryseriously Looking forward tomeet the expectations of our team, our customers Our marketplace is highly competitive and following the and other stakeholders in all aspects of our business, EU referendum the business environment is uncertain.
We approach governance However, the Board believes the Company is well placed positively on the basis that it is not just important in its to grow its market share in 2017 and will maintain its focus own right but it is good for our expanding business and on delivering profitable growth and strong cash conversion.
provides a framework within which the spirit and culture of Softcat can continue to flourish.
Brian Wallace Chairman 19 October 2016 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
