04 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FY16 was a momentous year for Sophos.
After 30 years of growth and success as a private company, Sophos became the largest software initial public offering on the London Stock Exchange, ever.
In its first year as a public company, Sophos has exceeded its key financial and operating targets and has continued to post above-market growth in each of its core markets of network security and enduser security.
Underpinning this performance were very healthy customer renewal rates combined with aggressive growth in new customer acquisition.
In addition to delivering strong operating Our strategy to synchronize multiple and listed in the UK.
We are confident that we and financial performance for FY16, we previously disparate security disciplines, have a balanced, experienced and engaged continue to build a solid foundation for to deliver complete security made simple, team with highly relevant background, skills ongoing market share growth and success.
to leverage the cloud to both manage and and track record to guide Sophos forward.
deliver our security solutions, we believe Cybersecurity remains very high on the Our first year as a listed company has been is highly differentiated and compelling.
agenda for IT departments and, now energising both in terms of accomplishments Together with our rigorous focus on midmore than ever, for management teams as well as momentum into FY17.
"On behalf market enterprises and our ""Channel First"" and boards at organisations of every size."
of our Board, thank you to our Sophos sales approach, we are strongly positioned Providing a truly effective, affordable, family of employees all around the world to continue delivering superior value to our and manageable solution to protect for your dedication, innovation, and hard customers in this large and growing security organisations against cybercrime is a work to make it happen for our customers, market, and thereby provide growing longmassive and growing need and opportunity.
partners and shareholders: thank you term value to our shareholders.
At Sophos, we focus on this opportunity to our customers and partners for your through our mission to be the best in the The Sophos Board has evolved and business and confidence in our offerings and world at delivering complete IT security to developed over the years to support the capabilities: thank you to our shareholders mid-market enterprises and the channel that Company as we seek to take full advantage for your confidence and support.
of the significant market opportunity in appreciate it very much and continue to cybersecurity.
Paul Walker joined the Board work hard to keep earning it.
in 2015 as our Senior Independent Director, adding considerable knowledge of, and experience in the mid-market customer Peter Gyenes segment, as well as executive operating Non-Executive Chairman experience of a global company publicly SOPHOS IS STRONGLY POSITIONED TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE OPPORTUNITY AHEAD WITH DIFFERENTIATED OFFERINGS PROVIDING SUPERIOR VALUE TO CUSTOMERS AND THEREBY BUILDING LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 05 AWARDS Sophos continued to gain industry recognition from leading publications, industry analysts and testing organisations for its market-leading products.
Below is just a small selection of awards and accolades given to Sophos in FY16.
SC MAGAZINE: Best UTM Solution Sophos SG Series UTM PC PRO TECH EXCELLENCE: Security Product of the Year for Sophos Cloud AV-TEST: Best Free Android Protection 2015 Sophos Mobile Control for Android INGRAM MICRO 2016 EXPERIENCE AWARDS: Vendor of the Year Security VAR INDIA: Best Security Company in India COMPUTER RESELLER NEWS ANNUAL REPORT CARD: Winner Client Security Software: Winner - Network Security Appliances: Winner Network Security Software CRN ICT SUMMIT: IT Security Vendor of the Year, as voted by readers COMPUTER RESELLER NEWS: 5 Star Rating: Sophos Channel Partner Program 06 STRATEGIC REPORT Synchronized Security A revolution for network and endpoint protection and management SYNCHRONIZED SECURITY Synchronized security automates incident IT organisations can benefit from If suspicious traffic is identified by the response via instant sharing of threat, advanced threat protection capabilities firewall, or malware is detected on the security and health information between without requiring additional agents, endpoint, security and threat information endpoint and network.
It eliminates the expense, layers of complex management is instantly and securely shared via the manual work of trying to figure out the tools or logging and analysis tools Security Heartbeat who, what and when of a compromise The Security Heartbeat is fully enabled The firewall can automatically take action The Security Heartbeat pulses and included as part of the Sophos XG to isolate the endpoint from internal continuous, real-time information about Firewall and Sophos cloud-managed and or external networks and trigger suspicious behaviour or malicious activity endpoint protection additional action on the endpoint to between cloud-managed endpoints and mitigate risk and prevent data loss the Sophos XG Firewall SECURITY HEARTBEAT After the threat has been removed, the HOW DOES IT WORK?
With Security Heartbeat, organisations endpoint uses the Security Heartbeat of any size can advance their defences to communicate an updated health When a new Sophos protected endpoint against increasingly coordinated and is added to the network, its Security status back to the network, which stealthy attacks and drive a dramatic then re-establishes normal service Heartbeat automatically connects to reduction in the time and resources to the endpoint the local Sophos XG Firewall and the required to investigate and address endpoint immediately starts sharing security incidents health status OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 07 SECURITY HEARTBEAT ESG has confirmed that Sophos Security No other company is close to delivering What Sophos is doing to deliver Heartbeat provided nearly instantaneous this type of synchronized and integrated synchronized security with the new XG communication between Sophos Endpoint communication between endpoint and Firewall is impressive.
As a company, we are Protection and Sophos XG Firewall network security products.
For the midlooking forward to how the network will be solutions and enabled them to work market, the time and resource savings will integrated fully with the endpoint, saving together, providing enhanced detection, be very compelling as their ability to stay us the amount of time it typically takes to source identification and automated ahead of increasingly sophisticated threats research threats, act on them, and actively incident response.
with todays products will only become manage security for the entire organisation.
Timothy Speakman, System Administrator, Through our hands-on testing, ESG Lab Christian Christiansen, Vice President, Contra Costa Health Services, validated that Sophos integrated approach Security Products, IDC a Sophos customer providing bi-directional communication and control between network and endpoint There will never be a perfect security Adding a Sophos XG appliance to add security solutions enables organisations solution that stops all the threats.
But, with network security to our endpoint protection to implement policies to enable or restrict Sophos we are getting close to perfect.
We were looking for the ability access to critical resources based on This approach to synchronized security to manage multiple sites, now with Sophos endpoint health.
This level of automation from Sophos allows everything to talk to UTM and Cloud Endpoint, we can manage can be extremely valuable, enabling already one another and is a game changer for every site much more efficiently.
overburdened IT administrators to keep up the industry.
JD Morecraft, F. C. Tucker Company, Inc. with the ever-increasing pace of threats and Michelle Drolet, CEO, Towerwall, attacks and reducing time to response from a Sophos Partner hours to seconds.
