Strategic Report Chairmans Statement 2016 was a challenging year for the most part and, in particular, trading conditions in North America were difficult.
Nevertheless, the Company is in a sound financial position and continues to make good progress on the delivery of its solutions strategy.
Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman Results overview of Millbrook and the integration of the Malvern Instruments Reported sales increased 13% in 2016 to 1,345.8 million and Malvern and PANalytical businesses into one entity.
adjusted operating profit increased 11% to 200.8 million.
The Company has grown in scale over this period reported Constant currency sales increased by 1%.
Trading conditions sales totalled 787 million in 2008, my first year as Chairman, were challenging for most of the year, particularly in North and adjusted operating profit was 118.3 million compared with America, resulting in an overall 2% decline in constant currency, the 1,345.8 million and 200.8 million reported for 2016.
1 organic like-for-like, LFL sales and a 6% decrease in LFL Thebalance sheet has remained strong throughout the period adjusted operating profit.
Reported operating profit declined thanks to a strong cash conversion, and this has enabled the to38.3 million following a goodwill and other intangibles Group to deploy funds for both acquisitions and research and impairment charge of 115.3 million.
The year ended on a more development R&D to further our strategic growth plans.
positive note in terms of LFL sales growth and we continued Our R&D budgets have grown from 57 million to 99 million tomake good progress on the delivery of our strategy.
Our over that time period, and represent around 7% of our sales.
operating profit margins were stable and cash conversion Over that time, we have made 40 acquisitions for a total remains strong with 113% of our operating profit being converted consideration of around 900 million and made several disposals into cash.
The Groups financial position is robust, with net debt of businesses where we considered ourselves not to be the best at 150.9 million, around 0.7 times the full year EBITDA.
shareholder in order to focus the portfolio on key end markets.
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 34.0 pence per We ended 2016 strongly, despite a difficult and unpredictable share which, combined with the interim dividend of 18.0 pence, trading environment throughout the year.
The diversity of our gives a total of 52.0 pence per share for the year, an increase of products, end-market exposure and global presence has helped 5%.
This is consistent with our policy of making progressive offset some of these challenges.
Self-help actions also played dividend payments based upon affordability and sustainability.
arole this year we delivered 11.7 million of restructuring The dividend will be paid on 30 June 2017 to shareholders on benefits as a result of the specific actions taken in 2015. the register at the close of business on 26 May 2017.
In terms of the Groups strategy, there have been refinements Strategic positioning along the way.
Most recently, in 2015, we moved from a focus Looking back over my tenure as Chairman, the Company has on the supply of products towards the provision of complete evolved significantly but at the heart of our strategy are the solutions for customers encompassing software and service, benefits we provide to our customers.
Enhancing productivity aswell as hardware.
In 2016, we continued on this path, adding for our customers is the key driver of our growth.
We build test service and further software capabilities to our portfolio.
long-term relationships with our customers and work closely The acquisition of Millbrook was an important strategic with them to develop an in-depth knowledge of their business.
acquisition in the testing services market and through the Historically, this was centred purely around the products and sharing of expertise and technology with our existing operating technology: today it is increasingly focused not just on the companies, HBM and Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration, expands supply of equipment but on the provision of innovative customer our offering to automotive customers.
The acquisitions of SVT, solutions, encompassing hardware, software, application DISCOM, CAS and Capstone add further services and software know-how, services and related activities.
This change results capability to the Spectris portfolio, allowing us to offer more from an in-depth strategic review undertaken by the Group, comprehensive solutions to our customers, for example by thekey contributions of which in 2016 have been the acquisition combining our equipment with associated software capability.
2 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The merger of Malvern and PANalytical will similarly help us Board composition todeliver a more complete range of products, solutions and In May, Lisa Davis unfortunately found it necessary to retire services to customers in materials science-related sectors.
asaNon-executive Director following her promotion to the Withinthe Industrial Controls and In-line Instrumentation Siemens AG managing board and I would like to thank her for segments, our Industrial Internet of Things IIoT strategy will heroutstanding contribution during her tenure.
In December, seedeployment of connectivity technologies and monitoring PeterChambr stepped down as a Non-executive Director, competencies more broadly to serve our customers needs.
havingcompleted over ten years service on the Board.
During thattime, Peter offered deep insight and constructive challenge In support of this transformation of the Group, we launched tothe Group and had been a major contributor to all aspects of Project Uplift, a Group-wide productivity improvement theBoards functioning.
I would like to thank him for his wisdom, programme, which is expected to deliver 35 million of total insight and commitment to Spectris.
In January 2017, Kjersti potential annualised recurring savings over the coming Wiklund joined as a Non-executive Director and brings significant threeyears.
This will optimise efficiency and effectiveness not knowledge of the international telecommunications sector to the only within but across operating companies and will be a key Boards discussions.
In December, I advised the Board that, having shift in the way that the operating companies function within served almost nine years as Chairman and tenyears as a Director Spectris.
As well as leveraging the wider Groups scale, a focus and given the fact that we had clearly set both strategic and on business process excellence will further help in controlling operational courses for the future, I felt that in line with good overheads and, by reducing complexity, will free up resources governance the timing was right for me tostand down as tofacilitate the delivery of our solutions strategy.
The process to find mysuccessor is well underway and a further announcement will be made in due course.
People and skills development The skills, experience and technical know-how of our employees Summary and outlook are critical to the success of Spectris.
Developing strong and We ended 2016 in a more positive position with LFL sales for effective leadership across the Group is fundamental for thefull year down 2%, comparing more favourably with the first attracting and retaining talent and managing succession ten months during which sales declined by 4%.
It was a challenging planning, as well as ensuring that the Group has the talent to year for the most part and, in particular, trading conditions in North deliver its strategic objectives.
The Board has been keenly America were difficult for most of the year, although we saw signs interested in the Groups talent management programme and of improvement in the fourth quarter.
Nevertheless, the Company highly supportive of the activities that have driven this strategic is in a sound financial position and continues to make good focus.
The recruitment of a Group Human Resources Director to progress on the delivery of its strategy.
The strong strategic and drive this forward has therefore been a key consideration and operating initiatives that we have launched, together with our the Board welcomes Andrew Harvey to the Executive team.
broad end-market exposures and strong financial position, provide The Board has continued to emphasise the strong relationship me and the Board of Spectris withconfidence that the Company is that exists between governance and ethics.
Our ethics and well positioned for 2017and beyond.
values are central to Spectris, guiding our decision-making The timing and context are, I believe, both right for a new andensuring that we always comply with the highest standards.
Chairman to be appointed and I am confident that they are We want to be a company which our people continue to be inheriting a robust portfolio of businesses, a strong team, a proud to work for, where they feel valued, motivated and clearstrategic direction and opportunities to drive significant capable of reaching their full potential.
At the heart of our shareholder value over the coming years.
The culture of the values lies integrity and in 2016, we awarded the first Absolute Spectris Board is one of openness, robust challenge and Integrity Award to recognise and reward outstanding ethical strongethics and I firmly believe that these values will behaviour.
The first recipient was Salma Cassam Chena Thiry continueto be upheld.
who took astrong ethical position in a difficult commercial negotiation.
Dr John Hughes CBE Chairman Our strengths Spectris offers investors a sound and attractive investment Broad geographical and end-market exposures, proposition, based on the  40%of sales generated from customer operating to deliver shareholder value: expenditure budgets.
Strong cash conversion resulting from asset-light High barriers to entry supported by continuous innovation manufacturing model.
Balance sheet strength enabling progressive dividendpolicy.
Focus on customer solutions in niche markets with strong Proven acquisition model to supplement organicgrowth.
Read more: Business Model pages 10 and 11 1 Adjusted performance measures represent the statutory results excluding certain non-operational items.
Like-for-like LFL measures include revenue and profit at constant exchange rates and exclude the impact of acquisitions.
For a definition of the item and a reconciliation to the closest IFRS equivalent, see Note 2.
