STRATEGIC REPORT: EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Executive Chairmans statement In the year to 31 December 2016, Spire Healthcares 12,400 dedicated staff and the 3,800 plus consultants who work with us, provided treatment of the highest quality to over 773,000 private and NHS patients.
Working together, we delivered outstanding value for patients and continued our profitable growth as a listed company.
As we announced in January 2017, results were negatively impacted by performance at our latest acquisition, Spire St Anthonys Hospital, Sutton.
Following significant redevelopment and reconfiguration work, it has taken longer than expected to adapt staffing and working practices to the increased capacity and the highest standards we expect.
We continued to invest significantly, particularly in the new Manchester and Nottingham hospitals, together with their equipment and staff, but also in our people, services, treatments, hospitals and equipment across the network.
Overall, we invested 149.5 million in the business during the year.
Dividend Reflecting this performance, and subject to shareholder approval, the Company intends to pay a final dividend in respect of the year of 2.5 pence per ordinary share.
Together with the interim dividend of Performance 1.3 pence per ordinary share this amounts Patient numbers and the value of the care we to a total annual dividend of 3.8 pence per provided experienced differing performance Garry Watts ordinary share, in line with our stated among our three payor groups.
While overall dividend policy which aims to pay out around Executive Chairman revenue increased by 4.7% to 926.4 million 20% of profit after taxation each year.
2015: 884.8 million, our NHS business grew 12.0%, while Self-pay grew 9.1% Service quality and our PMI business declined by 1.3%.
Our hospitals are subject to the same Underlying revenue, which excludes the Care Quality Commission CQC inspection impact of the closure of Spire St Saviours regime as all private and NHS hospitals in Hospital in September 2015, increased by England and to inspection by the relevant 5.4% in 2016.
This has resulted in underlying authorities in Wales and Scotland.
We EBITDA growth of 1.4% to 162.0 million fully support the CQCs approach and aim 2015: 159.8 million.
for all of our hospitals to be rated at least good.
Reviewing our clinical governance Financial performance in 2016 was performance is always top of our reasonable.
In a year when we faced some Board agenda.
market headwinds and continued our major investment in two new build hospitals, During the year under review, the CQC we still achieved a ninth successive year completed its initial inspections of the of growth.
Total revenue increased 4.7% to majority of our hospitals and while we await A djusted profit is calculated as earnings after tax adjusted 926.4 million: resulting in an adjusted profit the final reports I am pleased to announce for exceptional and other items and related tax detailed after tax of 76.6 million 2015: 73.0 million.
that our overall performance is better than on page 27.
6 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the average for the rest of the private sector Strategic development and far exceeds the NHS average.
However, Spire Healthcare operates within the UKs there is always room for improvement in healthcare system, which is, of course, The development individual inspection domains.
All of our dominated by the NHS.
While nearly a of services at Spire hospitals have specific improvement plans third of our work is on behalf of the NHS, we in place to address points raised by their never forget that the majority of our patients Manchester and regulatory inspections.
These are followed have chosen to pay for their care either Nottingham hospitals, up by the Operations Board with oversight through Private Medical Insurance PMI, by the Executive Committee and the Boards or, increasingly, directly by Self-paying.
The and other hospitals, Clinical Governance and Safety Committee, size of the PMI sector is closely linked to chaired by Professor Dame Janet Husband.
supported by increased economic and corporate growth which, over You can read her report on this committees the last decade has been limited, restricting investment in a customer activities on pages 72 and 73. our PMI sector growth opportunity to gains in market share.
focused strategy, will Service development At the same time, our NHS work has grown provide accelerated The opening of our new hospital in markedly.
We greatly value working with the Manchester in January 2017 marked not revenue and profit growth NHS, so while NHS funding constraints will only the culmination of many months continue to drive tariff reductions for the in 2018 and beyond.
of extremely hard work by our staff and fiscal year commencing 1 April 2017 the contractors but also a major enhancement in prices for the weighted basket of services our capacity to serve patients in its catchment we currently deliver will reduce by circa 3.9% area.
We are also well-advanced with a we will continue to pursue strategies to Proposed final dividend per share 4.2% new-build hospital in Nottingham which mitigate these pricing pressures so as to we expect to open around Easter 2017. ensure we continue to offer services to Spire Manchester Hospital is a new build, the NHS.
2.5p replacing and improving the facilities of an Our third payor group, Self-pay, continues 2015: 2.4 pence existing hospital.
You can read more about to show good growth both in numbers Spire Manchester Hospital and the services Total revenue 4.7% of patients and in the complexity of care it provides on pages 24 and 25, and see we provide.
As discussed elsewhere in this how it is a clear example of our business report, demographic drivers, technological growth strategy in action.
926.4m advances and public service restrictions 2015: 884.8 million Our Nottingham hospital marks Spire suggest this trend will continue.
Healthcares entry into an entirely new local The number of patients we treat, and the market.
Both new hospitals demonstrate efficiency with which we do it, are the key our ability to identify and invest in emerging determinants, regardless by which route customer needs.
Our capital expenditure Plans for further capacity expansion programme is designed to ensure we through new builds will be considered on a have adequate capacity and appropriate case-by-case basis.
We continue to research technology both to meet demand and opportunities to fill our Central London continually to improve productivity.
The change in the Central London property market brought about by the Brexit vote last year has delayed our plans and we are re-evaluating suitable, available sites and the quantum of the future opportunity.
We hope to update on progress later this year.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 7 STRATEGIC REPORT: EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We regretfully accepted the resignation, We are focused on the creation of an even for personal reasons, of Robert Lerwill as a more attractive employee career offer and on Non-Executive Director in June.
Robert was the development of our leaders, throughout Spire Healthcares appointed as an independent Non-Executive the business.
Of particular note in this regard clinical and financial Director in the lead up to the Companys is the work we are doing in developing listing in July 2014.
He left with the thanks our cadre of Hospital Directors both by performance go hand in of the Board for his contribution both in growing our own and through external hand and both are that role and also as chair of the Audit and recruitment and our programme to Risk Committee.
increase the training we offer to clinical staff created by our outstanding eventually aims at providing a further source In July, we were pleased to announce the team of people.
of qualified professionals for our business.
appointment of Adle Anderson as an independent Non-Executive Director of the You can read more on the development Company.
She also became chair of the of our employee proposition and the work Companys Audit and Risk Committee.
Until we are doing on leadership development The Spire Healthcare name clearly has July 2011, Adle was a partner in KPMG and in Group HR Directors review Our people resonance with our customer and patient held a number of senior roles across their on pages 42 to 45. base, as well as with the consultant business.
She has been a non-executive community: and we intend increasingly to director of easyJet plc since September 2011 Looking ahead focus on building Spire Healthcares name and of intu properties plc since February Two and a half years after becoming a listed recognition and brand by re-examining 2013 and chairs the audit committees of company, our business is in good health.
every stage of the patient journey and both companies.
She brings considerable We have good people, are well capitalised experience from a customer viewpoint, recent and relevant financial experience to and invested, and have a strong quality and by optimising our operational efficiency our Board.
To seize the opportunity for the benefit of patients.
Throughout, we that we have to lead and innovate in the will be driven by a relentless focus on quality.
Our Senior Independent Director, John UK healthcare market, we now need to Gildersleeve, has indicated that he wishes We regard the investment required in this accelerate our transformation.
to step down from the Board.
We are in the total customer focus both in terms of time process, with external advisers, of recruiting In 2017, we are looking forward to the and money as being as fundamental to our a successor.
John originally intended to leave first contributions of our two new build future success as the capital expenditure by the end of December 2016 but has agreed hospitals in Manchester and Nottingham, we make on buildings and equipment, to remain until an appointment has been and to a positive contribution from or the investments we make in our staff.
made: he will not stand for re-election at Spire St Anthonys Hospital, Sutton.
The the annual general meeting in May.
development of services at these, and at Board development our other hospitals, supported by increased We seek to ensure we have a diverse and Our people investment in a customer focused strategy, experienced Board and senior management Spire Healthcares clinical and financial will provide accelerated revenue and profit team in place at all times.
performance go hand in hand and both are growth in 2018 and beyond.
My role as Executive Chairman originally created by our outstanding team of people.
In the longer term, I remain convinced resulted from the departure of Rob Roger It is they, working with the best consultants that the recognised breadth and quality of in June 2016, but has now been extended and clinicians, who deliver first-class care Spire Healthcares services and the macro as the Boards intended successor Chief to our patients.
We owe all our staff an demographic and technological trends Executive Officer, Andrew White, undergoes immense debt of gratitude for their in healthcare together with funding a sustained period of medical treatment.
dedication and unstinting efforts on behalf constraints in the NHS will continue to We wish Andrew the very best for a of our patients and our organisation.
drive significant growth in our business.
complete recovery, and in the meantime, The entire UK healthcare system faces the appointment of Catherine Mason as I look forward to reporting further progress well publicised staff shortages shortages Chief Operating Officer in December has in the months to come.
that are currently made up for through the very efficiently supplemented our executive recruitment of overseas staff an area where team.
Together, with our experienced Chief Brexit could have an impact on our business, Garry Watts Financial Officer, Simon Gordon, we provide but in the meantime recruiting, training, Executive Chairman leadership and supervision of the day-to-day motivating and retaining the best staff, 1 March 2017 running of the business until Andrew is able while trying to minimise reliance on to return to full time activity.
expensive agency staff, is crucial not only to the quality of our care but also to the long-term health of the business.
8 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
