CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OVERVIEW The Groups financial performance has been disappointing in what has been a tough year for trading and external attention on the business.
With this performance, it is with regret that I note that we did not achieve the FY16 EBITDA target of 420m in relation to the Groups 2015 Share Scheme for eligible employees.
The Board is currently working on developing a new incentive scheme to replace this, and ahead of this I would like to thank all of our people for their continued hard work and commitment during what has been a difficult time.
OUR VALUES AND PEOPLE Sports Direct has been built on the expertise and passion of our people from day one.
The Groups values are: operating as one team: planning for success: striving to lead and energise others: doing things the right way: creating a good impression: wowing our customers: and, delivering results.
Our values and the development of our people have underpinned our high performance and high reward culture, which has driven the Groups success since it was founded in 1982.
During the year the Group received serious criticism regarding some of its workplace practices, particularly in relation to its agency workers in the warehouse of the Groups Shirebrook campus, which we have taken very seriously.
The Board made it a priority to undertake a review of what was raised and from the preliminary findings a number of measures were put in place to address the concerns.
These included an increase in pay for the Groups directly employed UK employees and directly engaged casual workers from being on the National Minimum Wage to being above the National Minimum Wage from 1 January 2016.
This was implemented without any reduction in existing benefits.
Since the end of FY16, the Groups Executive Deputy Chairman, Mike Ashley, has given evidence to the Business, Innovation and Skills Select Committee regarding the assertions made in relation to the Companys workplace practices.
The Board has set in motion a review of the specific concerns.
Additionally following year end, the Board was informed of the decision of the Chief Executive, Dave Forsey, to forego the vesting of 1m shares due to him in September 2017 under the Executive Share Scheme.
At the time of the announcement this represented a value of approximately 3.6m.
The Board believes that this decision is very much reflective of the Executive Directors sharing risk with shareholders and taking responsibility for results that fell short of their expectation.
STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS The Board remains committed to our organic and inorganic growth strategy, and will continue to maintain an appetite for strategic opportunities alongside the work being conducted on the review of the Groups people strategy.
The Groups acquisition and investments strategy, parameters and decision-making is performed by the Board, and delegated at a certain materiality level to be performed by the Executive Directors within the agreed strategy.
The Group is focused on opportunities that will 15 deliver extensions or enhancements to our customer offering, broaden or enhance our commercial relationships, broaden or enhance our retail channels, selectively grow our market share, further diversify our operations, further expand our gross margin, and or deliver operational efficiencies.
Given the breadth of our business, our strategic benefits can be varied and extensive, and the Group employs an array of mechanisms to facilitate strategic discussions with potential partners towards varied strategic goals.
This year we were pleased to announce the acquisition of the remainder of the Heatons business in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, which will build upon the Groups existing relationship with Heatons and strengthen our presence in one of the fastest growing economies in Europe.
We also announced the extension of our strategic investment interest in Debenhams Retail plc Debenhams.
Through this investment interest we have developed a commercial relationship with Debenhams and currently have nine concessions throughout Debenhams stores, which provide mutual benefits for both parties.
BOARD PRIORITIES In FY16, our priorities have been focused on leadership: remuneration for performance and enhancing the working conditions of our people as I have discussed: and, working with the Executive Directors to develop strategic priorities and plans for the Group.
In terms of the Boards focus on leadership, our search for independent directors to add complementary expertise and further diversify the board is ongoing, and forms part of the Boards succession plans.
We continue to be very appreciative of the work and efforts of our Acting Chief Financial Officer, Matt Pearson.
Matt is still acting in this role and the Board expects to be able to make a decision on his role in due course.
POTENTIAL SHARE BUYBACK Further to the authority to repurchase shares granted by the Companys shareholders at its 2015 Annual General Meeting AGM, and in light of current volatility in equity markets, the Company announced on 7 July 2016 that it is considering commencing a share buyback, the purpose of which would be to reduce its share capital.
MIKE ASHLEYS SHAREHOLDING In response to repeated press speculation about his intentions with regards to his shareholding in Sports Direct, Mike Ashley has confirmed to the Board that he has no current intention of taking the Company private, and has indicated his willingness for the Company to confirm this statement publicly.
DIVIDEND The Board has decided not to propose a dividend in relation to FY16.
The Board remains of the opinion that it is in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders to preserve financial flexibility, facilitating future investments and other growth opportunities.
The payment of dividends remains under review.
