STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another year of delivery in 2016 I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered another strong set of annual results, withrevenue growing by 8.6% to 1,990m and earnings per share increasing by 36% to 15.2 pence per share.
We continued to deliver good like-for-like sales growth in our existing business, as well as increasing net contract gains, which are strengthening our presence across the world.
Allied to this, our strategic initiatives have delivered further operational improvements andmargingrowth.
We announced a number of important contract wins in the year, which will extend our presence in the growing North American and Asia Pacific markets.
In October 2016, we announced our entry into the fast growing Indian travel market, with our agreement to create a joint venture in Travel Food Services, aleading operator of food and beverage concessions in travel locations in India.
In 2016, we invested a further 96m into the business, which will support the delivery of sustainable future growth.
Our investment programme is building an increasingly attractive portfolio of brands and concepts for our customers.
We are also investing in our people, We announced strengthening central, regional and local teams around the world.
At the same time, the cash generative nature of our business, together with strict financial controls, has enabled us to a number of further reduce net debt, facilitating continuing growth in the years to come.
Looking forward, in addition to our recent contract wins and a healthy pipeline of important business opportunities, increasing passenger numbers around the world, both in the airport and railsectors, give us confidence in the long-term outlook in our principal markets.
development wins in Dividend As a result of the Groups strong performance, and in line with the progressive policy outlined the year, which will at the time of our IPO, I am pleased to announce that the Board has recommended a final dividend of 2.9 pence per share subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General extend our presence Meeting on 13 March 2017, making a total dividend for the year of 5.4 pence per share.
in the growing Sustainability SSP continues to be committed to operating sustainably in its markets and to responsibly NorthAmerican and managing those environmental and social issues which have been identified as material to our business.
Our progress during 2016 in the main areas we have identified is set out on Asia Pacific markets.
We have made further good progress in the year.
Our employees and stakeholders The strength of the Group is principally due to our employees skills, experience and dedication.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for their contribution during the year.
Outlook I am confident that SSP is well placed to benefit from the underlying positive trends in our markets and deliver further revenue growth and margin improvement, as well as continued returns to shareholders.
With this in mind, the Board looks forward to delivering another good performance in the year ahead.
