Strategic Report Chairmans introduction In my role as SSEs Chairman Ive had the privilege of seeing many aspects of the Working to fulfil SSEs Companys operations first hand.
Ive met line engineers in Inverness, meter readers in Havant, apprentices in Cardiff and front line customer core purpose service teams in Dublin.
Ive also seen electricity transmission lines replaced, visited hydro stations and wind farms and seen innovation in action as the Company moves to the digitalisation of its SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a customer service.
In fulfilling this purpose, SSE requires the support of shareholders, to whom this report is addressed.
All of this has demonstrated to me the scale of SSEs operations and the responsibilities that It summarises SSEs performance in 2015 16 and looks ahead shareholders, customers and society have to 2016 17 and beyond.
entrusted in the Company to fulfil its core purpose.
It has also reinforced my view of the need for SSE to maintain a clear strategic framework to stand it in good stead for the long term.
Changing operating environment This is especially critical as I complete my first year as SSEs Chairman amidst the backdrop of an operating environment which has presented a range of challenges, some more expected than others.
The year saw the publication of the provisional Total recordable injury rate remedies from the Competition and Markets per 100,000 hours worked Authority CMA into the supply and acquisition of energy, sustained falls in commodity prices 0.23 0.23 affecting gas production, persistently challenging 0.20 market conditions for gas-fired power stations and continued changes to the regulatory and legislative frameworks that each of SSEs businesses operate within.
Each of these subjects is covered in detail in this Strategic Report.
2014 2015 2016 Against this backdrop, the Boards role is to ensure that shareholder value is increased over the medium and long term, and we place Carbon emissions Carbon dioxide equivalent customers at the heart of everything we do.
We Co e 000s tonnes 2 understand that change is constant and is to be expected as the societies SSE operates within seek 25,396 to provide secure, affordable and clean supplies of energy for homes and businesses.
Change of this 16,774 scale brings risks but also opportunities.
13,066 A strategy to create long-term value SSE is well-positioned in this changing operating 2014 2015 2016 environment.
The company is built on strong foundations and operates with a clear strategic framework comprising a balanced range of businesses in core markets, and a commitment SSEs economic contribution to efficient operations and disciplined to UK GDP in 2015 16 bn investment.
As the broadest-based energy company in the GB and Ireland markets this 9.22 8.87 8.81 strategic framework ensures that SSE has a range of opportunities both to invest in new assets and develop new customer propositions.
Critically, this strategy also enables SSE to deliver its financial objective to provide shareholders with 2014 2015 2016 annual increases in divided payments, of at least RPI inflation.
This is a long-standing financial objective which recognises that shareholders have either directly invested in SSE or, as owners of the Company, have enabled it to borrow 2 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 1.
3. money from debt investors to finance investment Chairman I am fortunate enough to meet SSE is well-positioned in the assets that help it to fulfil its core purpose.
members of the SSE team across the UK and in this changing operating Ireland.
It is at times humbling and always SSEs business has built a platform for dividend engaging to see the commitment to their environment.
I am pleased therefore that the Board work, their customers and their colleagues.
is built on strong foundations is recommending a final dividend that will take the full-year dividend for 2015 16 to 89.4 pence Indeed, the decision to invite BBC television and operates with a clear per share.
cameras into SSE this year to film a documentary strategic framework of its operations conforms to the bold decisionA company built on values making and transparent approach to its affairs comprising a balanced and doing the right thing which SSE always seeks to adopt.
range of businesses in core In fulfilling its strategy SSEs values are as important as ever.
A companys values are the Delivering for investors markets, and a commitment bedrock of how it operates and the Board is and customers alike to efficient operations and acutely aware of the scrutiny SSE is under and In summary, 2015 16 was another solid year the expectations that shareholders, customers of efficient performance and advancement.
and employees, as well as wider society, place From restoring customers power safely and upon it.
For SSE companies dont just need to efficiently following the severe storms over fulfil their core purpose or deliver their financial the winter, through to the investment in new objective: they must do so in a responsible assets to balance the business, the completion manner that provides the basis for continued of Beauly-Denny one of the highest and longest business success and this is the starting point electricity transmission lines in the UK, and for any commercial decisions we take.
This is leading the energy supply industry in customer acknowledged throughout SSE and is integral complaint handling, SSE has continued to deliver to the delivery of the financial objective, for shareholders and customers alike.
the strategic framework and reinforces the commitment to shareholder value.
The operating environment has at times brought challenges and these will continue Building a team for for the foreseeable future as the impact of future business success the many external influences on SSE makes SSE also values the people who work for it.
Nevertheless, SSE has the strategy, are its greatest asset.
Their human capital has values, robust management and a team of been borrowed from society and enables it to talented people required to meet those operate and grow the business.
The Companys challenges, fulfil its core purpose and ethos regarding its people is therefore very deliver for shareholders and customers.
deliberate: SSE seeks to create sustainable jobs and invest in its employees.
