CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans statement Jos Vials discusses how the Group is unlocking its potential It is both an honour and a privilege to deliver this statement, my first as Chairman of the Group.
I joined in October 2016 and became Chairman in December, following acareer as a public servant in the financial sector.
Most recently I was at the International Monetary Fund, where my responsibilities included the global oversight and direction of its monetary and financial sector work.
Inthat capacity I was able to develop a deep understanding of the markets that the Group operates in as well as areal respect for Standard Chartered as anorganisation.
As Chairman of the Group I will focus myefforts on: Helping to unlock its true potential Improving its resilience to external shocks Ensuring excellent governance andthe highest ethical standards Initial impressions and objectives I joined Standard Chartered because it is anextraordinary organisation with a rich history and huge potential, serving a remarkably diverse range of clients across the most dynamic markets inthe world.
From my discussions with employees it is clear that they take real pride in our culture and clients have told me they value our brand.
I intend to support the Management Team while challenging appropriately to ensure that the Group continues to fulfil its obligations to our clients, the communities that we serve and our employees.
Dedicating ourselves to those objectives is how the Group will create value for investors over themedium and longer term.
Being Chairman of the Group will alwaysbemy primary focus.
So far Standard Chartered is an Ihaveconcentrated on learning about theGroupfrom the inside.
I have visited extraordinary organisation with local operations across our network to seefirst-hand how the Group operates and is managed inpractice, the opportunities a rich history and hugepotential and risks our employees face and how theydelivervalue for our clients.
I have also spent considerable timewith my fellow 4 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION SUMMARY We serve a diverse The Group has We have made range of clients aclear strategy, early progress across the most asensible but there is still dynamic markets business plan asubstantial in the world and exceptionally wayto go talented people inherent opportunity and our strategy to Board directors, assessing how they governance obligations to support decisions capture it is clear.
The business plan set function both as individuals and as a and guide behaviours across our network outin 2015 to execute ourstrategy is governance unit.
Iam impressed with can be found from page 56. sensible and appropriate forthe prevailing whatIhave seen so far and am excited Bill has spoken about the Group having the conditions.
Investing in technology as a atthe prospect of learning more about our privilege, opportunity and responsibility to catalyst for better client experiences and unique franchise and engaging more deeply be a force for good in themarkets in which stronger controls for example is absolutely and frequently withmy new colleagues and we operate.
I agree wholeheartedly with the right way forward.
As Bill, together with external stakeholders.
thisstatement and I share his zero tolerance Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer and I would like to take this opportunity to for any form of unethical behaviour and also Mark Smith, Chief Risk Officer, will explain thankSir John Peace, the Groups previous fully endorse the Groups commitment to later in this report, our plan has already Chairman, both for ensuring thehandover upholding environmental and social delivered fundamental improvements, with process was carried out in anexemplary standards.
I will use all my experience to the Group now having astronger capital manner and forhis leadership and personal help ensure the Group implements and base and being much more resilient to contribution during what was a period upholds the highest ethical standards.
It is important that we remain ofsignificant change for the Group.
focused on delivering the plan while being Dividend willing to adapt where necessary as Progress conditions evolve.
The Board has decided that it would be Risks in the banking sector generally inthe Groups best interests not to declare Having substantially strengthened our accumulate during the good times and adividend on Ordinary Shares for 2016. foundations, we recognise the importance materialise in the bad.
The Group has TheBoard believes in balancing returns of re-energising growth in income together clearly experienced that in recent years.
toshareholders with investment to support with strong cost and risk management so Following a difficult year in 2015 the Group, future growth, while at the same time that returns to shareholders can be restored preserving strong capital ratios.
While the led by Bill Winters, Group Chief Executive, to a more appropriate and sustainable level.
Group has made good progress on the worked hard in 2016 toexecute its actions that we believe will drive a This is an exciting time to have joined the restructuring plans against whatwas a sustainable improvement in financial Group and I am looking forward to the challenging macroeconomic backdrop.
returns, the turnaround of the profitability challenge ofleading the Board, helping the Asyou will read later in this report, ofthe Group is at a relatively early stage Management Team to unlock the Groups encouraging early progress has been anda number of economic and regulatory true potential.
The Board recognises, however, uncertainties remain.
The Board recognises thatas an organisation we still have a the importance of dividends to shareholders substantial way to go.
The journey will be and will keep the matter under close review.
long and difficult to navigate at times and there are no short-cuts.
Summary I faced many complex situations as a public I am entirely realistic regarding the official through the global financial crisis, but complexity of the challenges that lie ahead, the requirements for success ineach case not just for the Group but the global banking were the same.
There needs to be a clear Jos Vials sector as a whole.
Significant regulatory strategy, a sensible business plan and Chairman uncertainty will persist as policymakers exceptionally talented people whoare grapple with the task of harmonising rules determined to execute that plan with 24 February 2017 and enhancing the control environment discipline and pace.
From what I have while allowing banks toadd value to the seenof the Group so far, we certainly economies they serve and generate havethose ingredients in place.
The recent postponement of the completion of Governance and conduct the Basel III framework is just one example Good governance is vital in any organisation, of the scale of the challenges faced.
particularly one such as Standard Meanwhile, as you will read on pages 6 to 7, Chartered, which operates in so many FURTHER READING economic conditions in our markets are diverse and dynamic markets.
Adetailed More information on corporate governance starts from page 56 expected to remain uncertain.
But the review of how the Group manages its www.
