SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Chairmans Welcome.
Our four pillar strategy is building Superdry as a global lifestyle brand: 55% of all Superdry product is now sold outside the UK and almost 90% of the new space opened during the year was in mainland Europe.
We have seen greater professionalism throughout the Company, consistent delivery of key initiatives and results as well as an increase in the pace of innovation and new product ranges.
Peter Bamford Chairman 13 July 2016 www.
co. uk 02 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Euan Sutherland has provided clear leadership to the Company We have also continued to reflect the growth and maturity of the I am delighted to report on a year Strategic in his first full year as Chief Executive Officer and has developed Company in our approach to corporate governance generally.
Financial results strong working relationships with Julian Dunkerton and During the year the Board has spent significant time reviewing our James Holder, the founders of SuperGroup.
Euan has also corporate and social responsibility programme, with a particular have been in line with expectations Our continued to build the overall capability of the organisation focus on our relationships with suppliers to ensure that we and Governance and we have seen good growth with further appointments to the Executive Committee and they are trading ethically.
As an integral part of our commitment to broader management team.
As a Board we have seen greater human rights, we are actively working to ensure that our business, on all key performance measures.
professionalism throughout the Company, consistent delivery of business partners and their associated supply chains are free Financial In addition, significant steps have key initiatives and results, as well as an increase in the pace of from all forms of slavery and human trafficking.
Cyber security Statements innovation and new product ranges.
has also received increased focus and attention both at Board been taken in delivering our four level and within the management team.
These points are noted The Board has continued to develop and change.
James Holders pillar strategy aimed at building in the risk section on pages 44 to 48.
We have also considered decision to resign as an employee and Director has been a and confirmed, for the first time, our longer term viability based on Superdry as a global lifestyle significant step but a natural evolution in his role as a founder and modelling the impact of potential damage to our brand should any leading creative force in the Company.
Through the SuperDesign brand: 55% of all Superdry product significant commercial or reputational risks materialise.
Lab, James will continue to drive major product innovations and is now sold outside the UK and contribute to the overall strategy and direction of the brand while In overall terms this Annual Report reflects progress on all fronts having the freedom to pursue his personal interests.
In addition, over the last year.
The business continues to be highly cash almost 90% of the new space following Nick Whartons appointment as Chief Financial Officer in generative and the Board considers that the Group has adequate opened during the year was in June 2015, we were delighted to appoint Steve Sunnucks to the funds to pay a final dividend, to support its capital expenditure Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 2016.
Steve brings programme for the financial year 2017 and beyond and still mainland Europe.
a huge breadth and depth of experience, particularly from his have excess capital.
The Board has declared a special dividend time at The Gap, which will be of great benefit in the international of 20.0 p per share to be paid to all shareholders at the same development of SuperGroup.
Ken McCall has decided to stand time as the final dividend.
This will ensure efficient balance sheet down from the Board and will leave us on 13 July 2016 having management, and reflects the Boards confidence in the Superdry been with the Company since its flotation in 2010.
On behalf of brand, the management team and the business.
the Board I would like to thank James for his unique role and On behalf of the Board I would like to thank you, our invaluable contribution to the SuperGroup story so far and to Ken shareholders, for your continued support and to thank our for his insight, input and support over the last six years.
colleagues throughout SuperGroup for their passion, commitment We completed an externally facilitated Board evaluation this year.
The overall assessment was that the Board was working very well.
Areas for improvement were mainly in ensuring that we evolve the Board agenda to ensure that focus is on the key strategic issues and on increased delegation in certain areas to management to reflect the growth in both the size of the Company and the capability of the management team.
We have also discussed the need to ensure we focus our succession planning for Non-Executive Directors on continuing to increase the strength and depth of international experience on the Board.
I am delighted that Beatrice Lafon will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 14 September 2016, adding both an international perspective and further retail experience to the Board.
