08 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2016 Chairmans statement During the course of the year we We expect the current volatility in markets I am pleased to report our sixth completed the sale of our third-party fund to continue and believe our strong consecutive year of double digit management business to Aberdeen Asset balance sheet positions us well to weather growth.
Net assets per share Management, generating further proceeds any uncertainty and take advantage of increased by 11% over the 12 months of 43 million.
The management contract investment opportunities that may arise 1 to 654p with the performance from a period of dislocation in the markets.
for SVG Capital has been transferred driven by a 9% total return on the back to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the SVG Capital continues to make significant investment portfolio and further Company, along with key members of progress against its strategic priorities and, augmented by accretive share the investment and management team.
in particular, the implementation of the The in-house team continue to focus on buybacks and tenders.
We expect to implementing our investment strategy add a select number of new relationships The investment portfolio is increasingly andthe Board considers their interests to the portfolio over the course of the next weighted towards investments made tobe wholly aligned with shareholders.
12 to 18 months as we continue to build under our new strategy.
The postIn June, we welcomed Simon Bax to the a focused portfolio of investments that 2012 investments now represent 36% Board of the Company as a non-executive have the potential to deliver strong returns of the portfolio and the early strong Director of the Company.
Simon has held for shareholders.
performance of these assets reects the senior executive positions in both public manager selection skills of our team and and private companies in the US and the disciplined investment selection and Europe, as well as having entrepreneurial Andrew Sykes operational and strategic capability of our experience.
His election as a Director of the Chairman underlying managers.
Company is being proposed at our Annual 22 March 2016 The benign exit environment in the General Meeting in May.
early part of 2015 resulted in a number The year ahead is likely to present a of our larger, more mature, investments number of macroeconomic, geopolitical being sold and a second record year of and financial market challenges.
In total, 2 Global GDP already looks set to follow 486 million of proceeds were received thepattern of recent years with consensus from the investment portfolio in the year, growth forecasts downgraded as the year which in turn facilitated 167 million progresses.
Economic growth continues of capital returns, 94 million of new to be adversely impacted by unresolved investment and 67 million of debt global imbalances and excessive repayment.
We ended the year with debt levels, which remain daunting.
Most recently this has manifested itself Over the last four years, we have in concerns around the re-balancing of returned a significant amount of capital the Chinese economy and more broadly to shareholders as the concentration in slowing emerging markets growth.
the investment portfolio has decreased Uncertainty is likely to be heightened in and we have balanced the need for 2016, with the US presidential election, efficient balance sheet management theUK referendum on EU membership withlong-term uncalled commitments.
and the recent precipitous decline in oil In total, since the announcement of and commodities prices adding to the the new strategy, we have returned ongoing and increasing political tensions 626 million of capital, well in excess of across the globe.
We will continue to focus on optimising shareholder returns.
However, given the increasingly diversied nature of the portfolio, we do not expect distributions from our portfolio to be as large as those received in recent years.
1 Fully diluted 2 Including income distributions of 20 million Strategic report | Corporate information | Financial information | Shareholder information 09 SVG Capital continues to make significant progress againstitsstrategic priorities and, in particular, the  strategy.
654p NAV per share at 31 January 2016 % 1 1 increase in our NAV per share
