STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS DELIVERING TODAY, Stable board with no membership changes enabling it to focus on supporting the Executive Management to achieve corporate objectives INVESTING FOR Shareholders consultation on executive directors remuneration led by Remuneration Committee Thorough external audit tender process led by TOMORROW AuditCommittee Internal evaluation of Board Committees performed  Strengthened human resources framework to attract, reward, develop and retain talent consistently across ourbusinesses Organic growth, our first acquisition and further investment A CONSECUTIVE YEAR OF SUBSTANTIAL EARNINGS GROWTH ANDRECORDRESULTS in management, processes and Synthomer has delivered another strong performance in 2016 and Iam pleased to report a consecutive year of substantial earnings assets have underpinned another growth and record results.
This reflects strong progress in both ourEurope and North America ENA and Asia and Rest of the strong year.
World ARW segments, a first time contribution from PAC, which isincluded in our accounts from the start of July, and favourable currency translation resulting from the weakening in Sterling duringthe course of the year.
Organic growth in our ENA and ARW segments has been a key feature of our results.
We saw growth across most areas which wassupported by our ongoing focus on efficiency, new product Neil Johnson initiatives, a strengthened procurement function and investment Chairman inbusiness development activities.
Group sales have increased from 870.1m to 1,045.7m, reflecting stable volumes in our existing businesses, the lower average raw material prices, favourable currency translation, and the incremental sales contributed by PAC.
Underlying profit before tax increased from 95.3m to 122.2m, anincrease of 28.2%, and on an IFRS basis, increased from 72.5m to 136.7m, an increase of 88.6%.
The significant rise in Underlying profit before tax reflected strong growth in our existing business 11.4%, the contribution made by PAC 4.9% and the depreciation in Sterling 11.9%.
The additional rise in IFRS profit before tax mainly related to the profits on the Malaysian land sales 33.2m and the disposal of our South African business 4.7m.
PAC ACQUISITION HIGHLY COMPLIMENTARY TO SYNTHOMERS EXISTINGBUSINESS In line with our growth strategy, we successfully acquired PAC on30June 2016 for $221m, representing a headline multiple of 7.5times EBITDA.
The bolt-on acquisition significantly strengthens Synthomers position in the performance adhesives and coatings market, offering access to new products, customers and markets.
PAC is also highly complementary to Synthomers existing business both geographically and in the product markets in which it operates.
The integration process is firmly on track to deliver synergies of $12m in the next two years.
On 6 March we announced another bolt-on acquisition, Perstorp Belgium, for a total enterprise value of 78m.
We will continue to assess acquisition opportunities going forwards.
2 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 25manufacturing sites and offices.
The culture and values of employees at Synthomer including respect, integrity and trust are closely aligned with our new PAC employees, which has helped Q&A toensure a smooth integration process.
Our people agenda continues to evolve as we implement a consistent grading structure, graduate recruitment programme, succession planning and a focused bonus scheme, all designed tosupport and underpin the future growth of our Group.
H ow has the PAC  Q Synthomers offering?
For a consecutive year the Group has reported record profitability Synthomer completed the acquisition ofPAC on 30June 2016 and the contribution that employees have made cannot be A adding seven plants to the Groups assetbase and welcoming emphasised enough.
The results are, in no small part, a testament approximately 760 employees.
PAC gives us access tonew markets to the hard work and ingenuity of our team all over the world and inEurope, USA and Thailand and also new products such aspowder Iwould like to thank them for their significant efforts during 2016. coatings and redispersible powders and new end markets.
The acquisition process governance ran smoothly with our robust due SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT SHE diligence ensuring there were no significant unknown risks orhidden Synthomer manufactures speciality chemicals using large scale liabilities on acquisition.
andcomplex manufacturing processes, consuming hazardous raw materials.
Our high safety, health and environmental standards are fundamental to what we do across the business.
We have clear policies and procedures that underpin all our processes, and we remain resolute in our commitment to continuous improvement.
CONTINUED INVESTMENT TO SUPPORT ORGANIC GROWTH During 2016, we introduced our SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules Organic growth remains an important part of our strategy and across all existing sites and the newly acquired PAC sites, directly wesee significant opportunities to drive growth from our existing targeting and improving the safe operation of our plants.
Ourkey business in both business segments.
As set out at the Capital performance measures highlight the step change in performance Markets Day in 2016, we intend to step up in the capital spend delivered in the current year, and in particular the significant reduction ofthe Group to circa 40-60m in 2017 and 2018.
The Board has in the reportable injuries to our employees and contractors.
approved plans to invest in significant plant expansions at our ENA Worms dispersions plant, and our ARW Pasir Gudang Nitrile latex DIVIDEND plant.
We will also be enhancing and integrating the ARW Chonburi The Capital Management Policy of the Group remains unchanged, dispersions plant into our Asian plant network to provide needed andthe Board is committed to investing in the Groups significant capacity to meet growing market demand.
organic and inorganic growth plans to secure its future progress.
Accordingly, the Board periodically assesses the balance sheet strength GOVERNANCE AND BOARD in thelightof these growth plans, and will continue toconsiderthe Our corporate governance framework is recognised by the Board as appropriateness of returning excess capital toshareholders.
a key part of the Groups control structure.
The Board is committed to maintaining high governance standards.
The Board approves the The Board has proposed a final ordinary dividend per share of 7.8p strategy, long-term objectives, risk appetite and risk management 2015: 5.4p, resulting in a total dividend per share for the year of framework under which day to day decisions are taken.
This is in line with the Groups dividend policy of a dividend covered 2.5 times by the underlying earnings per share.
Whilst there have been no changes to the Board of Directors during The final dividend per share is subject to shareholder approval at the the year, the Board committees have been busy delivering changes to Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2017 and will be distributed to the governance framework: The Remuneration Committee, following shareholders on the register at 9 June 2017. consultation with our significant shareholders, is proposing changes to the executive directors remuneration terms and conditions to bring OUTLOOK the Group into line with the median of the FTSE 250 companies which At this early stage of the year, we still expect to see resilient tradingin will be voted on at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee Europe, although the raw material and macroeconomic environments conducted a thorough external audit tender process in the first half of remain volatile.
Whilst we also expect our Asian Nitrile business to the year, with  LLP PwC retaining the befurther impacted by the introduction of the additional industry external audit appointment at the conclusion of thisprocess.
capacity in 2016, this will be partially offset by a full year of PAC andtenmonths of Perstorp Belgium being included in the The Board received training on the introduction of the Market Abuse Groupsresults.
regulations, and further developments in corporate governance requirements and good practice.
A number of methods were used Despite these uncertainties and challenges, the Board expectations to evaluate the performance and effectiveness of the Board as remain unchanged from the trading update on 20 January and we detailed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report remain confident in delivering long term growth in profitability and on pages 44 to 79. shareholder value.
OUR PEOPLE NEIL JOHNSON The number of employees grew by approximately 760 during 2016 Chairman when we welcomed PAC employees to Synthomer.
We now have 6 March 2017 approximately 2,700 employees in the Group, spread across Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 3
