Strategic Report Chairmans Statement The complex structural change initiatives completed during the year were very well delivered and significantly strengthened the Group for the longer term Sir Peter Gershon, Chairman Summary Strategic progress Together these actions have been efficiently I am pleased to report that Tate&Lyle The global consumer trends driving executed, and as a result the Group is now made solid progress during the year, growth in the speciality food ingredients more focused and in a stronger position to delivering a more consistent and stable market are an increasing demand for deliver long-term growth.
financial performance after a very difficult convenience food, a much greater focus on Bulk Ingredients, which is now focused on period in our 2015 financial year.
We also health and wellness, particularly in light of the relatively more stable North American took the necessary actions to drive the rising incidence of obesity and diabetes market, remains a profitable business, forward our strategy of delivering long worldwide, and an increasing preference generating cash for investment in the term sustainable growth in Speciality for natural and clean-label foods.
aim is to help consumers make healthier and tastier choices.
Our strategy to focus During the year we announced our 2020 Safety on growth in Speciality Food Ingredients Ambition, setting out how we expect the Tate&Lyle has no higher priority than means that we can benefit from these business will grow over the coming years.
I am pleased to report that, in the trends as our speciality ingredients help It shows how, through the actions we have 2015 calendar year, our safety performance to reduce sugar and calories, and add taken and the investments we have made indicators improved.
However, one fibre, in consumer products.
to strengthen the business, the Group will accident is still one too many, and our become a materially re-shaped Speciality ultimate goal remains to have no accidents During the year, we re-aligned our interest Food Ingredients focused business over and no injuries.
in our Eaststarch joint venture in Europe.
The 2020 Ambition, and how we We now fully own the corn wet mill in During the year, we enhanced our safety expect it to be delivered, are explained in Slovakia which serves as an excellent base programme with a number of new more detail later in this Annual Report.
from which to meet growing demand for initiatives to improve our safety speciality food ingredients.
At the same Group performance management, controls and performance.
time we exited from the joint ventures Adjusted operating profit before tax for Safety audits were undertaken at our bulk focused plants, further reducing our continuing operations was 193 million, manufacturing facilities, using both exposure to more regulated commodity an increase of 5%.
This was achieved external and internal auditors.
These found markets in Europe.
despite challenging conditions in some that good progress had been made in of the commodity markets in which we implementing corrective and preventative We have added capacity for our Speciality operate.
Adjusted diluted earnings per actions from previous audits as well as Food Ingredients business in the year, share for continuing operations was in overall safety management and control providing greater manufacturing flexibility 34.5p, an increase of 8%.
Our obligation to provide safe and also potential for future growth.
and healthy working conditions for all Adjusted operating cash flow was 2% Finally, we restructured our SPLENDA those that work in and visit our facilities lower at 122 million, principally reflecting Sucralose business to lower the cost base, remains foremost in our mind.
increased capital expenditure as we which led to the closure of our facility in expanded production capacity.
Singapore at the end of the year.
04 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Chairmans Statement It is pleasing that the performance These two new appointments further As previously communicated, underpinned of our business has benefited from the strengthen the Board and enhance its by the confidence it has in the strategy further improvements made to the global overall diversity.
of the business, the Board intends to demand, supply and performance recommend an unchanged final dividend As set out on page 59, as part of its review management processes, together with for the year ended 31 March 2016 of process, the Nominations Committee the availability of increased capacity as 19.8p to make an unchanged total for regularly considers the succession needs new assets have come on line.
I have chaired the Company has taken a keen interest in this project since July 2009 and, therefore, the Annual Report 2016 following the supply chain challenges Committee and I have jointly agreed that it We committed in last years Annual Report experienced in the previous year and, would be appropriate to start the process to reviewing how we communicate with while progress is encouraging, there is to identify my successor.
This is in the early our investors.
With this in mind, we have more to do to optimise process, improve stages and an announcement will be made made some changes to the structure and efficiency of decision-making and ensure at the appropriate time.
content of our Annual Report to help us that our service to customers is of the communicate our business investment highest standard.
Corporate responsibility and risk proposition, our performance, and plans management more clearly.
We have set out our Ambition We continually look to improve the way for the next five years in support of our O ur business has that we manage, perform in and report on strategic objective to become a leading corporate responsibility matters.
During benefited from the further global provider of speciality food the year, the Group has invested in and ingredients and solutions.
This is improvements made received accreditations for its work in this supported by key priorities for each area.
We are a member of the 2015 FTSE of our two divisions.
You can read about to the global demand, 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index these on pages 17 and 20.
CDLI, scoring 99 out of 100 and ranked supply and performance in the top 10% of FTSE 350 companies People responding to CDPs climate change I would like to thank all of our employees management processes programme www.
We continue who have contributed so much to the to work hard to improve our performance changes delivered in the Group this year, Governance and Board composition across the business on corporate but especially thank the employees of In July 2015 Virginia Ginny Kamsky responsibility matters.
our Eaststarch joint venture who recently stepped down as a Non-Executive Director, left the Group and our employees at the In September 2015, the new United Nations owing to the increased demands of her recently-closed Singapore facility who UN Sustainable Development Goals executive responsibilities meaning that are leaving the Group.
Following the SDGs were launched.
We believe that she would no longer be able to commit the announcement in April 2015, the team the strategy of the Company is particularly required time to attend Board meetings.
in Singapore have worked with pride, aligned with a number of the goals and, I would like to thank Ginny for her precision, and a commitment to safety going forward, we will seek to contribute commitment during her tenure.
in bringing the facility to closure and to the achievement of the UN SDGs transferring certain assets to McIntosh, through our activities.
On 1 April 2016, Lars Frederiksen and Alabama.
We thank them for their efforts Sybella Stanley joined the Board as In the area of risk management and internal and I wish them well for the future.
Lars brings control, the Board has again undertaken considerable knowledge of the global food Sir Peter Gershon its Group-wide risk management and Chairman ingredients industry having, as CEO, led reporting process to help identify, assess, Chr.
Hansen Holding A S from 2005 until 25 May 2016 prioritise and mitigate risk.
An example of his retirement in March 2013.
Sybella an area of topical and special focus this year serves as Director of Corporate Finance has been work completed in the area of at RELX Group plc formerly Reed Elsevier cyber security risks, where we have worked Group plc, where she is responsible for at some length to review and test our global mergers and acquisitions, having policies, procedures and broader defences.
Sybellas extensive Dividend commercial and financial experience The Board recognises the importance will be of great benefit to the Board as we of dividends to shareholders and remains execute our strategy.
Lars has joined the committed to the progressive dividend Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility policy it implemented in 2009 under which and Nominations Committees while it aims to grow the dividend over time Sybella has joined the Audit and taking into account the earnings prospects Nominations Committees.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 05
