Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WORKING TOGETHER TO DELIVER INCREASED SHAREHOLDER VALUE KEVIN BEESTON Chairman 12 Taylor Wimpey plc Q&A Firstly, and on behalf of your Board, I would like to begin my report to you by thanking each and every employee in the Taylor Wimpey team for their hard work during the year.
Working together, we have delivered a strong operational and financial performance in 2016, with continued growth in What does the Board see as the profitability, building 14,112 new homes across the Group, including Spain excluding joint ventures, during 2016.
More detailed information on our biggest opportunity and biggest financial performance can be found within the Group financial review on risk in 2017?
During 2016 we also paid 356 million to shareholders via total dividends and invested 363 million into the communities in which we Whilst the purpose of the Annual Report and Accounts is to operate, through planning obligations, providing infrastructure, affordable accurately depict the Companys activities during the year in a fair, housing and community facilities, including education facilities, public balanced and understandable way, we recognise that for many of transport and play areas.
our shareholders their focus will be on the next year and beyond.
The EU Referendum As with any business, we face a number of risks and opportunities in the course of our day to day operations.
Our risk management There is no doubt that following the European Union EU Referendum process identies these risks and our procedures help to manage result, there was a great deal of initial uncertainty.
Share prices in the and mitigate these.
Our approach to risk management is set out housebuilding sector and certain other sectors fell dramatically and, whilst on pages 42 to 47. it is pleasing to see that our share price has recovered from its low, it serves to highlight that we operate in a cyclical market.
Nevertheless, The early signs of stability and resilience of the market following during this period the market has continued to be resilient with continued the EU Referendum, which were encouraging, continued and we high levels of customer confidence.
You can nd more details on market believe the risk of material impact from this in the short term has conditions on pages 16 to 17. signicantly reduced.
In line with our strategy, we will continue to closely monitor market risks, particularly around long term mortgage As you will know, our strategy does more than just acknowledge that we cost.
However we believe that a cautiously regulated market and operate in this cyclical market, it is a fundamental part of it.
Therefore, we low interest rate environment is likely to prolong the period of take a more proactive and exible approach to managing through the stability that we are seeing in the UK housing market.
cycle than has been historically done before, with a focus on creating long term value and mitigating future risk.
This approach is evident throughout Whilst there is wider macro-economic uncertainty, we can see this our business and in our performance and outlook.
Your Board is confident as a risk or as an opportunity to differentiate ourselves.
We have a that because of this strategy, alongside a strong, well-capitalised balance clear strategy and a strong focus on where we can add further value sheet and strategic land pipeline, Taylor Wimpey is optimally positioned for to the business.
We believe that our approach to proactively the future, enabling us to perform well through all market conditions.
managing the business through the cycle differentiates Taylor Wimpey and has positioned us to perform well through all A responsible business market conditions.
Health and safety will always be our non-negotiable top priority and continues to be the first item discussed at every plc Board and regional KEVIN BEESTON board meeting throughout the business.
Whilst our Annual Injury Incidence Rate remains both below the Home Builders Federation HBF Chairman Homebuilder Average and the Health and Safety Executive HSE Construction Industry average, we remain fully committed to reducing this further.
You may also recall last year, I updated you on the steps taken to improve our customer service approach and performance.
During 2016 we rolled out a number of changes throughout the business, including enhancing the structure of our Customer Service Teams, through the appointment of a newly created role of Head of Customer Service in each of our 24 regional businesses.
This is an area that will take time to fully embed and will remain a priority, however I am pleased to report that we have received good feedback from customers and employees on our new approach and we have seen a positive trend in customer satisfaction scores during the year.
We do of course recognise that we still have much work to do in this area and we continue to work hard to improve our performance.
It gives me a great sense of pride to update you on the continued good work of our employees for charities throughout the year.
This is deeply ingrained in the culture of Taylor Wimpey.
During the year we took the opportunity to revisit our Charity Committee objectives in order to ensure that our support will improve the position of the causes that we support.
We also strive to engage our employees in these activities as we recognise that this can be good for personal development and selfawareness.
During 2016 we donated and fundraised over 875k for registered charities 2015: over 746k.
In addition, a further c. 159k was donated to other organisations 2015: c. 112k, sponsoring community events, local sports teams, social clubs and many other initiatives.
More information can be found on page 41 and within our Sustainability Report 2016 which will be available on our website in March 2017.
co. uk Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Returns to shareholders In addition, on 15 July 2016, we returned 300.1 million to shareholders by way of a special dividend, equating to 9.20 pence per ordinary share.
Our dividend return is an inherent part of our strategy and the Board has As previously announced in May 2016, we intend to return c. 300 million set out a policy of making cash returns to shareholders through both to shareholders in July 2017, equating to 9.20 pence per ordinary share, regular dividend payments and additional special dividends at the subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
This is proposed to be appropriate time in the market cycle.
paid on 14 July 2017 as a cash dividend to all shareholders on the register During the year, and following a strategy review, we held a successful at close of business on 2 June 2017.
Shareholders will also be offered the Analyst and Investor Day in May where we announced an enhanced opportunity to reinvest all of their 2017 special dividend under the DRIP, for Dividend Policy, effective from 2017, in addition to stretching medium term which elections to join the Plan must reach the Registrar by 19 June 2017. targets which are set out on page 26.
Future special dividends will be announced on an annual basis at the half We remain fully committed to the enhancements to the Dividend Policy we year results and will be paid in the following July, subject to shareholder announced on 17 May 2016.
From 2017, subject to shareholder approval approval.
The next update will therefore be at our 2017 half year results at the Annual General Meeting AGM, to be held on 27 April 2017, the on 1 August 2017 for the 2018 special dividend.
Company will pay an ordinary dividend of approximately 5% of Group net The Board confirms its intention to keep the mechanics of how the assets and which will be at least 150 million per annum.
This is intended Company will pay special dividends, including the merits of undertaking to provide a minimum annual return to shareholders throughout the cycle, a share buyback at some point in the future should it become appropriate including through a normal downturn.
This ordinary dividend will be paid to do so, under regular review.
equally as a final dividend in May and as an interim dividend in November each year.
Corporate governance Subject to shareholder approval, the 2016 final ordinary dividend of We continue to rmly believe that effective corporate governance is an 2.29 pence per share will be paid on 19 May 2017 to shareholders on important prerequisite for success, and that this is needed to create the the register at the close of business on 18 April 2017 2015 final dividend: right culture throughout the business and as a foundation for strong 1.18 pence per share.
In combination with the interim dividend of financial performance.
Accordingly, your Board believes that this requires 0.53 pence per share 2015 interim dividend: 0.49 pence per share an approach that not only seeks to comply with corporate governance this gives a total ordinary dividend for the year of 2.82 pence 2015 total requirements and best practice but strives to ensure that good dividend: 1.67 pence per share.
governance is embedded throughout the organisation, with a focus on doing the right thing.
This dividend will be paid as a cash dividend, and shareholders are once again being offered the opportunity to reinvest all of their dividend under As I mentioned in my Chairmans Statement last year, open and transparent the Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP, details of which are available from disclosure is important to Taylor Wimpey and we take our responsibility our Registrar and on our website.
Elections to join the Plan must reach the to present fair, balanced and understandable information very seriously for Registrar by 24 April 2017 in order to be effective for this dividend.
Further the benefit of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
We do not prepare details can be found on our website www.
co. uk corporate our Annual Report to win any awards but nevertheless we were delighted to be Highly Commended by the Investor Relations Society for our 2015 Annual Report and to win the FTSE 100 Best overall communication of Total shareholder return company investment proposition award.
We were also pleased to be Highly Commended for our people reporting by PwC in the 2016 Building 2,500 Public Trust in Corporate Reporting Awards for excellence in reporting.
2,000 Whilst the Board greatly values its relationship with the Operational Team, it is equally important that Non Executive Board Directors have the ability to constructively challenge the Executive Team in order to provide good 1,500 stewardship that is in the long term interests of our shareholders and our other stakeholders.
I am pleased to confirm that, with the experience, 1,000 independence and range of expertise of its members, this continues to remain the case within the Taylor Wimpey Board.
500 I am delighted to report that in November we appointed Angela Knight to the Board as an Independent Non Executive Director.
Angela brings a 0 wealth of experience both in business and in numerous other areas which Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 will be invaluable to the Board.
Margaret Ford decided to stand down from the Board as a Non Executive Director in November, and I would like to Taylor Wimpey Housebuilders Index FTSE 350 Index take this opportunity to thank her for her much valued contribution, Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters counsel and wisdom and for her chairmanship of the Note: The graph shows the value by 31 December 2016, of 100 invested in Taylor Remuneration Committee.
Wimpey on 31 December 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 and Housebuilders Indices on the same date.
The other points plotted are During the year we carried out a Board evaluation exercise in line with the the values at intervening financial year ends.
requirements of the UK Governance Code, which we take very seriously and which demonstrated that the Board continues to operate effectively.
Read more about TSR on pages 80 and 89 Further details are set out in General Board Governance on page 67.
Read more about Corporate Governance on pages 56 to 58 14 Taylor Wimpey plc Value rebased Our people Board diversity During 2016, Pete Redfern and the Senior Management Team presented an update on our business strategy via a series of 12 roadshow sessions across the country, available to all of our employees across our business.
Over 4,200 employees attended the sessions, which provided an update 2 on our strategy, progress made and priorities for the future, particularly our commitment to discipline in all market conditions and driving continuous business improvement through a focus on customer service, our people and product.
We believe in investing in our people and developing our internal pipeline of talent to ensure their future success and, in turn, our Companys.
An 7 important part of that is our continued investment in the skills and development of our employees across the business and to ensure that Taylor Wimpey attracts and retains the best people in the industry through Male the cycle.
Female In the first six months of 2016, we introduced an improved exible benefit package for all employees and a new approach to exible working, with maternity, paternity and adoption policies signicantly enhanced.
Group Management We also encourage employee share ownership and we are pleased to Team successfully operate two all-employee share plans Save As You Earn SAYE and a Share Incentive Plan SIP, which are described in the Remuneration Report on page 84.
Nearly half of our eligible employees participate in one or both plans or are otherwise already shareholders of 3 the Company.
In addition, the Company also offers a scheme whereby employees who do not participate in the senior management incentive arrangements are offered the opportunity each year to exchange any cash bonus awarded for shares of the Company, offering a 20% enhancement to the value if taken entirely in shares and retained for a period.
More 7 information can be found within Other Statutory Information on page 99.
We are pleased to embrace the Governments proposed employee voice initiative and we are therefore putting in place a National Employee Forum Male which will build upon the existing regional Employee Consultative Female Committee structure so to enhance the dialogue between the Board, Group Management Team and our employees.
I look forward to personally engaging with this Forum.
Employee diversity Diversity We continue to make progress in the areas of diversity and inclusivity, which have been an important focus for 2016, with diversity and inclusivity training rolled out for all our Management Teams across the business.
Overall we have a gender mix of 67.8% male and 32.2% female across 1,546 the Company with these percentages being 22.2% female on the Board and 30% female in our Group Management Team GMT.
More detail on our gender and wider diversity initiatives are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 71.
3,255 Looking forward We have a clear strategy and a strong focus on where we can add further value to the business.
In this way, we are confident that we can adapt to Male all market conditions from a position of strength and perform well, Female underpinning our value proposition to shareholders and other stakeholders.
We remain fully committed to the Dividend Policy set out in May 2016 and Note: As at 31 December 2016 our objective to provide a consistent and reliable income stream for investors.
Our focus remains on adding value and steady sustainable Read more about our Board of growth as we maximise efficiency through operational excellence and Directors on pages 54 and 55 discipline on our sites and throughout our business.
We are looking forward to the challenges and opportunities that 2017 will bring and to Read more about our Group working together to build the dreams of all our stakeholders.
Management Team on pages 22 to 23 15 taylorwimpey.
