CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am delighted to report another successful year for the Company with revenues, adjusted profits, earnings and dividends all reaching record levels.
Adjusted pre-tax profits increased by 4.2% to 54.4m 2015: 52.2m on revenue up by 2.1% to 744.7m 2015: 729.2m : adjusted earnings per share for the year rose by 7% to 56.7p 2015: 53.0p.
This performance has been achieved in the face of challenging market conditions, which have led to a slowdown in the double-digit percentage growth rate in service numbers we have achieved historically.
The two principal factors behind this are: i the material fall in wholesale energy commodity prices over the last 30 months which has created a significant gap between the standard variable tariffs paid by most customers and the short-term fixed price deals offered by our competitors to customers who switch : and ii the decision we took in March 2015 to stop offering introductory deals to new Members in favour of a fairer everyday low pricing approach, consistent with our commitment to being the Nations most trusted utility supplier.
Against this background, we remain encouraged by the continuing organic growth in the number of services we are providing through our Utility Warehouse brand, which reached 2,181,704 2015: 2,093,447 by the year end an increase of more than 88,000 services during the year.
Within this total, there has been a significant improvement in customer quality, with 76,765 2015: 58,753 residential Members now taking all of our five core services landline, broadband, mobile, gas and electricity.
This has been driven by our decision to re-invest the money we were spending on introductory offers into making our Double Gold bundle for Members switching all their utilities to us even more attractive, which we anticipate will lead to lower churn and higher customer satisfaction over the medium term and will materially increase their lifetime value.
We were delighted to receive a number of further endorsements from Which?
during the year recognising both the value we offer and the quality of service provided by our UK-based membership service team, including being ranked as one of the top three suppliers in all the surveys we were featured in, and being shortlisted as Best Telecom Services Provider at their 2016 Annual Awards.
We were also recognised by Moneywise for three awards: i Best Gas and Electricity Provider for Value for Money: ii Best Gas and Electricity Provider for Service: and iii Most Recommended bundle Provider - Broadband, Landline and Mobile.
Likewise the UK Institute for Customer Service ranked us second behind Amazon for customer satisfaction in a recent national cross-industry survey.
This is a reflection of the continuing focus and significant resources invested into delivering the best possible service to our Members.
4 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RESULTS OVERVIEW Our financial performance reflects the organic growth over the last two years in the number of services we are providing to our Members and an improvement in gross margins from our telephony services, partially offset by higher office occupancy and payroll costs following the move into our new headquarters last spring.
Revenue growth was adversely affected by a fall in average energy consumption within our domestic membership base compared with the previous year, reflecting the progressive impact of the energy efficiency measures that have been delivered by the industry over the last few years: this was exacerbated by lower average energy prices during the year following the price reductions we implemented in early 2015.
Our bad debt charge for the year fell, reflecting the improving quality of our membership base, and we are pleased that delinquency levels which are a useful lead indicator of future bad debt saw a further marginal reduction over the course of the year.
In line with previous guidance, we are proposing a final dividend of 24p 2015: 21p, bringing the total for the year to 46p 2015: 40p : this represents an increase of 15% compared with last year, and will be paid on 29 July 2016 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 July 2016 subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM which will be held on 22 July 2016.
We remain committed to a progressive dividend policy consistent with the underlying strong cash generation of our business.
Opus Our share of the profits from Opus Energy Group Limited Opus, in which we maintain a 20% stake, fell slightly to 5.6m 2015: 6.0m for the year.
This performance, during a year in which it achieved further significant growth in customer numbers, was broadly in line with expectations, and reflects the impact of the removal last summer of the exemption from Climate Change Levy CCL for business customers supplied with European power.
We anticipate that Opus will deliver a further strong performance in the coming year.
Churn Our churn has risen as a result of the attractive introductory deals being offered by other suppliers.
Notwithstanding the record numbers of households switching energy supplier over recent months, it is most encouraging that our energy churn remains below the industry average.
Competition and Markets Authority CMA The CMA issued their draft report into the energy industry during March.
We consider they have missed an opportunity to address the main issue within the industry, where virtually all other suppliers excluding ourselves are using the higher margins earned on legacy customers to cross-subsidise the costs of attracting new customers.
We expect this gap to narrow significantly once other suppliers either choose to start acting more responsibly, and or as commodity prices start rising.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT The continuing downward trend in energy prices has created a temporary and artificial environment where new entrants who carry neither the burden of energy hedged at historically higher prices nor an obligation to meet the same environmental and social costs imposed on larger and more established suppliers can offer highly attractive introductory short term fixed-price deals, creating a record gap between the introductory prices available to those who switch, and the standard variable tariffs paid by the vast majority of domestic consumers.
As a result, the market has polarised between the Big 6, who are broadly maintaining profitability whilst losing customers, and an increasing number of independent suppliers at the other end of the spectrum, who are gaining market share but almost without exception incurring significant losses whilst doing so.
All of these market participants are reliant on the same wholesale costs and use the same distribution channels namely price comparison sites and bulk switching initiatives to attract customers who generally choose their new supplier based predominantly on price and, in many cases, will switch again as soon as they reach the end of their introductory fixed-price period.
By virtue of our unique route to market and focus on treating our Members fairly, we have found a balance which combines sustainable growth in both service numbers and profitability, thus creating real long term value for all our stakeholders.
Last autumn we announced the nationwide rollout of Project Daffodil, our innovative free LED light bulb replacement service.
This is only available to Members both new and existing who have switched all their utilities to us, and is expected to reduce their electricity bills by around 11%: this goes a long way towards narrowing the gap between our energy prices and the introductory tariffs available elsewhere for potential new Members, and ensures our Partners can quote substantial savings for over 70% of UK households compared with the prices they are currently paying.
This has resulted in a significant improvement in the quality of new Members joining the Club, as well as an increase in the number of existing Members who are adding additional services in order to take advantage of this valuable benefit.
More recently, we launched our first mobile app for our Members, giving them the opportunity to submit meter readings, top-up their mobile and or CashBack card, track their mobile usage, and find their nearest CashBack retail partners: further functionality will be added in due course.
We remain focussed on growing our business to one million households and beyond over the medium term, although it is apparent that growth will be faster during periods when market conditions are favourable, and slower when as currently the competitive environment is more challenging.
In the meantime we are pleased that the quality of our membership continues to improve and view this as a key driver of future shareholder value.
ROUTE TO MARKET Significant numbers of new Partners continued to join the business during the year, taking the total number of registered Partners at the year end to 45,808.
Whilst this is below the level we reported 12 months ago, this simply reflects a normal rate of cancellations by some of the record number who had joined the previous year but found themselves unable for whatever reason to take advantage of the opportunity we offer to build an attractive and secure part-time additional income.
6 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Whilst it is more challenging for Partners to gather new Members and build their Utility Warehouse businesses when there are such large pricing differentials in the energy markets, we have been pleased to see many of them still achieve significant success during the year by focussing on the unique strengths of our proposition and the exclusive benefits we offer.
We have invested in improving the personal development programme we make available, free of charge, to both new and existing Partners.
This was enhanced during the year with the introduction of a re-vamped classroom based skills training course, designed to help them gather Members more effectively and build a growing long-term residual income.
It is encouraging that despite the absence of loss leader introductory deals for new Members, the combined impact of our improved training courses, effective Partner incentive structure, and attractive benefits for Double Gold Members including free replacement LED light bulbs, means we are continuing to see a consistently high proportion of new Partners making a successful start to building their Utility Warehouse business.
BOARD CHANGES We are delighted to announce the appointment of Beatrice Hollond as a new independent non-executive director, who will be joining the Board of the Company in September.
Bea is a member of the Board of Brown Advisory, a non-executive director of M&G Limited, a non-executive director at Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust, Chairman at Millbank Investment Managers, Chairman at Keystone Investment Trust and non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust.
She spent 16 years at Credit Suisse Asset Management in Global Fixed Income and began her career as an equity analyst at Morgan Grenfell Asset Management.
It is expected that she will bring a refreshing new perspective to the Board.
We are sorry to bid farewell to Michael Pavia, who will be retiring at the forthcoming AGM, having completed a little over nine years as an independent non-executive director with the Company.
During that time he has made a much valued contribution to the business, both as a member of the Board and as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He leaves with our sincere thanks and best wishes for the future.
Julian Schild, current senior independent non-executive director, will replace Michael Pavia as Chairman of the Audit Committee at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition to having been Group Finance Director of Huntleigh Technology PLC, Julian is also a member and former Chairman of the Finance and Audit Committee of the Hospital of St John & Elizabeth in London.
The chairmanships of the other committees of the Board will be reviewed in the coming year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code encourages the Chairman to report personally on how the principles in the Code relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
As a Board we are responsible to the Companys shareholders for delivering sustainable shareholder value over the long term through effective management and good governance.
A key role of mine, as Executive Chairman, is to provide strong leadership to enable the Board to operate effectively.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED We believe that open and rigorous debate around key strategic issues and risks faced by the Company is important in achieving our objectives and the Company is fortunate to have non-executive directors with diverse and extensive business experience who actively contribute to these discussions.
We propose to amend our remuneration policy by introducing a new long term incentive plan, which has the potential to provide entrepreneurial rewards to the management team for creating significant real shareholder value over a 10 year time frame.
Full details of this new plan which will include malus and clawback provisions in line with current best practice are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Further detail of the Companys governance processes and compliance with the Code is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
OUTLOOK Recent Trading Our annual sales conference took place on 19 20 March, and was attended by over 6,000 Partners.
The focus was on making our Double Gold bundle easier for them to promote, and we also announced a new Refer-A-Friend scheme.
As a result we have seen a significant improvement in the quality of new Members over the last 10 weeks, albeit in relation to quantity we are only running slightly ahead of the level achieved in the previous quarter.
The proportion of new Members being signed up by our Partners who take our Double Gold bundle is now running at c. 55%.
This compares with just 34% of new Members on a like-for-like basis in August 2015, the month immediately before we announced the national rollout of Project Daffodil.
Energy Prices Within the energy sector significant costs will be incurred over the next decade to renew and extend the distribution network, replace nuclear and coal-fired generating plant that is approaching the end of its useful life, roll-out smart meters, fund capacity incentives, and to pay for the various renewable energy programmes which have been introduced.
These are expected to exert upward pressure on retail energy prices over the next few years, although their impact is currently being offset by the fall in wholesale energy commodity costs we have seen over the last 30 months.
Regulatory The Competition and Markets Authority has been carrying out a detailed review of the domestic energy market, and their final report is due to be published shortly.
We welcome their draft proposals to remove the current restrictions on discounts, bundling, and the number of tariffs each supplier can offer, which will significantly increase our flexibility to offer an attractive choice of packages as we expand our existing range of services in future.
8 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements However, we were disappointed that the CMA did not propose more radical initiatives to address the widespread practice within the market by other suppliers of offering new customers attractive introductory deals, at the expense of the vast majority of their customer base who pay significantly higher prices on a standard variable tariff: in our view, this was a missed opportunity to create a fairer energy market for consumers, protecting those who for whatever reasons choose not to engage with the energy market on a regular basis.
We have started rolling out the installation of smart meters for our Members, and this programme is expected to gather pace as we head towards the 2020 target completion date for replacing all domestic meters.
However, the continuing delays in finalising the specification of SMETS2 meters, in getting them certified, and in the smart Data Communications Company DCC testing schedule, have created a broad consensus amongst energy suppliers that the original target completion date for this programme is no longer achievable, and maintaining this deadline will simply lead to even higher fulfilment costs which will ultimately be borne by consumers.
We remain concerned at the high and increasing costs imposed on the industry in order to comply with government policy, much of which seems to be imposed with inadequate thought apparently given to delivering such initiatives in a way that will minimise costs, which ultimately get passed on by suppliers to customers through higher bills.
Examples include the current faster switching initiative, the establishment of Smart Energy GB, the structure of the smart meter roll-out programme, the over-engineering of the specification for the DCC, and the unrealistic time-frames which are invariably adopted for any industry change.
Regulation has an important role to play in ensuring the energy markets are operating in a transparent manner, creating a framework which encourages real competition, protecting the rights of consumers, and ensuring they receive a fair deal for their energy.
However, it is not clear that the right balance has recently always been struck.
We look forward to a less detailed and more principles-based approach in future, where innovation can flourish, and there is a clearer understanding of the need to reduce the burden of regulation which ultimately falls on those least able to afford it namely domestic customers.
Within the telecoms markets, we were pleased to see the EU decision blocking the proposed merger between the 3 and O2 mobile networks, which ensures that four networks will remain available for Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNOs such as ourselves to work with in future.
We retain a good working relationship with EE following their recent acquisition by BT, and have recently extended our MVNO agreement with them on improved commercial terms: this includes giving us access to their 4G network later this year.
We were also pleased to see the announcement earlier this year that the Government is committed to deregulating the domestic water supply market before the end of the current parliament.
This potentially creates an exciting new opportunity for us to add the supply of water to the existing range of utilities we offer, further extending the benefits to consumers of our integrated multi-utility approach.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 9 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Prospects Notwithstanding the slower growth levels currently being achieved, we remain excited about the mediumterm prospects for the business.
Wholesale energy prices will not continue falling forever, and when the direction changes, the competitive environment will change very quickly.
We believe we are in a strong position to take advantage of this when it happens.
In the meantime, there is much that we can and will do to strengthen the business, improve our financial and operating performance, and position ourselves for the future: 1.
Senior Management Team We continue to seek to attract the very best talent available, and over the last year have appointed a Chief Technology Officer and Legal and Compliance Director.
We are also in the process of materially strengthening our Technology teams and have a number of further important middle and senior management positions we are actively looking to fill.
IT systems Whilst our existing systems still have the capacity for significant future growth, and are delivering an exceptional level of operational efficiency relative to our competitors, we recognise that advances in technology mean that significant further improvement is possible.
We are therefore investing in upgrading and enhancing our systems progressively over the next three to five years in order to benefit from this opportunity and build upon the competitive advantage we currently enjoy.
Member retention We are currently improving our processes and recruiting additional employees to build our retentions team with a view to reducing the number of Members we lose each month, particularly as a result of people moving home.
Retail proposition We constantly search for opportunities to make the proposition we offer our Members more attractive and look forward to launching a 4G mobile service later this year.
We are considering how and when to change our current bundle and discount structure to take advantage of the more flexible rules being introduced into the energy market following the conclusion of the CMA enquiry.
Insurance We believe there is an exciting opportunity to offer our Members a range of insurance products, where: i the cost of the policies they choose can be paid to us monthly alongside the other essential household services we supply: and ii they will not need to switch to a new insurer each year in order to retain a competitive deal.
We intend to start with home insurance buildings and contents, with a view to expanding the range in due course to include motor, pet and travel cover.
10 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 6.
Improving our digital presence We have recently launched both a new online Clubhouse and a mobile app for Members.
Future plans include an improved investor relations website, and a new online Partner portal to help them manage and build their Utility Warehouse businesses more effectively.
Direct Marketing We have trialled a number of direct marketing campaigns to existing Members to encourage them to take additional services, using the opportunity of receiving free LED bulbs to induce them to do so.
We are planning to roll this out to a wider cross-section of our existing membership base over the coming months, as well as targeting former Members as part of a win-back campaign.
In the meantime, the steadily improving quality of our membership base is extremely encouraging, and gives us good visibility over future revenues and margins on the various services we provide.
In the absence of unforeseen circumstances, we expect adjusted pre-tax profits for the current year to be between 55m and 59m and to increase our dividend in line with growth in adjusted earnings per share.
It only remains for me to thank my boardroom colleagues for their support and all our staff and Partners for their loyalty and hard work during the past year, and to wish each and every one of them success in the years to come.
Charles Wigoder Executive Chairman 13 June 2016 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 11
