Chairmans Statement Welcome to the Annual Report of your Company covering the 12 months to 31 March 2016.
I would like to start my first report to shareholders as Chairman of TEMIT by thanking my predecessor Peter Smith, who stepped down from the Board on 20 November, for his contribution to the development of TEMIT.
Market Overview and Investment Performance As shareholders will know, last year was a difficult one for emerging markets.
Worries about the slowing of economic growth in China and the reliability of the countrys official statistics combined to damage confidence across a wide spectrum of south-east Asian countries.
Our benchmark index declined by 8.8%.
Unfortunately, TEMITs Net Asset Value per share suffered a much worse decline, by 17.1% both figures on a total return basis.
Without the gains from our programme of share buy backs see below to limit the discount to NAV at which TEMIT shares traded, the relative performance would have been rather worse.
This result continued a deteriorating relative performance over the last three and five years, due in part to the portfolios emphasis on market-leading natural resources companies.
The end of the boom in commodities and oil has been reflected in a dramatic decline in the share prices of these companies.
Your Board is both disappointed and acutely conscious of the need to bring this extended period of underperformance to an end.
Performance to 31 March 2016 a a a a a 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years Since Launch Cumulative Cumulative Annualised Cumulative Annualised Cumulative Annualised Cumulative Annualised % % % % % % % % % Net Asset Value 17.1 22.4 8.1 23.1 5.1 71.9 5.6 1,941.4 12.0 Cum-Income Share Price 17.0 26.2 9.6 27.1 6.1 70.1 5.5 1,687.6 11.4 MSCI Emerging Markets 8.8 7.0 2.4 8.1 1.7 67.7 5.3 974.3 9.3 Index a In sterling terms.
Portfolio Management Changes Our Manager has recognised the need for change and from 1 October last year, Carlos Hardenberg replaced Mark Mobius as our lead portfolio manager.
Dr Mobius will continue to bring his long experience to bear as an adviser to Mr Hardenberg.
As you will note from these accounts, Mr Hardenbergs appointment has already brought a significant change in the portfolio.
Shareholders can see a higher turnover in holdings than has sometimes been the case in the past, with a diminishing emphasis on banks and major resources companies, and a more diversified portfolio.
As his first report explains, Mr Hardenberg intends to exploit Franklin Templetons experienced global team of analysts to find stocks, many of them in consumer-facing industries, which meet the analysts exacting criteria of good management in attractive industries, and which they consider undervalued by the markets.
This transformation process brings inevitable transaction costs.
However, it is encouraging to report that despite this, the NAV in the six months under Carlos management has risen by 15.2%, compared with the recovery of 12.3% for our benchmark index.
TEMIT shares should be seen as a long-term investment, and I am conscious that there is a great deal of ground to make up, but this is a step in the right direction.
4 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk Asset Allocation and Borrowing The Investment Managers style is generally to run portfolios nearly fully invested, subject to practical considerations of funding trades and share buy backs.
Borrowing facilities were not used during the year under review and the Company has not engaged in borrowing in recent years.
Revenue Earnings and Dividend Earnings per share in the year under review were considerably lower than last year at 7.05 pence 2015: 9.28pence.
Nevertheless your Board has decided to recommend the same annual dividend of 8.25 pence per share.
In most years, the dividend paid by TEMIT has been more than covered by revenue earnings and the Company has built up substantial revenue reserves.
Your Board believes that the purpose of building revenue reserves is to allow the dividend level to be maintained at times such as this and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the proposed dividend at the Annual General Meeting AGM, which, if approved, will be payable on 22 July 2016.
Managing the Discount During the year to 31 March 2016, the Companys shares traded at discounts of between 9.6% and 15.4% and on 31 March the discount was 13.4%.
Given the volatility of emerging markets, and hence of your Companys NAV, it is unsurprising that the discount at which the shares trade to net asset value was under pressure over the year under review.
Your Board exercises its right to buy back shares when it believes this to be in shareholders interests.
We regularly intervened in the market over the year and, in total, bought back for cancellation 20,925,302 shares, or 6.6% of shares in issue at the start of the financial year.
An effect of buying back these shares at discounts to the prevailing NAV was to increase the NAV per share for remaining shareholders by 0.8%.
The Board Following a review by its Nomination Committee, your Board has instigated a succession plan which will be implemented over the next few years.
This started with my appointment.
The next change is that Simon Jeffreys will join the Board at the conclusion of the AGM subject to shareholder approval.
He brings a wealth of experience to the Board in financial services, audit and risk management.
Neil Collins, who has been a Director for over nine years, will step down at this years AGM.
My colleagues and I would like to thank Neil for his contribution to the Boards deliberations throughout his tenure.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the remaining directors will stand for election at the AGM.
Following performance evaluations, the Directors are recommended for election.
Hamish Buchan has agreed to take over the role of Senior Independent Director when Neil Collins steps down.
Further changes to the composition of the Board will be announced in due course.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 5 Chairmans Statement continued Investor Communications The Board and Manager aim to keep shareholders informed and up-to-date with information about the Company as well as seeking feedback and comment from investors.
We hold investor briefings and discussions on a regular basis and distribute the Annual and Half-Yearly Report, as well as notices of any significant Company events, to registered shareholders.
We also release information through the stock exchanges where we are listed.
co. uk displays the latest news, price and performance information, portfolio details, web updates from the Investment Manager and a blog dealing with topical issues in emerging markets.
Via the website you can also ask to have the latest Company information e-mailed directly to you.
I encourage all shareholders to register on our website and make full use of the facilities and materials available to help keep you informed about your Company.
I am aware that shareholders may, on occasion, wish to contact me or my fellow board members directly and not via our Manager.
While our Manager will, in most cases, be best placed to handle enquiries, I am at your disposal to receive any questions or comments, as is the Senior Independent Director or any of the other Directors, all of whom may be reached via our brokers whose contact details are enclosed at the end of this document.
Outlook The global economy is expected to continue to grow slowly over the next year.
But we may have seen the worst of the bear market in commodity prices as China manages a softer landing than expected for its economy.
In this environment stock selection becomes critical.
Finding companies with the potential to grow earnings and yet whose shares are priced reasonably will be challenging and in this respect we are encouraged by the start Carlos has made.
AGM I would like to invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London at 12 noon on Friday 15 July 2016 followed by refreshments.
There will be an opportunity to meet the Board and the Investment Manager and to hear the latest news on your Company, its investments and the markets, as well as taking part in the formal annual meeting of the Company.
More details of this meeting can be found on pages 101 to 104 of this report.
Paul Manduca Chairman 8 June 2016 6 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
