Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Chairmans statement Strong foundations John Allan Across the business, we have continued welook forward to working with them Non-executive with our wide-ranging corporate renewal totake the Company forward.
Chairman plans and Im pleased to say that these are very much on track.
Through making On behalf of the Board, I would like some difficult decisions and putting the to thank Dave Lewis and his senior customer at the heart of all we do, we are management team for their continued rebuilding the business.
Itwas a difficult hard work anddedication.
Strong decision to sell our Homeplus business foundations have been laid since we in Korea, but itwasanimportant step in began our turnaround and I believe that repositioning the finances of the Group we have focused on the right priorities It has been a very challenging year for by generating 3.3bn of funds.
The sale as we continue to rebuild and strengthen Tesco, but I remain extremely positive enabled us to take a significant step forward the business.
and confident about the future of this on our priority of strengthening the balance great business.
Tesco is an iconic brand, sheet.
In addition, replacing the UK defined A highlight of my year has been getting anational institution and an enormous benefit pension scheme with a defined out into the business and meeting so many employer, so Im conscious of the huge contribution scheme means we have a plan of our colleagues, both in the UK and responsibilities, not just to our customers, that is both competitive and sustainable overseas, and seeing the passion and colleagues and shareholders, but to all for our colleagues over the long-term.
enthusiasm they have for Tesco.
During ourother stakeholders, including our arecent visit to South East Asia, I was supplier partners.
Further information on the work that delighted to seethe recognition Tesco has taken place during the year can isreceiving as avery attractive employer.
During the past year, there has been a be found in our corporate governance Iwant it to be recognised how hard our renewed focus on corporate governance section on page 28. colleagues have worked during the past and the Board has spent a significant year and thank them for their commitment proportion of its time examining and The Board and I feel we have the through difficult times.
strengthening our processes throughout rightbalance of skills, experience and the Group.
Having a solid governance backgrounds to support and challenge It is important that we get Tesco framework is key to rebuilding trust themanagement team.
The recent backtoinvestment grade and paying and transparency.
appointments of Alison Platt, Simon dividends.
We are abusiness of scale and Patterson and Lindsey Pownall as complexity and have the resources to do additional independent Non-executive a lot.
But it will be our relentless focus on Directors have further strengthened meeting customers needs that will help theBoard.
Between them, they bring us to achieve our goals for the long-term awealth of customer service, IT and success of the Company for the benefit supplier relationships experience and ofall our stakeholders.
John Allan Non-executive Chairman Visit www.
com ar2016 to hear more from John Allan on his first full year at Tesco Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 03
