2 OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Everything I see shows me that the renewed focus on the customer has reinvigorated the organisation.
Thomas Cook ends 2016, its 175th The progress the business has made It is a privilege to be a part of a company anniversary year, a much stronger, was recognised in the new B1 credit with such a rich history.
Thomas Cook more resilient business than a year rating assigned by Moodys in the spring.
remains one of the best-known names ago.
Managements focus on executing Combined with the successful conclusion in the travel industry with more years the strategy for growth has enabled of a programme to buy back 100 million experience of travel combined than any other it successfully to manage through a of bonds ahead of plan, this represents an organisation and a brand to be proud of.
turbulent environment while at the important step in our strategy to reduce Peter Fankhauser and his team are building sametime positioning the Group for interest costs and build a more efficient on this legacy with a strategy that will set the future.
the business on the path to sustainable growth for many years to come.
Against a backdrop of political turmoil and Operationally, performance in the year terrorism, we have made good progress on was mixed.
Northern Europe delivered On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank implementing the New Operating Model, our record profits off a strong base, while the every one of the Thomas Cook colleagues plan to deliver sustainable, profitable growth.
UK continued its turnaround, achieving an across the business for their hard work However, it is the progress that Management EBIT margin of 6.4 per cent, significantly up and the progress that they have made in has made in changing the culture of the on the prior year.
Group EBIT was slightly the past year.
I would also like to thank business to embed a mindset of customer behind 2015, as market disruption had a all of ourShareholders for their continued centricity that is making the biggest impact.
particular impact on our German Airline supportin this 175th anniversary year.
Everything I see shows me that the renewed focus on the customer has reinvigoratedthe Despite this backdrop, our resilient business FRANK MEYSMAN organisation.
Colleagues are pulling together model enabled us to deliver a positive net CHAIRMAN to ensure they do all that they can to give profit for the second consecutive year and customers the best experience on the most we have re-started our dividend programme 22 November 2016 important weeks of their year.
It is these for the first time since 2011.
This reflects the efforts to create lifelong advocates for Boards confidence in the strategy.
theThomas Cook brand that will generate Moving onto the business of the Board, the greatest value in the future.
wewere delighted to welcome Lesley Knox as a new Non-Executive Director in March.
Bringing a wealth of international and strategic experience from her Board roles at Centrica and SAB Miller, Lesley becomes the fourth woman on our Board of nine.
We continue to look for ways to increase female representation in positions of leadership across the organisation.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
