Chairmans Statement London high value residential was anticipated and, as highlighted in the Interim Report, the Manager had reduced exposure accordingly.
However investor sentiment towards companies exposed to London property, both commercial and residential, turned negative towards the end of the year and even businesses with very limited exposure to London residential development suffered severe corrections which meant that performance in the final quarter was disappointing.
The directly-held properties, largely because of asset management initiatives at the Bayswater property and a significant increase in passing rents at Wandsworth, added to overall performance.
Caroline Burton Chairman NAV and Share Price Performance Introduction The NAV rose 8.2% which was well ahead of the Pan-European property and property equities delivered a benchmark rise of 5.4%.
However the share price total more modest return to investors in the Trusts financial year return was -1.6%.
At the start of the period the share than they had experienced over the previous three years, price was trading close to the capital net asset value.
In but unlike broader European equity markets as measured common with many other sector-specialist investment by the FTSE All Share -3.9% and the Eurostoxx 600 trusts a discount has reappeared, starting in this case in measured in Euros -12.8% the return was positive.
late September, though it has been more stable since January.
This 10% discount is slightly higher than the The first half of the year saw the sector benefit from its average of 9% over the past ten years.
domestic focus as investors became nervous about the impact of weaker commodity prices and a Chinese More detail and commentary on performance is set out in economic slowdown on world activity.
In the second half the Managers Report.
of 2015 and into 2016 as central bank action drove bond yields ever lower, and in some cases into negative Revenue Results and Dividend territory, the search for income across other asset classes Earnings per share are 8.36p compared to 8.89p in the continued to support property values and has allowed previous year.
The prior year earnings were inflated by a property investors, including the Trust, access to debt at number of one-off events, and lower earnings for the year very low rates.
ended March 2016 were flagged in last years Annual Report and again at the interim stage.
Last year I commented on the impact on the Trust of the Nevertheless, we have still continued to see underlying weakness of the Euro against Sterling.
This year, in spite growth in our dividend income and the Directors have of offering higher interest rates, Sterling has fallen 11.5% announced a final dividend of 5.20p per share, a 9.5% against the Euro apparently because of investors increase over the prior year final dividend.
This brings the positioning themselves against the perceived risk of Brexit.
full year dividend to 8.35p, a 8.4% increase on the 2015 The Trusts European assets have therefore risen in value total of 7.70p.
The Managers strategy of concentrating investment in Revenue Outlook markets where rental growth is visible or can be expected Whilst much of the benefit of debt refinancing has now UK, Germany, Sweden worked well in the first nine been extracted by companies such that lowering costs of months of the financial year.
A change in appetite for debt further are not likely to add much to earnings for the 4 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary Share Class Performance: Total Return over 10 years rebased 250 200 150 100 50 0 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Mar 16 Benchmark Total Return TR Property Share Price Total Return TR Property Net Asset Value Total Return next year, we still expect to see modest growth in Report, but the ongoing annual interest cost on the new underlying earnings and therefore dividends driven by term loans totalling c. 55m is lower than that on the rental growth and accretive acquisitions.
Indeed, the 15m of retiring debt.
Trusts own development at The Colonnades in Bayswater is now complete and the benefit in income terms will be Currencies seen over the coming year.
As reported earlier currency movements have been significant over the period.
We continue to use FX forward The usual caveats apply, change in the timing of dividends contracts to maintain the currency exposure of our received over the active period around our year end have Balance Sheet broadly in line with that of the benchmark.
an impact as can corporate activity.
The main unknown The resulting exposures are set out in Note 11 to the though is FX rates and since around 60% of our income Financial Statements.
is not Sterling denominated, this can have a significant impact on the earnings for the year.
Discount and Share Repurchases As mentioned, the discount did widen over the year and Net Debt at the year end was above the long-term average.
The Gearing has moved from 12.8% at the beginning of the Directors continue to monitor the discount and the Trusts year, it did increase through the first half to 11.9% at share register closely and encourage the Managers active the year end.
These figures include the impact of the CFD investor relations programme.
No share repurchases took exposure.
Half of the gearing at the year end was place during the year.
The Trust is available on a broad range of investor As set out in the interim statement, new long term loans platforms and I would remind investors of our of 15m and e50m were agreed through a private dedicated website www.
com which placement and these were drawn in February.
The sterling provides current and background data on the Trust amount was immediately used to repay the 11.5% including a monthly factsheet.
Further details of the loan notes and other borrowing facilities are set out in the Managers TR Property Investment Trust 5 Chairmans Statement continued Change of Auditor For the reasons set out in the Report of the Audit Committee, Ernst & Young will not seek reappointment as external auditor at the Annual General Meeting.
This is by mutual agreement between the Board and EY, who have provided excellent service to the Company for many years.
Following an audit tender shareholders will be asked to approve a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys independent auditor with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in July.
Outlook Many of the themes highlighted in my outlook for the previous period are still important in the Managers thinking.
Generally, throughout Europe, value and occupier demand is supported by modest new supply coming onto the market with a continuing lack of speculative development finance.
Investors both in property and elsewhere are more than ever inclined to pay up for security of income and unwilling to put current value on future growth.
This has influenced the Managers decision to reduce exposure to developmentoriented shares, particularly in London.
A Brexit decision to leave the EU would undoubtedly raise questions in investors minds as to the long-term sustainability of employment in financial services in the UK capital.
In Continental Europe the Manager expects the Trusts exposure to Germany to continue to deliver outperformance.
A change of strategy towards Sweden may become appropriate as the Manager has some concern that the economy there could overheat.
The situation is being closely monitored.
Whilst bond yields remain as low as they are, real estate will continue to offer an income advantage.
Property is a pro-cyclical asset class and the strongest performing property markets have experienced a return to rental growth.
Without a broadening of tenant demand across Europe we will see further valuation gains restricted but with earnings underpinned by the very low cost of debt.
Caroline Burton Chairman 13 June 2016 6 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT
