Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Fellow Shareholders, I am pleased to introduce the CompanysAnnual Report for the year ended 31 December2016, a year that was characterised by political upheaval leading to uncertainties in the UK economy and themarkets in which our businesses compete.
Against these once-in-a-generation changes, our businesses have performed well, with most continuing to outperform their majorcompetitors, yet again.
Group sales grew by 4.6% to 6.2 billion.
On a like-for-like basis, We continued to maintain strong capital discipline throughout the Group sales grew by 2.7%.
Challenging conditions led to adjusted year: Group capital investment for 2016 was operating profit of 409 million, broadly in line with the previous 237 million, 169million net of investment in freeholdsites.
year, and adjusted earnings per share of 120.4p, compared As I mentioned in last years statement, plumbing and heating to 124.1p a year ago.
Among the Groups various businesses, markets remained challenging throughout the year.
Lower levels there were particularly strong performances in Wickes, of customer demand, new trading formats and over capacity in Toolstation, Keyline, CCF and Benchmarx.
Our core Travis the sector have led to disappointing trading despite the Groups Perkins business also traded well throughout the year.
leading position and the on schedule and on budget completion of 2016 saw the Group half way through thefive year strategic the re-segmentation of the branch networks of our City Plumbing plan that was outlined in December 2013.
Much has been Supplies and PTS businesses.
As a result, we announced a number accomplished.
Our supply chains have been reorganised and of branch closures in October 2016, and plan to complete a more revitalised, withprocurement across the Group benefitting from radical review of these businesses by mid-year 2017. scale and strong supplier relationships: our branch networks, No strategy is set in stone and we will takethe opportunity to particularly at Wickes, Toolstation and Travis Perkins, continued review and recalibrate the Groups future direction during the to expand their footprint, and trading formats were modernised, course of 2017.
Significant progress has been made over the past leading to improved customer scores.
We continued to take three years and weneed to ensure this is properly reflected in advantage of freehold site availability to increase the Groups shareholder value.
freehold percentage 19% by year end and recycle our less attractive freehold locations and leasehold sites.
Importantly, wealso committed to a four year IT investment programme in the Groups core systems to ensure they are fully fit for the future.
10 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Dividend Board of Directors The Board is taking a prudent view of the range of outcomes for The Group continues to have a settled Board of executive the UK economy in 2017 and 2018 and, coupled with the Groups andnon-executive directors following the appointments made performance in 2016, we are proposing a 2.3% increase in the in2013 and 2014. full year dividend.
During 2016, we started the process to plan for longer term A final dividend of 29.75p, payable on 26 May 2017 to executive succession.
As part of this longer term process, shareholders on the register on 18 April 2017, will give a full year TonyBuffin has been promoted to Chief Operating Officer dividend of 45p 2015: 44p.
This dividend is covered 2.7 times to run our Toolstation and Plumbing and Heating businesses.
by adjusted earnings per share, with dividend cover comfortably Over the past three years, Tony has contributed significantly to inside the Boards target range of 2.5xto 3.25x.
the strategic development of our businesses, the quality of our finance teams and the strength of the Groups balance sheet.
Corporate Governance Following an extensive search process, Tonys position as CFO has been assumed by AlanWilliams, who joined the Group from There is now a growing trend to rate and score larger Greencore Group plc where he was CFO for six years.
companies in the UK across a wide range of corporate responsibility factors.
We very much welcome this During the year, we also welcomed Cheryl Millington to the development.
During the year the Investment Association Executive Committee as ChiefDigital Officer.
Further changes ranked Travis Perkins in the top quartile of FTSE 100 were made in the senior executive team to plan for long companies in more than three quarters of the areas assessed.
Unfortunately, a similar process conducted by the Institute of Directors ranked TravisPerkins 94th out of the FTSE 100, Outlook accompanied by disappointing publicity.
A follow up meeting The political developments in 2016 have undoubtedly created with the IoD discovered that the IoDs assessment was based significant uncertainty for the UK economy as a whole and on inaccurate and out of date information.
Had the correct the individual markets in which our businesses compete.
data been used, we believe Travis Perkins would have been Ourmanagement teams are highly experienced in operating in comfortably ranked in the top quartile of the FTSE100companies.
a variety of market conditions and have taken appropriate steps for their businesses to react to and take advantage of changes Employees inmarket conditions.
We employ almost 30,000 people across the UK and take However, the core foundations of long term demand for ourresponsibility to our colleagues very seriously.
We have buildingmaterials remain solid, with continued demand for now been recognised for eight years in a row by the Great housing, and alarge and ageing housing stock requiring Place to Work Institute, a significant acknowledgement of the renovation.
Themajority of our businesses also operate in hard work and commitment of all our colleagues, particularly fragmented market structures.
our branch managers and supporting HR teams.
In addition, we have continued to improve the Groups programmes With this backdrop, I am confident that the investments focused on colleague health and safety, career development, we have made and will continue to make to improve our diversityandflexible benefits.
customer propositions, optimise our property network and leverage our scale advantage will enable the Group to further I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Board, outperform the markets in which we compete.
tothank all our colleagues for their commitment, energy andhard work during the past year.
