STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONFRONTING CHALLENGES & ACHIEVING RESULTS During the course of 2016 we have repositioned Tullow Oil for growth.
The Company is leaner, moreefficient and more effective.
The speed of response mitigated DEAR SHAREHOLDER ourlosses and reassured our lenders, Tullow prides itself on being a resourceful, allowing us toincrease the loan facilities adaptable, resilient Company.
Our insurers have these characteristics were tested to the subsequently confirmed insurance cover full.
The collapse in the oil price that for cost ofrepairs and lost production.
InJanuary 2016, the price of Brent crude Revenues for the year amounted to fell to $27 a barrel from a peak of $115 $1,270 million 2015: $1,607 million, in2014, one of the worst downturns in underpinned by our longstanding, thehistory of the oil industry.
During 2015 prudent hedging programme, and we took decisive action in response to continuing tight cost control resulted thesharp deterioration in the market, inareduction in G&A expenses from reducing our headcount by around $194million to $116 million.
Pre-tax 40percent, cutting exploration costs, and operating cash flow amounted to refocusing our capital expenditure on the $774million 2015: $967 million, TEN Project in Ghana.
As we entered 2016, butthe Company again reported our strategic priorities were clear: anetloss after tax of $597 million maximise cash flow from existing 2015:$1,037 million, largely as operations: deliver the TEN Project on time aresult of non-cash write-offs and and on budget: continue toprogress our impairments relating to the Uganda attractive, low-cost development projects in farm-down, the low oil price and the East Africa: maintain liquidity whilst disposal of non-core assets.
working towards our long-term goal ofreducing debt: pursue monetisation of The Company has Delivering TEN first oil portfolio options: and position the Company The TEN Project achieved first oil, demonstrated technical for renewed growth when market ontime and on budget, in August 2016. andoperational excellence, conditions improve.
I am pleased to report Thiswas an outstanding achievement delivering TEN on time and that we have made significant progress on fora complex, $4 billion, multi-national all of these objectives, notwithstanding a on budget, and responding project, particularly given the uncertainty major, unforeseeable, setback with the introduced by the maritime border to the unprecedented events Jubilee FPSO during the course of the year.
dispute between Cte dIvoire and Ghana, on the Jubilee FPSO with where a decision by the International speed and skill.
Maximising cash flow from operations Tribunal on the Law of the Sea is West Africa oil production for the year expected by the end of 2017.
The start-up Simon R Thompson averaged 60,900 boepd, excluding of TEN marks a major inflection point for Chairman insurance proceeds 2015: 73,400 boepd, Tullow.
Acombination of significantly despite an unprecedented failure of the reduced capital expenditure and increased, main turret bearing on the Jubilee FPSO high-margin production means that we in February, which temporarily halted are now cash flow positive after capex, and production.
The response to this can start tosteadily pay down debt.
emergency, described on page 28, was exemplary, combining technical skill and Progress in Uganda and Kenya In Uganda, we were granted production ingenuity with an absolute commitment licences in August 2016 and in tosafety and environmental protection.
6 Tullow Oil plc 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 1 January2017 announced the sale of 21.57 per cent of our that Aidanhas built bears many of the hallmarks of the man: 33.33percent holding in the project to Total, in return for a entrepreneurial, adaptable, resilient and committed to creating total consideration of $900 million, payable over the course of shared prosperity for our shareholders and for the countries the development project.
This represents a reimbursement of and communities where we operate.
The Board reviewed both a portion of our past costs, part of which will be used to fund internal and external candidates to replace Aidan as CEO, but ourshare of the development capex required for the upstream in the end there was no doubt about the preferred successor.
Paul McDade has worked for Tullow Oil for 16 years, the last project and the export pipeline.
Subject to completion, Tullow 12as COO.
During this time he has been responsible for will have an 11.76 per cent shareholding expected to reduce Tullows day-to-day operations and he is imbued with the to10 per cent in the upstream after the Government of Uganda Companys culture and values.
formally exercises its back-in right in a long-life, low-cost project thatwill be cash positive to the Company from day one.
The Board has taken the unusual step of asking Aidan to remain with the Company as Chairman, for a transitional period of up In Kenya, following the successful Etom discovery earlier in totwo years.
Over the past three decades, Aidan has built up a theyear, we restarted our exploration programme in Turkana, broad network of contacts and relationships across Africa that which has begun with a discovery by Erut-1 in the far north represents a significant competitive advantage for the Company.
We are also well advanced in Although the appointment of a former CEO as Chairman planning the Early Oil Pilot Scheme, which will provide valuable diverges from UK corporate governance principles, given the reservoir information and build effective working relationships history of the Company and the markets in which it operates, with the local government and community on a small-scale theBoard unanimously believes that a phased transition of the project, before we embark upon the major upstream and leadership of the Company is in the best interests of shareholders.
As a consequence, after completing the CEO succession process, I will step down as Chairman at the AGM in 2017, after six Repositioning Tullow for growth challenging, enjoyable and fulfilling years at Tullow.
Throughout the downturn, while exploration capex was reduced, the team continued to identify and evaluate opportunities and Ann Grant, who has served as Senior Independent Director has built a pipeline of good quality targets across Africa and SID with great distinction during the succession planning for South America.
Exploration activities are picking up during both the CEO and the Chairman, will also step down at the AGM 2017 and we will take advantage of the significantly reduced after nine years with Tullow.
Jeremy Wilson will replace her as cost of drilling and the attractive opportunities the team has SID, a role that will carry additional responsibilities, since Aidan identified over the past two years.
will not be an independent Chairman.
All of these appointments will be subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Risk management, culture and values I would like to thank all of my colleagues at Tullow for their The Major Simplification Project, started in 2015, has not only hard work and dedication over the past 12 months, and to resulted in a leaner company, it has created a more efficient congratulate them on their achievements.
I wish Paul, Aidan andeffective one, with clearer lines of responsibility and and Jeremy every success in their new roles.
accountability, better performance management, and improved risk management and assurance processes, from inception Outlook ofaproject to closure.
But effective risk management, in an During the course of 2016 we have repositioned Tullow Oil for uncertain and unpredictable world, also depends upon a culture growth.
The Company is leaner, more efficient and more effective.
that is open, transparent and responsive to changes in the external It has demonstrated technical and operational excellence, environment, not least the expectations of society.
Tullow was delivering TEN on time and on budget and responding to the among the first in the industry to disclose tax payments to unprecedented events on the Jubilee FPSO with speed and skill.
governments and is also one of the first oil companies publicly to The farm-down in Uganda gives Tullow a material interest in an rule out exploration in or close to World Heritage sites.
Corruption attractive project, which will be cash positive to the Company remains a major challenge in many of the countries where we from completion.
InKenya we continue to make good progress operate, and during 2016, 97 per cent of staff, including the Board, towards the development of a major long-life, low-cost project completed an ethical conduct E-learning programme.
Improving with significant upside potential.
And our exploration team is the diversity of the executive pipeline, so that it better reflects the poised to restart drilling activities, taking advantage of the countries where we operate, remains a key priority, with new significantly reduced cost of exploration, with a portfolio of aspirational targets and concrete steps to accelerate the career prospects accumulated over two years of research.
Tullow Oil development of Africans and women.
In Kenya, our community will be led into the next phase of its development by Paul, with relations officers are working closely with the local community the continuing support of Aidan.
2016 therefore marks the end tounderstand and address their concerns, particularly in ofone exciting era, and the beginning of another.
relationto land access and water.
Tullow is working to obtain their informed consent in advance of the development of the project.
Byproactively addressing such issues, we fide-risk our operations and seek to enhance the long-term returns to our shareholders.
Simon R Thompson Board changes Chairman Thirty one years after founding Tullow Oil, Aidan Heavey has decided to step down as CEO at the AGM in 2017.
