CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 3.8% NAV total return for the year of 3.8% 2016 was a positive and progressive year for UKCPT, and this momentum has continued into 11.4% 2017.
Despite a year of political surprises and associated uncertainty, the business is in a robust Low net gearing of 11.4% as at 31 December 2016 position and I am pleased to report that the shift in strategy adopted a couple of years ago of reducing the portfolios retail weighting and increasing its industrial exposure has begun to bear fruit, with 1.3bn encouraging relative performance.
Our financial position remains strong and, over the course of Our portfolio is now valued at 1.3 billion the year, our portfolio initiatives have added value and driven income to support an attractive level of dividend for shareholders.
Furthermore, I am pleased to note that we have an overwhelmingly supportive shareholder base, as evidenced by the successful passing of the Companys continuation vote, held in November 2016.
The business is in a robust position and I am pleased to report that the shift in strategy adopted TheCompanys portfolio produced a total return Borrowings and Cash PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE of 4.4% in the year, well ahead of the IPD benchmark a couple of years ago of reducing of 3.6%.
As expected, the property market UKCPT is financially well placed.
As at 31 December continued to slow during the year, particularly in the portfolios retail weighting and 2016, the Company had low net gearing of 11.4% with the third quarter as the ramifications of the UKs 4.4% UKCPT Portfolio Total Return increasing its industrial exposure a blended rate of interest of 2.89% and a weighted EU referendum result were digested.
Against this average debt maturity of six years andcash resources backdrop, we achieved an above benchmark return has begun to bear fruit, with of 105 million.
Following the transactions in early through the successful implementation of 2017 as outlined earlier, future capital expenditure 3.6% IPD Benchmark Total Return a number of asset management initiatives across encouraging relative performance.
and dividend commitments, 75 million is the Companys 1.28 billion portfolio, as well as currently available for investment.
The Company through net asset value NAV enhancing sales Andrew Wilson also has access to a 50 million revolving credit at Arlington Street, London and Sunbury, Surrey.
34 5 Chairman 01 2 facility which remains undrawn and, therefore, Just after the year end we announced that we had has significant firepower to deploy in portfolio completed a further NAV accretive disposal, with and acquisition opportunities in-line with the the sale of an office asset at 13 Great Marlborough Companys investment policy.
Additionally, Street, London followed shortly thereafter with in an environment where the prospect for further the recycling of capital into the purchase of a capital growth is under pressure, the Companys higher yielding opportunity at Burton upon Trent.
low gearing is a sensible defensive strategy.
This acquisition of a pre-let development, due to be completed later this year, secures longer term Dividends income in our favoured industrial sector.
This positive portfolio activity underpinned UKCPT declared and paid its shareholders an a NAV total return for the year of 3.8%.
While this, attractive dividend in 2016 as follows: as for the property sector, was a slightly lower return than seen in previous years, it nonetheless demonstrates the strong defensive qualities of Payment date Dividend UKCPT, as well as being a positive reflection of the 2016 per share p portfolio restructuring that has taken place over the past couple of years.
This strong performance Fourth interim Feb 0.92 for prior period was delivered despite pressures on the property sector following a write down in values when the government increased stamp duty in the first half First interim May 0.92 of 2016 and market uncertainties resulting from the EU referendum, including the temporary Second interim Aug 0.92 gating of open ended property funds due to unprecedented redemption requests.
Third interim Nov 0.92 The total return to shareholders in 2016 was also 3.8%, with the year-end share price reflecting a 2% discount to the period end NAV.
This total TOTAL 3.68 return compares favourably to the FTSE All-Share REIT Index of minus 7.0%, and again demonstrates the relative attractiveness of UKCPT, which has A fourth interimdividend of 0.92p was paid on a portfolio of 42, well-let properties, with low voids 28 February 2017.
This annual dividend reflects and an excellent history of prompt rent collection, a yield of 4.4% on the year end share price of 84.5p.
and which is diversified by geography and sector.
It compares favourably to the yield on the FTSE This, combined with a strong balance sheet, cash All-Share REIT Index of 3.7% as well as the FTSE resources for further investment, low gearing and All-Share Index yield of 3.5% and the 10 year gilt low long term borrowing rates, provides excellent yield of 1.2%.
UKCPT continues to offer investors foundations for attractive shareholder returns a sustainable incomereturn underpinnedby its and compares favourably with many other quoted well let and diverse portfolio of prime properties.
UK 8 UK CPT CPT R&A 201 Annual R 6 eport & Accounts 9
