Chairmans governance statement 56 Chairmans governance statement Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Ultras Corporate Governance Report, which provides an insight into how the Board spent its time during 2016.
In the pages that follow, we have set out how we discharged our governance duties and applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Growth Revenue growth is one of Ultras KPIs.
In the year, the Board considered the impact of the Ultras Board UK defence budget on Ultras UK defence strategy and the actions the Company should recognises that strong take to secure a larger share of the UK defence budget and positions on major programmes.
corporate governance, The Board also considered the Companys expansion into overseas markets and the underpinned by a Companys engagement with The Defence Growth Partnership in support of this.
sound, ethical culture, Investor engagement is fundamental to In the year, we continued our active engagement with the investor community see Ultras success.
Ultras main institutional shareholders were consulted on the appointment of Amitabh Sharma as the Group Finance Director and the new Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 74-88.
Director appointment and succession planning On his appointment as Group Finance Director, Douglas Caster Amitabh underwent a rigorous induction Chairman programme see pages 62-63.
Culture Succession planning for the Board and senior One of the key roles of the Board is to establish management continued to be a focus of the the culture, values and ethics of the Company.
Succession and talent Ultras Board recognises that strong corporate management were discussed at a half-day Board governance, underpinned by a sound, ethical strategy session see page 59 and Board dinners culture, is fundamental to Ultras success.
It were held which were attended by potential ensures we deliver on our promises and continue successors.
These occasions provided a relaxed to be a resilient and sustainable business.
forum to meet high-potential employees.
The Boards programme of Non-Executive Director Ultras strategy, reinforced by its culture of site visits continued in 2016.
This provides an accountability and responsibility and a robust opportunity for the Directors to satisfy themselves governance framework, ensures Ultra remains a that the culture, values and ethics, which are set resilient and sustainable business.
from the top, are reected in the businesses.
The Board continuously considers the impact of activities on Ultras culture.
In evaluating an acquisition case, the Board considers the cultural t. The Board is conscious of the need to ensure Douglas Caster CBE Ultras culture of accountability and responsibility Chairman is maintained throughout the implementation of 3 March 2017 the S3 workstreams details of which are on pages 12-13 : and consolidation of the businesses as described in the Chief Executives report see page 6.
People and culture is one of the Groups principal risks as further described on page 39 and a Board strategy session was dedicated to considering this topic.
