CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Since becoming Chairman in April 2016 I have enjoyed a busy period EVALUATION getting to know Unilever and discovering at first-hand what a superb Given 2016 was my first year I decided that we would conduct a very organisation it is, made up of many talented and principled people who focused board evaluation covering strategic discussions, Board care deeply about the business and the contribution it can make to composition and our plans for 2017 for further learning and site visits.
I am excited to be part of a Group whose products are We will explore these and other areas further in our externally used by 2.5 billion people every day.
facilitated board evaluation in the first half of 2017, but in my view the Board is working effectively and this was evidenced when Kraft Heinz There was nowhere better perhaps to chair my first Board meeting, in made its proposed bid for Unilever.
Looking ahead, an important focus July, than in a place often regarded as the physical and spiritual home of our work will be on the management of risks given the increasingly of the Group, Port Sunlight in the UK.
As well as giving me an insight volatile and uncertain nature of todays external environment and, in the into the history of Unilever and the values that still permeate the Group immediate future, we are fully engaged in the recently announced today, the visit also exposed the Board to the high quality manufacturing comprehensive review of options available to accelerate delivery of facilities and breakthrough technologies being developed to keep value for the benefit of our shareholders.
Further detail on the Boards Unilever at the forefront of its industry.
remit, operations and the topics the Board regularly discusses and In September, the Board met in India for its annual review of the debates can be found in the Governance section on pages 29 to 77.
The Board re-affirmed its support for a strategy which has helped to drive consistent top and bottom line BOARD COMPOSITION AND SUCCESSION growth for Unilever over recent years, despite a very challenging I feel fortunate to have taken on the chairmanship of such a high environment.
The pace of change in this industry is greater than at any calibre Board of Directors.
I also believe you would struggle to find a time, and for that reason the Board was also pleased to endorse the more diverse Board whether of nationality, experience or of course Connected 4 Growth change programme, which we believe will enhance gender.
Indeed, Unilever continues to lead the way among its peers at the organisational focus and agility of the Group.
Board level, with the proportion of female Non-Executive Directors in 2016 at 50%.
While in India the Board also visited the Groups global research facilities, as well as the impressive Enterprise and Technology Solutions I would like to take the opportunity to thank the two board members Centre, which has been developed over the last five years to provide who stepped down in 2016, my predecessor Michael Treschow and many of the modern global information and technology platforms on Hixonia Nyasulu, for their many excellent contributions.
In addition to which the Group now depends.
A review of Unilevers business in India, my appointment, Unilevers thorough succession planning identified Hindustan Unilever, highlighted to the Directors why Unilever enjoys two further new Non-Executive Directors, Youngme Moon and Strive such a strong presence and reputation in India.
Masiyiwa, who joined the Boards in April 2016 with me.
They have further strengthened the international business and marketing We held our final Board meeting of the calendar year in Portugal, experience on the Boards and also provide unique perspectives into the where Unilever has built up a strong business with its joint venture impact technology, particularly digital, is having on new business partners and which leads the way today for Unilever in its Out-ofmodels for the future both in the developed and emerging worlds.
Home capabilities, not just in Europe but across the world.
Despite their differing sizes, it was fascinating to see how both the Indian and I have also been impressed by the quality of Unilevers executive Portuguese businesses are exporters of talent and ideas to other leadership and senior management team and the depth of management parts of Unilever.
The Board continues to work diligently with the CEO to ensure a further strengthening of the overall talent pipeline, the executive team ENGAGEMENT and where relevant to ensure succession plans are in place.
I have always enjoyed meeting with shareholders, and have already met LOOKING AHEAD with a good number of them who I thank for their thoughts and insights on the business, strategy and governance.
These meetings offered me Even though trading conditions are likely to remain tough for some time the opportunity to discuss our ideas for changes to Unilevers to come I believe the foundations of the business are very strong and Remuneration Policy.
will only be strengthened further by the Connected 4 Growth programme.
I have also been struck by how the Unilever Sustainable Over the last few years, Paul Polman has built a strong performance Living Plan, with its commitment to responsible and equitable growth, culture at Unilever.
Indeed, I am pleased to report that Unilever has unites people across the whole Group and taps into a growing desire again in 2016 delivered on its 4G growth model consistent, among citizens the world over for more purpose-driven brands and competitive, profitable and responsible growth.
We now want to take business models.
that performance culture to a new level based on managers having an even stronger personal commitment to Unilever share ownership.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Unilevers executive leadership, senior management team and all of Unilevers employees The proposed new Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders to around the world for their efforts, commitment and performance.
be voted upon at the 2017 AGMs in April.
Further information on our proposals can be found in the Compensation Committees report on pages 48 to 77.
Information on the AGMs can be found within the NV MARIJN DEKKERS and PLC AGM Notices which will be published in March 2017.
CHAIRMAN 2 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MARIJN DEKKERS.
Previous relevant experience: Bayer AG CEO : Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. CEO.
Current external appointments: General Electric NED ANN FUDGE.
Previous relevant experience: General Electric NED : Marriott International NED : Young & Rubicam Chairman and CEO.
Current external appointments: Novartis AG NED : Northrop Grumman NED : US Programs Advisory Panel of Gates Foundation Chairman : Brookings Honorary Trustee : Catalyst Honorary Director PAUL POLMAN.
Previous relevant experience: Procter & Gamble Co. Group President, Europe : Nestl S. A. CFO : Alcon Inc Director.
Current external appointments: The Dow Chemical Company NED : World Business Council for Sustainable Development Chairman, Executive Committee : UN Global Compact Board member : UK Business Ambassador GRAEME PITKETHLY.
Previous Unilever posts include: Unilever UK and Ireland EVP and General Manager : Finance Global Markets EVP : Group Treasurer: Head of Mergers & Acquisitions: Unilever Indonesia CFO : Group Chief Accountant NILS SMEDEGAARD ANDERSEN.
Previous relevant experience: A. P. Moller Maersk A S Group CEO : Inditex NED : Carlsberg A S and Carlsberg Breweries A S CEO : Danske Sukkerfabrikker: Tuborg International: Union Cervecera: Hannen Brauerei: Hero Group: European Round Table of Industrialists Vice-Chairman.
Current external appointments: Dansk Supermarket Group Chairman : BP PLC NED LAURA CHA.
Previous relevant experience: Securities and Futures Commission, Hong Kong: China Securities Regulatory Commission.
Current external appointments: HSBC Holdings plc Independent NED : China Telecom Corporation Limited Independent NED : The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Non-executive deputy Chairman : Foundation Asset Management AB Senior international advisor VITTORIO COLAO.
Previous relevant experience: RCS MediaGroup CEO : McKinsey & Co Partner : Finmeccanica Group NED : RAS Insurance NED.
Current external appointments: Vodafone Group Plc CEO : Bocconi University International Advisory Board : Harvard Business School Deans Advisory Board : European Round Table of Industrialists Vice-Chairman : Oxford Martin School Advisor PROFESSOR LOUISE FRESCO.
Previous relevant experience: Rabobank Supervisory Director : Agriculture Department of the UNs Food and Agriculture Organisation Assistant director-general for agriculture.
Current external appointments: Wageningen UR President of the Executive Board JUDITH HARTMANN.
Previous relevant experience: Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA CFO : General Electric: The Walt Disney Company: RTL Group NED : Penguin Random House NED : Gruner Jahr GmbH & Co KG NED.
Current external appointments: Suez NED : ENGIE CFO MARY MA.
Previous relevant experience: TPG Capital Partner : TPG China Co-Chairman.
Current external appointments: Boyu Capital Managing Partner : MXZ Investment Limited Director : Lenovo NED : Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong NED STRIVE MASIYIWA.
Previous relevant experience: Africa Against Ebola Solidarity Trust Co-Founder and Chairman : Grow Africa Co-Chairman : Micronutrient Initiative Chairman.
Current external appointments: Econet Group Founder and Executive Chairman : AGRA Chairman : Rockefeller Foundation Board member : US Council on Foreign Relations Member Global Advisory Board : Africa Progress Panel Board member : Asia Society Trustee YOUNGME MOON.
Previous relevant experience: Harvard Business School Chairman and Senior Associated Dean for the MBA Program : Massachusetts Institute of Technology Professor : American Red Cross Board of Governors Member.
Current external appointments: Avid Technology NED : Rakuten NED : Harvard Business School Professor JOHN RISHTON.
Previous relevant experience: Rolls-Royce Holdings plc CEO : Royal Ahold N. V. CEO, President and CFO : ICA AB NED : Allied Domecq plc NED : AeroSpace and Defence Trade Organisation ASD Board member : British Airways plc CFO.
Current external appointments: Informa PLC NED : Serco Group PLC NED : Associated British Ports NED FEIKE SIJBESMA.
Previous relevant experience: Supervisory Board of DSM Netherlands Chairman : Dutch Genomics Initiative NGI Member : Utrecht University Board member : Dutch Cancer Institute NKI AVL Board member.
Current external appointments: Royal DSM N. V. CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board : fide Nederlandsche Bank Member of the Supervisory Board : Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition Co-Chairman and Climate Leader, convened by the World Bank Group Unilevers Group Secretary is Tonia Lovell and she was appointed in 2010.
OVERVIEW OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INCLUDING DIVERSITY AND EXPERIENCE Marijn Nils Laura Vittorio Louise Ann Judith Mary Strive Youngme John Feike Dekkers Andersen Cha Colao Fresco Fudge Hartmann Ma Masiyiwa Moon Rishton Sijbesma Age 59 58 67 55 65 65 47 64 56 52 59 57 Gender Male Male Female Male Female Female Female Female Male Female Male Male Nationality Dutch Danish Chinese Italian Dutch American Austrian Chinese ZimbabAmerican British Dutch American wean Appointment date April April May July May May April May April April May November 2016 2015 2013 2015 2009 2009 2015 2013 2016 2016 2013 2014 Committee membership CC, NCGC AC CRC, NCGC CC CRC CC AC AC CC CRC AC NCGC Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman, CRC Attendance at planned 3 3 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 3 3 3 3 6 6 6 6 Board Meetings Attendance at ad hoc 2 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 0 2 2 2 Board Meetings Consumer Sales & Marketing Geopolitical networks and insights Science & Technology Finance AC refers to the Audit Committee: CC refers to the Compensation Committee: CRC refers to the Corporate Responsibility Committee: and NCGC refers to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 3
