CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRONG BUSINESS PERFORMANCE IN A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR The Board is delighted with the overall progress made during the period.
Bruno Angelici Chairman As previously announced, upon completion of the merger with Summary Skyepharma, Vectura changed its accounting reference date to 31December from 31 March.
This change was made in order to The Group has grown significantly in terms of bring the Groups financial reporting year in line with the financial capabilities, in-market revenues and its broad reporting year for a number of our partners and peers.
The change development portfolio was made with effect from the current financial year and, accordingly, the Groups 2016 results are for the shortened reporting period Underlying business performance has been ofnine months ended 31 December 2016.
These results include strong with the continued growth of the seven Skyepharma from the effective completion date of the merger, key recently launched inhaled products 10June 2016.
Operational performance and revenue growth Significant progress has also been made across The completion of the merger with Skyepharma was a significant the Groups partnered and wholly owned pipeline event for Vectura.
It has strengthened the Groups capabilities projects along with important further business andtechnology platform by bringing together Vecturas broad development partnering pipeline and DPI and nebulisation technologies with Skyepharmas pMDI technologies.
Dear shareholder The Group has reported strong underlying financial and overall I am pleased to introduce Vecturas Report and Accounts for business performance with significant progress in its broad pipeline thenine-month period ended 31 December 2016.
This has been and the extension of its partnered relationships.
atransformational period as a result of the merger with Skyepharma.
Key highlights include the strong financial performance of the The Group has grown significantly in terms of capabilities, in-market Group arising from the broadened portfolio of in-market products.
revenues and its broad development portfolio.
In addition, underlying Excluding milestones and other non-recurring sources of revenue, business performance has been strong with the continued growth proforma revenue growth was 26% with EBITDA growth of 57%.
of the seven key recently launched inhaled products.
Significant progress has also been made across the Groups partnered and The Group now has over 20 assets generating in-market revenues wholly owned pipeline projects along with important further with seven recently launched assets driving recurring revenue business development partnering.
growth, in particular Ultibro and flutiform.
Ultibro continues to be the leading LAMA LABA combination therapy globally benefiting Throughout the year, the Board has overseen the merger from both the FLAME study results and recent changes in the integration process and completed a detailed review of the Groups GOLDguidelines.
newly enhanced pipeline and strategic priorities.
The integration ofthe two businesses is well advanced and the Board is delighted There has also been significant progress across the Groups with the overall progress made during the period.
Vectura enters partnered and wholly owned pipeline.
2017 well placed to execute upon its strategy with its unique technology and capabilities.
6 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The novel partnered pipeline has seen notable progress including As a growing company, the quality and integrity of our people Bayers new nebuliser for their Ventavis product.
The recent EU isfundamental to the way we do business and our future success.
regulatory approval and subsequent post period launch in Poland Vectura and Skyepharma shared a number of values and ways of inApril 2017, validates the FOX smart nebuliser device and enables working and the Board recognises the importance of the integration commercialisation of Ventavis in a novel drug-device combination process and in particular ensuring that the newly launched culture: VR876.
Ablynx hasalso progressed with its Phase II RSV development our purpose, values, mindset and behaviours, has been embraced programme ALX-0171 VR465 for hospitalised infants using the throughout the organisation.
We believe that this focus has further FOX device.
Vecturas co-development with UCB of a dry powder strengthened the operational base of the business by uniting the inhaled fragment antibody molecule saw Phase I studies completing Groups employees behind a common purpose.
This programme is now scheduled to start Phase II Leadership and Board changes studies in the second half of 2017.
As previously announced, and as part of the merger with Skyepharma, In the generic portfolio, the most significant step was the ANDA we confirmed a number of changes to the Board.
Following completion filing completed by Vecturas partner Hikma for a generic Advair of the merger Andrew Oakley, ChiefFinancial Officer of Vectura, Diskus VR315.
A GDUFA target action date of 10 May 2017 is set stepped down from the Board and we welcomed Andrew Derodra, for this programme.
former Chief Financial Officer of Skyepharma, to the Group as ChiefFinancial Officer.
Frank Condella, former Chairman of Skyepharma, Vecturas wholly owned programme has also been progressing well and Thomas Werner, Non-Executive Director of Skyepharma, also with continued good recruitment in the VR475 adult asthma study joined the Board as Non-Executive Vice Chairman and Non-Executive in Europe and the start-up of the paediatric VR647 study in the US.
The Vectura team has also made good progress in valued business John Brown stepped down from the Board as a Non-Executive development.
The triple combination therapy agreement with Director and Senior Independent Director a month after the merger Mundipharma being a key highlight during 2016 along with the completed and Susan Foden has now taken over the role of Senior extension of the portfolio of generic partnering with Hikma for Independent Director.
On behalf of the Company, I wish to extend VR730 DPI Salmeterol.
my warmest thanks for John Browns significant contribution to the Following the merger, the Board has performed a detailed portfolio Board over the past twelve years.
and strategy review, approving three to five new generic development On 6 March 2017 the Group announced that Trevor Phillips, programmes.
The Group is now on course to deliver, at least, the Vecturas Chief Operations Officer and President of US Operations, identified merger synergy savings.
will step down from the Board at the AGM on 25 May 2017 and Our business and strategy leave the Company on 31 May 2017.
Trevor has worked at Vectura Vecturas strategy is to build on its strength and expertise to develop since 2010 and the Board and I would like to thank him for his partnered novel and generic medicines.
Over the longer term, Vectura significant contribution throughout his tenure, including as interim will progressively increase its margin with the development and CEO in 2015, and we wish him well in his future endeavours.
 of its own specialist products, with priority Our people given to the US market.
Both the Board and I would like to thank all of Vecturas employees The Group has a solid base of recurring cash flows, a strong balance and its partners who have continued to show tremendous commitment sheet and clear capital allocation priorities.
The Boards priority is and worked hard to deliver our corporate objectives and goals in what tofocus the business on strong organic growth.
M&A will only be has been a transformational period for the Group.
considered in the case of compelling strategic and financial criteria being met.
Given the existing strong capabilities of the Group and Shareholders pipeline stage of the wholly owned assets, there is no immediate As ever, we remain grateful for the continued commitment of our requirement for significant M&A.
shareholders as we progress the Groups strategy.
Our focus remains on growing a strong, sustainable, innovative and competitive business Read more in the Chief Executives Q&A on pages 14 to 17 and in which generates shareholder value delivered through sustainable Our strategy and business model on pages 8 and 9. growth with risk-balanced investment.
Governance Outlook As a Board, we are committed to the principles of good corporate Vectura is an exciting business with substantial news flow expected governance and we have continued to comply with the provisions for2017.
We have the right strategy, the right people and the of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the rightapproach to the allocation of resources enabling the Group period.
Through a robust internal framework of systems and controls, toexecute upon its strategy and achieve its long-term goals.
we strive to maintain the highest of standards.
During the period, we have undertaken a substantial review of our governance and risk management processes to ensure that they are Bruno Angelici appropriately aligned to our enlarged organisation and we have Chairman confirmed a number of changes to the composition of the Board 20 March 2017 and the various Board Committees.
Further details are provided inthe risk management and governance sections.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 7
