CHAIRMANS STATEMENT SUSTAINED STRONG BUSINESSPERFORMANCE Sustained strong business performance with opportunity toaccelerate strategy following theproposed Skyepharma merger.
Bruno Angelici Chairman that this should continue to be its primary area of focus.
This Summary conviction is reinforced by the substantial unmet medical need in this area and the wave of new innovation in devices and medicines, Delivered another set of strong results which together provide many opportunities for Vectura to add value for partners and patients, directly and indirectly.
Product and pipeline progress Our balanced business model is working well, as reflected in our financial performance.
Vectura continues to achieve milestone New CEO appointed payments for formulation work undertaken for partners, and we are also seeing the value of the higher margin recurring royalties Announced proposed merger with Skyepharma derived from in-market products that rely on our device and formulation capabilities.
Ultimately our aim is to generate an additional high margin revenue stream from our wholly owned Dear shareholder specialist portfolio of marketed assets.
Vectura believes that our I am pleased to introduce Vecturas Annual Report for the 2015 16 hybrid business model maximises our capabilities to deliver strong financial year.
sustainable profitability and shareholder value growth whilst managing risk appropriately.
The Group has performed well against its key financial and businesstargets.
We have delivered a strong financial and operational Vectura has a number of key drivers underpinning the future prospects performance for the twelve months ended 31 March 2016.
Of particular of the business and in the past year we have seen significant note is the transition of the business to a position where the majority developments within the product and pipeline programmes read of overall royalty revenues arise from recently launched inhaled more of this in the Operating review on page2.
In the short term, products.
The Group has also made considerable progress across partner-branded products will bethemost important drivers of its pipeline in particular the VR315 submission in the US and our future revenues.
own VR475 Phase III study in Europe.
Alongside these achievements In the medium term, we anticipate a further important income ithas beena year of leadership transition with the appointment stream from products that leverage Vecturas formulation and ofJamesWard-Lilley as Vecturas new Chief Executive Officer.
Using these capabilities, Vectura and its partners Oneof the most important developments forthe year is the are developing generic versions of GSKs Advair Diskus and proposed merger with Skyepharma.
This proposed merger will Flovent Diskus as well as AstraZenecas Symbicort Turbohaler.
combine the complementary Vectura and Skyepharma businesses to create an industry-leading airways related diseases company.
In the longer-term, Vectura has a number of proprietary technology platforms to generate future income streams: formulation, device Our business and strategy DPIand smart nebuliser delivery systems and, inhalation technologies Following the arrival of James Ward-Lilley as Chief Executive Officer, FAVORITE.
The acquisition of Activaero in March 2014 added the Board has reviewed and confirmed the Company's strategic several assets to Vecturas clinical pipeline, two of which are being focus and priorities.
Vectura has already enjoyed considerable developed in house VR475 FAVOLIR for severe adult asthma and success based on its great experience in inhaled airways device VR647 SCIPE for paediatric asthma and which ultimately we andformulation development and the Board remains of the view anticipate to self-commercialise.
6 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Operational performance and revenue growth I would like to reiterate my statement last year thanking Chris for Good operational progress is being made on our proprietary and the dedication he has given the Group over many years and I wish partnered programmes.
Important progress has been made with him well for the future.
In the interim period between Chris departure VR315 US, our partnered programme with Hikma, for a generic and James arrival at the end of September, Trevor Phillips, Chief version of GSKs Advair Diskus.
Following submission and acceptance Operations Officer, acted as Interim Chief Executive Officer and, post-period of the file, FDA action is now expected in May 2017. onbehalf of the Board, Iwould like to thank Trevor for his leadership throughout this period.
Vectura is also making good progress with its smart nebulisation programmes.
Recruitment into the Phase III study of the lead wholly As part of the proposed merger with Skyepharma we have announced owned asset, VR475 EU FAVOLIR, for the treatment of severe adult a number of changes to the Board.
Following completion of the asthma is progressing well and results are expected in mid-2018.
proposed merger Andrew Oakley, Chief Financial Officer, will leave Inaddition, the most advanced smart nebuliser partnered programme, Vectura.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Andrew for his VR876 using FOX, being developed as a nebulised version of a support and contribution to the business since he joined the Company currently marketed drug for the treatment of serious long disease, and we wish him well for the future.
Andrew Derodra will become achieved a further development milestone.
Regulatory action is Chief Financial Officer of the Enlarged Group and we look forward expected in the coming months.
to welcoming him along with Frank Condella and Thomas Werner to the Board following completion of the transaction.
In addition to Vecturas collaboration with Novartis continues to develop well.
these changes and as part of the merger agreement, Dr John Brown, Therecently published FLAME trial data provide further clinical Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director, will stand evidence to support use of Ultibro Breezhaler and shows that down from the Board within one month after completion of the thisproduct is superior to serefide, the current standard of care in proposed merger.
John has played an outstanding role as a member reducing exacerbations in the treatment of COPD patients.
Seebri of the Vectura Board for many years and has the sincere gratitude Neohaler and Utibron Neohaler were approved by the FDA in of the Board and my own best wishes for the future.
October 2015 and it is expected that the launch of these products in the US will take place in the second half of 2016.
This franchise Our people isbeing strengthened further with the Phase III development of The Board and I would like to pay tribute to Vecturas employees and QVM149, a new triple therapy forasthma, with first regulatory partners who have shown commitment and worked hard to help deliver filings anticipated in 2018. so much this year.
With the Companys clear strategy commitment, You can read more about our therapeutic focus, development pipeline I believe it is an exciting time aheadand we can look forward to the and accelerated strategic execution in the CEO Q&A on pages 8 to 10 next stage of Vecturas development with great optimism.
and in the strategic overview on pages 16 to 17.
Shareholders Governance We are grateful for the continued commitment of our shareholders As a board, we are committed to the principles of good corporate as we progress the exciting development of the business.
"Our governance and we have continued to comply with the provisions focusremains on growing a strong, sustainable, innovative and ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code ""the Code"" throughout the competitive business which generates strong shareholder value year and to the date of this report."
Through a robust internal through capital appreciation.
framework of systems and controls, we strive to maintain the highest standards.
Outlook Vectura is in a strong position for the future based on its clearly defined Our leadership strategy, the further progress the business has made in the last twelve In June 2015, Vectura announced the appointment of James Ward-Lilley months, its strong development pipeline, product portfolio and new as CEO of the Company.
He succeeded Chris Blackwell, who stepped leadership.
The completion of the proposed merger with Skyepharma down after twelve years in the role.
will further enhance Vecturas attractive prospects by allowing us to accelerate the delivery of the Companys strategic objectives and James has had an extensive career at AstraZeneca, spanning 28 years deliver further value to our Enlarged Group of stakeholders.
across a variety of commercially focused roles.
He progressed from sales and marketing roles in the UK through country and regional leadership positions and was latterly responsible for the development of AstraZenecas Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity strategy.
This extensive experience is an important advantage to the Bruno Angelici Company and I am confident that James and the Vectura team will Chairman deliver the leadership, energy and drive to ensure the continued success 25 May 2016 ofthe Company as we embark on the next stage of our journey to become a leading company, focusing onairways-related disease.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 7
