Vesuvius plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans Statement responding to them becomes even more crucial.
Our proactive approach Consequently, in our recently launched Excellence programme, we selected customer satisfaction as to self-help is a signi cant a key metric for improvement.
factor in our resilience in the current climate.
We also continued our plan to embed ourselves further up the customer value chain through the John McDonough CBE Chairman development of our Technical Services business.
As we integrate the acquisitions made in 2015 in measurement systems, we are developing our understanding of online data monitoring and quality assessment systems.
We will continue to pursue acquisitions to build out this offering.
The creation of a signi cant Technical Services business remains an important medium-term objective.
Overview Events in 2016 have clearly heralded a period See Our Strategy A year ago, we said there would be no material of signi cant political change in both Europe and on p12-18 change to the challenging market conditions we the US.
As a Board, we continue to monitor the faced during 2015.
This was borne out in 2016, potential consequences both on our business and with our key end-markets remaining relatively our end-markets.
However, we are con dent that stable but subdued.
Global steel production has the overall strategy that we adopted at demerger, been broadly at with a decline in developed and which we continue rigorously to pursue, is the markets being offset by growth in China and right one for the business, for our customers, India, whilst foundry markets have remained for our people and for the creation of sustainable mixed, both regionally and by sector.
Despite these challenging market conditions, Performance and Dividend we have remained focused on our strategic priorities and have continued to make encouraging In 2016, reported sales were 1,401m, an increase progress.
Our management team has taken from 2015 of 6.0%.
Our margins improved to a proactive approach to adapting our business 9.5%, helping to deliver the reported trading and cost base to prevailing conditions, and pro t of 133.3m.
Foreign exchange trends have excellent further progress has been made in had a bene cial impact on our trading pro t, delivering our restructuring programme, with an but have also increased our reported net debt.
increased annualised savings target of 35m, Our business model enables us to generate strong at a cost of 45m by the end of 2017.
These cash ows, and we continue to focus on tight carefully balanced actions have improved our financial discipline in order to underpin our pro t margins, and contributed signi cantly investment plans and dividend.
Our dividend policy aims to deliver long-term Equally important to our competitive positioning dividend growth, provided that this is supported is the quality of service that we provide to our by cash ow and underlying earnings, and is customers, a theme that recurs throughout this justi ed in the context of our capital expenditure Annual Report.
Our customers have always been requirements and the prevailing market outlook.
at the centre of the Vesuvius business model.
With this in mind, the Board has recommended However, in challenging times, really a final dividend of 11.40 pence per share for the understanding our customers needs and year ended 31 December 2016 2015: 11.125 Our Business 3 See Governance pence, which would result in a total dividend for very clear and focused on its priorities setting on p62-103 the year of 16.55 pence per share 2015: 16.275 Vesuvius strategic direction, ensuring that the pence, an increase of 1.7%.
If approved at the appropriate culture is embedded throughout Annual General Meeting, this final dividend will the Group, and acting as custodians of be paid on 19 May 2017 to shareholders on the long-term shareholder value.
Our people Board and Governance One of the Boards core responsibilities is The Board is responsible for setting the right establishing the culture and values of the Group tone from the top and ensuring that a robust which determine the behaviour expected from governance structure is in place to enable the our people.
Our Code of Conduct was relaunched business to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
across the Group during the year, alongside the As part of this responsibility, the Board continues update of our independent Employee Concern to place great importance on furthering our Helpline.
At the same time, our long-term success understanding of the Vesuvius business by visiting depends on us ensuring the health and safety of key operations and meeting as many people as all our people and providing them with the fullest possible.
To that end, during the year we visited opportunities to develop and use their talents.
our Flow Control, Advanced Refractories and How we are putting these commitments into Foundry production sites in Monterrey, Mexico, action is set out in the sections on Principles, as well as visiting our customer, Ternium, Health and Safety, Sustainability and, People in Monterrey.
I personally visited our plants and Community within the Strategic Report.
at Skawina in Poland, and at Tri nec in the Czech My Board colleagues and I continue to be Republic.
These visits increase our knowledge impressed by the way in which our leadership and are invaluable in helping the Board to stay teams and our people go the extra mile to connected with our operations, our senior exceed our customers expectations.
Our resilient people and their teams around the world.
performance in 2016, the strength of our market Encouraging progress is being made in the positions and, above all, the quality of service recruitment process to replace Nelda Connors.
that we offer our customers would simply not Nelda stepped down from the Board in September be achievable without their tenacity and 2016 due to the increasing demands of her other professionalism.
On behalf of the Board, responsibilities, having served as a Non-executive I thank them all.
We are very grateful to Annual General Meeting Nelda for the active and valuable role she played during a critical period in Vesuvius development.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 10 May 2017.
The Notice of Meeting and In 2016 the Board also widened its focus on explanatory notes containing details of the succession planning issues, additionally reviewing resolutions to be put to the meeting accompany the management level immediately below the this Annual Report and are available on our Board both in terms of securing a pipeline website www.
I and all my Board of talent for future leaders of the business and colleagues plan to attend the AGM and we encouraging and enabling our diversity agenda.
look forward to the opportunity to meet with This focus on succession planning at executive as many shareholders as possible on the day.
and senior management levels is ongoing.
John McDonough CBE Chairman The 2016 Board evaluation con rmed your Board 2 March 2017 continues to function effectively.
It is well balanced, with a strong mix of relevant experience, and is five five five V V Ves s s suvi uvi u uvi v vii i ius us u u us s p p plc plc l lc c c 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 A An An An An An An nn n n n n nual ual ua ual u ual u ua a al l R R Re Re R Re epor por p por o or rta t a t t t a an n nd nd nd d d d d A A Ac Ac Ac Ac A A A Ac cc c c c c coun oun oun ou o oun un u un n n n nts ts ts ts ts ts t ts s 2 2 20 20 20 20 201 0 01 1 1 1 1 16 6 6 6 6 6 Ou Ou Ou O O Ou Ou Ou Ou ur ur r r r r r r Busi Busi Bu Bu Bu B B Bu Bu u u us si s s sin s si i in i in in ness ness ne e es es ess s ss ss ss s 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Section One Our Business In this section 6 Vesuvius at a Glance 10 Business Model 12 Chief Executives Strategic Review 19 Risk 22 Board of Directors 24 Group Executive Committee The Strategic Report set out on pages 2 to 59 contains a fair review of our businesses, strategy, and business model and the associated principal risks and uncertainties.
We also deliver a review of our 2016 performance and set out an overview of our markets.
Details of our principles, our people and community engagement, together with our focus on safety, are also contained in the Strategic Report.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Franois Wanecq Guy Young Chief Executive Chief Financial Of cer
