Strategic report Chairmans review Moving downstream: beyond the polymer Delivering our growth strategy by moving downstream, beyond the polymer into new selected semi-finished and finished products, will further differentiate our business and enhance the value that we deliver to our customers and shareholders.
Strategy and differentiation Growth pipeline Our product leadership strategy, to become the world leader in value Our pipeline of new products is focused on our mega-programmes, creation through high performance PEEK and PAEK polymer solutions, with each offering the potential for over 50m of annual revenue in means developing new applications, new grades and product forms, the peak sales year, although we are mindful that driving full market including composites, and new markets alongside our core materials adoption can take time against incumbent technologies.
By blending our inherent innovation and technical excellence, continued progress, with our Magma Oil & Gas mega-programme materials knowledge and development know-how, we will deliver reaching meaningful revenue of over 1m.
selected semi-finished and finished products and components In the meantime, whilst we are mindful of new competitor capacity alongside our core materials business.
The market opportunity to coming into the industry, our core business remains robust and we capture long-term growth remains sizeable and moving downstream, continue to differentiate, and provide a more sustainable platform beyond the polymer, will help Victrex stand out as the company for long-term growth.
Supporting this is our continued investment building the PEEK and PAEK polymer market.
to help accelerate our mega-programmes.
This year we invested insmaller scale manufacturing assets and made a strategic investment to support our long-term pipeline.
Investment case u Market leader: building the PEEK PAEK market Results A focused and differentiated strategy: u 2016 was a challenging year for Victrex, although, pleasingly, several movingdownstream markets remained in growth and we delivered in line with expectations.
u Strong pipeline of medium to long-term The macro-environment in Oil & Gas and the much lower year on growthopportunities year volumes in Consumer Electronics impacted our overall performance.
Highly cash-generative business model Group revenue of 252.3m was 4% down on the prior year u 2015:263.5m.
Group profit before tax of 100.3m 2015: 106.4m reflected these impacts and the higher fixed costs from our new manufacturing assets, although our enhanced focus on efficiency whilst retaining investment in the front-end commercial, technical and marketing functions helped to reduce overhead costs.
Earnings per share of96.8p 2015: 98.1p was down 1%.
Investment for growth We are supporting our strategy of moving downstream by transitioning resources from primary manufacturing into secondary manufacturing, as well as investing in our front-end market focused functions, which will help to drive market adoption and growth for our new products over the coming years.
As we communicated at our 2016 preliminary results, we are focusing on a number of cost efficiency opportunities, which will place the business on a more sustainable and efficient path to support our future growth.
These may include supply chain opportunities.
Larry Pentz Chairman 10 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Having completed our major polymer capacity expansion last year, Sustainability and efficiency investment has turned towards downstream manufacturing, which Victrex has continued to make progress against its 2023 Vision timed includes our new Trauma manufacturing facility and our Composite to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Victrexs formation.
Some of facility, which will support a number of our mega-programmes.
Capital our metrics have been revised this year to better reflect the changing expenditure was 25.9m 2015: 41.2m and is expected to remain nature of our business as we move further downstream into similar over the medium term.
moresemi-finished products and beyond the polymer.
We are closeto becoming carbon neutral, thanks to the strength of Innovation and technical excellence remains a key differentiator ourproducts inthe Aerospace and Automotive markets which forVictrex.
R&D expenditure of 14.1m was similar to the prior year support lightweighting, durability and fuel efficiency.
We have also 2015: 13.7m and represents 6% of Group revenue, which reflects increased ourfocus on becoming a more efficient organisation, some of our growth programmes moving past the technical notjust in our manufacturing operations.
Further detail can be qualification stage to market adoption and early commercialisation.
found in the Sustainability report on pages 25 to 36.
M&A remains a key option for Victrex in supporting our growth Sustainability report programmes.
Our strategy of Make versus Buy offers us the opportunity Pages 25 to 36 to develop assets or capability ourselves, or buy in this capability aswe did with Kleiss Gears last year.
During the year we deepened Safety our relationship with Magma Global, partners in the Magma Once again, Victrex was recognised with the Order of Distinction for Oil&Gas programme, by acquiring a minority equity interest.
its safety record and processes by the Royal Society for the Prevention Thiswill provide us with a more strategic role in the Magma of Accidents RoSPA this year, our 19th year of achieving Gold business and theopportunities for this programme.
We again recorded no lost time accidents, a measure Victrexs growth capabilities and aspirations remain undiminished ofour safety practices.
and we expect to communicate our aspirations for medium-term Away from our manufacturing operations, we have an unwavering growth during the forthcoming year.
safety focus across our global teams, who continue to drive the market opportunities for our polymers, whether at commercial, Cash-generative business model marketing, technical or support services level.
Our business model remains highly cash generative, supporting future investment.
The Groups closing cash balance reached 64.0m this year People 2015: 53.8m, with no debt.
Overall, our balance sheet remains robust, With near-term challenges in some of our markets, Victrex is taking underpinning investment, providing reassurance to customers and appropriate actions to refine the Group which will, I believe, help enabling us to deliver appropriate returns for shareholders.
make us a more efficient and differentiated business for the future.
Our growth aspirations remain unwavering and, on behalf of the Dividends Board, I would like to thank each and every one of Victrexs employees The Boards capital allocation framework, set out last year, seeks to for their contribution this year.
prioritise growth investment whether organic or through M&A first, whilst supporting a regular dividend and the potential of Our employees and our business continue to be viewed favourably incremental returns for shareholders via a special dividend.
by our wider stakeholders, which helped Victrex secure a top 20 position in Britains Most Admired Companies this year.
We also No special dividend is proposed this year.
secured the runner-up position for the chemicals sector.
Our regular dividend seeks to maintain cover at or around 2x and grow the regular dividend in line with earnings.
Despite a lower trading Outlook performance, the Group is proposing to pay an ordinary dividend of For the medium to longer term, Victrex remains in a good position, 46.82p per share 2015: 46.82p.
with a strong pipeline of potentially game-changing projects.
Wecontinue to invest, as we transition our business beyond the The Board polymer, and to support our move downstream.
Your Board is strong, blending complementary skills and experience For 2017, our core business is in growth, we remain focused to shape our future performance.
Our current female representation oncostefficiency and we are operating in a more favourable on the Board is 33%, consistent with the recommended minimum currency environment.
Our assumptions for a continuation of representation.
Consumer Electronics volumes, but at a significantly lower level, are There were no changes to your Board during the year.
unchanged, with an expected second half weighting.
At this early stage of the year, we are comfortable with current expectations.
A more detailed description of the Boards responsibilities and governance processes that are embedded in our business are provided in the corporate governance section of this report, startingon page 40.
Larry Pentz Corporate governance Chairman Pages 40 to 50 6 December 2016 Annual Report 2016 Victrex plc 11
