14 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Chairmans statement In 2016, we delivered a strong financial performance, demonstrating the benefits of our customer-focused strategy, low risk business model and differentiated approach to banking.
Despite expectations to the contrary, the UK economy proved resilient during the second half of the year and the housing market remained stable, with residential sales increasing slightly year-on-year.
Two significant influences on the Glen Moreno Chairman housing market in 2016 were the introduction of stamp duty for second homes and the EU referendum result.
The Government's policy to tackle the UK's housing shortage and control house price inflation resulted in the introduction of higher rates of stamp duty on additional properties in During a year of significant political April 2016.
This led to a surge in housing transactions in the change and economic uncertainty, Iam first quarter of the year.
In the months following the change, activity levels reduced and then weakened further in the wake pleased to report that Virgin Money of the referendum.
The Bank of England took swift action to continued to deliver on its promises to mitigate the uncertainty related to the outcome of the vote, shareholders as a result of our continuing with transactions and approvals recovering towards the focus on growth, quality and returns.
Given the turbulent external environment and the The excellent performance of the changing shape of the mortgage market, I was particularly business in 2016 demonstrates the pleased that we continued to grow strongly, with 8.4 billion of gross lending written to our high-quality credit benefits of the Groups position as a standards, representing a 3.4 per cent share of the total customer-focused, low risk UK retail mortgage market.
bank, unburdened by legacy conduct Our strategic objective as we progress towards our target of issues.
3 billion credit card balances by the end of 2017 is to ensure the high quality of the book.
As a result, we strengthened As a result of our business performance, our credit card underwriting in the second half of the year to protect asset quality against the uncertain economic outlook the Board has recommended a final and continued to make solid progress towards our target as dividend of 3.5 pence per ordinary share.
card balances increased to 2.4 billion.
This will result in a total dividend for 2016 During the year we continued to take advantage of our of 5.1 pence per ordinary share.
operating leverage, whilst providing outstanding service to all of our customers.
We delivered strong growth across our core markets, maintained the high quality of our balance sheet and delivered significant growth in underlying profitability.
Our three strategic pillars of growth, quality and returns give us the platform to adapt to potential changes in the operating environment.
To mitigate against the impact of adverse macro-economic conditions that may transpire, the Board and Executive Team decided tostrengthen the balance sheet further with the issuance of 230 million of Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital.
This resulted in a leverage ratio of 4.4 per cent at the end of 2016, compared to 4.0 per cent at the end of 2015.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 15 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 We also established contingency plans and implemented Board succession plan and will help to ensure the Board is well appropriate risk monitoring and oversight activities.
placed to meet the challenges and opportunities ahead as we continue to grow the business.
I would like to extend my thanks to the Board, the management team and all colleagues across the Group for Marilyn Spearing, an Independent Non-Executive Director and their contribution.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee, notified the Company of her intention to retire from the Board and stand down at the Dividends and shareholders 2017 annual general meeting AGM.
As a result of the outstanding performance of the business, Upon Marilyns retirement from the Board, Norman McLuskie, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 3.5 pence Senior Independent Director, will become Chairman of the per share.
This will result in a total dividend for 2016 of Remuneration Committee and Darren Pope will become 5.1 pence per ordinary share, an increase of 13 per cent Chairman of the Audit Committee during 2017, following compared to 2015.
Our objective is to continue to increase an orderly transition.
I would like to thank Marilyn for her dividend distributions over time as we grow our capital significant contribution to the Board over the last three years base and earnings.
and for her leadership of the Remuneration Committee.
Having been a long-term shareholder in Virgin Money, WL Colleagues and diversity Ross and Co. sold down its remaining holding in November.
Iwould like to thank them for their support over a number We have highly-engaged colleagues who are focused on ofyears, which was an important factor in the development delivering the needs of our customers and stakeholders.
ofVirgin Money into the business it is today.
The Board is clear that diversity helps to improve the quality of decision making and we are committed to increasing Governance the diversity of Independent Non-Executive Directors The Board has made a firm commitment to high standards on the Board.
of corporate governance and this is explained further in the Diversity at all levels of the business remains a priority as we corporate governance report on page 79. strive to ensure that those who work for our business reflect We believe that strong governance should prevail throughout the customers we serve, enabling us to provide a relevant, the business and we pay particular attention to supporting our practical and personal banking service.
In order to achieve EBO philosophy and culture, a vital ingredient in the long-term this we have set targets, broadened our use of technology success of the Group.
to support and enable flexible working and invested in the development of our people managers to ensure they value and EBO sits at the heart of our business model and strategy enable diversity.
and means delivering good value to our customers, treating colleagues well, making a positive contribution to society, A responsible business building positive relationships with our partners and We are dedicated to supporting the communities in which we delivering sustainable profits to our shareholders.
work to help them flourish, both socially and economically.
We have a strong and skilled management team, a wellOur commitment to being a socially responsible business, balanced, experienced Board and a strong commitment not just through our lending to customers, but also through to good governance, enabling us to continue to deliver our investment in the communities we serve, is epitomised sustainable success for all of our stakeholders.
by Virgin Money Giving and the Virgin Money Foundation, an independent charitable foundation.
Directors In December 2016, we announced the appointment of two Remuneration new Independent Non-Executive Directors to the Board, Eva The remuneration structure at Virgin Money is designed to Eisenschimmel and Darren Pope.
Eva brings to the Board an ensure rewards are aligned with the long-term success of the extensive background in strategic marketing across retail business and the interests of our shareholders.
Variable pay banking, financial services, digital and the fast moving for Senior Executives is delivered through a combination of consumer goods FMCG industry.
Darren has significant annual bonus and a Long Term Incentive Plan linked to future retail banking knowledge and experience of transformational business performance both with appropriate deferral.
These appointments form part of our medium-term 16 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Chairmans statement All deferred awards are subject to a further risk assessment Our position as a straightforward bank, unburdened by legacy before release, with clawback provisions applying thereafter.
conduct issues, benefiting from ongoing operational leverage, and generating returns in excess of our cost of equity, makes More information on how we ensure our approach to us unique in UK banking.
This differentiates us from the remuneration supports the business strategy can be found major banks and other mainstream challengers and will inour remuneration report on page 105. enable us to compete effectively throughout any economic Looking ahead uncertainties ahead.
Notwithstanding the uncertainty in the wake of the vote to Our plan to invest in new digital capability will provide leave the European Union, we believe the strength of our further differentiation and enhance our position as a leading franchise a robust capital position, strong asset quality and competitor in the UK retail banking market.
operating leverage combined with our highly-skilled and I would like to reiterate my thanks to colleagues across the engaged colleagues, give us the platform and flexibility to Group for their hard work, commitment and contribution adapt to possible changes in the operating environment.
toeverything we have achieved together in 2016.
Whilst we continue to see strong customer demand and no evidence of material changes in customer behaviour, the outcome of the EU referendum has created a period of economic uncertainty which is likely to continue until the UKs exit strategy is clear.
We are subject to inherent risks arising from macro-economic conditions in the UK, including inflation and rising unemployment, and the lower for longer interest rate environment.
Glen Moreno Our strategic planning addresses the new structural and Chairman regulatory changes which come into force over the next 27 February 2017 few years.
We will continue to work with our regulators as requirements evolve, and our position on CRD IV capital buffers and MREL is well understood and reflected in our strategic plans.
We are also mindful of the increased threat of cyber-crime.
Our resilience strategy was approved by the Board during the year and we will continually enhance our control environment to protect the business.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 17 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Finishers of the Virgin London Marathon 2016 Photo: Virgin Money London Marathon
