Strategic Report Chairmans Statement POS I T I O N E D F OR GR O W T H Results Driven by overall market conditions, reported revenues fell to 1.85bn, with pre-tax profits from continuing operations, before exceptional items and intangibles amortisation, of 170m: a decrease of 22%, principally as a result of the downturn in oil and gas markets.
On a constant currency basis, revenues were 11% lower year-on-year, with pre-tax profits falling 31%.
Reported profit after tax of 43m was up on the prior year, primarily driven by a reduction in exceptional costs.
In response to market challenges, the Group reduced its costs and in total, since the beginning of the oil Dear Shareholder, and gas downturn in 2014, has taken actions to deliver 2016 was a significant year for The Weir Group.
While doing this, Market conditions were challenging, as reflected it has also continued to invest in strategic priorities in the Groups overall financial performance.
More positively, there were also signs of stability and improvement in our core markets of mining Shareholder returns and oil and gas.
We are proposing a final dividend payment of 29.0p per share, making 44.0p for the full year.
The Group Weir has developed strong leadership positions in also introduced a scrip dividend in the year which these markets because of their attractive long-term was taken up by more than half of shareholders.
growth prospects, but the journey is not always smooth.
As a result of the cycles mining and oil and New leadership gas go through, our business needs to be flexible After ten years of service to The Weir Group, to quickly respond to challenges and opportunities.
first as Finance Director and then Chief Executive, Thats what Weir has done to stay competitive in Keith Cochrane stepped down from the Board at recent downturns and thats why we are confident the end of September.
Keith was instrumental in the the business will benefit as markets improve.
transformation of the Group in the last decade and he left a substantial legacy.
On behalf of everyone at the Weirs great strengths include its culture of innovation, Group, Id like to thank him for his exceptional service.
customer focus and community, which has developed I was also pleased to see that Keiths contribution to over the Groups 146 year history.
Our people are our industry was recognised in the Queens 2016 Birthday greatest source of competitive advantage and on behalf Honours, with his appointment as a Commander of of the Board I would like to thank all 13,600 colleagues the Order of the British Empire.
for their exceptional efforts throughout 2016.
As we look forward, the Group has reviewed its values to The Board takes succession planning extremely ensure they are clearly articulated for all our people seriously, and in preparing for Keiths departure and stakeholders and provide a framework for how we undertook a thorough process that included we conduct business.
You can see these on page 7. evaluating both internal and external candidates.
The overwhelming conclusion was that Finance Director Jon Stanton was the best person to lead the Group through its next chapter.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 6 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report HOW WE BEHAVE Everything we do as a company stems from our core values.
N W E S THINK DELIGHT OUR DELIVER DO THE EXPLORE SAFETY FIRST CUSTOMERS QUALITY RIGHT THING AND INNOVATE Jon has been with Weir for six years and in that period Throughout 2017 our focus will be on supporting Jon helped develop the Groups strategy alongside Keith.
as Chief Executive Officer as he executes our strategy.
His appointment demonstrates the strength and depth of the management team at Weir and you can read more about the Groups refreshed strategy under Jons leadership on page 8.
Sustainability Charles Berry No business lasts for as long as Weir without prioritising Chairman sustainability and it is central to our strategy.
In addition 22 February 2017 to building a sustainable Weir, we also look to make a positive impact to the communities we operate in.
This includes creating and sustaining jobs directly and indirectly and supporting suppliers across the value chain.
Our employees also give their time and expertise to raise funds and support charitable causes.
In 2016, the Group made charitable donations totalling 456,000, Corporate including helping to build a new health centre in rural Governance Zambia and aiding communities impacted by the wild-fires in Canada.
You can read more about how we comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code in Governance and Board changes the sections below: Following Jon Stantons appointment as CEO, John Heasley joined the Board in October as Chief Financial Officer.
John was previously Divisional Corporate Governance Report 58 Managing Director of the Flow Control Division and brings a valuable blend of operational and financial Our Board of Directors 60 experience to the Board.
Our Group Executive 62 Chief Operating Officer Dean Jenkins stepped down from the Board to spend more time with his family and Nomination Committee Report 75 be based in Australia.
Dean had a significant impact on the Group in a number of roles, including leading two of our three divisions.
I would like to thank him for his Audit Committee Report 79 passion, dedication and hard work and wish him and his family well.
Remuneration Committee Report 86 As part of our regular programme of visiting businesses Directors Report 110 to see the Companys operations directly, we spent time with our Oil & Gas operations in Texas, USA, and were again struck by the commitment and hard work of Weirs workforce particularly given the significant challenges faced by that industry in recent years.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 7
