CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Financial performance I am pleased to report a year of progress for the company, with record sales, profit and earnings per share before exceptional items.
The company was founded in 1979 and this is the 33rd year since incorporation in 1983.
The table below outlines some key aspects of our performance during that period.
Since our flotation in 1992, earnings per share before exceptional items have grown by an average of 14.4% per annum and free cash flow per share by an average of 16.2%.
Where appropriate, the earnings per share EPS, as disclosed in the 3.
The weighted average number of shares, EPS and free cash flow per statutory accounts, have been recalculated to take account of share splits, share include those shares held in trust for employee share schemes.
the issue of new shares and capitalisation issues.
Before 2005, the accounts were prepared under UKGAAP.
Free cash flow per share excludes dividends paid which were included All accounts from 2005 to date have been prepared under IFRS.
in the free cash flow calculations in the annual report and accounts for the years 19952000.
2 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Like-for-like sales increased by 3.4% 2015: 3.3%, Dividends and return of capital with total sales of 1,595.2m, an increase of 5.4% The board proposes, subject to shareholders 2015: 7.4%.
Like-for-like bar sales increased approval, to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per share by 3.3% 2015: 1.2%, food sales by 3.5% 2015: 8.0p per share, on 24 November 2016, to 2015: 7.3% and slot fruit machine sales decreased those shareholders on the register on 21 October by 2.2% 2015: decreased by 2.8%.
Like-for-like 2016, giving a total dividend for the year of 12.0p room sales at our hotels increased by 9.7% 2015: per share 2015: 12.0p per share.
The dividend is 24.2% although hotel sales form less than 1% of covered 3.6 times 2015: 3.1 times.
In view of the high level of capital expenditure and Operating profit before exceptional items the potential for advantageous investments, the decreased by 2.5% to 109.7m 2015: 112.5m.
board has decided to maintain the dividend at its The operating margin, before exceptional items, current level for the time being.
decreased to 6.9% 2015: 7.4%, as a result mainly of increases in staff costs, utilities and depreciation.
During the year, 5,694,546 shares representing 4.8% of the issued share capital were purchased Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by by the company for cancellation, at a total cost of 3.6% to 80.6m 2015: 77.8m, with a contribution 39.4m, including stamp duty, representing an from property profits of 5.3m 2015: 0.7m loss.
average cost per share of 692p.
Earnings per share including shares held in trust by the employee share scheme, before Over the last 10 years, my shareholding has exceptional items, were 48.3p 2015: 47.0p.
increased from 21.2% to 29.5%, as a result of the companys share buybacks.
The company is Net interest was covered 3.3 times by operating considering seeking a rule 9 whitewash, profit before exceptional items 2015: 3.3 times.
under the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, Total capital investment was 124.8m in the period allowing further buybacks.
2015: 173.3m, with 55.2m invested in new pubs Financing and extensions to existing pubs 2015: 106.3m.
As at 24 July 2016, the companys total net debt, In addition, there was expenditure of 33.5m on existing pubs and IT infrastructure 2015: 44.8m including bank borrowings and finance leases, and 36.1m on the acquisition of freeholds where but excluding derivatives, was 650.8m Wetherspoon was already a tenant 2015: 21.6m.
Factors which have led to the increase in debt are Exceptional items totalled 5.7m 2015: 12.6m.
investment in new pubs and extensions of 55.2m, The company incurred charges as a result of a investment in existing pubs of 33.5m, the number of pub disposals and closures.
There was acquisition of freeholds of 36.1m, share buybacks an 8.5m loss on disposal and an impairment of 53.6m including 14.2m in respect of shares charge of 3.9m for closed sites.
A further purchased at the end of the last financial year and impairment charge of 2.2m was incurred in respect dividend payments of 14.2m.
Year-end net-debt-toof underperforming pubs, redundant computer EBITDA was 3.47 times 2015: 3.37 times.
In addition there were 8.9m of exceptional tax credits, as a result of As at 24 July 2016, the company had 189.6m a reduction in the UK average corporation tax rate, 2015: 240.9m of unutilised banking facilities which has the effect of creating an exceptional tax and cash balances, with total facilities of 840.0m credit for future years.
The total cash effect of 2015: 840.0m.
The companys existing these exceptional items resulted in cash inflow interest-rate swap arrangements remain in place.
of 14.0m, which reflected the proceeds Corporation tax from the pub disposals.
The overall tax charge including deferred tax and Free cash flow, after capital investment of 33.5m excluding the one-off benefit of the tax rate change on existing pubs 2015: 44.8m, 6.9m in respect on profit before exceptional items is 29.4% 2015: of share purchases for employees 2015: 6.8m 26.1%.
This rise is due mainly to an increase in the and payments of tax and interest, decreased by deferred tax liability, resulting from accelerated 19.3m to 90.5m 2015: 109.8m.
The decrease capital allowances on fixed-asset expenditure.
resulted from a working capital outflow of 9.6m in the year compared with an inflow of 27.3m The living wage in 2015.
Free cash flow per share was 76.7p Wetherspoon increased the minimum hourly rate for 2015: 89.8p.
staff by 5% in October 2014 and by a further 8% at the end of July 2015.
Both decisions were taken 3 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT without the knowledge that the government was important there where people can less afford to about to announce a new minimum wage, pay the difference in prices between the now called the living wage.
on and off trade there are fewer pubs, coffee shops and restaurants, with a corresponding In addition, as Wetherspoons shareholders are reduction in employment and an increase aware, we pay about 40% of our profits in high-street dereliction.
33.0m in the year under review as a bonus or free shares, over 85% of which is paid to those The government is actively considering ideas for who work in our pubs.
generating jobs and economic activity, especially in areas outside the affluent south of the country The main economic issue is that pub wages are VAT equality, as the trade organisations BBPA and about 30% of sales.
Therefore a pint purchased in ALMR have demonstrated, is a very efficient and a pub at the national average price of about 3.50 sensible method of helping to achieve these will represent about 85 pence in respect of wages.
Tax equality also accords with the In contrast, a pint bought in a supermarket, at an underlying principle of fairness in applying taxes estimated price of 1, will represent only about to different businesses.
10 pence of supermarket wages, since their wage percentage and selling prices are both far lower Contribution to the economy than those of pubs.
By pushing up the cost of wages Wetherspoon is proud to pay its share of tax and, by a large factor, the government is inevitably in this respect, is a major contributor to the putting financial pressure on pubs, many of which economy.
In the year under review, we paid have already closed.
This financial pressure will be total taxes of 672.3m, an increase of 39.9m, felt most strongly in areas which are less affluent, compared with the previous year, which equates to since the price differential in those areas between approximately 42.1% of our sales.
pubs and supermarkets is far more important to customers.
It is certain that high streets in less This equates to an average payment per pub of affluent areas, which already suffer from serious 705,000 per annum or 13,600 per week.
problems of empty shops and dereliction, will suffer 2016 2015 m m further if pubs and other labour-intensive VAT 311.7 294.4 businesses close.
Alcohol duty 164.4 161.4 VAT equality PAYE and NIC 95.1 84.8 As we have previously stated, we believe that pubs 50.2 Business rates 48.7 are taxed excessively and that the government Corporation tax 19.9 15.3 would generate more revenue and jobs, if it were to Corporation tax credit 2.0 create tax equality among supermarkets, pubs and restaurants.
Supermarkets pay virtually no VAT in Machine duty 11.0 11.2 respect of food sales, whereas pubs pay 20%.
This Climate change levies 8.7 6.4 has enabled supermarkets to subsidise the price of Carbon tax 3.6 3.7 alcoholic drinks, widening the price gap between Fuel duty 2.1 2.9 the on and off trade, to the detriment of 2.2 Landfill tax 2.2 pubs and restaurants.
Stamp duty 2.6 1.8 Pubs have lost 50% of their beer sales to Premise and TV licence 0.8 1.6 supermarkets in the last 35 years Total tax 672.3 632.4 as VAT has climbed from 8% to 20%.
Tax per pub 000 705 673 Tax as % of sales 42.1% 41.8% It makes no sense for the government to treat supermarkets more leniently than pubs, since pubs Pre-exceptional profit after tax 56.9 57.5 generate far more jobs per pint or meal than Profit after tax as % of sales 3.6% 3.8% supermarkets do, as well as far higher levels of tax, Corporate governance as demonstrated above.
Pubs also make an In previous years, I have said that many aspects of important contribution to the social life of many current corporate governance advice, as laid out in communities and have better visibility and control of the Combined Code, are deeply flawed and have those who consume alcoholic drinks.
pointed out that compliant pub companies have often fared disastrously in comparison with nonThe campaign for tax equality with supermarkets compliant ones.
In particular, pub companies in has particular significance for MPs and residents of which the CEO became chairman and which had a less affluent areas, since the tax differential is more majority of executivesusually with previous 4 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT experience of the pub trade, avoided making of executives is not necessarily harmful, provided catastrophic errors to which compliant companies that non-executives are able to make seem prone.
It is often better if a chairman has previously It was also pointed out that setting precise targets been the chief executive of the company.
This for bonuses, in line with governance advice, had encourages chief executives, who may wish to also often backfired, encouraging companies to take become a chairman in future, to take a long-term reckless decisions, in order to enhance earnings.
view, avoiding problems of profit-maximisation Having presented our views in annual reports, press policies in the years running up to the departure articles and meetings with shareholders, without any of a chief executive.
significant dissent, Wetherspoon believes that it has A maximum tenure of nine years for noncomplied with the comply or explain provisions of executive directors is not advisable, since the Code and strongly believes that shareholders inexperienced boards, unfamiliar with the effects of should regard with scepticism allegations of nonthe last recession on their companies, are likely to compliance from corporate governance institutions reduce financial stability.
A logical upshot of the views An excessive focus on achieving financial or other expressed in this section is that shareholders and targets for executives can be counter-productive.
other interested parties should be extremely wary Theres no evidence that the type of targets of companies which comply strictly with current preferred by corporate governance guidelines guidelines, and are better protected in companies actually works and there is considerable evidence like Wetherspoon, which modify their governance that attempting to reach ambitious financial targets practices along the lines we suggest.
As indicated above, it is far more important for I believe that the following propositions directors to take account of the views of employees represent the views of sensible shareholders: and customers than of the views of institutional shareholders.
Shareholders should be listened to The Code itself is faulty, since it places excessive with respect, but caution should be exercised in emphasis on meetings between directors and implementing the views of short-term shareholders.
shareholders and places almost no emphasis on It should also be understood that modern directors taking account of the views of customers institutional shareholders may have a serious and employees which are far more important, in conflict of interest, as they are often concerned with practice, to the future well-being of any company.
their own quarterly portfolio performance, whereas For example, in the UK Corporate Governance corporate health often requires objectives which lie Code September 2014, there are 64 references to five, 10 or 20 years in the future.
shareholders, but only three to employees and none to customers this emphasis is clearly mistaken.
Further progress The average institutional shareholder turns over As in previous years, the company has tried to his portfolio twice annually, so it is advisable for improve as many areas of the business as possible.
directors to be wary of the often perverse views of For example, we have 836 pubs rated on the Food Mr Market in the words of Benjamin Graham, Standards Agencys website.
The average score is certainly in respect of very short-term shareholders.
4.89, with 91.7% of the pubs achieving a top rating A major indictment of the governance industry of five stars and 6.3% receiving four stars.
We is that modern annual reports are far too long and believe this to be the highest average rating for any often unreadable.
They are full of semiliterate substantial pub company.
In the separate Scottish business jargon, including accounting jargon, scheme, which records either a pass or a fail, and are cluttered with badly written and all of our 66 pubs have passed.
It would be very helpful for companies, We are pleased to report that The Windmill in shareholders and the public, if the limitations of Stansted Airport, was named the best airport pub in corporate governance systems were explicitly the world at the 2016 FAB International Food and recognised.
Common sense, management skills Beverage Excellence awards during the annual and business savvy are more important to Airport Food and Beverage conference.
Two other Wetherspoon pubs, at Birmingham commercial success than board structures.
All of the major banks and many supermarket and Airport and Liverpool Lime Street station, were pub companies have suffered colossal business highly commended by the same organisation.
and financial problems, in spite of, or perhaps because of, their adherence to inadvisable We continue to source our traditional ales from a governance guidelines.
large number of microbreweries of varying sizes and There should be an approximately equal balance believe that we are the biggest purchaser of between executives and non-executives.
A majority microbrewery beer in the UK.
We continue to run 5 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT the worlds biggest real-ale festival, twice a year, The claim related to properties in Portsmouth, and have added a cider festival in recent times, Leytonstone and Newbury.
The Portsmouth featuring a wide variety of suppliers from the UK, property was involved in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg Europe and elsewhere in the world.
We paid 33.0m in respect of bonuses and free In that case, Mr Justice Peter Smith found that Van shares to employees in the year, a slight increase fide Berg, but not Mr Lyons who was not a party to compared with the previous year, of which 97.9% the case, fraudulently diverted the freehold from was paid to staff below board level and 85.6% Wetherspoon to Moorstown Properties Limited, a was paid to staff working in our pubs.
company owned by Simon Conway.
Moorstown leased the premises to Wetherspoon.
Wetherspoon The company has been recognised as a is still a leaseholder of this property a pub called Top Employer UK 2016, for the 13th consecutive The Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
The Top Employers institute said Our comprehensive independent research revealed The properties in Leytonstone and Newbury that J D Wetherspoon provides exceptional the other properties in the case against Mr Lyons employee conditions, nurtures and develops talent were not pleaded in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg case.
throughout all levels of the organisation and has Leytonstone was leased to Wetherspoon and trades demonstrated its leadership status in the today as The Walnut Tree public house.
Newbury HR environment, always striving to optimise was leased to Pelican plc and became Caf Rouge.
its employment practices and to develop its employees.
As we have also reported, the company agreed to settle its final claim in this series of cases and In the field of charity, thanks to the generosity and accepted 400,000 from property investor work of our dedicated customers, pub and headJason Harris, formerly of First London and now of office teams, we continue to raise record amounts of First Urban Group.
Wetherspoon alleged that Harris money for CLIC Sargent, supporting young cancer was an accessory to frauds committed by patients and their families.
In the last year, we Van fide Berg.
Harris contested the claim and has raised approximately 1.6m, bringing the total not admitted liability.
raised to over 12.6m more than any other corporate partner has raised for this charity.
Before the conclusion of the above cases, Wetherspoon also agreed on a settlement with Property Paul Ferrari of London estate agent The company opened 16 pubs during the year, Ferrari Dewe & Co, in respect of properties referred with 41 sold or closed, resulting in a trading estate to as the Ferrari Five by Mr Justice Peter Smith.
of 926 pubs at the financial year end.
Further shareholder information about these cases The average development cost for a new pub is available in a short article which I wrote for the excluding the cost of freeholds was 2.5m, trade publication Propel, which is disclosed later in compared with 2.1m a year ago: two of the pubs my chairmans statement appendix 2. included hotel accommodation, which contributed to Current trading and outlook the increased costs.
The full-year depreciation charge was 72.2m 2015: 66.7m.
We currently In the run up to, and the aftermath of, the recent intend to open about 1520 pubs in the year referendum, the overwhelming majority of FTSE 100 ending July 2017. companies, the employers organisation CBI, the IMF, the OECD, the Treasury, the leaders of all the Property litigation main political parties and almost all representatives As previously reported, Wetherspoon agreed on of British universities forecast trouble, often in lurid an out-of-court settlement with developer terms, for the economy, in the event of the Leave Anthony Lyons, formerly of property leisure agent vote.
For example, claims were made by David Davis Coffer Lyons, in 2013 and received Cameron and George Osborne that family income approximately 1.25m from Mr Lyons.
would eventually be reduced by 4,000 per annum, that mortgage interest rates would increase and that The payment relates to litigation in which house prices would fall claims which were Wetherspoon claimed that Mr Lyons had been an supported, in terms, by Mark Carney of the accessory to frauds committed by Wetherspoons Bank of England.
former retained agent Van fide Berg and its directors Christian Braun, George Aldridge and Richard City voices such as PwC and Goldman Sachs, Harvey.
Mr Lyons denied the claim and the and the great preponderance of banks and other litigation was contested.
institutions, also leant weight to this negative view.
6 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT For example, Paul Johnson of the Institute of Fiscal day.
Indeed, we have traded without interruption Studies The Times 28 June stated that there was with this company for 37 years.
In contrast, deals near-unanimity among economists in favour of with some suppliers have been rapidly embodied in Remain.
Rather amazingly, he added: I take as formal contracts.
Over the years, we have agreed given that we economists were collectively right on thousands of trade deals with big and small about the bad economic consequences of leaving suppliers: some are formal contracts, some are the EU.
Johnson then cites this consensus as hand-shakes, some are short term, but many last evidence for the economic truth of the Remain case.
The commercial reality is that you can This is a strange argument to advance since lead the horse to water, but you cant make it drink.
consensus forecasts from economists, who generally failed to forecast the last recession or the This is especially true of the EU an organisation catastrophic flaws of the euro, are almost always of Byzantine complexity, run by five unelected delusional.
As Warren Buffett has said, forecasts tell presidents, with input from numerous other parts of you a lot about the forecaster, but not about the the many-headed Hydra.
It has struggled to reach future.
Economic forecasts from over-confident trade deals with most of the worlds major pundits such as Mr Johnson are an important economies, for example, the USA, China and India.
component of Benjamin Grahams Mr Market, The UK is an enormous trading partner of the USA, the mythical punter who gets everything wrong.
generating a substantial surplus for us, in spite of the absence of a deal and it would be unwise to Just as the combined intellectual weight of the good clamour after a specific formal agreement to replace and great could not see through the flaws in the existing arrangements in these circumstances the euro, they have, with honourable exceptions, been back of the queue is a good place to be.
Former unable to see that the principle flaw of the EU an Chancellor Nigel Lawson Financial Times, 3 4 absence of democracy will almost certainly lead to September and many others advocate leaving the further economic and political chaos, and to more EU and trading afterwards with it on the basis of dire consequences for those who are subject to EU World Trade Organisation rules.
If the EU is keen decisions.
The overwhelming economic evidence is for a trade deal, we should cooperate, but that successful countries are democracies unelected apparatchiks like President Juncker Mr Johnson and like-minded economists really do cant be controlled which is one of the main need to stick that point in their pipes and smoke it.
reasons we voted to leave.
For all their faults, democracies produce the greatest level of prosperity and freedom.
As in the Common sense, therefore, suggests that the worst case of the euro, the general public has a much approach for the UK is to insist on the necessity of a better perception about this overriding factor deal we dont need one and the fact that EU than the consensus of intellectual opinion.
countries sell us twice as much as we sell them I have written an article on this general subject creates a hugely powerful negotiating position.
If for Wetherspoon News, which is attached WTO tariffs apply, the UK will receive twice as much at the end of this statement appendix 1. as it pays.
Boris Johnson, David Davis and Liam Fox will achieve far more for the UK by copying Now that the gloomy economic forecasts for the Francis Drake and playing bowls in Plymouth, rather immediate aftermath of the referendum have been than hankering after an EU agreement, although proven to be false, Scare Story 2 is that failure to time spent in improving arrangements with agree on trade deal with the EU will have Singapore, New Zealand and India, for example, devastating consequences.
This was articulated by may be well spent.
fund manager Nicola Horlick this week, who told Radio 4 listeners that leaving the Single Market Since the year end, Wetherspoons sales have would relegate the UK from the 5th-biggest continued to be encouraging and increased by economy in the world to the 8th or 9th.
Despite this positive start, it remains to be Wetherspoons experience indicates that reaching seen whether this will continue over the remainder formal trade deals with reluctant counterparties is of the year, given the strong like-for-like sales impossible and it is unwise to try.
in the last financial year and what remains a very low-inflation environment.
For example, I personally agreed on terms with one of our biggest suppliers, a major PLC, for a new We will provide updates as we progress through seven-year contract about 12 years ago.
Although the year, but we currently anticipate a slightly the deal was put in the hands of lawyers, it was improved trading outcome for the current never signed or ratified during this time, although financial year, compared with our expectations we traded successfully for the anticipated duration.
We subsequently agreed on a deal for a further seven years and that has not been signed to this 7 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Appendix 1 Wetherspoon News article - Superiority Similar assumptions of moral and intellectual Autumn 2016 superiority have been rife in the recent referendum campaign led politically on the Remain side by How democracy has set us free David Cameron Eton and Oxford and George Osborne St Pauls and Oxford, supported by Nick Brexit decision was not a protest vote it Clegg Westminster School and Oxford, Michael was a grassroots rejection of groupthink and an Heseltine Shrewsbury School and Oxford, Tony Blair elites zeal for unreal objects Fettes College and Oxford, Ed Milliband Haverstock Comprehensive and Oxford, Ed Balls Nottingham Opponents of the euro, years ago, were often High School and Oxford and many others with a patronised as little Englanders by those who similar background.
considered themselves to be morally and intellectually superior.
In fact, the main advocates of the currency The battle lost, there appears to be an orchestrated were a middle-aged, male Oxbridge elite.
chorus from the same elite, alleging that Leave won by misleading the public and that the referendum result So, indeed, were some of the best euro opponents, should be overturned by parliament or a second but they were the exceptions and only a distinguished referendum commissioned.
minority managed to shake off their mental chains for example Tony Benn, Michael Howard and For example, Peter Mandelson Hendon County Simon Wolfson.
Grammar and Oxford declared FT, 2 7 16 that he had been an architect of the Remain campaign and The Financial Times, then, led the pro-euro chorus for that Leave arguments were dishonest.
the press, with the editor Richard Lambert Fettes College and Oxford University censoring anti-euro Former MP Tam Dalyell Eton and Oxford and former arguments a strange stance for a supposedly MEP Jack Stewart-Clark Eton and Oxford in a intellectual publication.
prominent letter 5 7 16 to the pro-Remain Times, said that MPs and peers should unite to block Brexit and Lambert, in a subsequent mea culpa, analysed the that Leave conducted the most dishonest political reasons for establishment support for the disastrous campaign this country has ever seen.
euro, from the heads of major organisations like the CBI, as well as most major businesses, correctly Democratic concluding that it was due to groupthink.
The theme that the referendum was won by lies from Leave has been repeated on countless occasions by Fanaticism the panjandrums of Remain, in a brazen effort to The FT journalist Gillian Tett North London Collegiate undermine the democratic outcome.
School and Cambridge University, writing some years later 28 9 12, was one of the few euro supporters to Dalyell and Stewart-Clark gave no evidence for their analyse the psychological factors behind euro allegation of dishonesty, but it has been asserted fanaticism.
She concluded that the euro was a elsewhere that Leave campaigners misleadingly stated fantastic object which was unreal, but immensely that the UK would save 350 million a week, when the attractive and that political idealism had subsumed actual cash saving was only half that amount.
It seems unlikely that many people can have been Tett pointed out that her father, who rejected the euro misled in this way, since there was a full public debate argument, worked in manufacturing and was outside about the significance of the gross amount of 350 the intellectual echo chamber of the eurozone elite, million and the relevance and endurance of the rebates and was never infected by the hype.
with the information available on the BBC website, as well as on the websites of many national and Tett understood the paradox which causes intellectual local newspapers.
elites to pursue irrational causes to the edge of oblivion.
Neither reason nor evidence has much effect For example, on BBCs Question Time, two months on the afflicted and that is why democracy works.
before the referendum, the compere, panel and studio audience patently understood the relevance The non-chattering classes dont share this love of of the statistics.
fantastic objects and consigned the euro to the dustbin of history for the British, at least.
Europhile Emily Fears Sheffield, David Camerons sister-in-law, writing in the The second allegation from elite Remainers is that Spectator 30 7 16, consoled Remainers after the immigration fears were exaggerated and that Turkey referendum by saying it is worth remembering that and other countries which had been offered an Eurosceptics kept us out of the single currency.
accelerated path to the EU club would be unlikely Indeed so, Emily.
to join in the near future, and it would be subject to a veto anyway.
8 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This allegation cuts no ice, since Cameron himself The British public could see that the EU is becoming promised to be the strongest possible advocate increasingly undemocratic, with its five unelected for Turkey joining the EU and he promised also to presidents, its unelected commissioners, its token pave the road from Ankara to Brussels.
parliament and its court, whose judgements cannot be democratically overturned by national parliaments.
The public simply didnt believe Camerons evasive referendum stance that Turkey would not join before Contrary to perceived opinion, many who voted Leave, 3000 or that he and the government would be in a including me, are also in favour of continued free position to veto anything, after making such fulsome movement of labour in the UK for citizens of countries promises to our Turkish friends and allies.
which are currently in the EU, but believe that all other countries of the world should be subject to a points Lies system, as operated in Australia, New Zealand and the There is no doubt that the opinion of the electorate, USA, for example.
reflected in the referendum result, was that a greater level of lies and exaggeration was evident in the The puzzle for amateur philosophers is why the Remain campaign.
highly educated graduates of our universities, the great and the good of the Times, the Financial As Mandelsons argument reveals, the Remain Times, the CBI and our biggest companies board campaigners tactics were to concentrate on the rooms were so much in favour of an undemocratic economic issue and to encourage organisations like system which has brought Greece, Portugal, Spain and the CBI, the IMF, the OECD and the boards of major now Italy to their knees.
companies to support their cause.
You would bet your bottom dollar that the highly These arguments included an allegation from the head educated would be the first to understand that of the IMF that the economic consequences of Brexit democracy is essential for the future of humanity.
would be bad to very, very bad, a prediction from Cameron of an increased risk of war and genocide, a Groupthink threat from Osborne that interest rates would go up in However, through some strange perversion of thought the referendum aftermath theyve gone down and a processes, that does not appear to be the case.
threat of an emergency budget to increase taxes and reduce public expenditure.
The real threat to humanity comes from the elites groupthink and its zeal for the unreal, but The Bank of Englands Mark Carney also did his best immensely attractive.
to frighten the public with the possibility of higher interest rates and a recession, while FTSE 100 Come on, you Remainers, stop moaning about the directors lined up to threaten reduced investments in result.
And stop patronising the electorate by calling the the referendum aftermath most of these threats have result a protest vote we perfectly understood the now been retracted.
If a second referendum were to take place, it seems Lets hear your explanations about why you believe the certain that the Leave side would win with a far bigger rest of us will be better off with less democracy.
Were majority, since the economic case put forward by all ears, guys.
What do you say on this key issue?
the Remain side has been shown to be deceitful and unfounded.
As indicated above, interest rates have gone down not Tim Martin is founder and chairman of up, foreign companies are lining up to invest in the UK, J D Wetherspoon contradicting the warnings from the Remain side, the German equivalent of the CBI has urged a free trade deal for the UK and the world and her husband are anxious to agree on trade deals with us.
Prosperity Speaking for myself, the main argument in favour of leaving the EU relates to democracy.
Democracy is the key provider of prosperity and freedom in the world, as countries as diverse as Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Japan and Singapore among many others have demonstrated.
9 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Appendix 2 - Newspaper article Profits from the purchasing companies were usually Newspaper article channelled to a Jersey holding company called The newspaper article below first appeared in the Gecko and money was then transferred as loans or pub trade publication Propel and relates to the fees to companies controlled by VDB directors.
section on property litigation referred to above: In my opinion, the Lyons case is the most interesting for the property market and for Wed 22nd May 2013 Propel Opinion Extra prospective tenants and purchasers.
Lyons stated in his defence that he was acting in his capacity as an Lessons in the property market by Tim Martin employee and in accordance with his duties to Davis and Coffer now Davis Coffer Lyons.
J D Wetherspoon has always been a buyer of freeholds.
Our second, third and fourth pubs were The Lyons case concerned properties in freehold and, by the time of our 1992 flotation, Portsmouth, Leytonstone and Newbury, two of 20 of our 44 pubs were freehold.
which became JDW pubs, with the third becoming a Caf Rouge.
The Portsmouth property belonged to I negotiated our first 20 or so pubs myself, dealing British Gas and Justice Smith found that VDB bid directly with the owners agents, before employing for the freehold, unbeknown to JDW, and, once the Christian Braun, of Van fide Berg & Co VDB, bid was accepted, agreed with Lyons for JDW to in about 1990.
Little did I realise that Braun was a take a lease and for the freehold to be acquired by double agent or mole, who was to burrow deep into Moorstown Properties, owned by a friend, and our organisation, undermining the very property subsequently a colleague, of Lyons Simon foundations that underpin any retailer.
No findings were made against Lyons, or indeed Conway, in the VDB case, and neither Following a tip-off in 2005, we terminated VDBs person was a party to the case.
contract and undertook a review of all our 600 or so property transactions, using a team of up to a Portsmouth was subsequently sold by Moorstown dozen legal and paralegal staff.
We discovered to Scottish American Investment Company, a few about 50 back-to-back transactions in which months later, with the benefit of a lease to JDW for freeholds, which were available to buy, had been a substantial profit.
Illustrating the Byzantine diverted by VDB to third parties, who had acquired complexity of the transactions, Lyons defence them at the same time as JDW had taken a lease stated that shares in Moorstown were the rent being set at a level which created an transferred, before the sale was completed, immediate uplift in the value of the reversion.
to Northcreek which, Companies House shows, was owned by Roger Myers, then chairman of Proceedings were issued against VDB and its Caf Rouge owner Pelican, and his family.
directors, Braun, George Aldridge and Richard Harvey, in respect of about a dozen of these The Newbury property was acquired by transactions.
In a 136-page judgment, Riverside Stores, a company connected to Conway, Mr Justice Peter Smith found that VDB had and was leased at around the same time to Caf fraudulently diverted properties to number of Rouge.
Newbury was sold shortly after completion for a substantial profit.
third parties, but he made no findings against the third parties themselves.
JDW did not allege, and is not alleging, that the Following Mr Justice Smiths judgment, JDW issued Portsmouth and Newbury transactions are proceedings against several third parties: Paul connected and is not alleging that Davis Coffer Ferrari of Brauns former employer Ferrari Dewe & Lyons, Myers or Conway are dishonest, but it is a Co: Anthony Lyons, formerly of Davis Coffer Lyons matter of public importance, as well as of and Jason Harris, formerly of First London.
importance to JDW and its shareholders, for there to be an explanation as to the circumstances in Liability was denied by all.
The cases were which Moorstown, a company which clearly contested and were settled out of court.
JDW benefited from the Portsmouth fraud by VDB, received substantial payments in all three cases.
ended up belonging to the family of Myers.
A number of the pleaded properties in the VDB A key legal and ethical question for the property case, referred to by the judge as the Ferrari Five, market that emerges from these cases concerns involved Jersey companies with nominee owners the obligations of estate agents and investors, in that were connected to Ferrari.
Each of the Jersey circumstances in which a freehold property is first companies had a different name and care was offered to a friend or colleague of an agent, who taken to use different lawyers and nominees.
agrees to acquire it, and the property is then 10 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT offered by the agent to a company like Wetherspoon on a back-to-back basis.
What are the obligations of the introducing agent?
In broad terms, the third parties in the Wetherspoon litigation argued that they owed no duties or obligations to Wetherspoon and were not, therefore, liable to us.
The great risk that all agents and investors run, in these circumstances, is if the retained agent, VDB in this instance, is itself be dishonest.
If so, this may open up the possibility of a claim by an aggrieved end user, such as Wetherspoon, that the introducing agent participated in the dishonesty of the retained agent.
JDW has lost many tens of millions of pounds as a result of the VDB frauds.
Rent reviews and yield compression have exacerbated the damage over the years.
Our experience teaches a number of lessons.
First, buyers and tenants should ask their agents to confirm in writing that they have no direct or indirect interest in any property they are acquiring and should ask their lawyers to take particular interest if a freehold is changing hands at the same time as they are acquiring a lease, or indeed the freehold.
Professionals and investors should also get confirmation in writing from the end user in back-to-back deals that they have consented to the transaction.
Take the retained agents word for it at your peril.
Tim Martin is founder and chairman of J D Wetherspoon Tim Martin Chairman 8 September 2016 11 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
