02 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans statement A motivated team drivingimprovements Gareth Davis Shareholder returns Chairman The Board has approved a full-year dividend of 12.5p per share.
Although EPS declined for the reasons described above, the Board believes the Groups continued strong cash generation and our confidence in delivery of strategic priorities and future growth prospects warrant maintaining the current dividend level at this time.
Our target balance sheet is 1-2x net debt 4 to EBITDA.
During the year, we returned 95m to shareholders and invested 104m in the NYX OpenBet and Grand Parade transactions to improve our technology capability.
This left us with net debt to 4 EBITDA for covenant purposes of 1.8x at the year-end.
Australian business deliver top-line growth Performance overview Corporate activities following extensive work to improve the 2016 was a challenging year for William Hill, product, user experience and marketing.
During the year, we also assessed certain with performance below what the Board In the US, we continue to expand, adding large-scale M&A opportunities.
We believe expected at the start of the year.
However, new sports books in Nevada, launching a shareholder value can be realised from we have made a number of strategic and new mobile app and signing an agreement sector consolidation, not least from cost leadership changes to address this and that takes us into Iowa.
However, opportunities should ultimately delivered a full-year profit within also present significant industrial logic to Onlines performance was weaker than the range of our revised expectations.
In March, we highlighted that be compelling.
To summarise the results, Group net more customers than expected were 1 The Board declined Rank and 888s revenue and profit before interest and using the new time-out and automatic approach in July first and foremost tax were both up 1%.
However, adjusted self-exclusion measures: we were required 2 because of the lack of strategic progress operating profit, which gives a clearer to add these to our portfolio of responsible it offered: the combined group would picture of underlying performance, declined gambling measures from November 2015. have remained as exposed to the UK and 10% in 2016 to 261.5m 2015: 291.4m and 3 land-based businesses as William Hill alone While this regulatory requirement was basic, adjusted earnings per share EPS outside our control, Online was also does today.
affected by weaker performance around The potential combination with Amaya was Although we benefited in both wagering product and marketing.
Specifically, strategically more compelling but, following and margin terms from the EURO 2016 new customers acquired in 2015 consultation with a number of our major football tournament, other sporting results were generating less revenue than shareholders, we decided not to pursue this were poor, including Cheltenham in March expected, indicating our marketing was opportunity.
We, like them, recognise that and significant losses in football in the final not as efficient as planned, and the there is near-term value to be generated weeks of the year.
competitiveness of our sports betting and from improving our own performance and gaming products had diminished while we Excluding the sporting results, Retail, this remains our priority.
focused on delivering our important frontAustralia and the US all performed well.
end platform and undertook less product It is encouraging to see the Australian Corporate governance update development than usual.
business deliver top-line growth following extensive work to improve the product, To support the Groups digital and We changed Onlines leadership early in the user experience and marketing.
international expansion strategy, we have year and were pleased to appoint Crispin made some key Board changes.
In July Nieboer as Managing Director of Online.
Retail progressed our omni-channel 2016, James Henderson stood down as He has successfully refocused the team, strategy by rolling out 2,000 proprietary CEO after two years in the role.
I would like who have worked incredibly hard to turn self-service betting terminals SSBTs to record the Boards thanks to him for his around performance.
One of their major and also successfully implemented its contribution over more than 30 years with achievements of the year was a redesign modernisation programme.
of the Sportsbook app, delivered in time the management and staffing model for the start of EURO 2016.
This gave us a throughout the business to increase Philip Bowcock took over as Interim CEO market-leading sports betting offering once customer focus and will also help mitigate in July 2016 and continues to perform again and we saw early signs of improved the cost of National Living Wage increases excellently in leading the business.
financial performance in the second half as in future years.
It is encouraging to see the a result.
03 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements We are also pleased to welcome John OReilly, Robin Terrell and, from April 2017, Performance highlights Mark Brooker as Non-executive Directors, who together bring additional digital, multichannel and gambling industry experience 1 Net revenue to the Board.
Outlook 1.6bn Looking ahead, we remain focused on continuing to improve Onlines 1% performance.
We are progressing our omnichannel plans, bringing Onlines extensive product to Retails customers and creating a more consistent cross-channel Profit before Adjusted experience for customers.
Australia is now 2 interest and tax operating profit growing well and we continue to build our digital and physical footprint in the US ahead of possible regulatory change.
225.6m 261.5m In 2017, we are implementing a transformation programme that is 1% -10% expected to deliver at least 40m of efficiency savings.
Given our confidence in the business, we will be reinvesting these savings in marketing, product development Basic earnings Basic, adjusted and enhanced technology systems to 3 per share earnings per share further support growth.
Longer term, our strategy is to grow our digital and international revenues.
With a more diverse revenue mix, we can better 18.9p 22.3p manage the volatility inherent in our -13% -10% business from both sporting results and regulatory change.
At the same time, the strong cash flows from our UK Retail business support our investments in Dividend per share technology and marketing as well as good returns to shareholders.
The Board believes William Hill continues to be very well-placed to benefit from the 12.5p structural growth of online gambling in the UK and internationally.
0% This confidence is underpinned by our core strengths: we have a sports betting capability that is hard to match or replicate: our 83-year-old brand is widely recognised and trusted by customers: and we have built proprietary technologies that enable 1 Net revenue is an industry term equivalent to revenue as defined in the notes to the financial us to give our customers a differentiated statements.
2 and therefore highly competitive Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before interest and tax, excluding exceptional items and other defined adjustments.
We previously referred to this metric as Operating profit and have experience.
updated its naming to clarify that it is an adjusted measure.
Further detail on adjusted measures is provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 3 Adjusted EPS is calculated using adjusted profit after tax and is used for remuneration purposes thank our William Hill colleagues for their see page 68 onwards and in evaluating performance for dividend policy purposes.
Further detail commitment to the business through a on adjusted measures is provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
The calculation of EPS challenging year, and for their continuing measures is shown in note 11 to the financial statements.
4 Net debt for covenant purposes and EBITDA for covenant purposes are non-statutory measures high standards of service to our customers.
used to assess compliance with our debt covenants.
These are explained further in note 23 to the Gareth Davis financial statements.
