WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 7 report governance statements information Chairmans statement My sincere thanks extend to our 14,000 employees across our stores, distribution centres and head offices.
Henry Staunton Chairman I am delighted to report another year of good Corporate governance performance to 31 August 2016.
We have seen Corporate governance remains an important area of focus for the Board and underpins the sustainability of our business and the a good sales performance across both Travel achievement of our strategy.
A more detailed explanation of our and High Street, driven by our key initiatives approach to corporate governance can be found in our Corporate and growth in passenger numbers in Travel, governance report on pages 30 to 57. and a strong Christmas trading period in High Corporate responsibility Street.
In addition, we have made good progress Our corporate responsibility CR programme continues to overseas and have secured a further 32 units address our key environmental and social impacts, with initiatives during the year.
ranging from sustainable forestry to charitable giving and promoting literacy.
The Group has grown its profit again with Group This year, we have also begun the implementation of a new profit before tax increasing by eight per cent initiative which looks specifically at supporting our colleagues mental wellbeing.
WHSmith has made a commitment to have the to131m.
same number of mental health first aiders as physical health first aiders within the next year.
We will also be working to ensure that The Group remains highly cash generative our 1,100 line managers all receive mental health first aid training, delivering a free cash flow of 108m.
with WHSmith being one of the first retailers to develop such an extensive mental health programme.
Further information on all aspects of our CR programmes can be found on pages 25 to 28.
We remain focused on profitable growth, cash generation and creating value for shareholders, People while investing for future growth.
My sincere thanks extend to our 14,000 employees across our stores, distribution centres and head offices.
Without their ongoing loyalty and support we could not have achieved these results.
Outlook As we approach 2017, our 225th year of trading as WHSmith, we are confident that the Group is well positioned for the year ahead.
While there is some uncertainty in the economic environment, we remain focused on the distinct strategies of each of our businesses in order to maximise the contribution from both and best deliver value for shareholders.
Henry Staunton Chairman 1 Free cash flow is cash generated from operating activities adjusted for capital expenditure, 13 October 2016 repayments to HMRC see Notes to the financial statements Note 9, page 81, pension funding and net interest paid.
See Group cash flow statement on page 67 and Notes to the financial statements Note 22, Cash generated from operating activities on page 89.
