Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Chairmans statement doubted that our team members and We are pleased to report customers would achieve the target set and another good set of results, I am immensely proud to say that, having which once again demonstrate raised 2 million in the last financial year, the total raised already stands at over 6 million.
the strength of our Premier Inn and Costa brands.
We recognise that we also touch communities beyond the UK, not least the coffeegrowing Consistent strategy communities from which Costa sources In my first statement as Whitbreads its coffee, and the Costa Foundation does Chairman last year, I said that we had no fantastic work in funding school projects plans to change our winning formula and to provide an education to children in such Richard Baker this remains true today.
In the last financial year Chairman Alison Brittain succeeded Andy Harrison, who over 2 million was raised for the Costa led Whitbread for five extremely successful Foundation.
To date 61 school projects years, as Chief Executive.
Alison has had have been completed, providing access the benefit of an in depth induction into the to education to thousands of children.
business and, as you will see in her report on pages 8 to 10, has had the opportunity People, whether team members, customers, to review our strategy.
suppliers or investors expect companies to be wellrun and to operate with a social The fundamentals The fundamentals of our strategy, which is conscience.
I believe that we live up to that to provide sustainable longterm value for challenge and further information on how of our strategy our shareholders by growing our successful Whitbread acts as a force for good can are unchanged.
Premier Inn and Costa brands, whilst be found in an expanded Good Together delivering a good return on capital, are section on pages 40 to 45. unchanged.
However, as you would expect, Alison has brought some fresh thinking to Investing in our Winning Teams the Board and this will enable us to build At Whitbread, there are no barriers to entry on our plans.
I also said this time last year, and no limits to ambition!
In the last financial that as great businesses grow they must also year, we provided 565 team members with improve.
We have been extremely successful the opportunity to manage one of our hotels, at building scale in recent years and, whilst restaurants or coffee shops.
this remains a priority, we are as focused on getting better, as we are on getting bigger.
A high proportion of the people who join Whitbread are young people aged between Our Customer Heartbeat schematic, which 16 and 24, many of whom are taking the first forms the basis of our business model, is steps in a career in the hospitality industry.
It is about We have a responsibility to invest in these providing team members with great career young people, both for their own benefit, by development opportunities, making everyday helping them to develop successful careers, experiences special for our customers and and also in order to ensure that we have growing our business in a profitable and enough high quality people to give our sustainable way.
customers the great experiences that they expect in our hotels, restaurants and coffee Force for good shops.
As we continue to grow, this is In this modern age, great employers must have particularly important.
The WISE programme motives beyond profit and it is important that Whitbread Investing in Skills and we achieve our financial aims whilst being a real Employment, which is now active across force for good in the communities in which we both Costa and our Hotels & Restaurants operate.
I recently had the privilege of visiting business, educates, engages and employs Great Ormond Street Childrens Hospital, where young people and supports them as they a new Premier Inn Clinical Building is being embark on their careers.
More information constructed, only a mile or so from our on this and other initiatives can be found muchloved former brewery in Chiswell Street.
Our colleagues in Hotels & Restaurants committed to raising 7.5 million for this I would like to thank all of the Whitbread project, with the Company guaranteeing this team, both in the UK and overseas, for their amount in the event that funds raised were to continued dedication to making everyday fall short of this figure.
However, I never experiences special for our customers.
Whitbread Chairmans Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 statement 6 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 senior roles at Santander UK PLC and New and updated customer propositions Barclays PLC.
Alison has vast experience in I said earlier that it was important that we successfully managing multisite operations dont simply strive to get bigger, but that with leading brands, has proven experience we also strive to get better.
One of the ways in delivering digital online and mobile we are living up to this is through a range technology, business to business marketing, of innovations, many of which you will read and managing significant property portfolios.
more about later in this report.
On 1 March 2016 we welcomed Chris Kennedy P eople, whether team In our hotels business, the hub by Premier to the Board as an independent nonexecutive Inn brand is now starting to grow, with two members, customers, director.
Chris, a qualified accountant and a new hotels opening in London last year and suppliers or investors very experienced financial executive, is Chief the first one in Edinburgh.
In Restaurants, expect companies to Financial Officer of ARM Holdings plc, which he we recently opened the new Beefeater be wellrun and to joined in September 2015.
Prior to that he was Bar Block in Birmingham, while Costa operate with a social Group Finance Director of easyJet plc for five have opened the first Costa Fresco store conscience.
years, having previously spent 17 years in in Tottenham Court Road, London and a variety of senior roles at EMI Group Limited.
the first Costa Pronto at Holborn, London.
As well as having a strong financial background, his recent experience in an online, international, Overseas, we believe that the German hotel consumerfacing business with pricing models market represents an exciting opportunity similar to those at Premier Inn adds very and we opened the first German Premier Inn relevant expertise to the Whitbread Board.
Chris will take over from Simon Melliss, who will also step down from the Board, as Chairman Meanwhile, investment in digital technology of the Audit Committee later in the year and and innovations such as Costa Pay are all I would like to thank Simon for his invaluable aimed at making our brands more appealing contribution to Whitbread over the last nine and more accessible to our customers.
His keen eye for detail and ready dry wit will be missed.
Dividend The Board recommends a final dividend On 19 April 2016, Christopher Rogers stepped of 61.85 pence per share, making a total down from the Board.
He has made an dividend of 90.35 pence per share, up by immense contribution to Whitbread over the 10.0%.
The final dividend will be paid on past 11 years.
He joined Whitbread as Finance 1 July 2016 to shareholders on the register Director in 2005 and played a leading role at the close of business on 27 May 2016.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan will in the transformation of the Group to a more continue to be operated.
Details of how focused and profitable business.
He then took to participate in this plan can be found on the helm at Costa in 2012 and, under his the Companys website.
leadership, Costa has grown rapidly from under 2,500 stores to over 3,200 today and is firmly Shareholder benefits established as the UK's favourite coffee shop For a number of years, shareholders with chain.
I should like to thank him for all he has 64 shares or more have been entitled to done over the years and, more recently, for his receive shareholder offers.
Last year these support and typical professionalism in enabling were delivered by email.
We recognise that, a smooth succession planning process.
for some of our shareholders, this was not very userfriendly.
I committed at last years AGM to I look forward to meeting as many of you review the process and I am pleased to say that as possible at our AGM on 21 June 2016. we have now introduced a new shareholder card, which I hope will be well received.
Further details can be found on page 169.
Board As I mentioned at the beginning of this Richard Baker statement, Alison Brittain took over from Andy Chairman Harrison as Chief Executive in December 2015, 25 April 2016 having joined the Company in September 2015.
Alison joined Whitbread from Lloyds Banking Group, where she was Group Director of their Retail Division.
Previously, she held Whitbread Chairmans Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 statement 7
