STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report that 2016 was another year of significant growth for Wizz Air.
The business delivered underlying net profit of 223.9 million, an increase of 53.2 per cent on year-on-year revenue growth of 16.4 per cent.
We raised our profit guidance throughout this year as we continued to perform ahead of expectations.
As we move into our 12th year, I am proud to say that we continue to strengthen our position as the leading low-cost carrier in Central and Eastern Europe CEE.
We have remained focused on our vision to make safe, reliable, affordable air travel available to everyone in CEE.
Our ultra-low cost model allows us to stimulate demand through low ticket prices while continuing to drive profitable growth as evidenced by our underlying operating margins which have improved 2.9 percentage points to 16.5 per cent F15: 13.6 per cent over the past twelve months.
Our industry leading cost base, strong balance sheet, proven management team, best-in-class fleet, contracted aircraft delivery stream and recognised brand will allow us to continue to deliver significant growth within the business and, in turn, value for our shareholders.
Wizz Air achieved a number of key milestones in FY 2016, including: E We continued to grow and diversify our route network by announcing three new bases and launching 69 new routes.
We now offer more than 420 routes from 25 bases, connecting 124 destinations across 39 countries.
E Our traffic grew by 21.2 per cent to 20 million passengers, cementing Wizz Airs position as CEEs leading low cost carrier.
E We successfully completed an order for 110 A321neo aircraft, with uncommitted purchase rights for an additional 90 A321neo aircraft and certain conversion rights into A320neo aircraft providing committed and flexible growth capacity until the end of 2024.
Opportunity Our investment case is based on Wizz Air being the leading low cost carrier in Central and Eastern Europe with exciting long-term growth opportunities.
Our CEE home market remains very attractive: it is under-penetrated by low cost carriers, when compared to Western Europe: the region enjoys GDP growth which continues to be higher than Western European economies: and while the propensity to travel by air has experienced significant growth in recent years it remains substantially below that of Western Europe.
We believe these are compelling market dynamics and Wizz Air is well placed to benefit from them through increasing frequencies on existing successful routes and opening new bases and new routes.
The introduction of the A321ceo into our fleet means that we can maintain our industry-leading ultra-low cost base as we take advantage of the growth opportunities and our Airbus A321neo aircraft order gives us the future capacity to continue to capitalise on CEEs ongoing development.
Customers At Wizz Air, we work hard to deliver value and a great experience for our customers.
Our threenew bases and 69 new routes announced in FY 2016 have allowed us to bring affordable air travel to new destinations within CEE.
We continue to enhance the Wizz Air service, for example through the rollout of allocated seating, the introduction of the Plus Fare bundled product and also offering additional benefits to our Wizz Discount Club members.
Employees I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our colleagues at Wizz Air for another year where they again have exceeded expectations through their enthusiasm, professionalism and passion for the airline and our customers.
The results in terms of fleet expansion, new bases and destinations, schedule reliability and on-time performance, speak for themselves.
We have a team of approximately 2,600 aviation professionals delivering superior service to our 20 million passengers flown during the year.
Without them, these results would not be achievable.
Board of Directors In addition, I would like to thank the Board for their continued support and hard work over the last twelve months.
Their input has been instrumental in Wizz Airs growth.
I would like to extend a special welcome to Ms Susan Hooper who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 2016.
I look forward to working with the Board, Senior Leadership Team and all colleagues in what we expect to be an exciting future for Wizz Air.
William A. Franke Chairman 24 May 2016 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2016 9
