Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 2 Chairmans statement Delivering the turnaround We have the team to turnaround Morrisons and create value for all stakeholders.
It has been a busy first year as your new They bring us a wealth of executive and Chairman, both in the stores and on the Board.
non-executive experience across a broad What is right for range of areas that will prove invaluable to David Potts joined as Chief Executive in March.
I am confident we now have a Board He very quickly formed a new senior Executive our customers well equipped to deliver all aspects of the Committee that combines the best of challenging turnaround ahead.
I wish to express Morrisons home grown and externally recruited is also right our gratitude to the outgoing Non-Executives talent.
That team set about injecting a new for their considerable contribution to Morrisons pace into the turnaround.
By listening hard to for colleagues, over the years.
customers and responding quickly wherever suppliers and possible, the team are rebuilding Morrisons A highlight of the year was once again cash around its key strengths good quality fresh generation, with year end net debt of 1.75bn shareholders food, great value for money, good customer particularly pleasing and well below our service and authentically British.
The strong balance sheet, together with our commitment to retain It will take time, and we are not assuming the a predominantly freehold store property trading environment will improve, but I am portfolio and well-funded pension schemes HIGHLIGHTS confident that we have made the right changes in surplus, means we have firm foundations to simplify and focus the business, and to begin on which to build Morrisons turnaround.
to drive sales volumes and deliver improved Net debt profits and returns for shareholders.
Strong and sustained cash flow also provides good visibility for future dividend payments.
As your new Chairman, I was keen to ensure a 1.75bn For 2015 16, we committed to an annual smooth succession of the Non-Executive team, 594m reduction year on year dividend for shareholders of not less than 5p replacing the skill sets of those coming to the per share and the 3.5p announced at the time end of their tenure.
of the preliminary results takes the full year I was delighted to welcome five new dividend to 5p per share.
Non-Executive members to the Board 5p dividend The Board recognises the importance of during the year Irwin Lee, Belinda Richards, sustainable dividends to shareholders.
in line with guidance Neil Davidson, Paula Vennells and Rooney Anand.
From 2016 17, subject to AGM approval, we will be paying a dividend covered around two times by underlying earnings per share.
In addition, we remain committed to returning surplus capital to shareholders.
At the moment, our focus continues to be on delivering the cash improvement programmes and reducing debt.
This will remain so until trading is stable for a sustained period, profitability starts to rebuild and debt is lower.
Andrew Higginson Chairman Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 3 I believe that all stakeholders interests are Looking forward to 2016 17, we have another Governance highlights aligned.
What is right for our customers is also busy year ahead and there is still much to right for colleagues, suppliers and shareholders.
However, the team are stabilising likeBoard composition and membership As I said last year, it all starts with simplifying for-like sales and have started some good The Board comprises six independent and focusing the business, improving the work to begin the turnaround, which David Non-Executive Directors and two customer offer and driving volume growth, describes over the next few pages of this Executive Directors.
which, in turn, will drive like-for-like sales, report.
I am confident that we are on the right All Directors stand for re-election annually operational leverage, cost efficiencies track to begin to improve all aspects of the at the AGM.
customer shopping trip and create value for Rooney Anand has been appointed as the all stakeholders.
Boards Senior Independent Director and David and his new team have started that a Non-Executive.
journey and we are aligning remuneration to As Audit Committee Chair, the Board is satisfied this value-creation virtuous circle.
The new Andrew Higginson that Belinda Richards has recent and relevant 2016 LTIP will reward long-term cash generation, Chairman experience appropriate to her position.
sales growth and earnings per share.
There is clear division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Board effectiveness The Directors have all attended an acceptable number of Board and Committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied that Non-Executive Directors commit sufficient time to the Group and contribute to its governance and operations.
External auditor The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Companys statutory auditor PwC, who were appointed in 2014 15 are performing effectively.
The Board has a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Accountability The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of internal control and that risk is being managed effectively across the Group.
Consideration has been given to financial reporting matters with sufficient challenge provided to management relating to judgemental areas.
The Groups internal audit function perform periodic reviews of the key areas of the business, including the recognition of commercial income.
See Corporate governance report on pages 22 to 32
