Chairmans statement A year of continued momentum andsubstantial change Performance and strategy update Governance Key The 2015 16 financial year has been one of Although the Company is not required to do so highlights substantial change and further progress.
as a Jersey company, it meets the requirements Our markets have been much more challenging of the regulations published by the Department Increased total ordinary this year, particularly in the USA where we have for Business, Innovation and Skills concerning dividend to 100.0 pence faced headwinds from weak industrial markets narrative and directors remuneration reporting.
2014 15:90.75 pence and significant commodity price deation.
We have continued to meet all of these The heating market in the UK weakened and disclosure requirements and we continue to 300 million share buyback consumer demand in the Nordics fell in the monitor developments and adopt best practice programme completed second half.
Despite this, we have stilldelivered in corporate governance.
We describe how an improved trading performance.
we have applied the Codes main principles Orderly CEO succession in the Governance section of this report on completed On 1 September 2016, John Martin stepped pages40to72.
The Board places great up as our new Group Chief Executive following importance in providing clear and transparent the retirement of Ian Meakins in August.
We will reporting and believes this Annual Report to be continue to implement our successful strategy fair, balanced and understandable.
and Johns appointment will not lead to a radical departure from this.
Naturally, he will introduce Dividend his own leadership style, points of emphasis and The Board recommends a final dividend of 66.72 inject further pace into our actions.
pence per share 2014 15: 60.5 pence per share, To read the Group Chief Executives Q&A and review an increase of 10.3 per cent over last year for see pages 3 to 5 payment on 1 December 2016 to shareholders on the register at 28 October 2016.
This will bring Board changes the total dividend for the year to 100.0 pence pershare 2014 15: 90.75 pence per share, an During 2015 16, the focus has been on Executive increase of 10.2 per cent.
succession plans following Ians decision to retire on 31 August 2016.
First, a few words on Ians tenure.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive Outlook in July 2009.
During his tenure Ian made an Like-for-like revenue growth in the new financial outstanding contribution, transforming the year has been 1.5 per cent for the Group and Groups businesses to deliver excellent service 4.5 per cent in the USA.
Demand across our to our customers, developing our people and markets remains mixed, with some uncertainty in generating great returns for our shareholders.
We will remain vigilant in We wish him well in his retirement and thank controlling our costs to protect profitability while himfor his distinguished service and leadership.
investing in attractive opportunities for profitable growth.
We are confident that Wolseley will make John Martin joined Wolseley in 2010 as Chief further progress in the year ahead.
Financial officer CFO and has an impressive track record both during his time here but also People in his previous Executive career.
His broad Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to international experience and strong leadership thank our Wolseley colleagues who make our capabilities will ensure that Wolseley continues business what it is today.
It is their dedication, to drive improved operational performance hard work and commitment that deliver andcapitalise on the significant opportunities improving results year-on-year and great value for togenerate profitable growth.
our customers, suppliers andshareholders alike.
In May, we also announced that David Keltner would step up to the role of interim Group CFO on 1 September 2016.
David has over 10years of experience as CFO of Ferguson, the largest business in the Group, and we are fortunate to have such a high calibre and Gareth Davis Chairman experienced Executive available.
The selection process to appoint a permanent Group CFO is progressing well.
Wolseley plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
