CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We commenced the year looking forward to some solid operational progress from the early-stage technology-based businesses in which the Company has invested.
This progress has been forthcoming, as demonstrated in Neils portfolio review that follows.
Success, however, can be measured in different ways and ultimately its the Companys progress in terms of net asset value and share price that will count for investors.
In this respect, 2016 was a more challenging year for the Company, with its net asset value declining modestly from 97.37p to 93.24p over the period under review.
Meanwhile, the Companys share price moved from a 3.7 per cent premium to net asset value at the end of 2015, to a slight discount of -2.4 per cent at the end of the period, which meant a share price decline of -9.9 per cent during 2016.
The Companys share price traded in a relatively tight range to its net asset value throughout the year and, on average, stood at a marginal premium.
This reflects a stable and supportive shareholder base who are attracted to the Companys unique value proposition and understand that it is a long-term investment strategy.
The net asset value and share price performance of the Company in 2016 fails to reflect much of the operational progress in portfolio companies that has been made in 2016.
At launch, the Board was excited about the vision of building a portfolio that reflected Neils conviction in the opportunity to invest in innovative science-based businesses with the potential to disrupt existing industries and create new ones over time.
Our focus has been on whether the businesses in the portfolio are making operational progress and achieving milestones these, in the Boards view, are the key performance indicators in this unique portfolio of quoted and unquoted assets.
As one would expect from a portfolio, these businesses are at different stages of their development but several are on the cusp of delivering their commercial potential.
Milestones have been met and progress in many holdings, including Prothena, Purplebricks and Immunocore, has exceeded expectations.
You can read about the progress of the Companys top 10 holdings on pages 11 and 12.
In light of the progress being made across much of the portfolio, Woodford has undertaken an analysis of how the shape of the portfolio may change over time, as material success on a stock-specific basis emerges.
This analysis has highlighted a rationale for amending some of the portfolios investment restrictions, in order to make the most of investment opportunities and avoid constraints in the future.
The Board is therefore proposing a number of changes, which can be read in more detail on page 19.
You will also find enclosed with this Annual Report a letter asking whether you would prefer to receive future communications in electronic form rather than printed.
I encourage you to consider the electronic option.
Patient capital providers build close relationships with early-stage businesses.
They help nurture them to their full potential but, as we have always said, returns on investment may take time to mature.
Just as some companies are ahead of schedule, some remain many years away from their commercial destiny and, inevitably, some will never complete that journey.
It is why companies need capital partners such as WPCT and its investors, who are prepared to stay with them for the long term.
With the capital raised at launch fully invested, the Company is now in a position to nurture its portfolio of innovative businesses on the road to commercial success.
The Board shares Neils confidence that the solid operational progress seen across much of the portfolio will ultimately be reflected in the Companys valuation.
Indeed, the uplifts to the valuations of unquoted holdings such as Oxford Nanopore, Oxford Sciences Innovation and Proton Partners International towards the end of the year hint at the value that is already beginning to accrue within the portfolio.
Susan Searle Chairman 20 April 2017 6 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 7
