1 Strategic Report I am delighted to report that your Company Chairmans Statement has continued to perform strongly both in Sir Martin Smith absolute terms and also compared to its Benchmark.
I am pleased to report that, as a result of continued Review of the year and performance cumulative outperformance in the three quarters to As I reported at the half-year stage, it has been a challenging 31 December 2015, performance fees of 11.2m were paid period for the healthcare sector and also for world markets.
These fees were shared between the The year ended 31 March 2016 has seen periods of extreme Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager Frostrow volatility in healthcare stocks, in particular the biotechnology and the Portfolio Manager OrbiMed as described on page 25. sector, as a result of investor concerns over the stability of the worlds economy and the potential for regulatory policy Following underperformance in the final quarter of the changes that could affect drug prices in the U. S. market.
Companys financial year 5.5m of performance fee accruals that had been made as at 31 March 2015 were reversed, as The Companys performance over this period was negatively shown in note 3 to the financial statements on page 55.
There affected by these factors and also the overweight position in is currently no provision for future performance fee biotechnology stocks.
The Companys net asset value per payments.
share total return was -9.0% and the share price total return was -10.5%, both underperforming the Companys Capital benchmark, the MSCI World Health Care Index on a net total return, sterling adjusted basis, which fell by 5.4%.
As part of the Boards discount control management policy, a total of 794,867 shares were repurchased by the Company Despite short-term underperformance the long-term during the year to be held in treasury, at an average discount performance of the Company remains strong and it is of 6.5% to the prevailing diluted ex income net asset value pleasing to note that from the Companys inception in 1995 to per share.
256,832 of these shares were subsequently 31 March 2016, the total return of the Companys net asset reissued from treasury at share prices that equated to an value per share has been 2,094.6%, equivalent to a compound average discount 2.9% to the prevailing diluted cum income annual return of 15.9%.
This compares to a cumulative net asset value per share.
As at 31 March 2016 there were blended Benchmark return of 924.9%, equivalent to a 198,975 shares held in treasury.
Shareholder approval to compound annual return of 11.8% over the same period.
renew the authority to buy-back ordinary shares will be sought at the Annual General Meeting.
The execution and See inside front cover for further information on the Benchmark.
timing of any share buy-back will continue to be at the The Company had, on average, leverage of 18% 2015: 14% absolute discretion of the Board.
during the year which, due to difficult market conditions, Any shares held in treasury on 21 September 2016, the date detracted 1.5% from performance 2015: contribution to of this years Annual General Meeting, will be cancelled.
The Companys option strategy 339,060 shares held in treasury were cancelled on contributed c. 0.1% 2015: 0.9% to returns.
24 September 2015, shortly after the date of last years Further information on the healthcare sector and on the Annual General Meeting.
Companys investments can be found in the Portfolio Managers Review beginning on page 11 of this Annual Revenue and dividend Report.
Shareholders will be aware that it remains the Companys policy to pursue capital growth for shareholders and to pay Performance fee dividends to the extent required to maintain investment trust As described in previous years, the performance fee status and therefore the level of dividends declared can go provisions compare the performance of the Company since down as well as up.
A first interim dividend of 6.5p per share, launch with that of the Benchmark.
Only when incremental for the year ended 31 March 2016, was paid on 8 January outperformance has been achieved since launch, and is 2016 to shareholders on the register on 27 November 2015. maintained for a twelve month period, is a performance fee The Companys net revenue return for the year as a whole actually paid.
These arrangements are described in detail on has increased to 8.2 million 2015: 6.2 million.
The Board page 25 of this report.
has declared a second interim dividend of 10.0p per share which, together with the first interim dividend already paid, makes a total dividend for the year of 16.5p 2015: 12.5p per Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 03 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 share.
Based on the current mid-market share price of Outlook 1797.0p on 13 June 2016, the total dividend payment for the Despite a challenging year our Portfolio Manager remains year represents a current yield of 0.9%.
positive with respect to the fundamentals for the healthcare sector.
Innovation, merger & acquisition activity and an The second interim dividend will be payable on 15 July 2016 efficient regulatory environment will continue to be key to ordinary shareholders on the register of members on drivers.
The associated ex-dividend date will be 16 June 2016.
Our Portfolio Managers focus remains on the selection of stocks with strong prospects for capital enhancement and Board composition and governance your Board firmly believes that the long-term investor will continue to be well rewarded.
I am delighted to report that Humphrey van der Klugt joined the Board in February.
A Chartered Accountant, he is a non-executive Director of a number of investment trusts.
His Annual General Meeting experience will be of great benefit to the Board.
A resolution The Company offers an excellent opportunity to gain proposing Humphreys election will be considered by exposure to the global healthcare sector, and the Board is shareholders at this years Annual General Meeting.
pleased to note the increasing presence of retail shareholders on the Companys share register.
The Board is Jo Dixon has confirmed her intention to retire from the Board keen to welcome all shareholders to the Companys Annual at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
Jo General Meeting which offers an opportunity to meet the has been a Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Directors and also to hear the views of our Portfolio Manager.
Her extensive knowledge, experience and wise This year, the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be counsel will be greatly missed.
Following her retirement, held at Skinners Hall, 8 Dowgate Hill, London EC4R 2SP on Humphrey van der Klugt will succeed her as Chairman of the Wednesday, 21 September 2016 at 12 noon.
Audit Committee and Dr David Holbrook will succeed her as the Senior Independent Director.
During the year the Board undertook reviews of the Sir Martin Smith Companys Investment Guidelines, the Benchmark and also Chairman its gearing arrangements.
In each case it was concluded that no changes should be made.
14 June 2016 The Nominations Committee also undertook a review of the Companys Committees where the following changes were agreed: I ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee: Doug McCutcheon succeeded me as Chairman of the Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee: and Dr David Holbrook succeeded Jo Dixon as Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016 04
