CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Another exciting andproductiveyear I am pleased to announce the Groups results for the year ended 30September 2016.
We have had another exciting and productive year inwhich we have seen our revenue andprofits continue to grow considerably.
HIGHLIGHTS The Group remains well funded and continues to be highly cash generative We continue to work towards our mission In April we successfully acquired Property Software Group ofproviding the most We launched a number of new features useful resources for forboth consumers and professionals consumers when finding, Appointed Andy Botha as Chief Financial Officer moving or managing their home and being Our Property Services division continued to perform well, with UK Agency partner growth in every month of the themost effective year alongside increased inventory and solid traffic.
partner for related TheComparison Services division has outperformed expectations with record switching volumes, resulting businesses.
Welook from our market-leading collective switch, energy supplier forward to continuing price cuts and a highly competitive environment for broadband deals.
We launched a number of new todeliver onthat features for both consumers and professionals across missionin the our platforms, including a new Running Costs tool andour award-winning AdReach retargeting product.
We also successfully acquired Property Software Group in April, funded by a 50 million extension to our existing revolving credit facility.
The Group remains well funded and continues to be highly cash generative.
In short, the Groups results for the year have been outstanding and, as outlined during the Groups first Capital Markets Day in September, ZPG remains well placed for further long-term growth.
Financial performance Total revenue increased by 84% to 197.7 million 2015:107.6 million, Adjusted EBITDA increased by 58% to 77.1 million 2015: 48.7 million and adjusted basic earnings per share EPS, which excludes exceptional items and amortisation of acquired intangibles, was up 51% to 12.7 pence per share 2015: 8.4 pence per share.
These figures include five months of trading for Property Software Group.
The Group has continued to generate high levels of cash and as at 30September 2016 the Groups net debt position was146.3 million 2015: 93.2 million.
06|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report Acquisition Share capital In April, we announced the successful The number of shares held by institutional Total dividend p completion of the acquisition of Property shareholders has increased from 55.9% to Software Group.
Established in 2007, Property 64.3% over the past 12 months as the Group Software Group is the UKs market-leading continues to focus its investor relations activities 5.2p provider of software and workflow solutions on building a register of respected institutions.
to property professionals and is used in over DMGZ Limited still remains the largest single 49% 8,000 agency branches.
shareholder in theCompany with a holding of31.3%.
AlexChesterman, Founder & Chief This acquisition is core to the Groups strategy 16 5.2 Executive Officer holds 2.0%.
to deliver the most effective services and best value to our Property partners, enabling the The Company announced the purchase of 15 3.5 enlarged Group to offer the UK property 188,340 of its own shares earlier this year to industrys first end-to-end solution, including satisfy the exercise of warrants in accordance 14 1.11 software, digital marketing and market insight with the authorisation granted to the Company tools along with new revenue opportunities.
by shareholders at last years AGM.
These 1 2014 dividends represent dividends declared after the Group listing on shares are held in Treasury and will be theLondon Stock Exchange.
released when they are required to satisfy Dividend warrant exercises.
The Groups policy is to pay between 35% and45% of profit after tax before share-based payments and exceptional items as dividends Annual General Meeting to shareholders.
The Directors have proposed The Companys next AGM will be held on Total shareholder return % a final dividend of 3.7 pence per share Thursday 2 February 2017.
In the same way tobepaid in respect of the year ended asall of our previous general meetings, the 30September 2016.
Subject to shareholder resolutions at the AGMwill be conducted 50% approval at the 2017 Annual General Meeting onapoll as we believe that this method is AGM, this will be paid on 9 February 2017 the most inclusive, enabling the views of to allshareholders on the share register thewidest number of shareholders to be on16December 2016.
An interim dividend taken into consideration.
The AGM is a great of1.5pence per share was paid in June 2016. opportunity to meet the Board and I would 16 50% Therefore, the total dividend for the year will like to encourage our shareholders to attend.
Iwill be at the AGM, along with the other Measured using the 30-day average closing members of the Board, and look forward share price for the 30 days preceding The Board toseeing some of you there.
In April 2016, the Board appointed AndyBothaas Chief Financial Officer to Conclusion replace Stephen Morana.
Andy brings with We continue to work towards our mission hima wealth of relevant experience and ofproviding the most useful resource demonstrable success in leading technology forconsumers when finding, moving or businesses during periods of high growth.
managing their home and being the most Having been a valuable member of the effective partner for related businesses.
We Board, David Dutton stepped down in look forward to continuing to deliver on that June2016 due to retirement.
David was mission in the coming year.
On behalf of the replaced by Kevin Beatty, who joined Board, I would like to thank everyone in the theBoard as a Non-Executive Director in Group for their contribution and commitment July2016 and brings with him vast experience over this past year.
from over 20 years within Daily Mail and General Trust plc Group.
Kevin was formerly aDirector of ZPG Limited, the Groups previous parent company prior to IPO.
Kevinacts as an observer on the Nomination Mike Evans Committee and Stephen Daintith acts as an Chairman observer on the Remuneration Committee asreplacements for David.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank both Stephen Morana and David Dutton for their hard work and significant contributions to the Group.
The Board is strong and well balanced, with diversity of background, skill and experience to enable it to direct and lead the strategic direction of the Group, and to face the challenges of the year ahead.
The Board now comprises 10 Directors and biographies of all members appear on pages 42 and 43.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|07
