Vodafone Group Plc Overview Strategy review Performance Governance Financials Additional information Annual Report 2016 Chairmans statement A year of solid progress This has been a year of continued strategy implementation and improved operational execution, with a return to growth enabling consistent attractive returns to shareholders.
Our Project Spring investment programme is bearing fruit Our performance will be further enhanced Recent initiatives by the European Commission Good progress.
by our Customer eXperience eXcellence have started to address some of these issues, Financial improvement programme CXX, which we launched last but we believe more needs to be done.
is following year and which, with Vittorios personal In emerging markets, the positive economic The financial year 2016 has been a year leadership, will continue to have the highest impacts of mobile communications are of solid progress, both with respect to the attention from the Board.
These improvements well documented, but there too we face further implementation of our strategy as well are necessary to maintain our strong financial continued pressures from regulatory and as regarding our focus on customer experience framework and underpin our dividend policy.
For example, while India excellence and operational execution.
Nick sets out in more detail our plans for represents an excellent long-term investment continued growth, supported by increasing Vodafone has been undergoing a substantial opportunity, the present regulatory challenges efficiency, on pages 14 and 15. transformation over the last five years.
While historically we developed as a business The Board continues to view the dividend Spectrum auction structures, combined that was almost exclusively focused on mobile as the key element of shareholder returns and with the piecemeal release of new spectrum, voice and text services, we now cover most consistent with this policy we have raised the leave less capital available for investment of our markets with advanced mobile data dividend per share by 2% to 11.45 pence for in networks, and this is exacerbated by other networks, we reach 72 million homes the year.
For the financial year ending 31 March ongoing regulatory and fiscal burdens.
in Europe with Vodafone-branded high speed 2017 and beyond, dividends will be declared broadband services, of which 41% are on our in euros and paid in euros, pounds sterling and Vodafone Foundation own fibre or cable networks, and we offer US dollars.
This is consistent with the change This year we are celebrating 25 years of the a broad portfolio of market-leading, integrated in the Groups reporting currency to euros Vodafone Foundation, the Group platform fixed and mobile communications from pounds sterling.
In reality it is not one services across a footprint of 26 countries.
single Foundation, but a unique network Vittorio covers this progress in more detail The regulatory agenda is still of 27 local foundations and social investment in his review on pages 10 to 13. unresolved in key areas programmes in Vodafone markets.
We have Our progress has come about through raised and invested over 560 million At Vodafone we are aiming for a regulatory significant organic investment and since its formation in helping charities and environment that enables investment, acquisitions.
Our total spend in the last three philanthropic organisations to achieve their innovation and returns for business, years across capital expenditure, spectrum goals, more recently providing connectivity while always maintaining adequate levels licences and acquisitions has exceeded in refugee camps, access to healthcare for of competition to provide customers choice 47 billion.
We have funded this through women in Tanzania, and emergency support and value for money.
So far in several the sale of valuable but non-controlled for victims of domestic violence, among geographies we are still some way from assets such as Verizon Wireless, while still many other causes.
The Foundation remains such a position and this will remain a point maintaining a strong balance sheet and paying committed to connecting communities of concern for the Board when making its an attractive and growing dividend.
This is one around the world to save lives and improve investment decisions.
of the key roles of the Board: finding the right thelivelihood and education of children.
In Europe, inconsistent industry regulations balance between long-term investment and spectrum policies, exacerbated to secure the sustainability of the business: by overly fragmented market structures, a strong credit position to weather uncertain have led to a steep deterioration in return economic times: and a regular and reliable on capital employed over recent years.
With the advent of new technologies designed The crucial next step for Vodafone is to Gerard Kleisterlee to squeeze higher broadband speeds from Chairman translate these investments into improving outdated copper infrastructures, the risk financial performance, and I am extremely of re-monopolisation is rising, at the expense pleased to report that Vodafone returned of investment in 21st century fibre networks.
to organic growth this year in both revenue Additionally, a number of incumbents are and EBITDA, aided by our Project Spring trying to use exclusive content ownership investment programme which completed as a further lever to limit competition.
