Chairmans statement 2016 was a challenging year for the Group with a consistently disappointing trading performance exposing fundamental issues across our three main Leisure brands, although we continued to benefit from a strong performance from Pubs and Concessions.
Total revenues were up 3.7% to 710.7m with like-for-like sales for the year down 3.9%.
Adjusted profit before tax was down 11.2% to 77.1m and adjusted EPS was down 11.2% to 30.0p per share.
Statutory loss before tax was 39.5m and the statutory loss per share was 20.1p.
We have taken decisive action by implementing a strategy review across all of our Leisure brands.
It is clear that we had added an unsustainable premium to pricing in our Leisure Debbie Hewitt businesses and that changes to our menus had been Chairman insufficiently tested with our customers.
Complex operational processes have added costs and the business operating model had become inefficient.
We have taken We have a rigorous plan in place to address these issues.
2017 will be a transitional year during which we will implement measures to restore profitability, growth and ultimately decisive action transform the business.
There has been substantial change to the Board and to the by implementing Executive leadership team to support this programme.
I became Chairman in May 2016 and the Board was refreshed a strategy review with the appointment of two new non-executive Directors, Mike Tye and Graham Clemett in April and June respectively.
across all of our Andy McCue joined us as Chief Executive of the business in September.
Andy is the ex CEO of Paddy Power plc and brings substantial experience of managing a turnaround in leisure brands.
a multi-site consumer business through a rigorous approach to customer insight, the development of the customer proposition and colleague engagement.
Barry Nightingale joined us as Chief Financial Officer in June 2016.
He has a broad commercial background and turnaround experience allowing him to make an important contribution to this critical phase in the Companys development.
As I highlighted in our Interim Report in August, the Board has taken measures to ensure that we have a more rigorous and disciplined approach to the allocation of capital.
We have slowed down our site roll out plans until we can be sure that the Groups brand and location strategy is sufficiently robust.
We continue to take action to close underperforming sites where we do not believe they are capable of generating adequate returns.
02 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements TRG employs over 15,000 people and they are the life blood of our business.
In spite of our trading challenges, the business continues to generate strong free cash flow, with 78.9m in 2016 and as a sign of confidence in our plan the Board is proposing the payment of a final dividend of 10.6 pence per share to be paid on 7 July 2017 to all shareholders on the register on 16 June 2017 ex-dividend date 15 June 2017.
The total dividend for the year is, therefore, maintained at 17.4 pence per share.
During this transitional period the Board will assess the dividend based on progress against the plan.
The Board will revisit the previous policy of two times EPS cover at the appropriate time.
During 2017, the Group will face well documented external cost pressures from the increases in the National Living Wage, the National Minimum Wage, the Apprenticeship Levy, the revaluation of business rates, higher energy taxes and increased purchasing costs due to the combined effects of a devalued pound and commodity inflation.
We expect the trading performance of the business in the first half of 2017 to remain difficult but anticipate momentum improving towards the end of this transitional year as our initiatives start to take effect.
TRG employs over 15,000 people and they are the life blood of our business.
The Board would like to record our thanks and appreciation for their hard work, commitment and dedication.
The Board is confident that we have a robust plan and the team and resources in place to deliver.
Debbie Hewitt MBE Chairman 8 March 2017 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2016 03
