Chairmans statement We have a unique proposition inoursector as developer,  The overwhelming need in this country for improved primary carepremises underpins the futureofAssura SIMON LAFFIN EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN absence, receiving treatment for cancer DEAR SHAREHOLDER Rent roll and so, for the time being, I have assumed It has been another busy and successful the role of Executive Chairman.
This will year for Assura, and a year in which ensure that we continue to exercise our wehave continued the Groups strong 63.8m agreed strategy and drive superior risk growth.
We have significantly grown our adjusted returns for ourshareholders.
property portfolio this year both through up 15% acquisitions and new developments.
Thanks to the continued support of A key part of this strategy is our Quarterly dividend per share uniqueproposition of offering all of the ourshareholders, we were able to raise 300million, net of expenses, in an equity elements of the property service for GPs, which enables us to offer GPs a longraise this year to fund our investment 0.55p programme.
We are well advanced in term partner approach throughout the lifecycle of a medical centre.
Our ability up 10% implementing our plan to use these proceeds.
Since the fund raise, we have todevelop, invest and manage gives us acrucial advantage when securing new made property additions of 79 million, reduced net debt by 193 million and development opportunities and other asset management initiatives.
Moreover, wehave a pipeline of further property acquisitions and developments of it provides a highly scalable model that means as we grow, the benefits of scale 134million.
Our gearing is now at 30%, well within our reduced target range.
accrue to shareholders, and drive our progressive dividend policy.
Weare now the UKs largest developer and owner-manager of primary healthcare property, and entered the FTSE 250 in The efficacy of this model has been December last year and have a market illustrated in the year as we have increased cap of 950 million.
our rent roll by 15% to 63.8million, our underlying profit by78% to 28.3 million As we announced in March this year, and our dividends paid during the year Graham Roberts, our Chief Executive by89% to 27.2 million.
since 2012, is currently on a leave of 6 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements to reduce the pressures and financial Market developments Loan to value burdens elsewhere in the NHS and We continued to engage widely with improve the patient experience.
The theNHS and the Government throughout benefits of this model are explicitly the course of the year to make the case 30% recognised in the General Practice for further investment in primary care Forward View report.
Replacing some infrastructure, primarily through the expensive secondary care with enhanced British Property Federations Healthcare primary care would save the NHS large Committee.
The recognition of the Capital invested in past four years sums of money, and improve the importance of this investment by the patientexperience.
NHScan be seen in its recent publication of the General Practice Forward View, 500m which announced increased funding It is clear that excellent primary care forstaff, technology and premises.
requires modern buildings and fit-out.
Doctors need hygienic, warm and sound-proof facilities, as demanded by Everyone accepts that the increasing the Care Quality Commission.
About half health needs of a growing and ageing of all GP surgeries cannot provide this population are putting a strain on the in their current premises, and so require public purse.
There is a shortage of redevelopment.
Such redevelopment GPs, and secondary health i. e. hospital gives Clinical Commissioning Groups resources are both expensive and the opportunity to bring a variety of overstretched.
According to a recent community care services under one roof report from the think tank Reform, and so offer a more complete service.
Property management is an essential If that patient chooses instead to go part of the NHS provision for the future.
toahospital A&E department, that visit costs almost six times more, an average The UK has a unique model for primary of 124.
Patients prefer to access health treatment from their primary practitioner care property.
All new developments have to be approved by the NHS.
Completed and the primary care treatment costs theNHS significantly less as well.
The properties are then valued and rents agreed with the District Valuer, an Government needs to take a long-term view of health service provision in the UK.
The Government therefore can ensure value for money from This would require recruiting more GPs, and funding modern flexible properties any private investment.
In turn, theNHS commissioning body offers developers for those GPs to work in.
Scarce GP resources can be leveraged by providing along typically 21 or 25 year contract, which is set at a rent that takes account additional co-located services across awide range of health and social care ofboth the lease length and the strength of the ultimate Government backstop.
professionals, such as diagnostics, self-help and outpatient services which improve the care pathway.
This will help Excellent primary care requires modern buildings www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 7
