Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have had another busy and successful year Across the global markets equities have had a difficult year: the FTSE 100 was down 11.6% over the last 12 months year to 16 May 2016, reflecting heightened concerns about macro-economic and political risks.
Closer to home, our shares along with the REIT sector have underperformed the FTSE principally reflecting concerns about the impact an exit from Europe would have on the property sector, particularly in London.
While we are mindful of this uncertainty, we are confident that our business is both resilient and well placed for the long term.
A highlight for me this year was the official opening of The Leadenhall Building last October.
I was delighted to welcome the Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry as guests of honour as the building officially opened for business.
The Cheesegrater, as it is affectionately known, is a great example Welcome to our 2016 Annual Report.
We have of what British Land does best financing, Key highlights of the year had a strong year reflecting the work we have developing and managing exceptional buildings.
done repositioning our portfolio to mirror the 1 Total accounting return changing way people live their lives.
From its innovative construction technique and distinctive design to its immediate recognition Buildings are most successful when they on the London skyline, The Leadenhall Building 14.2% reflect the needs of those who occupy and has been an outstanding success story.
Voted Reflecting the increase in our net asset value use them.
Getting closer to our customers The City of London Building of the Year in 2015, per share and income yield from the dividend continues to be a key theme for us and an it has attracted the highest rents ever achieved understanding of how modern lifestyles in the City of London.
Its no surprise that it is increasingly merge work and leisure time now 98% let under offer.
1 EPRA net asset value per share informs not only how we manage and develop our assets but also the allocation of our capital.
During the year, we were once again also recognised as sustainability leaders in global 919p Our delivery of Places People Prefer is indices and awards.
Since launching our 2020 Up 10.9% evidenced once again by our near fully let sustainability strategy in 2015, we have made portfolio and the growth we have generated strong progress embedding sustainability across our business.
We are achieving results Dividend per share by setting high standards, delivering training, Underlying Profit for the year was 363 million, providing support and sharing best practice, up 16%.
The valuation of our portfolio also working closely with our development partners 28.36p increased by 6.7% to 14.6billion and NAV was and property management subsidiary, Up 2.5% up 10.9% to 919 pence per share.
The Board has Broadgate Estates Ltd.
I am pleased that we recommended a fourth quarter dividend of 7.09 support RE100 committed to purchasing pence per share making a total of 28.36 pence electricity from renewable power.
We also invest for the year.
We have proposed a first quarter in renewable energy sources at our assets, with dividend of 7.30 pence per share for 2017, an photovoltaic panels installed at St Stephens in increase of 3.0%.
The total accounting return Hull during the year.
By promoting wellbeing, 1 Please see the glossary for definition.
supporting communities, operating efficient 4 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our delivery of Places People Prefer is evidenced once again by our near fully let portfolio and the growth we have generated across our business.
buildings, developing peoples skills and growing economies, we are creating places that attract 2016 Queens Award for Enterprise occupiers, workers, shoppers and residents, and so gain value over time Places People Prefer.
In April this year British Land was one of only seven companies to receive the 2016 Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Our high quality portfolio, the optionality within Development as part of Her Majesty The Queens 90th our development programme and our strong birthday honours.
finances positions us well for the future.
The Award is the UKs highest accolade for business success and is given to companies which bring major economic, social and environmental benefits through their own business success.
It has been awarded to British Land for continuous achievement in all these areas over the last five years.
According to Business Secretary Sajid Javid winners are leading the way in a broad range of industries and show John Gildersleeve they are involved in activity that ensures a better quality of Non-Executive Chairman life for everyone, now and in the future.
We were obviously thrilled to receive the award.
Understanding what really matters to our customers is helping us drive continued improvements throughout our business.
As peoples attitudes and expectations change, good businesses respond.
Our purpose of creating Places People Prefer and the huge amount of work we have done on placemaking is making a material positive difference to the customer experience at our assets.
This award recognises the contribution of everyone at British Land.
We also appreciate that the help and commitment of our customers, partners, suppliers and many other stakeholders has played a part in this achievement.
Integrating social and environmental activities into every area of a business is not something you can do on the side or in isolation.
We would like to extend our thanks to everyone who has worked with us over the years and like us believes that adopting a responsible approach to business is a powerful tool which helps drive customer preference and deliver lasting value.
com results John Gildersleeve Chris Grigg For more information on sustainability Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive www.
com sustainability Chief Executives review go to pages For more information on The Queens Awards for Enterprise 6 to 8 http: queensawardsmagazine.
com Chairmans governance review go to For more information on our awards pages 70 to 71 www.
com awards British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
