12 STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement Our 2016 results demonstrate the resilience of our business model.
Derwent London successfully delivered its operational strategy throughout 2016 with record lettings despite significant political change and the ensuing uncertainty.
Overview Derwent London delivered its operational strategy successfully throughout 2016 despite a background of significant political change and the ensuing uncertainty originally stemming from Junes EU referendum.
2016 was another record year of lettings for us which, combined with those achieved in recent years and reduced finance costs, resulted in an increase in EPRA earnings per share for the year of 7.9% to 76.99p.
Todays results demonstrate the resilience of our business model which is underpinned by continued demand for our well designed mid-market product in improving locations.
We have a strong financial base, and an investment market that allows the balance between secure income and development opportunity to be maintained.
In addition, we have talented and experienced people across the business Robert Rayne with well established relationships with occupiers, Chairman third party professionals and local communities.
These strengths are the result of considerable investment which has helped reinforce the Groups reputation, culture and brand.
Over the last few years we have looked to bolster the recurring earnings side of our total return model and this years increase should be seen as a continuation of the substantial growth achieved in 2015.
We have also significantly fide-risked our development pipeline over recent months, and together, these two strategies have enabled us to recommend raising the final dividend by 25.0% to 38.50p, which takes the full year dividend to 52.36p.
At this level the dividend will be covered 1.5 times by recurring earnings, and our average annual dividend growth since we converted to a REIT has been 9.8%.
In addition, following the value-enhancing transactions announced today, we are proposing a special dividend of 52p per share to be paid along with the final dividend in June 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT 13 The change in market sentiment in the second half Our Sustainability Report, which is published of the year resulted in considerable share price simultaneously with the Annual Report, demonstrates weakness across the sector and a fall in the the further progress we have made in this area.
underlying value of our portfolio by 1.7% since A major part of our sustainability programme is our June and 0.2% for the year.
However, as stated work on relationships with our communities.
We are above, the Groups recurring earnings have seen a therefore pleased to have extended our commitment strong increase and generated a positive total return by inaugurating a Tech Belt Community Fund to for the year.
Consequently the EPRA diluted NAV operate alongside our similar long-standing at 31 December 2016 was marginally higher at arrangement in Fitzrovia.
Given the importance that 3,551p per share, an increase of 0.5% over the year.
the Group attaches to its sustainability performance, it was pleasing to be ranked 12th overall and top in Whilst overall take-up in London offices slowed in the UK in Corporate Knights Global 100, an annual 2016, our letting activity captured 31.4m pa of list of the worlds most sustainable companies rental income on 547,500 sq ft, which surpassed announced at the recent World Economic Forum our previous record achieved in 2015 by 16%.
Despite a quieter period around the EU Referendum activity was spread evenly between the first and One of the Groups distinctive features is its focus on second halves.
innovative design and this has again been recognised externally with two recent schemes, Turnmill and The ongoing resilience of our particular markets, White Collar Factory, both winning awards.
together with the Groups financial strength and the attractive potential returns of the Brunel Building Team development in Paddington W2, gave us the I would once again like to thank the Derwent London confidence to continue with this project.
Overall, team for their continued expertise, enthusiasm and we incurred 213.5m of capital expenditure on dedication without which these results would not our development projects during 2016 and at the have been possible.
year-end we were on site at four, Brunel Building W2, The Board 80 Charlotte Street W1, White Collar Factory EC1 and Stuart Corbyn, who has served as a non-executive The Copyright Building W1.
Capital expenditure in Director of the Company since 2006, is due to step 2017 is estimated at 158m, with no major schemes down from the Board at the forthcoming AGM in May due to start.
I would like to thank him for the advice and The second half of the year saw a significant sound judgement that he has provided throughout devaluation of sterling and an increase in overseas this period.
The Nominations Committee has started demand focussed on properties that produce the process of finding a replacement for Stuart to long-term income.
We took advantage of this allow a smooth transition.
We anticipate making supportive market and made 98% of our total further announcements concerning this matter investment sales of 208.0m after June.
Overall, over the next few months.
these disposals produced a 3.7% surplus over Outlook December 2015 book value.
We expect much of the current economic uncertainty During the year we extended the maturity of our debt to persist as UKEU negotiations are likely to be through the issue of 105m of bonds in a US Private protracted.
How this impacts on London businesses Placement and the extension of both our bank remains to be seen but, so far, activity has been facilities.
At the year end our financial position surprisingly resilient with UK economic activity remained strong with interest cover of 3.7 times and improving in the second half.
However, although we LTV of 17.7%, while our undrawn facilities and cash believe that it is right to remain cautious and have exceeded our future capital expenditure on positioned the business accordingly, we have limited committed projects.
space currently available and our product and locations continue to attract good occupational and investment demand.
Robert Rayne Chairman 28 February 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 14 STRATEGIC REPORT Londons enduring appeal Londons economy and population has grown significantly in the last thirty years.
It has benefitted from the deregulation and subsequent expansion of the financial sector, and more recently from the growth of the creative industries.
Londons economy London has attracted both human and Londons attractions are broad based Londons gross value added GVA financial capital over recent years driving Londons population and workforce increased 2.4% in 2016 and is expected population growth, economic expansion Londons population totals around to grow between c. 1.5-2.5% pa over the and the creation of many new businesses, 8.8m and is ethnically diverse.
particularly in the services and creative The population is expected to grow sectors.
This has helped to regenerate to 10m by 2028.
It is the pre-eminent business capital in parts of the city which were previously Europe benefitting from its time zone, The workforce totalled 5.7m in 2016 less popular.
As a major global hub the wide understanding of the English which is 0.7m more jobs than the previous London has also performed strongly 1 language and its legal system.
compared with many European cities.
to 40% of the European headquarters of Britains decision to vote to leave the EU 2 London is a leading global centre for the worlds top companies.
Oxford may present challenges to this position talent and high skills employment.
1.5m Economics estimates 200,000 people and the majority of Londoners voted to Londoners work in knowledge-based are employed in Londons tech sector remain.
However, we are confident that, sectors, 47% of the combined total and recently Apple, Expedia, Facebook 2 although in the medium term some jobs of the next five top European cities.
and Google among others have confirmed may be repatriated to the EU, in the new headquarter investments.
longer term London could benefit from Education and cultural attractions UKs potentially increased flexibility.
London has some of the best higher education facilities with several universities ranked among the best in the world.
In 2015, Imperial College and Number of people GVA University College London were ranked in the top ten with Kings College 21st Million bn 3 and LSE 38th.
Forecast 450 Forecast 10 London boasts numerous attractions: four 375 8 UNESCO world heritage sites, museums, 300 theatres, opera houses, sporting venues 6 and world-class retail.
It has c. 8,000 225 restaurants with cuisine from 70 4 150 countries.
It was ranked Europes most 4 popular tourist destination in 2016, 2 75 with 19.9m visitors.
2 D eloitte London crowned business capital Source: Experian Source: Experian of Europe 2014.
Total population 3 QS World University Rankings 2015.
STRATEGIC REPORT 15 Fitzrovia We see a lot of opportunity in London given the continued growth of ecommerce and technology industries and the strong pool of talent in the city.
Expedia group The table below shows the sources of Major office market take-up in the past five years.
Londons office market totals 225m sq ft, with the West End and City representing % 72% of the total.
Around 75% of the West Creative Industries 25 End office stock lies in conservation areas Banking & Finance 21 which limits development opportunities.
Business Services 19 This compares to c. 33% in the City.
Professional 11 The City and Docklands markets hold the Consumer Services & Leisure 9 highest concentration of office towers Public Sector Regulatory Bodies 7 and financial occupiers.
Insurance 4 Manufacturing, Industrial and Energy 4 Our share of Londons office market Source: CBRE is 2.2%.
Central London office cyclicality Central London office stock The London office market has proven to be cyclical over time, and is influenced by a number of external and internal factors.
% After six and a half years of growth, capital City 32 values turned in June 2016 and fell 1.8% West End 40 in the second half of the year, to record Midtown 11 -0.7% for the year.
Rental values Southbank 8 continued to rise in the second half Docklands 9 to show growth of 3.6% in the year.
Index Source: CBRE 1980 100 Sources of office take-up 350 Professional and business services 300 have long represented a high proportion 250 of take-up.
More recently creative 200 industries take-up has matched that of financial services.
150 100 50 0 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2016 Capital growth Rental value growth Source: MSCI IPD Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Londons enduring appeal continued Crossrail opens in 2018 Crossrail Londons growth has stimulated strong demand Following the result of the EU referendum, the UK for space in recent years with resulting price rises is expected to trigger Article 50 in March 2017. and Derwent Londons portfolio has seen increasing The uncertain outcome of the ensuing negotiations rents and low vacancies.
This growth produces has created new concerns for Londons future.
At the challenges for our occupiers, suppliers and heart of any negotiations on leaving the EU lie its four contractors and it is also one of the main reasons freedoms of movement: goods, services, capital that business rates in central London are due to rise and labour.
Londons economy has taken advantage significantly in April 2017.
The market may cool in of these and therefore is likely to suffer if they are the future but we believe that the positioning of affected.
The two most relevant issues to London our well designed, middle-market rental buildings, appear to be: our active ongoing management and long-term 1.
Access to the single market commitment to projects means we are relatively Londons success as an international financial and well placed to capture demand.
insurance centre has proved an important part of its The concerns over affordability, accommodation, economy.
It is feared that London may lose access transport, pollution and inequality were highlighted to parts of the EU market as part of the Brexit terms.
in the Mayoral election in May 2016.
The new mayor This could lead to the relocation of services and Sadiq Khan has made building more homes his staff to other EU cities, thereby reducing demand 1 single biggest priority, and this may impact the for London offices and potentially creating office planning process with a greater focus on affordable vacancies.
The majority of financial services jobs residential delivery.
are located either in the financial centre of the City of London or Canary Wharf, two London markets Progress continues to be made improving Londons where Derwent London has no direct exposure.
The opening of the Elizabeth Line Crossrail in 2018 will add c. 10% to Londons rail 2.
The next major rail project to start will be Almost three times the national average of HS2, which will improve Londons rail connections foreign nationals live and work in London and net with the north of the country.
The government, after immigration is seen as a major factor behind its many years of consultation, has opted to approve 2 recent population and economic growth.
the expansion of Heathrow with a third runway.
Despite this, Gatwick has plans for considerable investment, and the mayor and the UK Government have approved plans for the expansion of London City airport.
These moves should ensure that London remains well served by rail and air.
STRATEGIC REPORT 17 Connectivity We were one of the first UK landlords to embrace Our holdings are and pursue the WiredScore accreditation, a rating scheme that certifies the internet connectivity and benefitting from close infrastructure of a building.
We were delighted to receive the first European Platinum level certification proximity to key stations for our White Collar Factory development.
such as Farringdon, Crossrail proximity Occupiers are actively pursuing options close Tottenham Court Road to Crossrail stations as this major infrastructure and Paddington.
Many of our holdings are benefitting as over 70% are within 800 metres of a Crossrail entrance: notable amongst these are our Farringdon station cluster, 80 Charlotte Street At present, the terms under which the UK will Tottenham Court Road station and Brunel Building leave the EU remain very uncertain, with the UK Paddington station.
In addition, we believe there Government still to exercise Article 50 and both is still latent value, particularly in our retail holdings France and Germany, amongst others, facing national on Oxford Street, which will be released once the elections later in the year.
In the meantime the UK line is open.
and London economies have remained resilient and there has been good demand for our mid-market Occupier trends We listen regularly to both our existing tenant offices.
However we expect some caution to prevail until the UKs future relationship with the EU base and those in the wider business community.
We try to anticipate trends and incorporate them becomes clearer.
early into our designs, such as the provision of Derwent Londons positioning open space including roof terraces, public realm with potential occupiers enhancements the public square at Old Street Yard Our approach and pocket park at 80 Charlotte Street, vertical We carefully determine the leasing and marketing connectivity and interesting reception lobby spaces strategy for each of our buildings early in the which double up as communal spaces.
We continually review the market Out of the blocks early and adapt our strategy and aspirations accordingly.
Although the markets slowed immediately after the At White Collar Factory, for instance, we started EU Referendum, the proactive pre-letting strategies place-making and branding four years before the we had across our key developments helped propel buildings were due to complete and undertook momentum in the second half of the year.
Our vacancy three phases of marketing.
rate is low, and as Brunel Building and 80 Charlotte Where we undertake early pre-letting, we endeavour Street will not be delivered until 2019, we have time to let the lower parts of the building first and, where to secure early pre-lets and push forward with our possible, incorporate a variety of innovative ideas campaigns, which will benefit from on-site marketing such as index-linked uplifts and flexibility on suites.
The pre-let to Arup at 80 Charlotte Street assignments and underletting.
This helps with announced after the year end demonstrates the more proactive asset management opportunities success of our strategy.
Brand The success of White Collar Factory and The White Chapel Building in terms of pre-letting has reinforced awareness of our brand within the market.
It also demonstrates our ability to transact quickly and at the right price.
The strength of the brand is embedded within the community of property agents who advise and undertake the majority of transactions on behalf of tenants.
Our innovative and considered designs, coupled with generous volumes, communal terraces and sustainable, wellbeing-led workplaces are characteristics that occupiers appreciate.
1 A Manifesto for all Londoners March 2016.
2 W orking Capital The role of migrant workers in driving Londons economy Cebr November 2016.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
