Annual Report 2016 Great Portland Estates 77 Introduction from the Chairman Good governance is based on the appropriate level of oversight, good communication, a focus on risks, transparency in how we operate and a culture of continuous improvement.
Martin Scicluna Chairman Dear fellow shareholder The Boards oversight of our strategic priorities during the year and monitoring I am pleased to introduce this Corporate Governance report in which, among other things, we describe ofrisks the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate The Groups business model and strategy are outlined on Governance Code, explain how the Board and its pages 1 to 11.
In our Annual Report last year we identied Committees have operated during the past year, and that our strategic priorities for 2015 16 were to: describe how effective stewardship is exercised over the Groups activities in the interests of shareholders crystallise profits through recycling: and other stakeholders.
As Chairman, I am responsible deliver our development programme: and for ensuring that the Board operates effectively and drive rental growth through leasing.
efficiently and that it continues to uphold a high standard of corporate governance for the long-term success of the See page 81 for significant transactions approved by the Company.
I believe the achievement of good governance Board during the year.
is based on the appropriate level of oversight, challenge, Following our success in delivering against our priorities good communication, a focus on risks, a commitment during the year, our attention for this year will again be to transparency and ensuring a culture of continuous focused on the execution phase of our business model improvement in standards and performance across the together with crystallising the value we have generated to business.
This year, the Board met eleven times with four maximise shareholder returns and appropriately manage unscheduled meetings to consider specic transactions and risk.
With our clearly identied initiatives, we will continue undertook two property tours.
Between Board meetings, to deliver our development programme, recycle capital I meet regularly with Toby Courtauld Chief Executive, andactively work our assets to drive rental growth.
Ihave monthly meetings with Neil Thompson Executive Director, Nick Sanderson Finance Director, and Desna See our strategic priorities on pages 10 and 11 Martin Company Secretary and, since the start of 2016, quarterly meetings with Marc Wilder Leasing Director and Succession planning undertaken this year Andrew White Development Director.
The Board also receives regular presentations from Heads of Department This year we have placed substantial emphasis on reviewing and individuals performing key roles on transactions and our succession planning and personal development developments.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors requirements for key executives and senior managers, more meet separately with individuals outside of the Board of which is covered in our Nomination Committee Report meetings.
Each year, the Board formally revisits its level on pages 83 to 86 and in our People section on pages 48 of oversight and the monitoring of risks over a variety and 49.
I am delighted that, as a result, we have broadened of areas including strategy, acquisitions and disposals, the bench strength of our Executive Committee team with capital expenditure on developments, finance, people the internal appointments of Marc Wilder and Andrew andsustainability matters.
White, as Leasing Director and Development Director respectively, and the external appointment of Steven Mew, Our culture of continuous improvement, and high level of formerly a Board director of McKay Securities plc, who will involvement by executive and senior management in all our join us in the autumn of 2016 as Portfolio Director.
We have activities, ensures that good governance extends beyond also appointed Robin Matthews, previously with Mooreld the Boardroom and is continually borne in mind inthe Group, as Investment Director who will join us in the summer successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities over of 2016 to replace Ben Chambers.
both the short and long-term.
Governance 78 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2016 Introduction from the Chairman meetings was shared with the rest of the Board at our Board changes January 2016 Board meeting.
I am pleased to say that the As announced today, Jonathan Nicholls will be retiring from feedback received was positive and constructive, with areas the Board at the 2016 Annual General Meeting to become we discussed including: the Companys strategy, Executive Chairman of Shaftesbury plc in autumn 2016.
On behalf of Director, management and Non-Executive Director the whole Board, I would like to thank Jonathan for his succession planning, auditor and valuer appointment strong stewardship as Chairman of the Audit Committee processes, governance and remuneration aims and the and Senior Independent Director and significant quality of our Annual Report disclosure.
In February 2016, contribution to the activities of the Board over the years.
weheld our second half-day investor and analyst event The recruitment process for his replacement will begin for both shareholders and analysts at Oxford House, immediately and Charles Philipps will serve as acting Senior overlooking our holdings at the East End of Oxford Street, Independent Director and acting Chairman of the Audit and more detail on this can be found on page 95.
Committee from the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
I am pleased to be able to report that we received external Ongoing communication with shareholders recognition for our investor relations efforts by being runner and other stakeholders up in Best Investor Relations by a senior management team Communication with investors is given a high priority by IR Magazine and winning the PwC Building Public Trust by the Board.
During the year, 205 presentations were Awards for Excellence in Reporting for our Strategic Report.
made to shareholders and potential shareholders by a In addition to also being highly commended in the PwC combination of the Executive Director team and senior Building Public Trust Awards in respect of our Annual Report, management below the Board.
Independent feedback we were shortlisted in the ICSA awards for our Annual Report, on presentations by the Executive Directors to all major Board and remuneration disclosure.
We also received a gold shareholders is provided to the Non-Executive Directors on award in relation to EPRAs 2015 Sustainability Best Practice a regular basis at the scheduled Board meetings.
I believe Recommendations and a green star in relation to GRESB.
that it is important that our major shareholders feel that, in Finally, I am proud to be able to report that we came seventh addition to being able to meet regularly with the Executive in Management Todays Britains Top 10 Most Admired Directors, they are able to speak to me freely at any time Companies which I think is a testament to the abilities and on any matter, but in particular, are able to raise any points efforts of each and every one of our team members.
they may have in respect of Board governance.
In late 2015, Martin Scicluna Ioffered to meet with major shareholders, between them Chairman owning 42% of the Company, and feedback from those The Boards attendance in 2015 16 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Board scheduled Board unscheduled 4meetings 4meetings 6meetings 1 1 7 meetings 4 meetings See pages 90 to 92 See pages 83 to 86 See pages 96 and 97 Chairman 2 2 2 4 4 Martin Scicluna Executive Directors 3 Toby Courtauld 3 Nick Sanderson 3 Part Part Neil Thompson Non-Executive Directors Elizabeth Holden Jonathan Nicholls 4 Charles Philipps Jonathan Short Part attendance at Committee meetings 1.
There were four unscheduled Board meetings held at short notice during the year see Board activities on page 81.
Although Martin Scicluna is not a member of either the Audit or Remuneration Committees, in his role as Chairman of the Board, he is invited, where appropriate, to attend key meetings of the Remuneration Committee in relation to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee meetings in respect of the review of the half year and year-end results.
The number in parentheses indicates the number of the Remuneration and Audit Committees the Chairman is expected to have attended in this respect.
The Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, Nomination or Remuneration Committees, however, they are invited to attend for parts of or all of certain Committee meetings where appropriate.
Charles Philipps is not a member of the Remuneration Committee.
