CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance structures: supporting the strategy Our portfolio is diversified and broadly spread which enables us to manage effectively the impact of risk and uncertainties on the business.
David Tyler, Chairman Board composition and succession planning Dear Shareholders During the year, Jacques Espinasse retired from the Board after I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report for the Annual General Meeting AGM, following nine years service.
2016 which highlights the work undertaken during the year by I would like to record my thanks to Jacques for his valuable the Board.
As in previous years, this report should be read in contribution to the Board during this time.
Jacques was succeeded conjunction with our report on how we have complied with the UK by Pierre Bouchut as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During Corporate Governance Code on pages 115 and 119. the year the Nomination Committee reviewed thecomposition of the Board and succession planning at Board and senior Business performance in 2016 management level was also discussed.
A requirement for a senior As you will have read in the Strategic Report, the business has strategic role with responsibility for the UK and Irish portfolios performed well during the year and delivered strong financial was identified.
The Nomination Committee was kept abreast of results, despite the economic backdrop and uncertainties triggered the recruitment process for this role, which culminated in the by the referendum decision to leave the European Union.
Our appointment of Mark Bourgeois, who joined the Company on portfolio is diversified and broadly spread which enables us to 1 February 2017.
You can read more about the Committees work in manage effectively the impact of risks and uncertainties on the the Nomination Committee report on page 72. business.
We continue to focus on our strategy of ensuring our portfolio contains the best assets for future growth.
During the year we have sought to ensure Hammersons culture that our governance structures at Board During the year we have sought to ensure that our governance structures at Board and Committee level remain appropriate for and Committee level remain appropriate our business while supporting the delivery of our overall strategy for our business while supporting our and culture.
The Companys success depends on our continual overall strategy and culture.
commitment to high standards of corporate governance and a strong, positive culture both in the boardroom and across the business.
To see how far values endorsed in the boardroom are Board effectiveness embedded in the business, it is vital that we, as Directors, visit In my role as Chairman, my responsibility is to provide leadership our different locations and engage with colleagues at all levels.
and ensure that it is possible to make high quality decisions and You can read how Terry Duddy, the Senior Independent Director, that the Board operates effectively.
In this, I am supported by has done this during 2016 on page 68.
It is important that our all the Directors and by Terry Duddy, the Senior Independent approach reflects our values: ambition, respect, collaboration and Director, who meets independently with the other Directors and responsibility, and that the Board continues to take decisions that with shareholders, if required.
are consistent with the values and strategy Hammerson has set.
60 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The annual Board effectiveness reviews continue to provide a I am satisfied that shareholder dialogue valuable opportunity for the Board to reflect on how it operates and engagement has been broad-ranging and to propose any improvements.
This year, in accordance with during the year and that the Board is in the Boards programme of undertaking an external review every three years, the review was externally facilitated by Clare Chalmers touch with the opinions of major of Independent Audit.
Ms Chalmers findings have provided some shareholders.
ideas for us to continue to improve the way the Board works.
Further information on the process and outcomes, together with A shareholder perception study in which views were canvassed progress against objectives set during 2015, is provided on page 66. from a number of Hammersons major shareholders and other Appointment of External Auditor investors was undertaken for the Board by Investor Perceptions In last years Annual Report the Company confirmed that it Limited in 2016.
The Board reviewed the results of the study would undertake a selection and appointment process for a new in January 2017.
Twenty-one institutions representing 47% of External Auditor during 2016.
As part of its work this year, the the issued share capital participated in the exercise.
The Board Audit Committee has undertaken this exercise which resulted considered feedback particularly onthe retail real estate sector, in the appointment of  LLP PwC in the Groups strategy, risks to the business, the senior management October, subject to final approval by the shareholders at the next team and overall investor relations.
The selection and appointment process is fully As described above, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee described on page 75. engaged with major shareholders on remuneration matters.
I am satisfied that shareholder dialogue and engagement has been Remuneration Policy broad-ranging during the yearand that the Board is in touch with The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved in 2014 the opinions of major shareholders.
My fellow Directors and I also and has been operating for three years.
During the year, the look forward to having further opportunities for such engagement Remuneration Committee has spent time discussing a new anddiscussion with shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Remuneration Policy.
The Chairman of the Remuneration and at other times in 2017.
Committee has canvassed shareholders views and these have provided the Remuneration Committee with alternative perspectives to consider when finalising their proposals.
In David Tyler accordance with the regulations, shareholders will be asked to Chairman approve the new policy at the AGM in April 2017.
You can read full details about this in the Directors Remuneration Reportfrom page 78.
Engagement with shareholders An important area of focus for the Board during the year was the consideration of a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
We consulted with major shareholders as part of that process, before the decision was made to go ahead.
Further explanation of the process and rationale is give on page 69.
I met with a number of our top shareholders during the year to discuss key strategy and governance matters.
The General Counsel Compliance statement and Company Secretary also arranged a number of conference calls with shareholders to discuss governance topics.
During those The Company has complied in full during 2016 with calls shareholders were asked if they were satisfied with the level the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code of engagement and were offered an opportunity for a meeting published in April 2016. with the Senior Independent Director or the other Non-Executive Directors if required.
