6 intu properties plc Annual report 2016 Chairmans statement intu operates in a shopping centre environment where it is becoming more and more obvious that quality counts We have stuck to The changes we have made in our The last 12 months business over the last few years have Since the global financial crisis of 2008 9 our strategy of creating ensured that our centres are of the best we have stuck to our strategy of creating and managing the best quality and are backed by sound finance.
and managing the best shopping centres and are reaping the benets, with shopping centres and It has been my pleasure to serve as a another year of strong like-for-like net are reaping the benets, member of the Board for the last 16 years rental income growth and improved and as Chairman for the last eight.
with another year my tenure as Chairman we have been of strong like-for-like through many corporate and operational Our brand has been a key part of this changes, all the result of skilled and success, and awareness of the intu brand net rental income excellent teamwork.
The most significant continues to grow.
Our innovative digital growth and improved are the doubling in size of the business business goes from strength to strength over this period since the demerger with and in centre we have consistently operating metrics.
Capital & Counties and the creation of strong customer satisfaction.
Innovation and evolution continue The ever-changing face of retail has in the development of our centres.
continued apace and we have evolved We are on site with a major extension alongside this to be at the forefront of at intu Watford and we have signed innovation as a retail landlord with, for Nickelodeon at intu Lakeside for what example, the creation of intu Digital.
will be their first indoor mini-theme I said, when I first took over the Chair that park in the UK.
we are as much impresarios as landlords: we create a whole experience in our And, most recently, we have enhanced centres.
But around our centres we also our standing as the owner of the best take our corporate responsibility very shopping centres by taking our ownership seriously and, indeed, that is why I chair of intu Merry Hill to 100 per cent making the Committee that propels that forward.
it our fourth largest asset, nancing the acquisition by disposing of intu Bromley.
Chairmans prize 2016 winner Ruby Girl and Ruff Diamondz ince 2010 the annual Chairmans prize and intu Potteries Scompetition has showcased the range Ruby Girl and Ruff Diamondz is a Stoke-onof community engagement partnerships Trent charity which works with local young promoted by intu centres and revealed people to improve their self-esteem and deep evolving partnerships between our help them reach their potential.
Staff at centres and the varied communities they intu Potteries helped founder Dawnie Deaville serve.
Winning community organisations open a one-stop shop in the centre where receive a substantial prize to help them youngsters can improve their employability continue their vital work.
As well as a variety of programmes including life coaching, literacy and CV-writing, the enterprise centre has a number of workplaces including a shop, coffee bar, hairdresser and bicycle repair shop, to give young people skills they need to get on in life.
Strategic report Chairmans statement 7 2010 to promote the partnerships intu makes with local charities.
Some of the winners of this prize are highlighted below.
We focus closely on the environmental sustainability of our centres and this year we achieved ISO 50001 for energy management as well as retaining our Carbon Trust Standard for a third year.
Our people I would like to record my thanks to all our staff, as well as to the Board, for their commitment and dedication to intus values and vision in the year.
From our apprentices to our senior managers, we employ outstanding people to make sure our shopping Like-for-like net rental income For more details of our performance centres are the nest in the country.
Our growth in 2016 may I refer you to our Chief Executives people are at the heart of our business, review on pages 8 and 9 where David embodying our values and providing the Fischel reviews our business in 2016, and trademark world class service that sets to the financial review presented by our us apart from our competitors.
3.6% Chief Financial Officer Matthew Roberts 2015: 1.8% on pages 46 to 51.
I will step down as Chairman at this years AGM and I am pleased to announce Our role in society John Strachan as my successor.
He has Reduction in carbon emissions We believe strongly in the role we been a non-executive director since intensity since 2010 play in society.
As a successful company October 2015 and brings a wealth of we take to heart our responsibilities for, experience from the retail property and our role in, the communities where sector in the UK and internationally, our centres are located.
47% To those communities we look to Finally, on behalf of the Board I would bring not just financial support and like to thank Andrew Huntley who will encouragement but community also be stepping down as a director at participation, volunteering and sharing, the 2017 AGM after over seven years: we which multiplies the benets which have benefited enormously from his vast spring from every initiative.
I take a close experience in the property world as well interest in these initiatives and recognise as from his uncommon common sense.
the work of community groups through the Chairmans prize which was set up in Dividends Your Directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.4 pence per share, bringing 2015 winner 2014 winner the amount paid and payable in respect of Together Trust and National Literacy Trust 2016 to 14.0 pence, an increase of 0.3 pence intu Trafford Centre and intu Lakeside from the 2015 dividend.
A scrip dividend The intu Trafford Centre team joined forces intu Lakeside teamed up with the National alternative may be offered.
with local autism charity the Together Trust, Literacy Trust to work with young people, to make the centre the first autism-friendly especially those facing educational, medical, Looking to the future shopping centre in the UK.
They produced social and employment difficulties.
The With the strength of our brand, the materials for an event to highlight World project aimed to support young people quality of our centres, of our staff and of Autism Awareness Day in 2015 and 400 intu and their families with literacy and promote our management, and with the renancing employees were trained to understand how the benets of literature and reading for work we have undertaken over the past people with autism experience shopping everyone.
By bringing stories to life with book three years we are strongly positioned for centres.
As part of our brand promise, we donations and free family events, the project the future.
We are well placed to weather want to make our centres welcoming to encouraged more parents to read with their the uncertainties that lie ahead and emerge customers with autism and staff found the children.
The benets for children and condently to deliver value both to our training extremely helpful in increasing families within the immediate catchment shareholders and more widely for the their awareness.
area of the centre were impressive.
other stakeholders in the society in which we participate.
