52 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Dear Shareholder, Governance LETTER I am pleased to report that your Company has, once again, complied in full with the principles FROM THE of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
CHAIRMAN The Company has continued to follow the strategy set by the Board in 2010.
We have reshaped our portfolio of retail assets with a focus on thriving shopping centres capable ofproviding a great customer experience.
InLondon, we have been delivering a substantial development programme of offices into a supply-constrained market.
In both cases this has been achieved by recycling capital rather than increasing debt.
These activities are preparing us well for the next phase of the IT HAS BEEN ANOTHER BUSY property cycle, and they support our aim to make the business robust and sustainable.
YEAR OF TRANSACTIONAL During the year under review, the Board devoted more of its time to its own readiness ACTIVITY, AND LAND SECURITIES and the Companys to deal with any changes IS IN A STRONG POSITION.
THE in the market and resulting opportunities for the next cycle.
It also addressed the BOARD HAS BEEN SPENDING Companys governance, culture, purpose, vision and values, all of which are essential MORE OF ITS TIME ANTICIPATING ingredients to successful execution of a business strategy and risk management.
CHANGES AND UNCERTAINTIES IN Land Securities is in a strong position, with low gearing and ownership of a portfolio THE MARKET AND THEIR POSSIBLE of first class assets.
However, we continue to plan for the future, anticipating risks and IMPACT ON THE BUSINESS.
challenges, and being ready to move quickly Dame Alison Carnwath, Chairman if required.
The Board is allocating significant time to succession planning and talent development, and thinking about the skills andexperience required to keep delivering forour shareholders in these changing and uncertain markets.
Culture and diversity I believe that boards should give sufficient time not only to managing performance and results, but also to understanding the culture and values that underpin the company.
This year, Robert Noel and his executive team have spent considerable time and energy on embedding Land Securities values within the organisation, and reinforcing the levels of communication and behaviour that are expected of everyone.
Not only is it the right thing to do, but for our shareholders it demonstrates that management is focusing on the long term sustainability of the business and business model.
Having a strong culture provides a framework for the consideration and evaluation of risk, as well asdemonstrating a positive way of working with ourcustomers, communities, partners and employees.
Robs leadership on culture hasthe full support of the Board and wewill make this an area of priority again in the coming year.
We continue to promote and support diversity within the business.
Land Securities already meets the revised target under the Lord Davies report to have 33% women on the board by 2020.
Additionally, 29% of the STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2016 53 Executive Committee and 25% of the Senior The Boards specific strategy sessions provide Risk management Leaders within the organisation are women.
us with an opportunity for a wide-ranging Risk management and the nature of the We have also introduced a mentoring discussion with the Companys senior principal risks facing the Company is discussed programme designed to help women develop management on a number of topics and we find frequently by the Board.
Additionally, we held through our management ranks.
We strongly these meetings particularly insightful.
an externally facilitated risk review with the believe that diversity in all aspects, not just fullBoard and obtained specialist advice on Sustainability gender, provides the business with a better crisis and reputation management.
Details of The Board is mindful of the way that the future collective decision-making capacity.
the Companys principal risks and uncertainties of Land Securities and its priorities fit with and are set out on pages 4649.
Investor meetings support wider goals in society.
In my view, this There are two areas that I would like to The Board is conscious of the need for the wider perspective is now an essential touch on: security and Brexit.
We have Company to engage and communicate clearly ingredient to be considered by boards when witnessed dreadful scenes in Paris and with investors, and for its largest investors to making decisions in order that longer term Brussels, and, as a company, we are conscious have the opportunity to offer their views on viability is properly taken into account.
The risks that many visitors and employees come to our Land Securities and its strategy, management, that could affect Land Securities specifically, properties every day.
We have security remuneration and governance.
The executive together with broader threats affecting the procedures in place, supported by relevant team is widely recognised for its sector leading property sector or the economy as a whole, training, and we work with and support the investor relations programme.
are outlined in the Strategic Report on pages government authorities in this critical area.
During the year, I offered to hold 1450.
This is supplemented for the first time Separately, we have reviewed the increasing meetings with our largest investors.
Other by the introduction of a Viability Statement, for threat from cyber-attack.
Non-executive Directors attended and met which the Board has chosen to use a five year I am writing this letter before the British investors at our results presentations and time horizon, which appears on page 50. electorate has voted on whether to remain investor days.
Also, Rob and I held a group Sustainability in a broad sense is within the EU or leave.
Land Securities and its meeting with some long only potential regularly discussed at Board meetings and the Board are of the view that a vote to leave the investors to explain the Companys approach Company issues a separate Sustainability EU would result in a lengthy period of and to understand their perspectives, which Report that sets out our activity in more detail.
uncertainty during the negotiation of exit we found very informative.
We are making improvements against a wide terms.
This would likely create a fall in We also recognise and appreciate range of measures, and have considered our occupational demand, particularly for London the support of our lenders.
The Companys sustainability strategy to support our corporate offices, leading to a decline in office rents and treasury team meets debt providers and purpose and vision through three broad a fall in office values.
The impact on retail bond investors in the period following the themes creating jobs and opportunities, assets may be less pronounced.
The Board is publication of the Companys results, and bank efficient use of natural resources, and not able to judge whether the UK economy lenders have access to the Executive Directors.
would benefit in the years to come as this would, in large part, depend on the exit terms Board effectiveness Health, safety and security negotiated: therefore, the longer term impact The smooth operation of the Board and The health, safety and security of our customers, on the Company is harder to predict.
effective relationships between the Nonemployees, contractors and visitors to our executive and Executive Directors is critical properties remains of paramount importance.
The Board and firmly in place at Land Securities.
Frequent We work closely with our partners and our There were no changes to the composition of the and open conversations with Rob enable me safety record remains well ahead of industry Board during the year, and I would like to thank and the Board to understand and debate both benchmarks.
However, during the year, there my fellow Directors for their ongoing support, what is going on in the business and the was a tragic incident at one of our development wisdom and challenge.
sites in which a contractors employee was fatally Kevin OByrne who was appointed in We conducted an externally facilitated injured.
We are addressing the issues involved April2008 will relinquish his role as Senior Board evaluation during the year, the outcome in that case with the contractor to ensure that Independent Director and Chairman of the of which was very positive and confirmed that lessons learnt are shared with our industry Audit Committee in the coming year but will the Board and its Committees operate to a partners.
remain on the Board for the time being.
The Board discussed the Our own health and safety training delighted to say that Edward Bonham Carter will findings in detail at one of its meetings, programme meant that everyone within the assume the role of Senior Independent Director including observations from other executives business received relevant training during the with effect from 21July 2016, following the who attended Board meetings.
On our construction sites, and with the full Annual General Meeting, and a process is Imet with each of the Directors individually in co-operation of our construction partners, our underway to identify and appoint a new Director respect of their own performance.
Particular health and safety procedures are rigorous and to become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
strengths highlighted were the culture and non-negotiable.
As well as safety, we are also I say more about this in my letter to shareholders openness at Board meetings, the relationship focusing on the health aspect, by providing on the work of the Nomination Committee.
between the Directors and their ability to training and healthy eating options on our Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like challenge each other, the relationship with sites to promote health and well-being to those to thank management and all our colleagues at shareholders and the time allocated to future who work there and we are collaborating with Land Securities for their work, energy and issues that may affect the business.
others in our industry to set standards for passion throughout the year, and for the results As always, there is room for improvement occupational health.
I am confident that we and we have plans in place to ensure that we Other legislation was introduced during have an excellent team to steer Land Securities keep challenging ourselves to get better.
The the year on matters such as slavery and human through the challenges and opportunities Board agenda will continue to balance the trafficking protection.
need to provide oversight and governance of Company is taking active steps to address all aspects of the business, and the ability to these new requirements.
Dame Alison Carnwath debate and examine forward-looking strategy, Chairman including changes to the business environment and markets in which we operate and compete.
