Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Chairmans statement The further alignment of our portfolio towards distribution and the signicantincome contribution from our recently completed developments have enabled ustocomfortably meet our dividend progression commitment.
During the year, we have taken advantage of a strong property market and sold over 200 million of assets, the Income growth proceeds of which have been recycled embedded in the into attractive investments yielding portfolio provides good 100bps more than our sales.
predictability of future dividend progression.
Our developments in particular will generate good income and growth potential and we continue to leverage our skills and relationships to maximise current and future opportunities.
The income growth we achieved inthe Dividend per share year has not been at the expense of our portfolio metrics which are as strong as ever: WAULT remains at 13 years, We continue to receive tempting 7.25p occupancy is 99.3% and only 6.0% approaches for our assets and have ofrentexpires within the next five years.
recently made further disposals at 4% attractive prices.
With a less certain Our activities have enabled us to increase macro outlook, driven by concerns over the dividend for the year by 4% whilst economic growth and Brexit, interest also achieving a 1.1x dividend cover.
rates are unlikely to change in the short The income growth embedded in the term.
Whilst this low rate environment portfolio provides good predictability on cannot persist forever, the defensive future dividend progression which has, in characteristics of property, particularly its part, prompted us to announce that we long and strong income, should remain will commence payment of dividends on attractive for the foreseeable future.
Having served as a Non Executive Our portfolio is aligned to the winning Director for almost six years, Charles sectors of retail, principally distribution, Cayzer is to retire from the Board.
I should where the growth in online shopping like to thank him for his very significant and the need for better logistics is driving contribution.
I should also like to welcome strong occupational demand and Andrew Livingston as a Non Executive rental growth.
Director and look forward to working with him.
The Company will benefit from his We work tirelessly to enhance our extensive retail experience.
occupier and market relationships which, combined with our strong development and asset management capabilities, are fundamental to LondonMetrics success.
Patrick Vaughan Chairman 1 June 2016 Governance leadership see page 61
