As such, the Al Noor Group was a perfect CONTINUING A PATTERN OF fit.
Based on our initial experiences in South Africa CONSISTENT GROWTH and then our experience in Switzerland which, in relative terms, was a far larger transaction, we The period under review was a pivotal one for also understand what it takes to bring disparate Mediclinic as we made significant progress in businesses into a single, integrated whole.
I am pleased to report that during this eventful year, An added benefit is the Companys listing as a we also maintained our 30-year track record of FTSE 100 company on the London Stock Exchange.
This requires us to adapt the manner in which the business is governed.
We are well-positioned to Throughout the Group, we successfully delivered respond to this, given our long-standing emphasis an increase in bed days sold.
To me, this is the most on transparency and our strong ethical principles.
important measure of success, as it is indicative of patient choice and shows that we are retaining and The 29.9% investment in Spire Healthcare was a attracting sufficient doctors to support our growth.
different type of transaction, giving us exposure This enables us to deliver operating efficiencies.
to the expanding UK market, providing the Group with a further opportunity to diversify into a new Furthermore, we made good progress towards our geography.
One Mediclinic initiative, through which we are investing in IT, benchmarking our performance, and ensuring that best practices are shared across our BOARD CHANGES operations.
This is starting to pay dividends in the The listing of Mediclinic on the London Stock form of increasing operational efficiency and Exchange necessitated the reconstitution of helping to unlock the benefits of an integrated, the Board to reflect our increased international international Group.
presence with effect from the completion date of the Combination of 15 February 2016.
Sadly, we had Our financial performance also reflects the robust health of the business.
It is in line to say farewell to two long-standing members of with our budget expectations, supporting Mediclinic International Limited Board, Kabs Makaba continued growth.
and Anton Raath, and I would like to thank them for their contribution to the Group over many years.
We were delighted that Ian Tyler and Seamus Keating, INVESTING IN INTERNATIONAL previously Chairman and Senior Independent Director EXPANSION of Al Noor respectively, agreed to continue on the Board.
Ian was appointed as the Senior Independent Our investments in the Middle East and the UK were Director and Seamus remained as an independent the two key highlights of the year.
non-executive director of the reconstituted Board, The strategic rationale for the Mediclinic and Al Noor bringing considerable insight and experience of the Combination was compelling.
Where possible, our Middle Eastern healthcare market.
preferred method of growth has always been to add to existing hospitals and expand into neighbouring 6 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Dr Edwin fide la H Hertzog Non-executive Chairman The Mediclinic International Limited board also had The Group has always had a long-term outlook in an greater executive director representation.
To maintain industry that it knows well, enjoys participating in and the right balance of directors on the Board, three where good opportunities for sensible growth have of the previous executive directors Koert Pretorius, always been found.
We therefore continue to believe CEO of Mediclinic Southern Africa: Dr Ronnie van der that Mediclinic will be able to maintain a consistent Merwe, Chief Clinical Offi cer: and Dr Ole Wiesinger, growth pattern.
CEO of Hirslanden were also not appointed to the new enlarged Board.
The platform CEOs and other THANK YOU FOR YOUR executive management attend, but not vote at, Board meetings as necessary.
We plan to appoint two CONTINUED SUPPORT additional independent directors in the year ahead.
As ever, I want to express my sincere thanks to everyone who contributed to Mediclinics continued To ensure that the Group continues to benefi t from a success, including our directors, management, strong, stable leadership team, succession planning doctors, nurses and support staff.
will be another priority for the 2016 2017 fi financial year.
Following the announcement early this year by In particular, the support of patients and medical our Chief Financial Offi cer, Craig Tingle, of his intention professionals is absolutely vital to the sustainability to retire, the Board appointed Jurgens Myburgh of our business, and we deeply appreciate the fact as his successor.
He will take over from Craig on that they have chosen Mediclinic ahead of alternative 1 August 2016.
Craig has played a key role in building healthcare providers.
the Mediclinic Group and on behalf of the Board, Finally, I would like to extend a special thank you to I would like to express my sincere appreciation for all our shareholders for the confi dence they have all his exceptional contributions.
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS Whilst we are operating in a growing industry, it is a competitive one both within the private sector and often also with public sector facilities.
We are very aware that staying ahead is a continuous challenge.
Dr Edwin fide la H Hertzog Having the services available of high-quality doctors, Non-executive Chairman nurses and support staff is critical to the success of our business.
The leading independent research company, Gallup, was commissioned during 2015 to undertake an employee engagement survey across all three our platforms for us to understand where there were opportunities to deliver improvements in the workplace.
Although the results were good, we would still like to see a more positive trend, so more work will be done in this regard.
