Overview Chairmans 2016 Report to Shareholders Continued growth and extension of reach 2016 saw the Company progress a number of acquisitions to continue the execution of our growth strategy to put in place, and to grow, an integrated multi-vertical and multi-brand healthcare network across several geographies.
Dear Shareholder, In addition to its own strong track record FINANCIAL STABILITY of performance, the hospital will benefit The maintenance of financial stability I am writing to you at the end of another from the introduction of mandatory has been a very important concern year in which the Company has made insurance in Sharjah which is expected in of your company during this period of excellent progress both in the execution the near future and from referral business substantial growth.
In 2016, the Board of its growth strategy and in its from the Groups existing medical facilities have been keen to retain flexibility with management of existing operations.
regards to financing, as well as ensuring that the Group is well funded for both 2016 has seen Group Revenue increase Our IVF business, Clinica Eugin based in general working capital purposes and from US$880.9m in 2015 to US$1,220.8m Barcelona, Spain, extended its geographic to facilitate strategic acquisitions.
Consolidated EBITDA also coverage during the year with improved by 63.7% from US$150.3m to acquisitions of IVF facilities in Denmark In December 2016, to coincide with the US$246.1m in the last financial year.
This and Brazil, extending to 5 countries.
announcement of the acquisition of continued excellent performance has The acquisition of Fakih IVF early in Al Zahra Hospital, the Board decided resulted in the Group growing significantly 2016 resulted in the Group operating one to utilise the authority given to them by in size.
We now employ 11,252 people of the largest IVF businesses in the world.
shareholders at the 2016 AGM, to carry out and have a market capitalisation as a Share Placing amounting to 9.9% of the of the end of February 2017 of 3.5bn.
During 2016, our geographic spread Companys existing issued share capital.
was further strengthened with our entry This Share Placing raised US$322.3m STRATEGY AND ACQUISITIONS into the Saudi Arabian market.
In August which, alongside additional financing 2016 saw the Company progress a 2016 we announced the acquisition facilities, meant that the Company number of acquisitions to continue the consummated early 2017, of a 70% stake is now well financed for the future.
execution of our growth strategy to put in As Salama Hospital, a leading general in place, and to grow, an integrated hospital in Al Khobar, Saudi Arabia.
DIVIDEND multi-vertical and multi-brand healthcare In addition, ProVita, the Groups Long As a result of our continued growth, network across several geographies.
Term Care business, invested in a start-up good performance and financial stability, The acquisitions which we have made in purpose-built long-term care facility your Board intends to retain its dividend 2016, together with our continuing organic with a licensed capacity of 120 beds in payment policy of distributing a dividend expansion, and good performance from Jeddah in Saudi Arabias western region.
of approximately 20% of profit after tax.
operations, have enabled your Company, These two investment represent your Therefore, the Board plans to submit as indicated above, to maintain sustained companys first step into the largest a resolution to shareholders at the growth in the 2016 financial year.
2017 Annual General Meeting authorising payment of a cash dividend of 10.6 pence The largest acquisition we have made ORGANIC EXPANSION per share, an increase of 70.9% compared to date, Al Zahra Hospital in Sharjah, During the year, our new 250 licensed to the 2015 dividend payment.
UAE, was announced in December 2016 bed flagship super specialty Hospital, and approved by shareholders at the NMC Royal Hospital, in the Khalifa City BOARD General Meeting held on 29 December suburb of Abu Dhabi, opened for inpatient There have been no changes in board 2016.
As outlined to you in my letter of services.
NMC Royal Hospital has been structure over the last year.
The Board 14 December 2016, the acquisition of a vision of our founder and Executive believes it is well structured and has a Al Zahra Hospital provided the Company Vice Chairman and CEO, Dr B R Shetty, good balance to cope with the increasing with a unique opportunity to increase its for many years and the start of inpatient governance demands placed on Boards presence in the attractive Sharjah market.
services is a significant milestone for of companies listed on the Premium Al Zahra Hospital is one of the largest the Group.
This facility, and our other Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
private hospitals in the UAE, a scarce facilities opened over the last two years, asset that is difficult to replicate and Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital The Board has a wide cultural and ethnic considerably expands the Groups in Abu Dhabi and NMC General Hospital mix, significant female representation capacity in the region.
Dubai Investment Park, have been and a wide range of skills and operational ramping up better than anticipated, experience from different parts of the which is a testament to the strategic world.
Shareholders can therefore take planning of our management team re-assurance that different viewpoints and the hard work of our staff.
are represented during board discussions.
4 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 2.
Overview The Share Placing raised US$322.3m which, alongside additional financing facilities, meant that the Company is now well financed for the future.
EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION remuneration which is appropriate to OUTLOOK As you will be aware, the Remuneration NMC Health, and its strategy, during this Economic conditions remain challenging Committee has increased the unique period of growth.
We believe that within some of the markets in which remuneration paid to our Executive the initial delay in increasing Executive we operate.
However the price of oil has team over the last two years.
In addition, Remuneration was appropriate for your stabilised and the anticipated growth in Q4, 2016, the Committee felt that it Company, but also that the recent in private healthcare continues in the was an appropriate time to put in place short term phasing of remuneration UAE and the wider GCC.
Against this a new Directors Remuneration Policy, increases to catch up to market levels was background, trading conditions in the which included proposals to increase opportune, appropriate and, we believe, in markets in which we operate continue the maximum opportunity of variable the long term interests of all shareholders.
to be generally favourable and your Board remuneration paid to the Executive We look forward to your continued support continues to view the outlook for your Directors and the Senior Management in relation to remuneration matters.
The changes made in the new policy, which was approved by MANAGEMENT AND STAFF shareholders on 29 December 2016, were The Board is delighted with the excellent H. J.
MARK TOMPKINS set out in the circular to shareholders progress that the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Chairman circulated on 14 December 2016.
Senior Management Team have made in continuing to grow the Group in 2016 The Board is aware of the significant and also in pursuing an integration policy focus on Executive Remuneration, to ensure that all acquired businesses are particularly in the UK where the Company integrated into the Group effectively and is listed.
As set out in the December 2016 at an appropriate pace.
The Board also shareholder circular proposing the new acknowledges how difficult it can be to Directors Remuneration Policy, our produce excellent results from existing Executive remuneration was at Group businesses whilst also managing a low level compared to comparable an integration plan alongside continued companies for a number of years strategic growth.
The Board would like to following the Companys IPO.
After the thank Dr Shetty and his Executive Team completion of the initial phase of the for the significant contribution made in Groups growth plan, the Committee, the last 12 months.
supported by the Board, decided that it would be an appropriate time to Across the Group, we continue to consider reward management for their excellent the Companys human capital as vital to performance and to acknowledge the the success of your Company, particularly fact that the size and complexity of the during this period of significant change Group had increased.
These moves were and growth.
Our doctor and employee also intended to incentivise the team turnover remains low which we believe in the implementation of the Groups is a testament to the loyalty of our staff acquisition strategy.
and the environment in which they work and practice.
We have welcomed new Shareholders have enjoyed significant businesses and employees to the NMC value accretion over the last few years family and both the Board and I would and the new remuneration structures like to thank them all, whether new or now in place incentivise management long time employees, for their continued to produce continuing good performance commitment, contribution, energy and which is expected to lead to further goodwill during this continuing period accretion of shareholder value in the of change and growth.
The Remuneration Committee, and the Board, appreciate shareholder feedback on all matters, including Executive Remuneration.
We believe that we took a correct approach on NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5 Strategic Report Strategic Report 6 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Strategic Report Extending the reach and footprint of the Group NMC expanded into Saudi Arabia in 2016 through the Long-term & Home care vertical by announcing the acquisition of As Salama Hospital, which was subsequently consummated in early 2017.
Today NMC is the leading private sector healthcare group in the UAE and one of the most advanced and diversified operators in the MENA Middle East and North Africa region.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
