Chairmans Introduction EU referendum result in June in our UK China.
However, despite these challenges, 2016 Performance business, which was down 3.5% on the this category was flat on the prior year In 2016 we celebrated our 40th anniversary, prior year and the continued uncertainty in constant currency, and continues to we have certainly come a long way since in the Financial Services sector which represent 30% of Group gross profit.
From those initial days, trading above had a negative effect on a number of our To enable us to grow our market presence, a laundrette in London, we have grown into businesses, in particular the US, which we have continued to expand our a FTSE 250 company with operations in 36 was down 3% in constant currency.
We disciplines into new countries such as countries and over 6,000 staff.
continued to invest in to new markets and Procurement and Supply Chain into India disciplines and finished the year with an The Group recorded its highest level of and Malaysia as well as Healthcare and increase in the number of fee earners to gross profit in 2016 of 621m, an increase Life Sciences into Poland and Portugal.
At the same time we continued of 11.7% over the prior year in reported We will also invest in headcount, not only to deliver efficiencies in our back office rates and 3.0% in constant currency, with in our Large High Potential Markets, but activities and finished the year with a fee 20 of our 36 countries delivering their best also in those businesses where growth is earner to operational support staff ratio of recorded level of gross profit.
However, our strongest and where market conditions 77:23.
During the year, our new headcount growth was impacted by the unexpected support investment.
We have made good was added at a ratio of 86 fee earners for progress in setting up our European every 14 operational support staff as we Shared Service Centre.
The Marketing and continued to move towards our target ratio Finance elements of the transition are now of 80:20. complete and we are approximately two The best performing region was once thirds of the way through the IT transition.
again our largest region, EMEA, which As well as improving quality and efficiency delivered another strong year, with now through improved operational consistency, 10 consecutive quarters of double-digit it is anticipated that this will lead to cost gross profit growth in constant currency.
David Lowden EMEA grew gross profit 25.3% in reported During 2016, we completed the roll-out of Chairman rates over the prior year and 11.5% in our operating system, Page Recruitment constant currency, an outstanding result.
Initial feedback has been In terms of gross profit, Southern Europe extremely positive, with consultants grew over 18% in constant currency.
benefiting from the enhanced speed and There were a number of other pleasing functionality of the new system.
Each PRS results such as Latin America, outside of roll-out also saw the introduction of our Brazil, which also grew strongly, up 19% next generation website, a key part of our on the prior year in constant currency, approach to candidate acquisition.
and the US, excluding New York Financial Services, which grew 11%.
However, our business in Brazil was once again subject We continued to invest to difficult trading conditions.
The macroeconomic environment in Brazil continued in to new markets and to impact our business, with negative disciplines growth in constant currency of 21%.
In our Asia Pacific region, although we had strong performances across a number of our countries, the trading environment in One of the key factors of our continued Greater China meant our businesses there success is the retention of our highly had a difficult year, down 2.2% in constant talented people.
The importance of their currency.
continued dedication and willingness to move within the business to where The PageGroup leadership team also they can add most value, cannot be continues to make progress on the underestimated and is greatly appreciated.
In 2017, we will continue Our ongoing focus on staff retention, to invest in our five Large High Potential mobility and development will enable us Markets, namely the US, Germany, to improve productivity and, consequently, South East Asia, Greater China and Latin improve conversion rates.
In November 2016, we opened our 36th country, Thailand, to extend our The Group benefited from positive foreign South East Asian platform.
In 2016, the exchange movements which increased overall performance of our Large Highour reported gross profit by 48m and Potential Markets was impacted by the operating profit by 10m.
Operating profit weak Financial Services market in New grew 12.1% in reported rates, 1.4% in York, the continued macroeconomic constant currencies and basic EPS rose issues in Brazil and uncertainty in Greater over 8%.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 1 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information We believe, our continued focus on our Board Strategic Report high potential markets, the roll-out of Your Board remains diligent in both This report sets out PageGroups new disciplines, increasing headcount supporting and challenging the executive strategic vision and how we address the where market conditions are favourable teams strategy recommendations and various markets and the opportunities and the investment in the skills of their responses to changing market before us.
We have highlighted areas our people, will enable us to achieve conditions.
Full details of the work of which are critical to achieving this vision, longer-term growth and deliver robust the Board and subjects discussed in such as our Employee Value Proposition shareholder returns.
the year are set out in the Directors and shown on page 19.
The report also details Committees reports.
our approach to corporate and social Dividends responsibility, including how we engage All Board members have considerable In 2016, in addition to paying over 36m with our stakeholders.
experience of working internationally in in ordinary dividends, we returned different parts of the world.
Indeed, the 20m to shareholders by way of a Looking Ahead Board has a good mix of relevant skills, special dividend.
This followed the 50m The global trading environment for 2017 is experience, gender and backgrounds.
we paid to shareholders in 2015, which very difficult to predict.
The UK will initiate This diversity is of great benefit to was the first time we had returned cash Brexit, the US with a new President will the business.
The Groups first use of introduce new economic policies, and cash remains to satisfy operational and In October 2016 we welcomed Michelle there will be elections in several of our investment requirements, as well as to Healy onto the Board.
Michelle has a major markets such as Brazil, Germany hedge its liabilities under the Groups wealth of experience in global human and France.
However, we will continue to share plans.
Our second use of cash is resources leadership and general focus on driving profitable growth while to make returns to shareholders by way management.
She is currently the being able to respond quickly to any of an ordinary dividend.
Cash generated Group Chief People & Culture Officer changes in market conditions, as we did in excess of these first two priorities will and a member of the Executive Group throughout 2016. be returned to shareholders through Management of ISS A S, a leading supplementary returns, using special global provider of facility services, listed Last, but by no means least, on behalf dividends and or share buybacks.
on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.
of the Board I would like to thank our Michelle has previously held global, people.
PageGroup is a people business Historically, the Group has returned cash regional and country leadership roles with a clear and tangible culture.
Our to shareholders through share buybacks with British American Tobacco plc and staff are dedicated, hard working and and cancelling the shares.
Her breadth of experience committed to the Brand.
They have a 15 years since flotation, the Group in global human resources leadership very strong team ethos which is evident in has returned over 275m by share will complement the experience of other everything we do.
Our success over the buybacks and cancelled around 30% Board members and I believe will bring last 40 years is purely due to their efforts.
of its issued share capital.
This is on great benefit to PageGroup.
top of over 350m of ordinary dividend payments during the same period and Baroness Ruby McGregor-Smith has the 70m returned by special dividend.
informed us that she will not renew Our ordinary dividend policy is to grow the term of her appointment when it the dividend over the course of the expires on 23 May 2017.
Consequently economic cycle in line with our longRuby will not stand for re-election at the term growth rate.
In this way we can forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
sustain the level of dividend payment Ruby has been a Non-Executive Director during downturns, as well as increasing of PageGroup for 10 years.
She has it during more prosperous times.
made an outstanding contribution over this time and has played an important role In 2016, we generated cash from in helping to drive the Groups growth and operations of 121.3m and ended the development.
I would like to thank her on year with cash balances of 92.8m.
behalf of the Board for all she has done Given this cash position and our results for PageGroup.
for the year, we propose to increase the final dividend to 8.23p.
When taken together with the interim dividend paid in October of 3.75p, this implies a total dividend of 11.98p, an increase of 4.2% on 2015.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 2 Overview Financial Strategic People Operational Highly profitable Sustainable organic growth Team-based service delivery Strong brands Business Maintain a strong balance Diversification to mitigate Talent and skills development Effective use of technology sheet cyclicality by geography, retention Model brand and discipline Highly cash generative Focus on operational P4 efficiency Long-term investment into To be the leading specialist Career development structure Assurance of a quality core markets: recruiter in each of the service markets in which we Large, High Potential: Effective recruitment operate Strategy process Large, Proven: and Small and Medium, P7 High Margin Macro-economic exposure Shift in business model People development Technology: systems transformation and Foreign exchange Delivery of operational Attraction and retention change: data security: translation risk efficiencies Risks brand reputation: financial management and control: fiscal and legal compliance P25 Gross profit growth Fee earner headcount Employee satisfaction survey Measurement performed growth at a granular level Gross profit diversification Management experience Gross profit per fee earner KPIs Earnings per share Fee earner:operational Net cash support staff ratio P15 Perm:Temp ratio Conversion rate EPS growth: 3 year Strategic targets Leadership and people Cost and financial cumulative development management IT transformation PBT performance Retention succession Risk management and Remuneration internal controls Comparator gross profit growth IT strategic development P53 Maintain a strong balance Return surplus cash to Ensure dividends are paid at First use of cash is to sheet shareholders sustainable levels such that satisfy operational and investment in the business and investment needs, as Dividend its people is maintained well as to hedge liabilities Policy under the Groups share plans P35 PageGroup Annual Report 2016 3
