4 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Chairmans statement Progress in 2016 can be judged by how we have overcome our challenges: we have delivered on our commitments in a difficult year while at the same time embarking on a significant transformation.
UNDERLYING EPS 30.1p PAYMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS 11.7p Ian Davis Chairman OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION P186 By necessity, the transformation programme conduct we have agreed to pay financial Last year I talked about how Rolls-Royce targeted simplifying the way we manage the penalties and costs of around 671m.
These is a business in transition and how business and reducing our fixed cost base.
dishonest acts, some as recent as 2013, are a important the next few years were Ihave been very encouraged by the major blemish on the reputation of the going to be, laying the groundwork for engagement across the Group on what is, business and we have apologised unreservedly.
In 2016, we have made understandably, a difficult exercise for Importantly, the Board has taken extensive many and which has seen around 20% of a good start to the transformation action to strengthen ethics and compliance management roles being removed.
programme, designed to bring procedures across the Group over recent significant and sustainable benefits There is much more to do in terms of years, so that high standards of conduct are efficiency and behavioural change to achieve embedded as an essential part of the way we over the coming years.
Key to this will do business.
We share a determination to see Our core strengths lie in our product portfolio, be embedding the thinking around pace and that Rolls-Royce comes out of this episode as a admired by our customers and respected by simplicity that Warren East, your Chief more trusted, resilient and better managed our competitors.
This underpins our Executive, has brought to the business.
He business that wins right every time.
Every exceptional order book which will drive future will talk more about how we are doing employee, from the bottom to the top of the shareholder value.
To unlock these benefits, we this in the Strategic report.
Group, is fully aware of the importance of need to sustain our investment in our key doing the right thing.
competitive advantages, including our Corporate governance As described in the Nominations & world-leading research & development Governance Committee report see page 70 capability, as we introduce new products, The recent settlements, with the UK Serious our governance framework was rolled out in ramp up production and expand our service Fraud Office and other authorities, are a the summer and provides clarity and capability to support our growing aftermarket.
salient reminder of how critical it is to accountability, providing additional integrity 'winright'.
As a result of past, unacceptable to our business.
STRATEGIC REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 5 Colin Smith will be leaving the Company after communication programme in 2016 to 43 years of service and will be stepping down outline the changes, culminating in the capital from the Board after this years AGM.
Colin has markets' event in November.
You can read made a major contribution to the success more about this on pages 66 and 130. of the business over many years, including We have noted with interest the 12 years on the Board.
I would like to thank Governments green paper on UK Corporate These dishonest acts both David and Colin for their valuable Governance: The Options for Change and we support during their time with Rolls-Royce.
are a major blemish are actively taking steps to strengthen our More detail on the changes to the Board are interaction with stakeholders, particularly on the reputation of the set out in the Nominations & Governance employees.
Further detail is included in my business and we have Committee report on page 68. introduction to the Directors report on page 58.
I look forward to reporting our apologised unreservedly.
Overall I believe we have a strong and progress in our Annual Report next year.
experienced Board, fully engaged with the business and well able to provide both Since taking over as chairman of the Shareholder payments support and scrutiny in equal measure.
Remuneration Committee in May, Ruth Cairnie has undertaken a comprehensive Our stated objective in the long term is consultation on our proposed new incentive to progressively rebuild our payment to Rebuilding trust and confidence schemes, ahead of this years AGM.
You can shareholders to an appropriate level, subject We made significant efforts in 2016 to read more about our proposed remuneration to the short-term cash needs of the business.
improve our communication with policy in the Directors remuneration report This reflects the Boards long-standing stakeholders.
The foundations laid in the on pages 72 to 82. confidence in the strong future cash second half of 2015 were enhanced by a generation of Rolls-Royce.
Feedback from investors suggests that we broad range of engagement, including have improved the level of engagement, At this stage, the investment needs of the formal events such as the corporate transparency and openness in many of our business remain high, reflected in the low governance seminar in April, which I hosted, communications.
While we can always do level of free cash flow in 2016 and this is and the capital markets' event in November, better, I believe the team has made a strong expected again in 2017.
In addition, the Board led by Warren and his team.
This latter event start in rebuilding trust.
sees the need to retain a degree of balance brought together senior management from sheet flexibility.
all of our business units with analysts and I know Warren looks forward to introducing investors.
The event gave our guests the Stephen Daintith and Simon Kirby, our new As a result, it is proposed that the final chance to ask questions and improve their Chief Operating Officer, to the market in the payment for 2016 is unchanged from 2015 understanding of the business.
coming months to present their combined at 7.1 pence per share.
Taken together with views on the strategic priorities for the the interim payment, this brings the full year Despite the challenges we face as a business, business, which will define our future path.
payment to 11.7 pence per share.
As with past we know how important it is to sustain our payments, the distribution will be in the form investment in our people and communities.
Looking forward This has included maintaining active graduate and apprenticeship schemes, as well 2017 will be another transformative year as investing in our research partnerships Board developments for Rolls-Royce.
We continue to operate in and STEM science, technology, engineering uncertain markets and will need to respond During the year, there have been a number of and mathematics programmes.
Internally, we to shifting market dynamics, while at the important changes to the Board.
In March, we are working hard on employee engagement, same time make progress on our core appointed Brad Singer, a partner of ValueAct including initiatives around diversity and priorities both in terms of customer deliveries Capital, to the Board, at which time he also wellbeing see Sustainable business on and internal organisation changes.
joined the Science & Technology Committee.
page 42 and the Safety & Ethics Committee Sir Kevin Smith took over the role of Senior report on page 109.
Warren has been building a strong and Independent Director from Lewis Booth, who experienced management team to help him During the year, we have also done significant continues as chairman of the Audit achieve his strategic and operational goals.
work on the new revenue reporting standard, Committee, animportant role for us at the The Board will continue to both challenge IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with present time.
In May, following the 2016 AGM, andsupport their actions as they work to Customers.
Due to be adopted at the start of Dame Helen Alexander stepped down from ensure we transition successfully over the 2018, this will go a long way to better align the the Board.
In November 2016, Alan Davies next few years to a more profitable and recognition of profit and cash for our original stepped down from the Board.
equipment business in particular, and will In addition, we announced in September help make our performance improvements thatStephen Daintith will join the Board in more transparent.
Ibelieve this will be Ian Davis 2017 as Chief Financial Officer.
His record of welcomed by many stakeholders, but may take Chairman achievement in change management is time to be properly understood.
As a result, 13 February 2017 particularly relevant to the Group.
He will we have undertaken a progressive succeed David Smith.
