Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Dividend and Free Shares Following the Governments sale of its remaining stake in Royal Mail, the Company is now 100 per cent owned by private shareholders and institutional investors.
This includes 11 per cent given to eligible colleagues for free, with a further one per cent to be allocated in due course.
This helps to create alignment between the interests of our hardworking colleagues and our broad shareholder base.
Since our flotation on the London Stock Exchange in October 2013, and including our proposed final dividend, eligible fulltime colleagues who have received the maximum allocation of 832 Free Shares will have received over 430 in dividend payments.
We remain committed to our progressive dividend policy.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 15.1 pence per ordinary share on 29 July 2016, subject to approval by our shareholders at our 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The proposed total dividend of 22.1 pence per ordinary share is a five per cent increase on the total dividend of 21.0 pence per ordinary share for 201415.
A responsible employer We are proud to deliver the Universal Service to over 29 million addresses across the UK, sixdaysaweek.
Our contribution to the UK, as an employer and a delivery company, continues to be significant.
In 201516, we made the fifth Chairmans statement largest contribution to the wider UK economy of 1 all UK corporations.
2 A recent survey found that more than This year marks a milestone in our history.
The postal twothirds of British adults have a favourable service is celebrating 500 years of connecting people, view of Royal Mail.
This placed us at the top of all the brands featured.
The survey also supporting businesses and driving innovation.
found that we are an important part of local communities 85per cent, an important part of I feel privileged to join such an historic organisation at the UK economy 81 per cent, and an important part of society 83 per cent.
apivotal moment in its history.
On 1 September 2015, Isucceeded Donald Brydon as Chairman.
I would like to We want to be recognised as an industry leader in the important area of safety.
We are delivering thank Donald for his hard work and commitment.
I look a reduction in Lost Time Accidents one of forward to continuing to work with Moya and the Board our 14 Key Performance Indicators KPIs for 201516.
We have reduced sick absence, as the Company continues to transform and meet the another of our 201516 KPIs, with a five per cent challenges that lie ahead.
improvement on last year see page 18 for more information.
Our aim is to build a proactive zero harm safety culture.
Our focus on colleague health and wellbeing means we are one of only four companies Peter Long to have achieved lead company status Chairman in the 2015 Business in the Community 18 May 2016 Wellbeing Benchmark.
1 Comprising direct and indirect contributions.
Cebr research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2016 2 Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey Winter 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 05 Royal Mail plc | Chairmans statement A responsible company Ihave felt very welcomed by the Board and Journey ahead 201516 saw the continuation of our successful would like to thank them for their counsel.
I am impressed by the dedication of our people partnership with the Stroke Association, to our Company and to the communities for which we have raised 1.1 million so far, I also have the pleasure of working alongside we serve.
This continues to be a time of including matched funding.
By the end of our Royal Mails Chief Executive Officer, Moya transformation, as we progress along our twoyear partnership in August, we hope to Greene.
Her achievements to date in journey of innovation, change, and growth in have reached our target of raising 2 million to transforming the Company, driving efficiency new areas, while driving for increased efficiency help the charity provide Life After Stroke grants and steering Royal Mail through a period of and embedding a cost conscious culture.
of up to 300 each to help around 10,000 stroke significant change which continues are survivors.
Our colleagues always go the extra impressive.
I look forward to continuing to work mile to help our charity partners.
Every penny closely with Moya as we seek to create a more they raise is matched by our Company, up to a agile, responsive business.
Peter Long As stated in last years Annual Report and Chairman Our partnership with the charity Missing People Financial Statements 201415, the effectiveness 18 May 2016 provides additional eyes and ears in the search of the Board, its Committees, the Executive for vulnerable individuals up and down the Directors, NonExecutive Directors and the country.
We have made our extensive Postal Chairman Donald Brydon was assessed in Digital Assistant PDA network available to the September 2014 by an external consultancy.
charity to distribute alerts for High Risk Missing As such, the Company was not required to People and Child Rescue Alerts.
By sharing Child carry out an independent evaluation for this Rescue Alerts through our national network, reporting year.
The same company was engaged weeffectively doubled the number of people to review the effectiveness of the Board and who received them.
the Remuneration Committee, since my appointment, for the year ended 27 March 2016.
Celebrating our heritage More details can be found in the Governance We continue to support the Postal Museum section on page 51. formerly the British Postal Museum and Archive at an exciting time in its history.
Thelast year has been significant for the Dow Jones Postal Museum: work is now underway on its renovations and the Museum and Mail Rail are due to open to the public in 2017.
We are also delighted that the Postal Museum joined us as a heritage partner for our celebrations marking 500 years of the postal service.
Together, we have created an online gallery of 500 objects, people and events at www.
Thisgallery tells the story not only of the postal service but also of its contribution to social and political history over the last 500years.
In this historic year for our Company, we were In 2015, Royal Mail plc was named as global companies in marine, rail, trucking, freight honoured that Her Majesty The Queen visited sustainability leader in the Transportation and forwarding, and logistics and infrastructure our delivery office in Windsor to mark our Transportation Infrastructure Industry in the businesses.
The visit took place on Dow Jones Sustainability Indices for the second th 20 April 2016, the day before her 90 birthday.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices are year running.
Royal Mail is included in both The occasion was made even more special by the longest running and one of the most the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and her consenting to the office being renamed widelyused benchmarks in the field.
They are DowJones Sustainability Europe Index.
based on the assessments by RobecoSAM, We achieved industryleading scores for a company that specialises in sustainability Our Board corporate citizenship and philanthropy, tax investing.
In addition to the stepping down of my strategy, social reporting and stakeholder predecessor, John Allan resigned from the Royal engagement, ahead of around 80 other Mail plc Board of Directors on 30 April 2015. organisations in the transportation sector.
This includes groundbased transportation The first pillar boxes in the British Isles were erected in Jersey in 1852 as a trial.
The trial was considered a success and boxes began appearing across mainland Britain from 1853.
See the inside back page to learn more.
06 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16
