Strategic Report 09 Overview Governance Financial Statements Chairmans Statement Strong performance from a unique portfolio The Chairmans Statement last year referred Board Changes to our expectation of slowing capital growth Nigel Rich retired as Chairman during the year in 2016 and this was the main reason that our and I would like to thank him on behalf of the profit before tax was 426.4 million, compared Board for his 10 years of service to SEGRO.
Our Adjusted He has provided invaluable guidance and profit before tax, which excludes the impact expertise during a period of great change in the ofvaluation movements, improved by Company and will be missed by everyone who 11.5 per cent to 154.5 million.
As planned, our acquisition activity slowed Justin Read, who had been SEGROs Group during the year, with capital focused instead Finance Director since 2011, retired from the on developing new assets and securing Board and the Company on 31 December development opportunities for the future.
On behalf of the Board and our To help fund these developments we raised shareholders I would like to thank Justin for his 325 million of new equity through an equity expert stewardship of the Companys finances placing in September.
We are grateful for the and his significant contribution towards the vote of confidence in our investment plans transformation of the Company over the past shown by our shareholders and are already five years.
He leaves with our best wishes for a This is my first Chairmans Letter starting to see the benefits of those initiatives.
and it is a pleasure to be able to Looking ahead, we expect to benefit from the On 16 January 2017, Soumen Das joined the report such a strong set of results solid economic growth prospects in our markets Company and the Board as Chief Financial in what has been an invigorating and, more importantly, from the continued fast Officer.
Prior to joining SEGRO, Soumen held and busy year.
changing nature of retail supply chains which the same role at Capital & Counties Properties are driven by the shift towards e-commerce and plc and has had extensive experience in real SEGRO is a company in robust health.
Interest rates are expected estate during his career.
I welcome Soumen to Our unique portfolio of big box and urban to remain low and the relatively high yields and SEGRO and wish him well in his new role.
warehouses in key transport hubs and long income streams available from high quality population centres around Europe has allowed Dividend warehousing should continue to be attractive us to make the most of economic growth The Board has assessed the results for 2016 to investors, reinforcing our focus on income across Europe and, in particular, to capitalise and the outlook for earnings.
It has concluded generation as the primary driver of returns.
on the changing nature of retailing towards that it is appropriate to recommend an increase e-commerce and consumer convenience.
We are operating in an environment of political in the final dividend per share of 0.6 pence and economic uncertainty across Europe, and to 11.2pence 2015: 10.6 pence which will These factors are reflected in our strong beyond, not least as a result of the repercussions be paid as a Property Income Distribution.
operating performance: our rental income of the UKs vote to leave the EU.
We are The Board has decided to retain a scrip dividend grew by 4.0 per cent on a like-for-like basis, confident that the actions taken over the past option, allowing shareholders to choose our vacancy rate remained low at 5.7 per cent five years mean that we have a portfolio of whether to receive the dividend in cash or new and we contracted 44.9 million of new rent quality assets, in the right places, which are shares.
The total dividend for the year will be during the year, 14 per cent more than in 2015. well positioned to survive and thrive amid 16.4pence, an increase of 5.1 per cent on 2015 This translated into Adjusted earnings per this uncertainty.
There are more details on page 30 share of 19.7 pence, 7.1 per cent higher than and 103 of this Report.
in 2015, which has given the Board confidence The Board is grateful to all our employees for to increase the total dividend for the year by another year of hard work in delivering these 5.1per cent.
results, and for the continued support of our Gerald Corbett customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The investment market for good quality Chairman industrial and logistics properties has remained strong, notwithstanding the uncertainty caused by the UKs decision to leave the European Union.
Our portfolio increased in value by 4.8per cent during the year compared to 11.1per cent in 2015, combining a 6.4percent increase in the UK and 1.6 per cent in Continental Europe.
