CHAIRMANS STATEMENT IN THIS, MY FIRST STATEMENT AS CHAIRMAN, I WOULD LIKE TO THANK THE BOARD AND STAFF, NOT ONLY FOR WELCOMING ME AND HELPING ME THROUGH MY INDUCTION TO THE BUSINESS OVER THE PAST FEW MONTHS, BUT, MORE IMPORTANTLY, FOR DELIVERING SUCH A STRONG SET OF RESULTS.
Our proven long-term strategy, with its We maintain a regular dialogue with all our OUTLOOK relentless focus on the delivery of sustainable institutional shareholders through meetings Despite current political and economic rental growth, continues to produce and tours of our portfolio, and always welcome uncertainties around the world, London market-leading total shareholder returns the views, both positive and negative, from and the West End are flourishing, and their and we are confident it will continue to do so.
all stakeholders, on our performance and long-term prospects remain as bright as standards of corporate behaviour.
National and international businesses OUR PORTFOLIO I have been particularly impressed with the are continuing to invest and locate here and Our portfolio is exceptional not only in its Groups commitment to sustainability in the domestic and overseas visitors are coming, in geographical concentration in the lively management of its portfolio and its sociallyever-growing numbers, to experience its heart of Londons West End, but its focus responsible approach to its operations.
We world-class attractions, shopping, restaurant, on restaurants, cafs, leisure and retail have a widely-recognised reputation for the leisure and entertainment choices.
ft. in some 600 stewardship of our extensive ownership of combination of vast public and private buildings.
Our innovative and enterprising mainly older buildings.
Our skill in bringing both investment in Londons transport network, management strategy has a long record of environmental and economic sustainability, public realm, infrastructure and building creating and fostering distinctive locations preserving and enhancing the iconic West stock is supporting both the citys reputation in which our tenants businesses can prosper End locations we own, is a key aspect of our as a global destination and the long-term through growing footfall and visitor spending.
We are very active in, and prospects for the West End and our portfolio.
This, in turn, supports our goal of generating committed to, the communities in which With the companys patient, long-term sustainable demand, which drives rental we operate.
We work with local resident strategy, and a committed, experienced and capital value growth but with relatively and stakeholder groups, addressing a range and enthusiastic management team, the low capital expenditure, all of which enhances of social and other issues and support our Board and I are confident we shall continue shareholder returns.
Our portfolio, which is local councils and other statutory authorities our successful record of delivering growing now valued at 3.35 billion, is unique in wherever we can assist.
dividends and out-performance in total London and would be impossible to replicate.
JONATHAN LANE GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY On behalf of the Board and our shareholders, I join a company which has shown an I would like to thank Jonathan Lane for his exceptional commitment to high standards Jonathan Nicholls outstanding contribution to Shaftesburys of corporate governance, transparency and Chairman development over its first 30 years.
We strive to adopt qualities and strength of the business today, 29 November 2016 best practice across every aspect of the and its long-term prospects, are a testament business, overseen by an effective and to his commitment, determination, wide knowledgeable Board.
He has handed over a company in great shape.
4 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
