Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Group had another very strong year in 2016, are essential to their tenants businesses and cannot be easily replicated.
Over the course of the year we had a strong price as we continued to implement our investment performance, and delivered a Total Shareholder Return of 15.1%, strategy and benefited from the compelling as compared to the FTSE 250 Index, the FTSE All-Share REIT fundamentals of our market.
We met our dividend Index and the EPRA NAREIT UK Index which delivered total target of 6.2 pence per share and delivered a total returns of 6.7%, 7.0% and 8.5% respectively.
return of 9.6%, above our medium-term target of 9% per annum.
Financial results The Groups financial performance was strong, with a 75.0% The 10 assets we acquired and two assets that were conditionally increase in operating profit before changes in fair value of exchanged during 2016 further diversified the portfolio by investment properties and a 25.2% rise in EPRA earnings per geography and tenant.
We benefited once again from the share EPS, when calculated under IFRS.
The EPRA net asset Managers outstanding network, market intelligence and capital value per share grew by 3.5% to 129.00 pence, or 4.7% when discipline, to source the majority of these assets off-market and viewed on a like-for-like basis taking into account the timings at attractive yields.
This was particularly important in the period of distributions made, against those made in the period to after the EU Referendum, when we acquired five attractively 31 December 2015. priced investments from open-ended property funds seeking liquidity to meet redemption demand.
At the year end, the We have a low and transparent cost base and continue to benefit portfolio was independently valued at 1.89 billion, reflecting from economies of scale as we grow.
Our total expense ratio for a like-for-like valuation uplift of 3.5%.
2016 fell by 3 basis points to 1.06% whilst our EPRA cost ratio also fell to 15.8%, both of which compares favourably with our peers, During the year, we successfully completed four of our preand we expect to deliver further savings as a result of adding two let forward funded developments, with one further asset new lower rate investment management fee bands.
completing after the year end.
During the year we acquired two and conditionally exchanged on a further two pre-let forward funded Dividends developments.
These developments can be one of the few ways During the year, we paid the following interim dividends per share: for occupiers to secure a suitable building.
We see further 3.10 pence in August, in respect of the six months to opportunities in this area and were pleased that Shareholders 30 June 2016: and supported an amendment to our Investment Policy at the Annual General Meeting in May 2016.
This allows us to acquire land with 1.55 pence in October, in respect of the three months to the potential to forward fund a development, with construction only 30 September 2016. proceeding once a tenant has been secured via a pre-let.
On 7 March 2017, the Board declared a third interim dividend Share issuance and share price performance of 1.55 pence per share, in respect of the period from 1 October In uncertain times, investors are often drawn to companies that to 31 December 2016.
This dividend will be paid on or around can deliver low-risk and growing income.
Since our IPO, we have 3 April 2017, to Shareholders on the register at 17 March 2017. deliberately constructed a portfolio that offers secure income We also look forward to making quarterly dividend payments to from high-quality tenants on long leases that generate an Shareholders with effect from 1 January 2017. element of predictable growth through upward-only rent reviews.
Shareholders continued to demonstrate their support for our The total dividend for the year of 6.20 pence per share was fully approach and confidence in our prospects, subscribing for covered by Adjusted EPS of 6.51 pence.
Adjusted EPS includes a further 550 million of equity in 2016, through two heavily licence fees received from developers on our forward funded oversubscribed share issues.
This helped to broaden further developments and adjusts for other earnings not supported by our Shareholder base, including new investors from Europe and cash flows, which are excluded from the EPRA EPS measure.
We consider that Adjusted EPS is the most relevant metric when considering our dividend policy.
In addition to the demand for income, the Group also benefited from investors switching their attention to specialist property Loan financing investment companies, whose management focus and depth The availability of debt for high-quality investments remains of knowledge helps them to outperform and whose assets healthy.
We have maintained the Groups low cost of borrowing, 10 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 despite banking margins having risen across the market since Shareholder support to extend the Managers contract resulting the spring of 2016.
Borrowing costs remain well below property in an earliest termination date of 31 December 2021. yields, making the continued case for modest debt attractive.
Outlook We further diversified our borrowing in the year, agreeing a The outlook for the Group remains positive.
We are in a strong 72 million facility with Canada Life.
The facility is our first with a financial position and see further opportunities to acquire fixed interest rate and runs for 13 years, extending and staggering high-quality standing investments and to forward fund pre-let our debt maturity.
We also agreed a further 50 million from developments.
Wells Fargo, extending our existing syndicated debt facility to 550 million, repayable in October 2020, on a floating interest We consider there to be limited potential for capital growth rate but with a significant portion subject to hedging.
through further yield compression and, whilst more challenging, we have maintained a 9% total return target.
Capital growth is Board and governance therefore likely to come from steady state capitalisation rates Strong governance is vital for success in any business.
We were being applied to growing income.
We believe that income will therefore delighted to strengthen the Board in September, with remain the most important component of total return over the the appointment of Susanne Given as a Non-Executive Director.
There are strong drivers to rental growth in the She brings more than 20 years experience in the retail industry, market, both due to the ongoing imbalance between occupational which will prove invaluable to the Board going forward.
The supply and demand and the increase in build costs in 2016, which other notable development in 2016 was the appointment of Jim we expect will feed through to rents.
This rental growth will help Prower, an existing Non-Executive Director, as the Companys to support the Groups progressive dividend policy.
For 2017, we Senior Independent Director.
have increased our dividend target to 6.40 pence per share.
Investment Management Agreement In summary, our market is resilient and we expect 2017 to be The Board believes the Manager has delivered outstanding another positive and stable year for the Group.
Just prior to the year end, we gained Richard Jewson Chairman 7 March 2017 11
