14 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT On 31 May, Mark Allan stepped down as STRONG PERFORMANCE DELIVERED Chief Executive, a role he held since 2006.
Mark played a key role in the success of THROUGH TALENT AND HARD Unite Students and on behalf of the Board and everyone at Unite, I would like to WORKOF OUR TEAMS thank him for his service and wish him well for the future.
Richard Smith has taken over as Chief Executive, having been the Managing Director of our Operations business for the last five years, successfully leading the transformation of our service delivery and implementation of our PRISM operating platform.
A core part of our recent success has Phil White been our consistent strategy and we Chairman will continue to focus on its three main elements: to deliver great service to our students and University partners, to operate brilliant buildings and to 2016 has been a landmark year for Unite maintain high quality earnings and a Governance highlights Students for several reasons: celebrating strong capital structure.
As a result of our The Governance Report on pages our 25th year, welcoming our 500,000th continuing progress in these areas, we 50 to 99 inclusive provides customer and providing homes for 49,000 have successfully transitioned to become students, our largest ever intake in a single a REIT, effective from 1 January 2017, and details of the Groups approach year.
We also achieved a Gold we believe this is consistent with our focus to governance and how it supports accreditation in the Investors in People on income and capital discipline.
the delivery of our strategy.
people management standard, placing us in the top tier of businesses.
The outlook for our market remains The highlights of the year included: positive with structural growth being Performance has again been strong, supported by the strength of the world r Succession planning and talent with a total accounting return of 15% renowned UK Higher Education sector, development CEO transition and growth in Adjusted EPRA earnings increasing participation rates, the during 2016 to 61.3 million, up 24%.
Profit before internationalisation of Higher Education r Governance risk management tax was 201.4 million which includes and the shortage of housing in the UK.
following Leave vote and dynamic property revaluations of 136.3 million external market 2015: 388.4 million and 324.6 million The impact of Brexit is starting to become r Substantial investment in PRISM respectively.
As a result of this strong clearer and we do not expect it to have r Preparation for REIT conversion performance, we are increasing our a material impact on student numbers.
on 1 January 2017. dividend pay-out ratio to 75%, a year Our high quality portfolio, University ahead of schedule and declaring a final relationships and market-leading 50 For more information dividend of 12.0p.
This adds up to a total operating platform leave us well placed of 18.0p for the full year, an increase of to continue performing strongly in the 20% year on year.
Unite Students is a service brand and the Phil White strong performance we have delivered Chairman for our customers, University partners and 22 February 2017 shareholders is only possible because of the talent and hard work of our teams across the business.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for another excellent year.
