Chairmans Statement The last few years have seen Workspace develop a very Of course, as we grow and widen our presence across clear strategy of providing a home for New and Growing London, we do so with recognition of the role we must play Companies NGCs in London and intensively managing in the local community.
We work hard to look at ways in the buildings in which our customers work.
This approach which our presence can benefit those around us and we continues to prove successful and has resulted in another are proud of the way in which, for example, our annual year of strong revenue growth and record profit.
Group Inspiresme Week enables us to connect our customers and net rental income was 74.1m, an increase of 28.4%, profit their businesses with the local young people who will be before tax was 391.3m, up 8.7% over last year, and EPRA core to the future economic success of London.
NAV per share was 9.23, an increase of 31.3%.
That the UKs capital city is robust and growing healthily is Reecting the continued momentum in income generation not in doubt.
The outcome of the EU referendum and the thanks to these strong results, the Board is recommending appointment of the new London mayor will provide new an increase in the final dividend to 10.19p per share.
This challenges and opportunities to its future.
As home to New represents an increase in the total dividend for the year and Growing Companies, I believe that we have the right of 25% to 15.05p per share.
strategy to continue to be responsive to the Capitals evolution and, in playing our part in support of these Having a clear strategy is one thing, but our ability to customers, continue to provide exceptional value to all deliver it operationally is the real key to our success.
our case, from the Asset Management teams with their understanding of individual customer needs, to the deep expertise and market knowledge in our Development and Investment teams, our people work together with a single-minded focus on delivering for our customers.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for the expertise and dedication that continues to bring our Daniel Kitchen strategy to life and produce such outstanding results.
Non-Executive Chairman This deep well of expertise has helped us remain alive to the changing needs of our customers and the way in which working in London is evolving.
We are seeing continued strong demand from NGCs for office space in different areas and in different sizes, and are delighted with the pace of letting up at our new or upgraded business centres.
Therefore, we are adding judiciously to our portfolio and have been disposing of light industrial assets, recycling capital into business centres where we can add more value.
"04""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman Photographed on the March Board tour talking to Chris Nobbs of MBJ London at Canalot Studios, Ladbroke Grove."
Being alive to changing customer trends and to an evolving London economy allows us to move quickly to position our portfolio and continue to generate growth.
"05""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
