02-03 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 POSITIONED FOR GROWTH The Groups acquisitions of Arriva Vehicle Rental, a leading commercial vehicle hire operator and Fleet Technique, a fleet management company, have positioned the Groups UK business well for future growth.
Similarly the investment in Record Rent a Car SA, in Spain to complement Fualsa means that the Group has a market leading position in a fast growing Spanish market.
04-05 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRENGTH IN SPAIN The years performance was one of strong growth in Spain and a The limited fleet growth due to market weakness experienced in resilient delivery from the UK business.
It was also the third and the construction, retail and distribution sectors referred to in my final year of Northgates three-year Strategy for Growth Plan, Interim Statement has been largely overcome with the UK business In July 2002, we made our first significant investment in Spain, when we acquired which was set out in 2003. achieving expected levels of growth in the six months to April 2006.
The success of Fualsa encouraged us to acquire the The Group has achieved compound earnings per share growth Our new strategy included a plan to acquire Arriva Vehicle Rental of 14% per annum over the three years, and in the process has Limited AVR, a business with a rental fleet of over 11,000 remainder of its equity in May 2004.
The purchase of 49% of the equity of Record developed a robust and geographically diverse business.
This is vehicles in markets largely complementary to Northgates UK Rent a Car, another of Spains leading commercial vehicle rental companies, particularly pleasing as it coincides with our 25th anniversary in business.
The acquisition, which was funded in part by a placing the business of renting light commercial vehicles.
to raise 63m, was completed in January 2006 and management followed in August 2005 with the remaining 51% being acquired in May 2006. have worked hard so that the integration of the business is now A new three-year rolling strategy has been adopted which foresees substantially complete.
With a fleet of 47,000 vehicles, operating from 35 locations we are established the continuation of earnings growth through building on our market leading positions in the UK and Spain.
Management began the The growth of the UK network and the AVR acquisition have as Spains market leader in commercial vehicle rental.
implementation of this new strategy in January 2006. demonstrated that efficiency improvements are achievable through managing larger numbers of vehicles per business and Northgates This is the first financial year that the Group has prepared its results autonomous management structure is more cost-effective as a under IFRS.
The impact of IFRS on profit before tax for the year was result.
Further strategic restructuring in the UK along these lines immaterial.
The main presentational change to the Group's financial is currently underway.
results is that proceeds received from the disposal of used vehicles are no longer classified as revenue.
This change in policy has had During the year, the Group also acquired Fleet Technique Limited the effect of reducing Group revenue as previously reported under FTL.
An important element of Northgates growth strategy, this UK GAAP.
Group revenue now comprises income derived from the business has given the Group the facility to manage operators hire of vehicles and the supply of related goods and services.
fleets regardless of how they choose to acquire their vehicles.
The results for the year are set out below: In Spain, the growing vehicle rental market continues to justify Northgate's confidence in both its original investment in Fualsa - Group revenue increased by 10% to 372.6m and in its future strategy.
In August 2005, the Group purchased 2005 339.4m 49% of Record Rent a Car SA Record and completed the acquisition of the remaining 51% on 11 May 2006.
- Underlying profit before tax for the year was 59.9m 2005 55.8m I have been encouraged by the strategic approach of the executive team and the energy and enthusiasm that they display in the - Adjusted earnings per share increased by 3.6p to 65.7p continued development of the Group.
The commitment of the staff 2005 62.1p and management at all levels this year has been impressive.
Your Stated before intangible amortisation of 1.2m 2005 0.8m Board will ensure that the new strategy is professionally adopted and exceptional restructuring costs of 2.6m 2005 nil.
throughout the Group with long-term benefits for all stakeholders.
Based on these results and the Boards view of future prospects, the Board has decided to recommend to shareholders a final Current Trading and Outlook dividend of 14p per share.
This will produce a total dividend for the In the current financial year, in addition to the expected organic year of 23p an increase of 15% over the prior year and is covered growth in the UK, we will see the full benefit of the AVR acquisition.
The dividend will be payable on 29 September 2006 to We will also see further development of our fleet management those shareholders on the register on 1 September 2006. activities through FTL.
As previously reported, the UK market was impacted by lower In Spain, along with good organic growth, we will have 100% residual values in the first half of the financial year.
The second ownership of Record for the full year, an expected improvement in half has seen residual values recover, albeit not to the unusually Fualsa's operating performance and the benefit of further synergies high levels of the prior year.
Continued development of retail and from combining business activities.
semi-retail channels for vehicle sales has contributed to this improvement in profitability.
Consequently the Board remains confident of good progress in the year ahead and trading remains in line with the Boards Whilst UK hire rates have remained competitive, we have expectations.
experienced five months of relative stability since January 2006.
