Chairmans statement Rodney Chase Chairman It has been a very good year for Petrofac.
At the heart of this success lies the continued drive, dedication and passion of all our people.
2 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate governance It has been a very good year for Petrofac.
As a large and growing company, it is essential We have strengthened our position from we meet our responsibilities to our people, the 2005, continued to grow and enjoyed communities where we work and the some significant achievements along 1 environment.
To us this is not simply a duty, the way.
We increased revenue by 26% 2 it is an important aspect of our long-term to US$1,864 million and net profit by 62% success.
We have taken numerous steps to US$121.9 million.
In our first full year as a in this area over the past year including listed company, these are impressive results.
conducting a major review of our Code of Conduct to make sure all our people Market overview understand their ethical and legal commitments.
The past year has seen continuing strong We are launching a Give As You Earn demand for oil & gas and, as a result, scheme in the UK and we are making commodity prices have remained high.
environmental recommendations to partners Brent oil has averaged US$65 per barrel and customers on new developments.
As the and the Henry Hub Gas price has averaged Company grows, I will continue to ensure we US$7 per million British thermal units.
maintain this good corporate governance.
Although speculation remains concerning Over the past year we did experience one trends in the energy market, the midto longmajor incident when one of our employees term prospects for oil & gas production remain tragically died in the Morecambe Bay helicopter solid.
Demand is continuing to increase while, accident.
I would like to take this opportunity in areas with large, ageing oil elds, supply is to express my deepest sympathies to his beginning to decline.
This is unquestionably family, friends and colleagues.
an opportunity for Petrofac to help companies extend the life of their assets, improve the Our people efficiency of production and develop resources Although we work with advanced technology in new, more challenging environments.
and machinery, we are, unquestionably, a people business.
Over the year the dedication We are well positioned strategically of our employees has been demonstrated in and geographically to take advantage of numerous ways, from their unerring attention opportunities as they arise.
Over the past to detail to those moments when they have year we have extended our global reach gone the extra mile.
We are delighted that with a new ofce in Chennai, India, entered over 1,000 of our employees are participating into Egypt and Tunisia and strengthened in our employee share plans.
Changes to the Board Petrofacs progress During 2006 there were no changes to report.
There have been many highlights over However, subject to shareholder agreement, the past year.
There have been new we look forward to welcoming two additional beginnings, for example the award of our members to the Board, Rijnhard van Tets and service operator contract with the Dubai Amjad Bseisu.
Petroleum Establishment DPE, wholly owned by the Government of Dubai, is an exciting Outlook opportunity, and we believe the first time that The capital programmes and associated a national oil company has chosen to contract operating expenditure required to address directly in this way.
At the same time we have increasing global energy demand and the had some successful ongoing projects such depletion of existing production, together as the completion of work on the challenging with the limited capacity of the oil services Baku to Ceyhan pipeline.
industry to support such programmes, should ensure that demand for the groups services After 25 years in business, Petrofac has remains strong for the foreseeable future.
Yet at the heart of our success there remains the continued drive, The current financial year has started well dedication and passion of the management and, with the groups backlog at record levels, team, and of all our people.
It is important continuing focus on execution and strong we maintain this entrepreneurial spirit as we demand for its services, the Board believes expand our team and broaden our services.
the group is well positioned to continue its growth during the current year and beyond.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend Finally, I would like to thank all our people of 6.43 cents per ordinary share with an for their hard work throughout 2006.
It has equivalent of 3.30 pence per ordinary share been a year of exciting developments and which, if approved, will be paid on 17 May new opportunities, and with our continued 2007 to eligible shareholders on the register focus, energy and drive I am confident 2007 at 20 April 2007.
Together with the interim will bring many more successes.
dividend of 2.40 cents per ordinary share, this gives a total dividend for the year of 8.83 cents per ordinary share.
Rodney Chase Chairman 3 1 Unless otherwise stated, results on pages 1 to 30 are Petrofac on continuing operations.
Annual report 2 profit for the year from continuing operations.
and accounts 2006 Group Chief Executives review Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive We want to be world leaders in what we do.
That means being able to engineer, build and operate world-class upstream and downstream facilities.
4 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 How do you see the oil & gas markets How does Petrofac intend to change evolving in the coming years?
to address the challenges of the future?
We continue to see oil & gas as the worlds Whilst we have demonstrable expertise across main energy source for many years.
But the services we currently provide and there is there will be changes.
Were seeing national considerable potential for continued growth oil companies take a more active role in the in these areas, I believe we can achieve further development of reserves and, I believe, this success through delivering a broader range will lead them to consider new commercial of capabilities, in particular through accessing arrangements with service companies.
For deeper offshore areas and providing services those companies, like Petrofac, who have to support the increasing infrastructure for the right capabilities, this will provide exciting liqueed natural gas.
Wed also like to broaden new opportunities.
our geographical footprint to places like West Africa, Asia and Norway.
Will limitations in natural resources be a pressing issue?
One area where we see tremendous growth As the era of comparatively easy oil is the whole area of integrity management for reserves comes to a close, the challenge facilities.
The challenge in many hydrocarbon to develop reserves in more remote, difficult provinces is to keep the existing assets areas and address declining production from producing safely for as long as possible.
existing reserves is significant but it is also an We can help extend the life span of facilities opportunity for us.
We can help customers and do so safely through our expertise in with the redevelopment of their existing integrity management.
We are planning to infrastructure, extend the life of their assets hold a safety workshop in 2007 to explore through efficient operations management this issue in more detail.
and play an important part in assisting with the development of reserves in new areas.
Do you think customers are increasingly looking for an integrated service?
What makes Petrofac particularly well The breadth of our service capability allows us positioned for these challenges?
to offer our customers an integrated solutions We can provide services to a customer based approach.
We can engineer and build, across the life cycle of an asset from early then offer operational services and training conceptual design, through engineering, for the people who will run our customers construction, operations and maintenance infrastructure.
This breadth of capability allows and we can selectively invest.
Were also a us to add value having built the plant we can multi-cultural organisation and have always provide a better operational service through sought to deliver world-class services whilst managing the operation, we can identify working with local resources.
where further engineering might be beneficial and, by investing alongside our customers, we What do you think differentiates Petrofac?
We believe that, Our people.
I believe all our people genuinely increasingly, the value this approach brings is live the Petrofac values.
Were truly passionate being recognised but, above all, being exible about what we do: were safe, ethical, costis key to meeting our customers requirements.
conscious, innovative and relentlessly focused on delivering results.
Our responsiveness to What was the greatest challenge you customers, wherever they are in the world, faced last year?
is a key part of this service.
Demand for our services continued to be strong and, perhaps, the greatest challenge The last year has been very successful.
has been to ensure that, in an increasingly What has been behind this success?
competitive market for skilled personnel, we At our heart, were a people business maintain the ability to attract, train and retain and, with the number of our employees the highest quality people to deliver on our now approaching 8,000, continuing to existing business and capture opportunities live our values remains key to our success.
for growth without compromising our strong This transcends any one year and, whilst focus on delivery.
our market is particularly strong at the moment and we believe it will remain so for the foreseeable future, only a relentless focus on delivering results will ensure this success continues.
5 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Group Chief Were truly passionate about Executives review what we do: were safe, ethical, continued cost-conscious, innovative and relentlessly focused on delivering results.
The breadth of our service capability allows us to offer customers an integrated solutions based approach.
The continuing delivery of a high quality of service, right across our business, has been our foremost achievement.
We want to achieve leadership in all areas and, if we continue focusing on our values and attracting the right people, Im confident we will.
12 6 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 How has being a listed company Our Engineering & Construction division made a difference to Petrofac?
secured significant awards in Egypt and In many ways it remains business as Tunisia with both markets offering long-term usual although the listing has enabled us potential for the groups wider service to offer more exible share-based incentive capability.
Our focus on the Caspian region, schemes to more of our employees.
I believe in particular on Kazakhstan, has also proved this will be an important factor in attracting very rewarding with ongoing work on the and retaining the right sort of people and, Kashagan development and a significant with the management and employees having role in the Karachaganak development.
a significant stake in the business, we are continually looking to ensure sustainability Do you think there will be other and growth in value of the business.
opportunities like the DPE contract?
We see a number of What would you say were the main opportunities, particularly with mature assets highlights of 2006?
as they reach the end of their economic lives.
The continuing delivery of a high quality of But first we must deliver results in Dubai.
We service, right across our business, has been ofcially take control in April 2007 and need to our foremost achievement although, in terms demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach of new business development, there were a and the value of our service.
number of events that merit particular attention.
What do you think Petrofac will look For Operations Services, securing the like in five years time?
opportunity to manage the operation of We want to be world leaders in all that Dubais entire offshore oil & gas assets was a we do.
That means being able to engineer, major success and the culmination of several build and operate world-class upstream years close co-operation with the Government and downstream facilities.
The award represents the first time world leaders in areas such as training and a national oil company has sub-contracted outsourced operations management but the management of its production to a service we want to achieve leadership in all areas contractor and we hope it will have an impact and, if we continue focusing on our values on the way business is done in the future.
and attracting the right people, Im confident we will.
For our Resources division, the successful development of the Cendor eld, offshore Malaysia, demonstrates the benets of the integrated approach whereby we provided an innovative development solution and the necessary engineering and operations Ayman Asfari capability.
Our co-investment means this Group Chief Executive success will continue to contribute to our financial performance for some years to come.
3 1 Dubai Petroleum 2 Kashagan development, Kazakhstan 3 Cendor eld, offshore Malaysia 7 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Petrofac at a glance Passionate about what we offer Petrofac works around the globe helping independent, integrated and national oil companies access and harness energy resources.
Our core focus is on the UK Continental Shelf, Middle East, Commonwealth of Independent States CIS and the Asia Pacic region.
We have 20 ofces worldwide and approaching 8,000 employees.
Total facilities solutions Our services are delivered through three divisions: Engineering & Construction, Operations Services and Resources.
These divisions work together to deliver a complete solution throughout the life cycle of oil & gas assets.
8 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006, y f i d o m, n i a t n i a m, e g a n a m, e t a r e p o, d l i u b d n a n g i s e d e Engineering & Construction Resources Operations Services Engineering & Construction Operations Services Resources Provides our customers with a complete range Is comprised of Petrofac Facilities Delivers investment support on upstream and of engineering and construction services in Management and Petrofac Training.
infrastructure projects where we are providing both greeneld and browneld developments.
engineering, construction or operations services.
Petrofac Facilities Management provides Our front-end services cover concept, a full range of operations and maintenance We have a highly skilled team of asset feasibility and commerciality studies with services to the oil & gas industry: managers and commercial analysts, backed full front-end engineering and design FEED Operations management on our by strong financial resources.
This team capabilities for the oil & gas industry: service operator contracts, we take sole invests selectively alongside our customers, Feasibility and planning responsibility for the safety and efficiency developing nancing solutions, managing Consultancy, design and engineering of a plant, which in the UK can include development risks and sharing in the value Project services and cost estimating adopting full Duty Holder status with we help to create.
the Heath and Safety Executive Our engineering procurement and construction We invest in development projects where Operations support we provide skilled EPC services include: we can add value by containing or reducing crews and specialist manpower to provide Extended basic and detailed engineering design, construction or operational costs, operations, maintenance, modications Procurement, inspection, testing, and to create alignment with our customers.
and project management services expediting, transport and clearance lLocations Browneld engineering our Petrofac of equipment and materials London, England Browneld business provides maintenance On-site installation and construction Sharjah, UAE and modications engineering services Pre-commissioning, commissioning, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia performance testing and start-up services Petrofac Training provides training and consultancy to help develop safe, efficient and lLocations multi-skilled workforces, in the areas of safety, Sharjah, UAE technical, operations and production, and Chennai, India emergency response and crisis management.
Mumbai, India Woking, England lLocations Aberdeen, Scotland Sharjah, UAE lPetrofac Country Ofces Abu Dhabi, UAE Algiers, Algeria Baku, Azerbaijan Tehran, Iran Ahmadi, Kuwait Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan Lagos, Nigeria Doha, Qatar Moscow, Russia Khartoum, Sudan Damascus, Syria Tunis, Tunisia Houston, USA lPetrofac Corporate Services London, England 9 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 W n o i s s i m m o c - e d d n a t s e v n i & s n o i t u l o s p o l e v e d, n i a r t Operating and In the following operating and financial review financial review we look at the past years achievements in more detail: the market trends, highlights, and financial results.
We also explore the story behind three key projects, explaining the challenges, understanding the processes and talking to the people who make a difference.
In a year of numerous successes, these are a few examples which illustrate our continued passion and drive to deliver.
10 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 11 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Description of operations Operating Petrofac aims to achieve this goal by: Through its three divisions, Engineering Maintaining and improving on high review & Construction, Operations Services and safety standards Resources, Petrofac the Company or group Attracting and retaining recognised designs and builds oil & gas facilities: operates specialists and key personnel managing or manages facilities and trains personnel: succession issues and, where synergies are identied, co-invests Assisting customers in achieving their local to provide further alignment with its partners.
content goals by increasing the use of local resources and improving the competence Petrofacs range of services provides a total and technical skills of national workforces solution to meeting customers needs across Focusing on regions with major hydrocarbon the full life cycle of oil & gas assets.
Petrofacs reserves where significant capital and successful track record spans 25 years and operational expenditures are expected several hundred projects.
This success is Ensuring a diversied and complementary rmly based on a partnership approach, a business model total commitment to health and safety and Leveraging customer relationships by respect and responsibility for the communities providing a range of services across the where the group operates.
life cycle of an asset Expanding Petrofacs established service Strategy and objectives offering into new countries and regions Petrofac aims to generate sustainable growth Identifying, acquiring, integrating and in value for its shareholders by being the global developing complementary businesses, oil & gas industrys premier facilities and where appropriate infrastructure provider, admired by customers and employees for consistently delivering and These initiatives set the context for the review rewarding excellence.
This means: of the groups performance in 2006 and its Working to world-class standards outlook for 2007 and beyond.
Focusing always on customer satisfaction Respecting the environment and being Key performance indicators sensitive to the communities in which the To help the group assess progress, the group works Petrofac Board and executive management Promoting and rewarding on merit consider a range of key performance indicators KPIs.
With the exception of the groups Return on Capital Employed, which is reported on a six-monthly basis, the KPIs presented on the following page are reported on a monthly basis in the groups management accounts.
The Board sets annual KPI targets and monitors and assesses performance against these benchmarks throughout the year.
In the operating and financial review, performance is assessed with reference to these KPIs.
12 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Revenue EBITDA Measures the level of operating activity and EBITDA means earnings before interest, tax, growth of the business depreciation and amortisation and provides a measure of the operating profitability of the business US$ millions US$ millions 2006 1,864 2006 199.6 2005 1,485 2005 115.6 2004 952 2004 96.1 Revenue for the year on continuing operations as reported EBITDA is calculated as profit from continuing operations in the consolidated income statement.
before tax and net finance income cost as per the consolidated income statement adjusted to add back charges for depreciation, amortisation and impairment as per note 3 to the financial statements.
Net profit Return on capital employed ROCE Provides a measure of the net profitability of the ROCE is a measure of the efficiency with which the business, that is, profits available for distribution group is generating operating profits from its capital before taking into account minority interests US$ millions % 2006 2006 121.9 47.5 2005 2005 75.4 32.5 2004 2004 46.1 31.4 profit for the year from continuing operations as reported ROCE is calculated as EBITA earnings before interest, in the consolidated income statement.
tax and amortisation, being EBITDA less depreciation per note 3 to the financial statements divided by average capital employed being total equity and non-current liabilities per the consolidated balance sheet.
Earnings per share diluted EPS Cash generated from operations and EPS provides a measure of net profitability of the cash conversion group taking into account changes in the capital These KPIs measure both the absolute amount structure, for example, the issuance of additional of cash ow generated from operations and the share capital conversion of EBITDA to cash Cents per share US$ millions 2006 2006 35.3 329.0 2005 2005 22.4 133.0 2004 2004 11.9 108.8 As reported on continuing operations in the consolidated % income statement and calculated in accordance with note 8 2006 164.8 to the financial statements.
2005 115.1 2004 113.2 Cash generated from operations is based on continuing activities and is measured as cash generated from operations less those from discontinued operations as per the consolidated cash ow statement: cash conversion is cash from continuing operations divided by EBITDA.
Lost time injury and recordable injury Backlog frequency rates The group uses this KPI as a measure of the Provides a measure of the safety performance visibility of future earnings of the group, including partners Lost time injury rates per 200,000 man hours US$ millions 2006 0.06 2006 4,173 2005 0.07 2005 3,244 2004 0.07 2004 1,740 Backlog consists of the estimated revenue attributable Recordable injury rates per 200,000 man hours to the uncompleted portion of lump-sum engineering, 2006 0.41 procurement and construction contracts and variation 2005 0.55 orders plus, with regard to engineering services and 2004 0.55 facilities management contracts, the estimated revenue attributable to the lesser of the remaining term of the Lost time injury LTI and recordable injury RI frequency rates contract and, in the case of life-of-eld facilities management are measured on the basis of reported LTI and RI statistics contracts, five years.
Backlog is not an audited measure.
for all Petrofac companies, subcontractors and partners Other companies in the oil & gas industry may calculate expressed as a frequency rate per 200,000 man hours.
13 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Key risks and uncertainties Operating that its efforts to promote and reward There are a number of risks and uncertainties on merit, its growing employee share review which may have an impact on the accuracy ownership, management and technician continued of forward looking statements and the financial training programmes and recruitment performance of the group and its share price.
strategies, access to international labour These key risks and uncertainties are markets, in particular the Middle East, Indian explained below, along with the approach to subcontinent and Asia, its involvement in managing the risk or uncertainty.
This list does world-class projects and its exciting prospects not purport to be exhaustive.
There may be for continued growth will enable it to attract other risks and uncertainties, not presently and retain the necessary skilled personnel.
known to the group or that the group currently deems to be immaterial, that could affect the The groups overall financial performance, performance of the business.
The groups risk is dependent on a relatively small number management framework is discussed further in of contracts at any given time the corporate governance report on page 38.
The groups Engineering & Construction division, which contributes the majority of Health and safety performance is crucial to the groups net profit, is dependent upon the groups reputation and future success the performance of a relatively small number Petrofacs strong culture of health and safety of large contracts which are typically priced on is a key part of its operational and business a lump-sum basis.
The financial performance management activities and integral to its of the division in any given financial period is delivery of quality and business excellence.
determined by the stage of completion of The groups health and safety performance projects in hand and the costs expected at during 2006 is reviewed in the corporate that time to complete those projects.
The social responsibility section of the operating groups accounting policies are such that and financial review on page 31. profit is not recognised in the early stages of a contract when the outcome of the Demand for the groups services is linked contract cannot be estimated reliably and to expenditure in the oil & gas industry, the group maintains contingencies to cover which can be difficult to predict unforeseen costs.
The capital programmes and associated operating expenditures required to address The group may not estimate accurately increasing global energy demand and the the costs of, or execute within budget, its depletion of existing production together with lump-sum contracts or may fail to complete the limited capacity of the oil services industry contracts on time to support such programmes should ensure The group has a strong track record that demand for the groups services remains of successful project execution which strong for the foreseeable future.
reects its rigorous approach to risk identication and mitigation, from project The group may be unable to attract and tender through to contract completion.
For retain sufficient skilled personnel to meet example, conditional on the award of a major its operational requirements contract, the group will typically enter into The availability of skilled personnel is one commitments to procure equipment and or of the most significant challenges currently arrangements with key subcontractors on facing the oil & gas industry.
Strong demand back-to-back terms, thereby partly mitigating for services has resulted in an increased need the groups financial exposure to cost ination.
for skilled personnel while at the same time the Additionally, the group does not recognise ageing demographic prole of the industrys profits in the early stages of a contract and workforce, in particular in OECD countries, has maintains contingencies to cover unforeseen resulted in a shortage.
The group is confident cost increases.
14 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 The trend for owners of oil & gas assets to Operating environment outsource the management of those assets Steady growth in demand is forecast to continue may not continue or may be reversed for oil & gas in the medium to long term The outsourcing of operations management forecast at an average growth rate of 1.4% is in its relatively early stages in many of the per annum for oil and 2.4% per annum for 1 markets in which the group operates and natural gas for the period to 2030.
The the contract award with the Dubai Petroleum majority of this growth in demand is expected Establishment is an example of a national oil to be generated by economic growth in noncompanys willingness to outsource production OECD Asia, including China and India, though operations directly to a service company.
strong growth is also expected in North In circumstances where customers currently America.
outsource operations management there is, however, a risk that this strategy may change In mature markets, rates of decline for large, upon a change of ownership.
ageing oil & gas elds are increasing.
In order to be able to satisfy the growing demand for The group is subject to the complexity of oil & gas, these rates of decline need to be running a business with a wide geographic addressed through technological improvements spread, which may be susceptible to and operational efficiencies, which aim to political, social and economic instability increase recovery rates from existing mature Petrofac and its predecessor companies elds, the development of resources in have over 25 years experience of working new, more challenging environments, and in international markets.
A detailed risk from increasing production and rening review process is undertaken when assessing capacity in areas such as the Middle East, whether the group should enter into a new the Commonwealth of Independent States, contract or country, which is designed to West Africa and South America.
ensure that key risks are identied and monitored and appropriate mitigating actions Growing demand and the challenges taken.
The group considers its procedures, associated with increasing supply are systems and infrastructure to be appropriate expected to sustain a favourable pricing to ensure effective communication and environment for hydrocarbons for the co-ordination of its activities.
Such an environment should help encourage the investment The group is exposed to foreign required to increase production and rening exchange risk capacity.
Petrofac is well placed, both in its While the group operates in a number of technical capabilities and geographical reach, diverse geographical locations, the majority to participate in planned medium and longof the groups revenues are denominated in term programmes of capital expenditure.
In contracts priced in US dollars where the group is procuring equipment With a favourable prevailing pricing environment or incurring costs in other currencies these and improving technologies, the economic exposures are actively managed at a project development of more marginal elds or late-life level, using forward currency contracts.
The assets becomes more likely.
Consequently, bulk of the Operations Services divisions there is increasing scope for Petrofac to revenues and costs are denominated in provide engineering and operations services Sterling, however, as a policy, the group to all owners of hydrocarbon assets, both to does not hedge the Sterling profits generated small oil companies, who may not have the by these activities since they are partially capability or desire to operate, and to the matched by Sterling group overhead costs.
larger oil companies where they choose to deploy their resources on the development of While the group reports its results in US dollars, other assets in their portfolios, and to national its share price is quoted in Sterling.
The share oil companies, either in conjunction with the price may therefore be impacted by uctuations private sector or directly.
in the US dollar to Sterling exchange rate.
The group remains confident that strong demand for its services will continue in the medium to long term.
1 International Energy Outlook 2006, Energy Information Administration of the US Department of Energy.
15 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Review of operations Operating recently established engineering presence in Engineering & Construction Moscow, with various engineering services review In the early part of 2006, with a significant projects for other customers continued value of lump-sum contracts awarded The BTC SCP project, which became a towards the end of 2005, the focus of the reimbursable contract at the beginning of Engineering & Construction division was on 2006, was successfully completed in the the mobilisation of these new contracts and second half of the year on the execution of other projects in hand.
A number of significant EPC and consultancy Middle East and engineering services contracts were Over two-thirds of the divisions revenue secured during 2006 and in early 2007. in 2006 was generated from lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction Hasdrubal Gas Plant, Tunisia EPC contracts, many awarded in late 2005, In November 2006, following on from in the Middle East region: the FEED study awarded late in 2005, The northern oil export system for Kuwait the division was awarded a US$400 million Oil Company KOC was substantially lump-sum turnkey project by BG Tunisia completed during the year, as were, Limited, a BG Group BG subsidiary, and following an extended commissioning Entreprise Tunisienne dActivits Ptrolires period, the are mitigation works for Qatar ETAP to build the new Hasdrubal onshore Petroleum gas processing facility and liqueed petroleum Good progress was made on both the gas LPG production facility.
facilities upgrade project for KOC, where the scope, particularly in piping and civils, has The project scope covers project management, increased, and with the EPC of the Kauther detailed design, procurement, construction, gas plant for the Ministry of Oil & Gas in pre-commissioning, commissioning, start-up Oman, albeit against a challenging schedule and performance testing of the new gas plant.
Satisfactory progress has been made on Petrofac will draw on the capabilities and the Harweel Cluster Development project expertise of Pireco, a local construction and for Petroleum Development Oman PDO fabrication company, as its main construction with significant technical re-design work subcontractor for the project.
The award meaning the expected completion of the represents further progress in developing the project will be later than planned but in groups growing business relationship with BG.
line with PDOs expectations Salam Gas Plant, Egypt Commonwealth of Independent States CIS In November 2006, the division was awarded The Engineering & Construction division a US$200 million lump-sum EPC contract by continues to see a high level of principally Khalda Petroleum Company KPC to build a reimbursable activity in the CIS, particularly new gas processing train.
In December 2006, in Kazakhstan and Russia: KPC awarded the division a further lump-sum In Kazakhstan, the Kashagan engineering EPC contract for an additional gas processing and procurement contract is substantially train, increasing the value of the overall project complete, while the related construction to US$375 million.
KPC is adding these third management contract, awarded in January and fourth gas processing trains to its existing 2006, is still in its early stages as scheduled: facilities in the Salam area to process the gas the front-end engineering and design FEED produced from its new discoveries.
KPC is a study for the fourth oil processing train for joint venture between Apache Corporation and Karachaganak Petroleum Operating B. V. the state-owned Egyptian General Petroleum KPO, a BG Group and ENI led consortium, Corporation.
was substantially completed by the end of 2006 and, as referred to below, has been The project is scheduled for completion before followed by the award of the engineering, the end of 2008 and will utilise the capabilities procurement and construction management and expertise of local construction and for the fourth train fabrication company, Petrojet.
The project In Russia, substantial progress was scope includes project management, detailed made in particular with the Kovykta project design, procurement, construction, premanagement contract and, building on our commissioning, commissioning, start-up, performance testing and initial operations.
16 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006
