Operational review Our strategy continues to focus on enhancing our pub estate to provide sustainable growth through the quality of our pubs and support for our retailers and managers.
Giles Thorley, Chief Executive The financial year to 19 August 2006 was another Development of our pub estate successful period of progress and strong growth A key focus of the year has been significant further enhancement in the quality of our pub estate.
Our core pub business has continued to perform well, whilst the acquisition On 19 August 2006 Punch owned and operated of Spirit Group in January and various pub disposals 9,256 pubs across the UK, an increase of 12.5% have further improved the quality of our estate, in the year.
Of these, 7,846 were operated under enhanced our infrastructure and provided capacity lease agreements by independent retailers, with for further growth.
94% of our pubs are owned on a freehold or long Key results for the year, excluding non-recurring and exceptional items, were as follows: leasehold basis.
On 5 January 2006 we completed the acquisition Revenue of 1,546m, up 101% of Spirit Group for 2.7bn, comprising 1,830 EBITDA of 606m, up 47% directly managed pubs with a skilled workforce and supporting infrastructure.
Our strategy is to profit before tax of 250m, up 21% rationalise the Spirit estate to focus on the highest Basic earnings per share of 74.9p, up 13% quality large outlets, by selling selected non-core pubs and converting smaller pubs onto lease In recognition of these strong results the Board agreements with independent retailers.
is recommending a final dividend of 9.0p per ordinary share, taking the full year dividend to The disposal process is now largely complete.
By 13.4p, an increase of 19% on last year.
The final the year end 351 Spirit pubs had been sold for dividend will be payable on 26 January 2007 to 690m in cash, including a major package of 290 shareholders on the register on 29 December 2006. pubs to GI Partners.
A further 38 pubs have been sold or contracted for sale since, including 31 Our strategy continues to focus on enhancing Old Orleans pub restaurants to Regent Inns.
our pub estate to provide sustainable growth through the quality of our pubs and support for The lease conversion programme is also progressing our retailers and managers.
By the year end 74 pubs had converted: that revolves around recruitment and extensive training number had increased to 155 by 8 November 2006 of the best people, selection and development of with a further 175 at the legal contract stage.
The the best pubs, and creating the best conditions terms agreed for the lettings are in line with our for growth.
Through this, and our efficient nancing expectations.
We have recently released the third and final phase, comprising 266 pubs, and we are structure, we are creating the best quality leased on course to complete the programme by summer 2007. and managed estates and consolidating our position as the UKs premier pub company, whilst Meanwhile we have restructured the managed retaining the exibility to maximise future returns house operation to focus on the highest quality for shareholders.
core estate, and since the year end we have added 82 further excellent pubs through the acquisition Our excellent results and the substantial advance of Mill House Inns for 164m.
in our business that has driven these results, are testament to the hard work and commitment of During the year we have also further enhanced our all those people connected with Punch Taverns.
leased estate, acquiring 96 high quality individual We would particularly like to congratulate and pubs whilst selling 551 smaller pubs which we thank our pub tenants, lessees and managers, believe have less sustainable prospects, particularly in and all our colleagues, for their support during view of the forthcoming smoking ban.
acquisitions of InnSpired and Avebury are now fully 4 www.
com Our growth propeller model is the basis of Punchs business strategy.
Through the constant application of this proven strategy we have achieved another year of good progress, driven by organic growth and valueenhancing acquisitions.
integrated into the leased estate.
In June, we sold our made excellent progress with rationalising menus and subsidiary, GRS Inns, which primarily ran smaller pubs support activities, and moving the business forward.
Whilst the leased and managed estates are operated separately, we are able to take advantage of synergy The overall impact of these changes has been to benets across the Group such as enhanced supply increase the average annualised profit per pub by agreements, information, management development, 30% during the year.
and a combined approach to corporate governance Organic growth and industry issues.
The leased estate continues to trade well: with like Financial for like revenue growth of 1.0% and increasing rent These are the first annual results to be prepared under leading to pub profit growth of 1.9%.
Average profit International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
A per pub across the leased estate rose by 3.8%.
Lessee detailed statement of our revised accounting policies, profitability is also strong, and continues to increase.
differences from UK GAAP and the impact on recently The retailer recruitment pipeline is solid, with an reported results was issued in April 2006 and is available on our website www.
average of 129 applications a week being received.
We have 2,300 screened applicants on our database, The acquisition of Spirit, with a headline price and in total let over 1,000 pubs onto substantive of 2,679m, resulted in goodwill of 235m after agreements in the reporting period.
incorporating xed assets valued at 3,061m.
Fair values on acquisition reect the net disposal values We continue to work in partnership with our of pubs sold since acquisition: hence there is no independent pub retailers to enhance the business, profit or loss arising on disposal.
successfully introducing the new licensing changes and preparing for the smoking ban.
During the year The acquisition was funded through the retention of long almost 5,000 retailers attended our training term secured debt of 1.25bn, new short term banking programmes, and over 950 benefited from joint facilities of 1.25bn, a convertible bond issue of 275m development schemes with Punch investment totalling and the issue of 75m new equity.
We are grateful to The Publican newspaper for generation, together with pub disposals, enabled us to once again recognising our efforts through the award reduce the short term element of this funding to 621m of Leased Pub Company of the Year.
by year end, and subsequently to 502m, with new debt used to fund the 164m acquisition of Mill House Inns.
The Spirit managed house estate has also performed Overall net debt at year end of 4,878m was 675m well, with like for like sales up 3.6% in the whole lower than at the interim stage, and included cash estate in the 32 weeks since acquisition.
Debt held is entirely at rates of interest core managed estate, like for like sales growth has which are effectively xed, and on average was been stronger at 6.0%, and outlet profit growth of covered 1.94x by EBITDA in the year.
4.6% was achieved despite cost increases, notably in energy costs and labour.
A net exceptional credit of 52m was recorded in the year.
Actual expenditure of 8m was incurred In line with our plan at the time of acquisition, we on licensing and the reorganisation of Spirit, but have made real progress in simplifying the Spirit significant credits totalling 40m were recognised on business.
Having sold the pubs with weaker long the mark to market of certain interest rate swaps.
The term prospects, we have now restructured the tax effect of these items, together with the release of operation to focus on the core estate whilst various tax provisions which are no longer required, retaining a separate and dedicated team to manage gave rise to an exceptional 21m tax credit.
the transition of selected pubs to lease.
The core estate is now simplied into three divisions of Value The effective tax charge in the year before non-recurring Food, Quality Dining and Quality Locals, and we have and exceptional items was 22%, compared to 19% Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 5 Operational review continued Pub numbers 2006 elapsed, we are confident that overall quality of trading will ultimately improve.
Leased 7,846 Managed 1,410 We are well advanced in our preparations for the Pre 2006 leased extension of the smoking ban into England and 9,256 Wales, where planning regulations are simpler and the market primed to a greater degree.
95% of our 8,227 pubs have usable outside space, awareness is high, 7,334 and we have an action plan for each pub.
A specic smoking solutions capital fund of 18m has been 4,515 created.
Moreover our ongoing investment programme 4,302 will continue to improve the overall quality of the Punch pub estate for the benefit of all our customers.
Board composition 2002 We have announced a number of changes to the 2003 2004 2005 2006 composition of the Board, which are planned to take effect from after the AGM on 24 January 2007.
Phil Cox, Chairman, has decided to retire.
Phil has overseen the Group through a phenomenal period in the previous year, and included the benefit of of growth, first as deputy Chairman, then as Chairman ongoing indexation allowance taxation credits.
We wish Phil all the best in his paid in the year was 32m, an effective rate of 13%.
We are pleased to announce that Phils position will be taken by Peter Cawdron.
Peter Overall profit before tax before non-recurring and has been a Non-executive Director since May 2003 exceptional items was 250m, which gave rise to and brings a wealth of experience from an executive basic earnings per share of 74.9p on the enlarged career including Grand Metropolitan and SG share register, a growth of 13%.
Warburg, and non-executive positions including Industry issues Compass Group, Capita Group, Arla and the Punch Taverns is well placed to respond actively to chairmanship of GCap Media plc.
market driven and legislative challenges and harness Following the successful acquisition of Spirit, we the experience of over 9,200 individual leased, have decided to appoint Andrew Knight to the tenanted and managed pub operators.
Andrew has worked closely with the senior We fully supported the introduction of the new management on the refocusing of Spirit and was Licensing Act which has provided greater exibility appointed Managing Director of the Spirit business of opening hours for our pubs and their customers.
As expected, extended hours have had little impact Finally, Martin Glenn has decided to step down as on overall trading, but by relieving the pressure point Non-executive Director following his appointment at closing time, they have helped reduce the number as Chief Executive of Igloo-Birds Eye.
We wish him of alcohol related crime incidents.
We will announce a successor As the largest operator of pubs in the UK we recognise to Martin shortly.
our responsibility to lead on issues such as anti-social Current trading and outlook behaviour and under-age drinking and we continue The new year has started well and the positive to work alongside industry trade bodies to bring trends are continuing, with solid performance about positive change.
For example, the Challenge across all areas.
21 initiative from the British Beer and Pub Association is being actively promoted to our licensees as a means We have a very high quality pub estate and a of combating the threat of underage drinking.
talented management team, and we continue We have been recognised for our efforts with the to see good opportunities to develop the business accolade of Responsible Retailer of the Year 2005 further both organically and via selective transactions.
Our extensive experience means we are well prepared to benefit from the evolution of pub trading, which The forthcoming smoking ban in England and Wales will further evolve the pub experience, and we have will accelerate on the introduction of further smoking the benefit of learning from the extensive knowledge legislation and we remain confident about prospects gained from our 493 strong Scottish pub estate.
In for the rest of the year.
Scotland we found that by planning and preparing for the ban we were able to minimise any adverse impact by providing smoking solutions for our pubs.
The introduction of outside smoking areas and better pub amenities, often including a quality food offer, can not only negate the impact of the ban, but also create new trading opportunities.
Since the ban in Scotland was introduced, overall sales have been little changed, and whilst we remain cautious on the initial impact until a full year has 6 www.
