I join Rank as Chairman during a period of great change in Britains Chairmans statement gaming industry.
During 2007 we expect to witness a number of key events that will influence the development of the sector and The UK gaming market help shape the future strategy of Rank.
has entered a pivotal phase In September this year the Gambling Act 2005 2005 Act will be fully implemented, replacing the 1968 Gaming Act 1968 Act.
Rank has This event marks an important stage in the development of gaming within Britain, establishing a legislative framework responded to this by completing that should allow regulations to evolve in step with changes in technology and consumer behaviour.
its transformation into a The $965m 502m sale of Hard Rock, which completed on focused gaming business.
5 March 2007, allows Rank to concentrate its resources fully on the gaming market, where we have an established position.
As a focused gaming business, we expect to play a leading role in the development of the sector, ensuring our products and services respond fully to the opportunities offered by the changing environment.
Deregulation The process of deregulation, engendered by the 2005 Act, brings opportunities for the gaming industry.
At the same time there will be increased responsibility for operators to respect the guiding principles of the new Act to ensure fairness and to protect the young and the vulnerable.
As an established British gaming company, Rank has a track record of responsible operation in bingo, casinos and bookmaking.
In a market evolving in response to societal and regulatory pressures we will do all that we can to maintain our high standards.
The British Government too has a responsibility to ensure fairness in gaming.
We will continue to press both for an equitable tax regime for bingo and for a level playing field in casinos to ensure that existing casinos are not competitively disadvantaged in relation to the 17 new casinos granted under the 2005 Act.
Peter Johnson Chairman There is also a need for fairness and responsibility in the way that deregulation is communicated to the British public by the industry, parliament and the press.
Only through an accurate portrayal of the facts can we form a clear view on the evolution of gaming and the nature of its effects on society.
Board changes On behalf of the Board of Rank I should like to thank Alun Cathcart, who stepped down as Chairman and resigned from Rank on 28 February 2007.
For almost six years, Alun has been one of the principal driving forces behind the Companys transformation from a broad leisure conglomerate to a focused gaming business.
I am sure you will join me in wishing Alun well for the future.
Final dividend and special dividend We look forward with confidence in the Groups prospects and are pleased to recommend a final dividend of 4.0p per share, making a total dividend for the year of 6.0p per share.
The dividend will be paid on 11 May 2007 to shareholders on the register at 27 April 2007.
In addition, we will be returning 350m of the Hard Rock disposal proceeds to shareholders via a 65.0p per share special dividend.
The special dividend will be paid on 9 April 2007 to all shareholders As a focused gaming business, we expect on the register at 23 March 2007.
The payment of the special dividend will be accompanied by an 18 for 25 share consolidation.
to play a leading role in the development of the sector, ensuring our products and services The Board recognises that Rank faces a number of near term respond fully to the opportunities offered by challenges.
However, we are well placed to benefit from long term growth in the mainstream leisure and gaming industry.
Peter Johnson Chairman 02 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Were investing in our business... We have invested 50m to maintain and develop our businesses, improving the quality of our products as we reach out to a broader customer base.
New developments During 2006 we opened three new Mecca Bingo clubs as well as our first ever G Casino and we launched a number of new interactive gaming websites, including meccabingo.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 03 Q What is your growth strategy for Rank?
A review of operations A We see exciting long term growth prospects in the UK gaming with Ian Burke market and believe that, with our integrated model of bingo, casino and betting with both retail and on-line distribution, Our focus on mainstream leisure we are well placed to benefit from the predicted increases in consumer spending on mainstream gaming.
gaming is underpinned by a In the short term we recognise that our businesses face a number depth of operating experience of challenges, most notably the smoking ban which will be effective and a portfolio of strategically across the whole of Britain from July this year.
Our strategy is to take vigorous action to meet these challenges while retaining our important assets.
long term focus on the growth opportunities for Rank.
Q During 2006, the Group grew revenue by 3.7% but operating profit was lower than in 2005.
A The reduction in operating profit was due in part to a 4.5m increase in rental costs arising from the 211m sale and leaseback transaction which completed in August 2006.
Adjusting for the increased lease costs and a number of one-time restructuring costs, operating profit for the continuing Group was in line with our performance in 2005.
Q What progress have your businesses made this year?
A The outstanding performance came from our interactive business, Blue Square, which increased operating profit by 680% to 7.8m through tighter margin control and strong revenue growth in its games and poker products.
In Mecca Bingo we have made significant progress in improving the quality of our product, giving our members greater value for their money.
During 2006 we paid out more than 205m in main stage bingo prizes, compared with 187m in 2005.
This approach has been rewarded with an increase in market share Ian Burke Chief Executive and a stemming of admissions decline.
However the impact of the smoking ban in Scotland, in addition to rises in business costs and operating lease payments, has resulted in lower operating profit.
In Grosvenor Casinos we delivered good growth in revenue and a 12.9% rise in operating profit.
This performance was driven by a 3.7% year-on-year increase in admissions and a 1.2% increase in spend per head.
Q What progress have you made in achieving the cost savings that you outlined at the time of your interim results in September?
A During 2006 we undertook a major programme of cost saving initiatives, designed to generate 16m of annual cost savings.
We developed improved club operational models in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos, we closed our London head ofce and merged our corporate and Gaming shared service functions, we streamlined our senior management structure and we took steps to improve procurement efficiency.
As a result we expect to achieve 10m of operational cost During 2006 we agreed or completed asset savings in 2007 mainly in Mecca Bingo and to cut 6m from our combined Group and Gaming division costs, on an underlying disposals totalling more than 1.1bn, including basis.
The implementation of these initiatives during 2006 resulted the sales of Deluxe Film, Hard Rock and US in one-off costs of 4.4m in Group overhead and 4.5m in Gaming Holidays.
By the time that the 350m special shared services.
dividend is paid on 9 April 2007, we will have returned 550m to shareholders in the space of 14 months.
04 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 x before exceptional items Q What impact have you seen in Scotland since Q From September, the full provisions of the the introduction of the smoking ban and what Gambling Act 2005 will be implemented.
effect do you believe it will have in England and What are the major effects on your businesses Wales in 2007?
A Scotlands ban on smoking in enclosed public places contributed A The 2005 Act brings a number of benets for our businesses: to a 15% reduction in like-for-like revenue from our Scottish bingo the relaxation of advertising restrictions for casinos clubs from the point of its introduction in March 2006 to the end the opportunity to charge rake on card room poker of the year.
the ability to test new casino and bingo games the removal of limits on linked games and the ability Similar bans will be introduced this year in Wales 2 April and to create rollover jackpots in bingo England 1 July.
The major negative aspect of the 2005 Act for Rank is the loss We have implemented a broad strategy to counter the negative of Section 21 gaming terminals as a result of the reclassication effects of the smoking ban, including improving facilities for of gaming machines.
At 31 December 2006 Rank had 1,145 members who wish to smoke, working with the Gambling Section 21 terminals across its estate, including 949 in Mecca Commission to adapt our games and stepping up new member Bingo and 196 in Grosvenor Casinos.
However, the smoking ban remains the Groups most immediate concern.
To counter the loss of these terminals, we are introducing a range of improvements to our electronic gaming product, As we have no casinos in Scotland at present, we have no first-hand including the upgrading of AWP prizes from 25 to 35, the knowledge of the effect of a smoking ban on casinos.
Industry data maximisation of Section 31 Jackpot machine allocation and the suggests that, since the ban came into force, casinos in Scotland gradual replacement of reel machines with video machines.
have under-performed slightly against those in England and Wales.
At present a number of the 2005 Act regulations governing the changes described above have yet to be published in their final form.
Q What has been the nature of the smoking ban in Spain?
Q What is your view on the balance between A Top Rank Espaa, our Spanish bingo clubs business, has had to supply and demand growth for UK casinos?
adapt to a partial smoking ban which only permits smoking in up to 30% of the clubs gaming area.
From 1 September 2006 it has A The UK casinos market has entered a dynamic phase in its been a legal requirement that these smoking areas be segregated development with societal and regulatory changes stimulating from non-smoking areas by physical partitions.
These changes mainstream consumer demand for the leisure experience of caused an element of disruption but the business has taken all casino gaming.
steps necessary to comply with the regulations.
The increase in popularity of casino gaming has been accompanied by a rise in the number of UK casino licences.
Q Why are Rank and the Bingo Association At 31 December 2006 there were 138 casinos operating in campaigning for the abolition of VAT on bingo?
the UK and 34 non-operating licences all granted under the 1968 Act.
Since April 2006 there has been a moratorium on A Bingo participation fees are subject to both 17.5% value added tax new casino licence applications under the 1968 Act.
A number VAT and 15% gross profits tax GPT which applied in combination of applications submitted prior to the moratorium have yet effect a tax rate of 27.7%.
This is in contrast to the 15% gross profits to be heard but we estimate that there could be as many as 175 tax that British bookmakers pay on their gross win.
We contend casinos operating by 2010.
This represents a reduction versus that this is an unfair system that penalises soft gaming.
our previous estimate of approximately 200 and is based upon a reduced rate of successful licence applications.
In recent years we have engaged in discussions with the Government to seek an end to this harsh tax regime.
We strongly The granting of new casino licences in jurisdictions where the urge the Government to reconsider the current taxation regime extant market supply is already sufficient to meet demand remains and so prevent the demise of bingo in many local communities, a concern for the Group.
During 2006, 22 new casino licence thus preserving employment and an important part of the social applications were contested.
Of these, 13 were refused and two fabric of the UK.
We intend to continue to press for the demand test to be applied in determination of new licence grants in all jurisdictions where we operate casinos.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 05
