CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW We anticipate 2006 07 will be a year of growth for Redrow and we are confident that we can continue to deliver value for our shareholders into the future.
Neil Fitzsimmons Chief Executive new areas of operation in South Midlands at Introduction Strategy Northampton, West Country at Exeter, and Twelve months ago when I took over as Twelve months ago we set out our strategy to Chief Executive, I set out the steps we had East Midlands at Newark.
These were deliver growth in the medium term.
established and investment made to provide taken to position Redrow to meet the short us with the capability to increase the output term challenges in the market and the clear Our objectives are to:- strategy we were progressing that would of our core product, in particular of the Grow our core Signature and In the City enable us to deliver growth and shareholder Signature range.
The current Homes structure ranges through our existing company value in a market where house price increases provides us with the capability of delivering structure.
were likely to be more modest and in line 7,000 units of core product per annum.
Deliver incremental profit from our new with earnings growth.
Debut product that provides open market The South East of England is a geographical affordable homes.
region in which we have historically been The results for the year ended June 2006 Develop the contribution from additional underweight in terms of market share and reflect the backdrop of the weaker housing income streams from our mixed use and therefore represents an important opportunity market over the eighteen months to regeneration activities.
for Redrow to drive growth.
This resulted in a reduction focus of Government policy and through our in profitability from 139.0m to 120.5m.
At present, our Homes operation has thirteen South Midlands, Eastern and Southern However, our strategy enabled us to increase companies in the UK, which delivered just companies we have operations placed to gain legal completions and turnover in our Homes over 4,500 legal completions of our core maximum benefit from the identified growth operations and partially mitigate the impact product in the year to June 2006.
To reinforce the framework through on operating margins of the more challenging product comprises our Signature and which we will deliver growth, we have market.
In addition, we have made In the City ranges.
We are demonstrable and tangible progress in each of now managing our Homes operations the principal elements of our growth strategy Over recent years we have expanded our through five regions, namely Scotland, leaving Redrow well positioned to deliver geographical presence and established three Northern, Midlands, Western and Southern.
growth and shareholder value into the future.
6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATIONAL REVIEW The Signature range at Stourscombe Vale, Launceston, our first development in Redrow Homes West Country.
It gives me great pleasure to welcome since our first application at Rugby and we are To further the benefits we can generate from David Campbell-Kelly into the senior on track to deliver our objective of 2,000 mixed use development and our involvement management team as Chairman for the Debut homes per annum by 2010.
This will in the South East, we established a specialist Midlands Region.
David has been with generate incremental profit and value for our regeneration business.
Redrow Regeneration Redrow for 12 years, and has been Managing shareholders.
was established in September 2004 to focus Director of Redrow Homes Midlands on major projects primarily in London and Limited for 7 years.
These projects involve a wide Redrow recognises the added value that can cross section of stakeholders with different be gained from mixed use development.
We continue to expand our Debut initiative agendas and expectations.
They represent a These developments provide additional across our companies.
We commenced new element in Redrow's long term approach income streams and also unlock major developing this innovative and imaginative to securing land for development and will opportunities for our core housebuilding product providing open market affordable contribute to Group performance in the operations.
We continue to build on our homes primarily for first time buyers as medium term.
However, ahead of historic success in mixed use development recently as May 2004.
In only two years, the expectations, Redrow Regeneration is already with current schemes such as Buckshaw product has been taken from concept to on site with its first development at Barking Village.
We have also secured new reality and in the year to June 2006, 213 which will deliver 246 new homes as well as opportunities at Bristol and Plymouth which, Debut customers moved into their new homes.
significant community benefits and is making as well as providing at least 172,000 sq ft of This product has prices as affordable as good progress on other major opportunities in commercial development, provide over 1,700 50,000.
It demonstrates our ability to the South East.
plots for our housing operations.
In addition, identify opportunities and respond to issues in we have now made a planning application the housing market whilst delivering margins jointly with BAE Systems for a development and returns on capital in line with our at Bishopton to the west of Glasgow for 2,500 existing business.
At 30 June 2006 we had homes, and 1,500,000 sq ft of employment secured in total 10 planning permissions for and community development.
over 1,100 Debut homes in just 18 months 7
