In Australia the problems in commissioning the new Sydney bakery have been largely overcome in the second half of this year.
This is a state-of-the-art bakery and we can look forward to having the capacity to supply the New South Wales market with quality products with much improved customer service.
It is also encouraging to see the improvement in profitability of the meat & dairy business in Australia after two difficult years that saw the consolidation of production facilities and challenging trading issues.
Further improvements in efficiency are planned for the coming year.
The shape of ABF has changed considerably over recent years, and the acquisition of Illovo in September this year will further transform our sugar operations from a very UK-centric business only a few years ago to what is now This has been a year of the second largest sugar producer in the world.
ABF resilient performance and now operates in 46 countries and has built critical mass in a number of businesses through acquisition and significant investment for organic growth.
We have strengthened our positions in international hot beverages and branded grocery, taken the group.
a leading position in global yeast production and rmly established Primark as a major clothing retailer in the UK and Ireland.
It is this strength in depth, combined with a wider geographic spread, that provides the group with the ability to absorb economic challenges and still deliver a resilient performance.
Group revenue increased by 7% to 6.0bn and adjusted That said, the structural reform of the EU sugar regime operating profit increased by 1% to 561m.
has such a major impact on the profits of European producers that a fundamental change to British Sugar This has been a year of resilient performance and is required if it is to continue to compete effectively.
significant investment for the group.
The reform of the We have announced the closure of two of our six UK EU sugar regime has been anticipated for many years factories at the end of the forthcoming campaign and the but there has been uncertainty as to the timing and intention to purchase additional quota that will become extent of the impact.
This year we estimate the profit available from the regime reform.
This will reinforce impact at 34m with a further 21m for energy cost British Sugars position as the lowest cost beet sugar increases within British Sugar which we were unable producer in the EU.
Illovo will benefit from these regime to recover through pricing because of the trading changes from 2009 when the EU market will be opened environment.
This substantial impact was more to producers in Least Developed Countries.
severe and earlier than we had expected.
Primarks expansion programme has progressed well Many businesses delivered excellent growth in with the opening of 27 stores during the year.
Notably these included Primark, from increased our retail selling space by 40% to 3.5 million a combination of like-for-like sales growth and an sq ft and included the opening of our first store in extensive programme of new store openings and Spain.
It would have been very easy for an expansion extensions, continued organic growth in Twinings programme of this scale to have absorbed management and Ovaltine and strong trading from AB Mauri to the detriment of the day-to-day business.
It is therefore which is now performing well after its acquisition to the credit of the management team that, despite this two years ago.
considerable distraction, good like-for-like sales growth was achieved when many competitors on the high street It has been a very disappointing year for Allied Bakeries found trading difficult.
This was all the more impressive with revenue declines in both Kingsmill and own given the severe disruption caused by the re that label and profitability has sharply reduced.
The new completely destroyed the main UK warehouse and is management team has developed detailed plans for testament to the dedication of the Primark workforce.
the reinvigoration of the brand.
With the need for brand investment, no immediate improvements in profitability The Chairman has mentioned the contribution our should be expected next year.
people have made during the year and I endorse his 6 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Operating review comments.
Our expansion into southern Africa through progressive withdrawal of institutional price support and Illovo has added 27,000 people to the group.
In marginal producers will be encouraged to exit the sector, recognition of its interdependence with the communities not only to reduce surplus production, but to create a in which it operates, Illovo provides and co-ordinates deficit in local production.
This deficit is aimed at providing a wide range of social programmes focusing on basic import opportunities by 2009 for Least Developed needs such as the provision of water and sanitation, Countries LDC.
During the transition period, the impact healthcare, education delivery and involvement in of these changes and continued imbalances in supply and community outreach programmes.
Illovo also provides demand can be expected to continue to affect the profit considerable training and support to farmers in order at British Sugar.
In anticipation of a difficult transition, to promote sustainable agriculture and economic the Commission has imposed a 2.5 million tonne development activities.
transitional quota cut for 2006 7 which equates to 133,000 tonnes for British Sugar in the UK and 20,000 tonnes for Poland.
This is higher than the temporary quota cut imposed in 2005 6.
The Commission also confirmed that the restructuring levy, the means by which a fund is established to compensate processors Primary Food & Agriculture who exit, of126 per tonne will be based on the full permanent quota.
A number of European processors Primary Food 2006 2005 have already taken the option to withdraw, reducing Revenue 671m 700m quota production for sugar and inulin by 1.5 million Adjusted operating profit 115m 166m tonnes for the 2006 7 campaign.
Decisions on Agriculture 2006 2005 renunciation for the 2007 8 campaign are expected to be made by other EU processors by Spring 2007.
Revenue 631m 735m There is a possibility that the Commissions target Adjusted operating profit 16m 20m of a further three million tonnes reduction will not be met.
In these circumstances the Commission has reserved the right, in the new regulations, to impose permanent pro rata quota cuts.
Primary Food & Agriculture In Primary Food, the sharp decline in profit from 166m Next year, sugar supply in the EU will be substantially to 115m is attributable to the EU operations of British lower as a consequence of a likely smaller crop and Sugar.
The imbalances in supply and demand within the the temporary quota cut already announced by the EU EU sugar market and changes in producer behaviour in Commission.
The smaller crop in the UK is, however, anticipation of the new regime resulted in price pressure still expected to meet quota, including additional quota in the first half of the year.
The impact in the second half to be purchased.
was in line with our expectations.
In addition, profit was reduced by a weaker euro and signicantly higher energy British Sugar has announced a number of developments costs, particularly gas prices in the UK.
The impact on which reposition the groups sugar businesses for the business of the changes to the EU sugar regime is the future.
estimated at 26m, excluding Silver Spoon, with a further impact of 21m for unrecovered energy cost increases.
The York and Allscott beet sugar factories will close after the end of the 2006 7 campaign and processing This years processing campaigns were excellent with will be consolidated at the four remaining factories in sugar production of 1.34 million tonnes in the UK and the UK.
British Sugar has confirmed its intention to 206,000 tonnes in Poland.
A number of production purchase the 83,000 tonnes of additional sugar quota records were set covering productivity, sugar yields available in the UK as a result of regime reform.
Our Chinese cane sugar operations result, we will produce more sugar from four factories performed well in their first campaign following the than we currently produce from six.
These developments expansion of the Shibie and WuXuan factories.
Capacity is follow the consolidation of British Sugars Polish now more than half a million tonnes although the factories operations into two factories last year and the application have produced substantially below this level this year to acquire 11,000 tonnes of additional sugar quota because of the much reduced cane crop following severe available in Poland.
Together these will reinforce British drought earlier in the year.
The profit impact of this was, Sugars position as the lowest cost processor in the EU however, largely mitigated by higher sugar prices.
In July the European sugar industry commenced An exceptional charge of 97m has been included in the implementation of the EU Commissions reform of the consolidated income statement comprising 64m the EU sugar regime.
These changes will result in the of asset write-down and 33m of estimated cash costs 7 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Illovo Illovo Sugar is a leading, low-cost sugar producer and a significant manufacturer of high-value downstream products.
The group is Africas biggest sugar producer with extensive agricultural and manufacturing operations in six African countries Excellent climatic and soil conditions in the groups countries of operation, accompanied by irrigation from secure water sources, are ideal for the cultivation of highyielding and excellent quality sugar cane.
Annual cane production of approximately 5.5 million tonnes is produced on agricultural estates in South Africa, Malawi, Zambia, Swaziland, Tanzania and Mozambique.
Annual sugar output amounts to approximately 1.9 million tonnes comprising 900,000 tonnes produced in South Africa, Malawi 270,000 tonnes, Zambia 250,000 tonnes, Swaziland 230,000 tonnes, Tanzania 140,000 tonnes and Mozambique 70,000 tonnes.
Of the six countries in which Illovo operates, three are in the top ten lowest-cost producers in the world, and all six are within the top 25.
The group is a major supplier of sugar to African consumer and industrial markets, particularly in its own countries of operation.
It also has significant and increasing access to preferential markets in the European Union and the United States, whilst the African operations outside South Africa also have access to the South African Customs Union market in terms of the Southern African Development Community SADC Sugar Protocol on Trade.
Sugar in consumer packs is supplied into other regional markets within Africa.
The group, through the South African, Swaziland and Mozambique industries, also exports sugar into the world market.
Illovo runs a wide range of social investment programmes focusing on basic needs such as the provision of water and sanitation, access to healthcare, education delivery and involvement in community outreach programmes.
Illovo Sugar Mills and Cane supply regions 8 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 9 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 BP and DuPont collaborate with ABF on UK biofuel production British Sugar leads the way in UK biofuels Climate change affects us all but despite increasing concern about the impact of global warming, UK carbon emissions, in some sectors, are still rising.
Transport in particular is responsible for nearly a quarter of all UK carbon emissions, which have been linked to global warming and poor air quality.
Now theres a real alternative that will make a difference.
British Sugar is launching a pioneering project to reduce carbon emissions by developing the manufacturing capacity to produce large amounts of clean, green, renewable fuels.
Biofuels are renewable fuels produced from crops using fermentation processes.
They are sustainable too because unlike fossil fuels, biofuels do not deplete the earths nite resources.
British Sugar is building the UKs first ever bio-renery dedicated to producing a secure supply of biofuel which can be added directly to petrol.
Starting in 2007, the fermentation and distillation plant at our Wissington sugar factory will produce 55,000 tonnes of biofuel each year from sugar beet thats enough to provide one million cars with a 5% blend.
Our process for making biofuel is very energy-efficient, thanks to the use of state-of-the-art technology and gas turbine combined heat and power generation.
The use of biofuel as a transport fuel has a vital role to play in reducing the carbon emissions that contribute to climate change.
It can be added easily to petrol, forming 5% of the mix to reduce carbon emissions from vehicles.
Its compatible with existing vehicles and offers a similar fuel performance to conventional petrol.
Biofuels are already in use in many other countries.
The carbon emissions from biofuels are naturally absorbed by the crops grown to produce them.
It is this continuous carbon-cycle which makes these fuels such effective renewable sources.
All sugar beet supplied to British Sugar for the biofuels process will be grown on existing agricultural land.
Through investing in this technology, ABF is taking on the challenge of reducing carbon emissions from transport.
Were bringing clean, renewable fuel to the UK for the benefit of all.
10 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 associated with the reorganisation.
This charge has been The UK feeds business benefited from a restructuring to excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings.
provide a better alignment with customer needs.
Frontier The investment in additional quota in the UK and Poland traded very well in its first full year of operation and cost is expected to cost 47m dependent on the success in savings have been achieved ahead of the original business securing the targeted volumes.
This cost will be capitalised plan for the joint venture.
and amortised over nine years.
In China, the opening of the new feed mill in South On 4 September 2006 we completed the acquisition Henan in April brought the number of mills to six.
of a 51% interest in Illovo Sugar Limited, the largest China is the worlds biggest pig producer and Henan sugar producer in Africa and one of the worlds leading is the countrys second largest pig producing province.
low-cost producers, for a cash consideration of 288m.
We have had a strong presence in North Henan since It is the leading producer in South Africa, Malawi, Zambia, 2002 and the new mill will enable further expansion.
Swaziland and Tanzania and has a strong and growing A new mill is being constructed in the North East of presence in Mozambique.
It produced 1.9 million tonnes China and should begin production by the New Year.
of sugar in 2005 6 and has identified development Avian inuenza had a major, direct impact on our China programmes to expand this capacity substantially.
business, where delayed restocking on poultry farms reduced the demand for animal feeds.
ABF will support Illovos stated plans for capacity expansion and development in its African markets.
It is expected that Illovo will benefit from the application of British Sugars proven expertise in improvement Retail in operational efficiency, co-product development, marketing and product innovation.
In turn, British Sugars Primark 2006 2005 Chinese cane sugar operations will benefit from Illovos agricultural expertise.
Revenue 1,168m 989m Adjusted operating profit 166m 141m The changes to the EU sugar regime will provide free Littlewoods 2006 2005 access for exports to the EU from LDCs from 2009.
Revenue 141m 17m The LDC classication includes Malawi, Zambia, Tanzania and Mozambique.
British Sugar will provide Adjusted operating profit 19m 1 m an efficient route to market for these exports from Illovo.
In the first full year after acquisition the operating profit return is expected to meet ABFs cost of capital, and will Retail be earnings enhancing.
As a result of this acquisition, Primark again delivered very strong revenue and two thirds of the groups sugar production next year profit growth, both increasing by 18% to 1,168m is expected to be outside the EU.
The combination of and 166m respectively.
British Sugar and Illovo will create a powerful partnership in Africa and Europe.
The revenue increase resulted from 3% growth in like-for-like sales and a substantial increase in retail In June, we announced a collaboration with BP and selling space.
Like-for-like growth was 6% in the first DuPont to produce biofuels in the UK.
Construction half of the year.
However, it was at in the second half has already started on a production facility at Wissington, after the exceptionally strong 12% increase in the same and the 55,000 tonne, 70 million litre unit is expected period last year.
Discussions are continuing to develop detailed plans for further Retail selling space increased by 40% over the year from production facilities.
2.5 million sq ft to 3.5 million sq ft. Much of this space was added towards the end of the financial year and the This has been another challenging year for Agriculture.
increase in the weighted average oor space for this year Revenue fell by 104m to 631m reecting the sale, over last was 17%.
In total, 27 stores were opened during in April last year, of the grain trading business, Allied the year and, following the closure of six smaller stores, Grain, into Frontier, a joint venture with Cargill.
profit Primark was trading from 143 stores at the year end.
at 16m was below last year reflecting the impact of avian inuenza and higher energy costs.
Good progress The first store in Spain, at Plenilunio outside Madrid, was made in the targeted growth sectors of feed was opened in May and this has been followed by micro-ingredients, speciality feeds and the animal a store in Murcia after the year end.
Both stores are feed business in China.
11 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 12 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Primark Cardiff Penneys Primark Primark Tiendas Primark in prime locations For the shopper in the high street whether in Ireland, England, Scotland, Wales and from this year for the first time in Spain, value means Primark.
Our customers come back to us time and time again because they know that right across the store our prices are simply unbeatable.
But its more than just low prices on the high street.
Our customers judge value based on the whole shopping experience.
They want the latest fashions, manufactured to good quality and ethical standards, imaginatively displayed in a pleasant, modern environment.
Primark meets all these expectations and because of this, word of mouth plays a vital part in our marketing mix.
No TV advertising campaigns or paid-for celebrity endorsements.
Our customers tell their friends and families that Primark is where its happening and they vote with their feet.
13 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Spotting trends Primarks buying teams in Ireland and England are constantly on the look out for the next big thing in fashion.
Primarks success is built on spotting a trend as it is still emerging and getting it in store at the lowest price, quicker than anyone else on the high street.
First, the buyers live and breathe fashion.
They travel the world, meeting suppliers, visiting the shows, checking out the look on the street in London, Paris, Madrid and Milan.
In fact anywhere that style matters.
Surng the internet and trawling the fashion magazines is also a must.
Having decided on the look, the buyers then go into action ordering samples from suppliers, checking out garment quality and agreeing commercial terms prior to placing orders.
No corners can be cut but speed is of the essence.
Success is down to the special relationship that Primarks buyers have forged over many years with their suppliers.
It may come as a surprise to know that nearly half of the merchandise bought comes from just fty suppliers with whom Primark has had a consistent relationship for more than a decade.
14 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 New store openings A day in the life Ayr Leicester Bradford Luton Bromley Maidstone of Primark Cardiff Mansfield Croydon Nottingham On any normal day, every single one of Primarks Darlington Oxford 107 UK stores receives a delivery from its central Dundalk Portsmouth distribution warehouse at Magna Park.
The Exeter Preston distribution park is strategically situated on the Gateshead Metro Southend junctions of the M1 and M6 motorways which run Glasgow Argyle Street Southport up and down the spine of the country linking many Harlow Sutton important towns and cities.
Hull Swansea Lakeside Thurrock Plenilunio Madrid It is the speed and precision of this operation that Leeds ensures that the appropriate items are ordered and delivered to store.
And it is the speed at which the Stores closed latest fashions move from docks to warehouse onto Bristol compulsory purchase Darlington resite the trucks and into the stores which ensures the latest Bromley resite Southend resite trends are always in store at Primark and that our Cardiff resite Swansea resite costs are optimised.
This concentration on efficiency and control of costs enables us to give our customers the best prices on the high street.
The major programme for the ret and opening of the former Littlewoods stores is on schedule and 18 of the We are now commissioning our new warehouse 41 stores were open at the financial year end.
Of the complex following the complete destruction by fire 79 stores not required, 69 have either been sold or are of our previous facility.
The new complex features under offer and proceeds of 144m have been received.
two buildings linked by a special corridor.
The Negotiations for the sale of the remainder are continuing.
buildings can be isolated from one another by automatic fire shutters.
Inventory is automatically The Primark trading performance is remarkable given spread between the two by conveyors capable the disruption caused by the re which destroyed the of transporting products on pallets, in cartons and main UK warehouse last November.
Swift action by the on hanging rails.
management team mitigated the potentially disastrous effect on the supply of stock to the stores.
Deliveries to The complex has the security of two buildings stores were restocked after 48 hours and a temporary with the efficiency of one.
Consignments destined warehouse was quickly replenished with specially for store delivery are picked, sorted and then arranged deliveries from suppliers.
The stock loss, transported through the warehouse to one of additional costs of working and business interruption 26 individual loading bays where the trucks are were insured and most of the cash for the stock loss and loaded for their daily journey.
additional costs of working has been received.
However, an element of the claim was self-insured and the profit for the year includes a charge for this.
The warehouse operation is being transferred to the rebuilt warehouse.
Primark was accepted as a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI in May.
The ETI is an alliance of companies, trade unions and non-profit organisations that aims to promote respect for the rights of people in factories and farms worldwide.
As a member of the ETI, Primark has committed to monitoring and progressively improving working conditions in the factories that supply Primarks products.
The Littlewoods retail business, acquired in July 2005, was very successfully traded out and nally closed in January.
The profit from this trade out was 19m 15 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 and was well ahead of our expectation at the time supported by a new advertising campaign, increased its of the acquisition.
The business has successfully integrated the Karo syrup brand in Mexico and, building on our The principal driver of sales and profit growth in 2007 expertise in the US, the brand is performing well.
In the will be the additional oor space although the higher US the consumer brands in spices and yeast traded in depreciation charge associated with the investment in line with expectation.
Good progress was made with the the new stores will have a detrimental effect on operating development of the premium spice brand, Spice Islands.
The like-for-like sales growth measure will The consumer oil category suffered a decline during the become of limited use as a guide to the performance of year following publicity around health concerns over the Primark over the next year or so as this rapid expansion use of trans fatty acids.
Although not containing trans of selling space takes place.
This measure excludes new fatty acids, Mazola volumes suffered as a consequence and extended stores for their first year of trading and will of the general category decline.
Despite lower oil volumes only therefore cover trading in less than half of the selling and the impact of higher energy costs and increased space at the next half year.
Furthermore, we would vegetable oil costs, profitability was improved over last expect that the opening of so much space will inevitably year through efficiencies.
affect sales in some of our existing stores.
Many of these existing stores currently have very high sales densities The UK core crispbread market demonstrated value and this development is seen as positive.
At the half year growth during the year and Ryvita outperformed the we will show the existing like-for-like measure and one market, strengthening its position as the leading brand.
adjusted to exclude stores affected by new openings.
The premium range of wholeseed crispbreads had a particularly successful year.
Ryvita Minis, launched For the coming year, it is expected that all the remaining last year in the growing healthy bagged-snack market, former Littlewoods stores will be opened with a further continued to perform well supported by launches of 18 trading by Christmas and the remaining five in 2007. sweet flavours and a further savoury variety.
Ryvita A 70,000 sq ft store is planned to open in Oxford Street, further enhanced its position as a healthy eating snack London in Spring 2007.
We anticipate a year-on-year brand with the launch of better-for-you cereal bars increase in the weighted average oor space of some branded Ryvita Goodness.
For some years now 45% and, with a year end total of 4.5 million sq ft of Ryvita has delivered consistent sales and profit growth selling space, Primarks position as a major fashion driven by increased marketing support and new retailer in the high streets of the UK and Ireland will product introductions.
Our international hot beverage brands, Twinings and Ovaltine, continued to grow well with investment in new products and marketing.
Twinings showed strong growth in the UK where premium Everyday tea is now well Grocery established and Green Tea sales were well ahead of last year.
The television advertising, featuring Stephen Fry, 2006 2005 was extended both to Green Teas and infusions promoting their health benets.
In the US, the Twinings Revenue 2,656m 2,590m range has been relaunched with an updated packaging Adjusted operating profit 185m 185m design and market share has increased.
Good progress Adjusted operating margin 7.0% 7.1% has also been made in a number of overseas markets.
Return on average The tea-packing supply chain rationalisation was capital employed 20.2% 21.9% completed successfully with the closure of plants in France and the US, and the new facility in Shanghai is operating well.
Ovaltine continued to show good growth particularly in Thailand and China with the successful Grocery launch of new products.
Revenue increased by 3% to 2,656m and profit was level at 185m.
Strong progress was made by Ryvita, In Australia, the commissioning of the new bakery in International Hot Beverages, ACH and our ethnic foods Sydney has been difficult.
This facility replaces the Faireld business, Westmill.
However, profitability was held back bakery destroyed by re in 2002, the Chatswood bakery by particularly difficult trading at Allied Bakeries, with and the Chipping Norton distribution centre.
Severe lower volumes and lower sugar pricing in Silver Spoon.
operational difficulties were experienced in the first half of the year which led to signicantly increased costs and At ACH, the Mexican sales, marketing and distribution unacceptable levels of customer service.
Good progress infrastructure is now well established.
Capullo, the has been made in the second half bringing with it major premium canola oil brand, has grown strongly and, improvements in production efficiency, logistics and 16 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 ABF produces leading grocery brands for markets around the world 17 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 customer service.
Outside New South Wales the baking business achieved good sales growth.
The launch of Australias first low GI Glycaemic Index white bread in January 2006 is proving to be very successful.
The results of the meat & dairy business improved following a sharper commercial drive and a reduction in factory costs.
Performance at Allied Bakeries has been unsatisfactory during the year with volume declines in both Kingsmill and own label.
A new management team is now in place and is taking steps to stabilise the business.
Two new Kingsmill products have been launched, the promotional strategy has been revised and full recovery plans have been developed.
The combination of reduced volumes, increased promotional spend and higher energy costs resulted in a much reduced level of profitability.
The recent substantial increases in wheat costs will not be recovered immediately by bread price increases and, Alimentos with the investment necessary to support the recovery plans, we do not anticipate a major improvement in profitability next year.
Capullo In Silver Spoon, as a further consequence of EU sugar ACH established its branded grocery operations regime change, granulated sugar came under retail in Mexico following the acquisition of the Capullo pricing pressure and sustained some volume reduction brand in May 2004.
It has built a dedicated 135 impacting profit by 8m.
However, Billingtons unrened person sales and marketing organisation which cane sugars and our lower calorie Light sugar both has grown sales and operating profit rapidly.
portfolio now has a complement of attractive brands including Inca, Mazola, Karo and Aladino.
Much of Westmill again delivered good profit growth.
Its this success is attributable to the investment in and established position as a leading supplier to the UK consequent growth of the Capullo brand, Mexicos ethnic food sector was strengthened with the acquisition, leading premium brand of canola cooking oil and in March, of the Rajah, Green Dragon and Lotus brands the fifth largest Mexican grocery brand.
from Heinz together with distribution rights to the Amoy brand into the ethnic food channel.
These additions Supported by a new heart healthy advertising enable Westmill to sell a complete range of ethnic campaign, From the Heart, featuring animated foodstuffs into the wholesale and food service sectors talking food characters, Capullo grew its volume including spices, sauces, rice, edible oils, flour and by 25% this year and market share is growing noodles.
Its brands inspire strong consumer loyalty too.
The Capullo brands resurgence is also among the five million people in Britain who make up supported by innovative in-store displays and its target ethnic communities.
18 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Westmill Foods Westmill Foods is the largest supplier in the UK of foods to the ethnic wholesale trade.
This trade channel targets five million ethnic people in Britain through specialist outlets, as well as providing foodservice distribution to Indian and Chinese restaurants.
This market sector continues to show strong growth as ethnic communities grow and the UK population continues to develop a taste for ethnic cuisine.
Westmill supplies a wide range of ethnic foodstuffs such as spices, sauces, rice, edible oils, flour and noodles.
Its strength lies in its brands and in each food category it has won significant market share with products that command strong consumer loyalty.
Having supplied the market for over 30 years, Westmill has built strong relationships with its 700 customers.
In this segmented market, customer relationships are critical and the business has a strong focus on understanding the cultural diversity of the many growing ethnic communities that live in Britain.
Having achieved the necessary scale, the business now provides exceptional customer service through its own distribution fleet.
The recent acquisition of the Rajah, Green Dragon and Lotus brands together with distribution rights to the Amoy brand, strengthens the business and provides a base from which to expand into the growing ethnic wholesale trade in Europe.
19 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 AB Mauri There are many examples of global businesses and brands that see the world as one marketplace.
At AB Mauri, ABFs international yeast and bakery ingredients business, nothing could be further from the truth.
Our people understand that the definition of a perfect loaf, cake or other bakery product varies not only from country to country, but often from district to district sometimes even from town to town.
AB Mauris business ethic is to treat each local market as unique and every local customer as an individual.
Far from producing a standard global solution, the company draws on the insights and knowledge gleaned from its local presence to refine and adapt each bakery ingredient offering to the needs of that particular market.
AB Mauris global resources exist and are applied to help every customer in his locality achieve new heights of product performance and manufacturing efficiency.
20 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006 from improvement in manufacturing efficiency and yield.
Plans are proceeding to expand production capacity, Ingredients increase the product range and broaden our customer base.
Protient, a producer of dairy protein concentrates 2006 2005 and isolates, was acquired during the year and Revenue 729m 583m complements our yeast-based proteins business.
Adjusted operating profit 82m 65m The enzymes business continued to focus on the Adjusted operating margin 11.2% 11.1% introduction of new products, particularly in the textile Return on average and bakery sectors.
capital employed 21.6% 21.1% Despite higher energy costs our polyols business traded in line with last year, with food polyols benefiting from improved manufacturing efficiencies and antacids Ingredients maintaining the improvement in manufacturing AB Mauri, our international yeast and bakery ingredients performance seen last year.
In speciality lipids, the business, contributed strongly to the 25% increase sterols business has had some success in developing in revenue to 729m and 26% increase in profit to new technology in the manufacture of sterols from 82m.
This reected a full years contribution following wood-based raw materials as well as our traditional its acquisition in November 2004, the benets of soy-based products.
price and volume increases in yeast, and growth in bakery ingredients.
Good progress was made in recovering higher raw George Weston material costs, particularly molasses and energy, through Chief Executive price increases and cost savings in a number of key markets including North America, China, India, Turkey, Australia and Western Europe.
Strong demand in Asia has resulted in substantial further investment in production capacity in the region.
The factory in Xinjiang, Western China, which opened last year, is operating well and is already running close to capacity.
The existing Harbin and Hebei plants in China were expanded as were plants in Vietnam and at Chiplun in India.
The Chiplun investment enabled the closure of a smaller plant in Kolkata.
A new plant was commissioned in New Zealand and construction has commenced on further expansion of capacity at Harbin and Xinjiang.
In bakery ingredients, much effort has gone into transferring our technology across the group.
Sales and technical support teams are now working with customers in most markets with further opportunities to be developed particularly in China and South America.
Since this business was created in 2005 it has grown strongly, especially in its key emerging markets of China, South America and South and West Asia.
Agreement has been reached to sell a small bakery mix and icings business based in Denver, Colorado.
The operation was not well located and was loss-making.
A loss of 4m arising on the sale of this business has been included in the income statement.
ABF Ingredients comprises businesses operating in speciality proteins, enzymes, lipid technologies and polyols.
In speciality proteins, the yeast extracts businesses have seen strong growth and have benefited 21 Operating review Annual Report & Accounts 2006
