REVIEW OF OPERATIONS the high impact drilling programme in vietnam continued apace throughout 2006 whilst production in yemen experienced a major uplift and significant progress was made in the development of the kharir field.
the drilling success ratio in vietnam exceeded 70% as five of seven exploration appraisal wells were discoveries.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 8 Results from the Yemen appraisal programme reView oF 2006 actiVities produCtion: and production capacity expansion translated Block 16-1 barrels of oil per day into an immediate economic impact as In March 2006, the TGT-2X appraisal well 2006: production net to the Groups working interest on the Te Giac Trang TGT structure, an was up approximately 20% averaging 6,766 up-dip follow-up well to the previous years TGT- 6,766 barrels of oil per day BOPD versus 5,684 BOPD 1X discovery well, tested with a total combined in 2005. flow rate of approximately 17,500 BOEPD from the Miocene Lower Bach Ho 5.2 LBH 5.2 and 2005: Vietnam Oligocene C intervals.
5,684 SOCO holds its interests in Vietnam, all in the Cuu Long Basin offshore, through its 80% owned Two main pay zones were tested within the LBH subsidiary SOCO Vietnam Ltd. SOCO Vietnam 5.2 interval, one between 2,763 and 2,817 and through its 100% ownership of OPECO, Inc. metres and the other between 2,666 and 2,726 see the Financial Review for details of the metres.
A total of 89 metres of pay was OPECO acquisition that occurred in 2006. confirmed by log analysis in this reservoir horizon.
SOCO Vietnam holds a 25% working interest in Block 9-2, which is operated by the Hoan Vu The combined stabilised flow rate from Joint Operating Company HVJOC and holds the two Miocene zones was 14,053 BOEPD a 28.5% working interest in Block 16-1, which comprising 12,615 BOPD of 38 degree API is operated by the Hoang Long Joint Operating gravity crude and approximately 8.63 MMCFD Company HLJOC.
OPECO, Inc. holds a 2% through a one inch choke size.
Flow rates were interest in Block 16-1. limited due to mechanical restrictions in the surface separation equipment.
Both Blocks are on trend with several major Basement and Tertiary discoveries in the Cuu The drill stem test over the Oligocene C interval Long Basin.
Both are also contiguous to the tested water-free at a stabilised rate of 3,300 Bach Ho field, where 2006 production reportedly BOPD of 37.5 degree API gravity crude and averaged approximately 191,000 BOPD and approximately 0.88 MMCFD through a 52 64 150 million cubic feet of gas per day MMCFD, inch choke size.
and the Rang Dong field, where production reportedly averaged approximately 42,000 As was expected from the log analysis, water BOPD, primarily from the Basement.
was produced from the lower set of perforations key performanCe indiCators 2006 2005 Production barrels of oil per day 6,766 5,684 Total proven and probable reserve additions millions of barrels of oil equivalent 41.8 100.6 Proven and probable reserves millions of barrels of oil equivalent 160.6 133.2 See the Five Year Summary on page 69 for definitions REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED With an 80% drilling suCCess rate on the tgt struCture and tests ranging from approx 9,000 Boepd to approx 17,500 Boepd, aCtivities are noW foCused on early approval for development of the field SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 10 11 in the Miocene.
The approximate 8% water cut MD of 3,926 metres in the Upper Oligocene.
provided evidence of the presence of an aquifer, The well was deepened from its original which will be factored into plans for the fields prognosis due to the presence of encouraging depletion management.
A third reservoir horizon, hydrocarbon shows continuing below the original the LBH 5.1 which is considered to be oiltarget depth.
It was primarily positioned to test a bearing and productive, was also identified, but closure at the LBH 5.2 level, the main productive not tested as this would limit the ability to retain horizon at the TGT discoveries.
the well as a future producer, as originally designed.
This horizon had 18 metres of net pay The well intersected a clastic sequence at the and, from the analysis of logs and oil samples LBH 5.2 horizon, however the reservoir sands from wireline formation tests, is considered to were poorly developed at the location and no pay be oil-bearing and productive.
The sediments encountered suggested that the well was located outside the gordon graham Following the temporary suspension of the TGTLBH 5.2 play fairway and that this fairway is to Group Exploration Manager 2X well, the rig moved immediately to drill a the north and west of the TGV-1X location.
follow-up appraisal well, the TGT-3X, approximately 10 kilometres to the south on a The well was also drilled into the Oligocene, separate fault block on the structure.
A drill stem however the location was down-dip on the test was conducted in the LBH 5.2.
The tested flank of the structure.
Despite being in a flank interval, perforated between 2,827 and 2,887 position, good oil shows were encountered in metres, flowed at a combined maximum rate of several sands.
After analysis of the logs, 9,908 BOEPD comprising 9,008 BOPD of 40.5 although the sands were confirmed to be degree API gravity crude and approximately 5.4 hydrocarbon bearing, it appeared that these MMCFD through an 88 64 inch choke size.
lacked sufficient permeability to produce at commercial rates and were therefore not tested.
Log analysis of the well indicated approximately 68 metres of net pay were present in the LBH These overall encouraging well results are being 5.2.
Additionally, approximately six metres of net evaluated and the seismic re-interpreted prior to pay in the Lower Oligocene C interval were drilling a follow-up well to fully test the Oligocene also identified but not tested.
in a more prospective up-dip position.
The well also penetrated the source rock section at the The LBH 5.2 reservoir sands encountered top of the Oligocene validating the geological in the TGT-3X well are the same as those tested interpretation and confirming the potential of in the TGT-1X and TGT-2X wells.
This proved the the deep Oligocene and Basement prospect presence of a laterally extensive reservoir sand in underlying the shallower closures.
the Block, further reducing the risk of the other prospects and leads along the play fairway.
The 2006 drilling campaign continued on the Block 16-1 play fairway when the Transocean The third well drilled on Block 16-1 during 2006 Trident 9 jack-up rig spudded the TGT-4X well on was the first exploration well on the L prospect the H3 fault block in the TGT structure on 31 approximately 30 kilometres south of the TGT-3X August.
This third appraisal well on the TGT discovery.
The Te Giac Vang 1X TGV-1X spudded structure, was drilled on a separate fault block on 2 May and reached a total measured depth between the initial discovery well, TGT-1X and REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED the TGT-3X.
The well intersected the Te Giac Xang TGX structure on Prospect K hydrocarbon bearing Lower Miocene reservoir was plugged and abandoned when initial analysis interval as predicted.
However, the trap had been indicated that it was not drilled within structural breached and only residual oil was encountered.
Located in a previously untested portion The well also encountered hydrocarbons in the of the Clastics fairway on Block 16-1, the TGX-1X Oligocene D interval, a new reservoir on the well was drilled to a depth of 3,506 metres.
Block, and flowed at a rate slightly over 600 Finding reservoir is the main risk in drilling in this BOPD on a short test.
fairway, so the presence of reservoir in TGX-1X is a positive indicator for future success as drilling Subsequent detailed review of the seismic locations step out from the initial TGT discovery.
identified that the breaching of the Lower Miocene The seismic over the area is being reprocessed trap was due to late movement on a fault located and remapped to better define the structure for south of the TGT-4X well.
This appears to be the a possible second well.
only such fault on the TGT field and the effect is considered to be local to this well.
The final well drilled in 2006 and the fifth appraisal well on the TGT structure was drilled on The following well, in October, was a test of the H2 fault block.
The TGT-5X had a total Prospect K, a subtle closure to the west of the combined maximum flow rate of approximately higher amplitude TGT structure.
After encountering 16,430 BOEPD from the LBH 5.2 and Oligocene reservoir sands, the first exploration well on the C intervals.
S SO OC CO O I IN NT TE ER RN NA AT TI IO ON NA AL L P PL LC C A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 06 6 1132 1133 The first drill stem test, over the 32 metre period from a Basement interval of approximately Oligocene C interval, tested water-free 1,350 metres.
at a maximum rate of 7,098 BOPD of 36.5 degree API gravity crude and approximately 2.07 Log analysis of the Oligocene E, penetrated MMCFD through an 80 64 inch choke size.
The by this well, indicated that the interval lacked most prolific interval in the other successful wells permeability.
The CNV-4XST was drilled to a MD drilled on TGT, the LBH 5.2 pay zone, was of 6,330 metres making it the longest MD well perforated and tested separately between 2,841 to be drilled in Vietnam, exceeding the previous and 2,866 metres with a maximum flow rate of record set by the HVJOC when it drilled the 8,987 BOEPD comprising 8,104 BOPD of 41 CNV-3X appraisal well in 2005.
The well was degree API gravity crude and approximately 5.3 suspended as a producer.
MMCFD through an 80 64 inch choke size.
Preparations for development of the CNV field antony maris On the TGT structure, only the southern most picked up momentum in April of 2006 following Group Operations fault block in the five fault block structure the unanimous approval of the Declaration of and Production Manager remains to be drilled.
The LBH 5.2 and Commerciality on the field by the shareholders Oligocene C reservoirs encountered in the of the HVJOC.
Petrovietnam officially approved TGT-5X well appear to be the same as those the Pilot Development Plan in December.
tested in the previous TGT wells.
With an 80% Subsequent to this approval, Petrovietnam drilling success rate on the TGT structure has become a full paying participant in its and tests ranging from approximately 9,000 50% interest in Block 9-2.
BOEPD to approximately 17,500 BOEPD, activities are now focused on early approval Vietnam has become a participant in the for development of the field.
Following its admission into the WTO, portions of the state The rig was moved to Block 9-2 to drill operated enterprises, including Petrovietnam, the initial Clastics well on the Ca Ong Doi are expected to be privatised.
This portends COD structure after a long delay due to a change in negotiating certain aspects of the inclement weather.
development programme, particularly a gas sales agreement as the gas group is expected to Block 9-2 be an early candidate for privatisation.
However, Drilling operations recommenced on 5 June discussions on the sales agreement for the 2006 into the D fault block of the Ca Na associated gas produced from the CNV field Vang CNV structure to drill the sidetrack to the have continued.
Equipment and materials are CNV-4X well on Block 9-2 that was temporarily being ordered and fabrication of various suspended in 2005 after encountering structures will begin soon in anticipation of unexpected high pressures in the Oligocene having first oil in the first half of 2008. sequence above the Basement.
The re-entry and sidetrack of the appraisal well, CNV-4XST, tested The rig, which had been conducting the Groups at a maximum combined rate of approximately Vietnam drilling programme since the beginning 7,050 BOEPD comprised of approximately 5,333 of 2005, moved out of Vietnamese waters after BOPD and approximately 10.3 MMCFD.
However, the open hole test was conducted over a 13 hour drilling campaign continued uninterrupted with REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED george hepler Group Technical Engineering Manager SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 14 1 the Trident 9 drilling rig, which the JOCs had important in terms of fully evaluating the blocks drilling results contracted in 2005, commencing operations and securing areas for longer term development.
A further two rigs were put and the under contract during the year to conduct an yemen addition of a even more extensive 2007 drilling programme.
Throughout the year, the East Shabwa Block 10 consortium continued its programme to further self-Contained suBsequent eVents and appraise the Kharir field and to increase 2007 outLook production capacity from Block 10.
The East produCtion The drilling rig that began operations on Block Shabwa Block 10 consortium comprises Comeco faCility in the 16-1 in the third quarter of 2006 was delayed Petroleum, Inc. 28.57% interest, in which from moving to a Block 9-2 drilling location on SOCO holds a 58.75% interest, TOTAL E&P esda have the COD structure after completing the TGT-5X Yemen 28.57% interest and operator, well due to inclement weather that prevented Occidental Yemen Ltd. 28.57% interest and enaBled the the rig from being safely towed.
Accordingly, the Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Co. fields to exCeed COD-2X Clastics target well did not spud until 16 14.29% interest.
Although the well encountered all previous sands in the Oligocene and Lower Miocene, there Drilling results and the addition of a selfwas no significant oil pay encountered and the contained production facility have enabled the produCtion well was subsequently plugged and abandoned fields to exceed all previous production records.
reCords and the rig moved back to Block 16-1.
For the second consecutive year, production increases were significant circa 40% and 22% Although the rig currently working is only available for 2005 and 2006, respectively.
During the into the second quarter of this year, the JOCs year, production exceeded 40,300 BOPD, up have already contracted two other rigs one of almost 7,400 BOPD from the 32,937 BOPD which is expected to be available late in the first year average the previous year, despite having to quarter or early in the second quarter and the curtail production due to safety and production other later in the second quarter.
The prognosed management reasons below the 45,000 BOPD drilling programme calls for eight wells on Block plateau reached earlier in the year.
16-1 and three to five development injector producer wells on the Block 9-2 CNV field as Production from the East Shabwa Development it prepares for first oil in the first half of 2008.
Area ESDA, approximately 80% of which originates from the Kharir field, is transported Efforts are underway to obtain a declaration of by pipeline and commingled with production commerciality for the TGT structure.
The frontfrom the neighbouring Masila Block before end work required to transition operations from transportation by pipeline to the coastal Ash the exploratory phase to the development phase Shihr export terminal.
SOCOs crude entitlement is in progress with the hopes to allow first oil is sold under a 12-month spot market contract.
from Block 16-1 sometime in 2009. reView oF 2006 actiVities The exploration phase on both blocks is set to A number of successful development wells were expire at the end of 2007 unless further extended drilled in the Kharir field KHA during the first by agreement with the Vietnamese Government.
These include the KHA-1-12 well Thus the 2007 drilling campaign is extremely in the western part of the structure, the KHA-1-14 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED well in the southern flank of the structure and the KHA-1-07.
G1 sidetrack, which was drilled as a water injection well but completed as a producer based on drilling results.
These wells are all connected to the production facilities and were tested at rates between 5,500 and 8,000 BOPD.
The KHA-1-16 well, drilled on the eastern most proven and 3D seismic line as part of the continuing proBaBle reserves appraisal and development of the Basement millions of barrels of reservoir in the Kharir field, tested at over 8,400 oil equivalent BOPD.
The implications of the results of this 2006: edge of field are that the field could have a substantial eastward expansion.
160.6 Most of the drilling activity in the Kharir field 2005: in the second half of 2006 was spent on the drilling of water injection wells to provide 133.2 pressure support for the Basement production.
These include the KHA-1-15, KHA-1-17, KHA- 1-19 and the KHA-2-18 wells.
In addition, the gas injection well, KHA-1-11 was completed with two open hole sections to maximise the injection capacity of the well.
serge lesCaut The appraisal of the Kharir North area has General Manager, West Africa below, right continued with the KHA-3-08 drilled to the very SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 16 1 northwest of the mapped area of the structure.
Testing operations on this well are ongoing.
Activity to enhance the recovery of the Biyad reservoir horizons at both Atuf and Kharir are also ongoing.
At Atuf the ANW-012 and ANW- 013 infill production wells encountered the reservoir horizons higher than expected.
These have provided encouragement for more efficient reservoir recovery.
The thrust of the exploration programme in 2006 was in the northern part of Block 10 in the Jathma Wadi Taribah area.
The first Jathma exploration well, the JAT-01 that tested early in the year over 1,900 BOPD, was placed on long term production in the third quarter of the year.
The oil produced is trucked to the existing Kharir facilities for processing and export.
Two other exploration wells in the Jathma area, the JAT-02-ST and the exploration well on the eastern side of the Jathma area, JAT-04, encountered significant oil columns, but did not flow commercial volumes of hydrocarbons when tested.
An evaluation of the results of all the Jathma area wells drilled to date is underway.
suBsequent eVents and 2007 outLook Drilling of development and injector wells in the Kharir field to increase Basement productivity will continue throughout the year.
In particular, delineation of the eastern end of the field will be a priority in 2007.
Additionally, the KHA-1- 20 and KHA-1-22 Biyad oil production wells are being drilled currently to accelerate and improve the recovery from the Clastics horizon.
The additional surface facilities required to provide injection capacity are being installed and the pre-drilled water injection wells will be connected during the middle of 2007.
Currently, the final elements of the commissioning of the gas injection equipment are being completed prior to commencing gas injection to provide pressure maintenance in the crestal area of the Basement.
Production capacity is expected to continue to increase during the year as various initiatives progress.
Together with adding water injection capability to improve pressure maintenance in the Basement reservoir, considerable productive capability should be added throughout the year, albeit after an early 2007 cutback pending the installation of these facilities.
Three drilling rigs are expected to continue operating throughout the year.
As at the date of this publication three rigs are under contract on Block 10 and are drilling in the Kharir field.
One rig is expected to be used for exploratory drilling in the southeast corner of the Block later in the year.
repuBLic oF congo BrazzaViLLe SOCO Exploration and Production Congo SOCO EPC, the Companys 85% owned subsidiary was initially awarded a 75% interest in the Marine XI Block, offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville in 2005.
The terms of the Production Sharing Agreement signed by the Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo SNPC and SOCO EPC was approved during the Congolese Parliament and the REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED Senate extraordinary session in the first quarter of 2006.
The law became effective 30 March when signed by the President of the Republic.
The Block, located in the Lower Congo Basin, is in shallow water adjacent to the coast with water depths ranging up to 110 metres and covers approximately 1,400 square kilometres.
There has been previous exploration activity on the Block resulting in four oil discoveries, the largest of which has initial recoverable reserves estimated to be in the 30 to 60 million barrel range.
reView oF 2006 actiVities In September, SOCO EPC entered into an agreement to farm-out an 18.75% interest in the Marine XI Block, offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville, to each of a subsidiary of Lundin Petroleum AB and to Raffia Oil SARL.
SOCO EPC retained operatorship with a 37.5% working interest in the Block.
The regulatory authorities of the Government of the Republic of Congo Brazzaville ratified the farm-out on 4 January 2007.
Acquisition of an approximate 1,200 square kilometre 3D seismic programme was completed in the fourth quarter.
By employing the modern seismic techniques that the Company successfully applied in Vietnam to map the Basement reservoir, SOCO EPC expects to survey to further define the prospectivity of exploit the potential of the pre-salt section.
Initially, the plan is to acquire some 300 to 500 kilometres of 2D suBsequent eVents and 2007 outLook seismic.
Dependent upon the timing of the Processing and interpreting the 3D seismic seismic acquisition, processing and interpretation acquired in 2006 will be the priority.
Although it could be substantially completed this year.
Any is possible that SOCO EPC could be ready to drill meaningful work programme is conditional upon in the latter half of this year, it is more likely that obtaining the presidential decree.
drilling will commence in the first half of 2008. thaiLand democratic repuBLic oF SOCOs 99.93% owned Thailand subsidiary, congo kinshasa SOCO Exploration Thailand Co. Ltd. SOCO In July, the Companys 85% owned subsidiary, Thai, holds a 100% interest in Block B8 38 SOCO DRC Limited SOCO DRC, signed subject located offshore in the Gulf of Thailand.
An to presidential decree, a Production Sharing application and development plan was approved Contract with the Government of the Democratic in 2006 by the Thailand Department of Mineral Republic of Congo Kinshasa and La Congolaise Fuels to convert the concession into a des Hydrocarbures Cohydro, the state owned production licence on the Bualuang discovery oil company, wherein it acquired an interest in on the Block.
The Block, onshore the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa, reView oF 2006 actiVities comprises an area of approximately 800 square Upon securing approval from the Thailand kilometres.
SOCO is the designated operator Department of Mineral Fuels to convert the field with an 85% working interest in the Block.
from an exploration to a production licence in the first quarter of 2006, SOCO Thai signed an reView oF 2006 actiVities agreement to allow a two group consortium to Most of the activity during the year was focused earn up to a 60% working interest in the licence on detailed analysis of a reconnaissance details of the farm-out are in the Financial aeromagnetic and gravity survey over the onshore Review.
If the earn-in terms of the agreement extension of the coastal basin in order to delineate are fulfilled, SOCO Thai would retain a 40% prospective areas for hydrocarbon generation and working interest in the field.
The survey indicated the presence of a interests in the agreement is subject to approval deep pre-salt source graben in the northern part of the appropriate regulatory authorities of the of the basin in the Nganzi Block.
mapping shows the graben to be on trend with the source basin for the MBoundi field in the During the year, the farmees efforts were southern part of the Republic of Congo directed toward the planning and contracting of Brazzaville.
Several leads, interpreted as large several front-end activities precluding the starthorst blocks, have been identified on the Block.
up of development operations in 2007. suBsequent eVents and 2007 outLook suBsequent eVents and 2007 outLook Prior to acquiring a 2D seismic survey, the In January, the farmee group was consolidated Company expects to conduct a geochemical with GFI Oil and Gas Corporation GFI becoming SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 18 1 the sole farmee.
GFI expects to conclude a high Accordingly, the Group will continue to assess resolution 100 kilometre 2D seismic programme its participation in the consortium in light of during the second quarter of 2007 in preparation reasonable expectations of success.
It is for drilling the initial commitment well and anticipated that ODEX will continue to be the completing the milestone to earn a 20% interest vehicle through which the Group will explore in the Bualuang field.
various opportunities that may arise in Libya and certain parts of Africa as the consortium Further, GFI has already entered into a contract is well placed to take advantage of its strong with a floating production, storage, and offloading regional relationships.
vessel with the expectation of concluding the work programme to earn an additional 40% interest by funding 92% of the costs to take the project to first oil.
GFI estimates first production would be achieved in the first half of 2008. other areas oF interest caBinda In October, the Company was informed by Sonangol, the national oil company of Angola, that it would have a participating interest in the contractor group of the Cabinda Onshore North Petroleum Concession.
The Group anticipates formal completion of the assignment in the first half of 2007.
Preparation has begun for the acquisition of a high resolution aeromagnetic and gravity survey over the Block.
LiBya The Group maintains its shareholding in the ODEX Exploration Limited ODEX joint venture.
The ODEX shareholding comprises SOCO North Africa Ltd. 34%, and subsidiaries of Oilinvest Netherlands B. V. 46% and Joint Stock Bank of the Gas Industry Gazprombank 20%.
From SOCOs standpoint, the niche for ODEX was to participate with one or more indigenous Libyan companies in exploiting existing but problematic development opportunities.
While the focus in the past two years of the Libyan National Oil Company has been on open exploration bid rounds, it announced in late 2006 an initiative to negotiate for participation in production and development projects.
