ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 6 Operating Review The Group continues to focus on concentrating and or expanding its presence in the key territories of north and west Africa, the Middle East, Europe, Russia, the North Sea and the Caspian area.
Michael J. L. Salter Chief Operating Officer Market Dynamics & Positioning Additionally, oil companies continue to be conservative There are three major determinants currently affecting in setting their reference oil price i. e. the threshold the Groups business today: price for the approval of major projects at around US$25 US$35bbl source: Cazenove, indicating that The demand for oil and its current price: the Groups activities would not be negatively affected The requirement to replace oil and gas reserves unless the price was to drop very significantly from its as existing reservoirs deplete: current levels.
The increased use of natural gas as a convenient fuel The reserves replacement issue is key to the demand and the development of a world market for liquefied supply balance in the industry, where the current focus natural gas LNG.
is on finding and exploiting more reserves to keep up with demand.
Certain oil companies, also have a The Groups primary drilling activities have been, requirement to increase their balance sheet reserves.
and continue to be, focused on development drilling.
In either case, the primary means of confirming the This is a much less volatile part of the market than presence of hydrocarbons and the subsequent method exploration and therefore, to a large extent, insulates of exploitation all require wells to be drilled.
the Group from short-term negative downward The third major influence on our business is the movements in the oil price.
This is further reinforced increasing demand for natural gas, where reserves in by the Groups lack of exposure to the Americas.
Europe and North America continue to decline at such However, demand for oil is still increasing in both the a rate that approximately 25% of North American gas developed and developing worlds, particularly India needs and 60% of Europes requirement will be met and China where the growth in demand for oil and through imports by 2015 source: Simmons & Co. oil-based products continues unabated.
In Europe, production rates on the UKCS and in the Netherlands are declining to such an extent that On the supply side, existing reservoirs continue to increases in Norwegian production cannot compensate deplete and new production capacity is currently only in anything other than the very short-term.
just keeping pace with this decline.
The softening in the price of oil in the final quarter of 2006 and early North America too is importing significant and 2007 to around US$50 bbl is thought to have been increasing quantities of LNG, as are the emerging a function of additional capacity coming on stream economies in the Far East.
Demand for the commodity in west Africa and the Caspian, matched to lower has created a fully developed global market where demand in North America due to milder winter contracts for delivery are written with diversion clauses weather.
Both of these factors are widely considered as standard, allowing the vendor to take advantage to be transient: the price of oil has already moved of likely price variations.
back up to around US$60 bbl and, despite fluctuations, the general level remains at an historically high level.
Operating Review - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 6 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 7 MODUs Platform drilling Land drilling Engineering, design and land rig construction Group Strategy The MODU market is a key area of growth for Future Oil and Gas The major source areas for future oil supplies and for the business as it furthers the Groups strategic focus supplies in natural gas and LNG are the Middle East, on development, rather than exploration drilling.
The major source areas for future oil north and west Africa and Russia.
Abbot is particularly supplies and for supplies in natural gas Our proven ability to deliver safe, effective, troubleand LNG are the Middle East, north well positioned in these strategic areas and we free operations, on-time delivery and reliability of and west Africa and Russia.
Abbot is therefore have a high level of confidence that our particularly well positioned in these performance continues to make the Group distinct continued investment and focus on them will be strategic areas and we therefore have from a large number of its competitors.
a high level of confidence that our of enormous benefit going forward.
continued investment and focus on Strategic and considered investment decisions based The Group continues to focus on concentrating these areas will be of enormous benefit on portfolios of opportunities in particular areas will going forward.
and or expanding its presence in the key territories continue to be made, especially where they provide of north and west Africa, the Middle East, Europe, the Group with a clear competitive advantage with Russia, the North Sea and the Caspian area.
We are regard to equipment availability.
We also aim to notably absent from the North American market adapt the Groups strategy wherever practicable to which the Group believes is not only saturated by take maximum advantage of market conditions with other contractors but is also more volatile and more respect to increases in day rates and to strengthen short-term than our chosen areas of operations.
the Groups position in its key strategic areas.
We continue to build capability in our key areas through the strategic concentration of equipment by investing in new rigs, the refurbishment and upgrading of existing equipment and training personnel to ensure KCA DEUTAG remains the Drilling Contractor of Choice.
Having entered the important MODU market with the acquisition of Songa Drilling in June 2006, the Group is now focused on the provision of our four service lines: Land drilling Platform drilling MODUs Engineering, design and land rig construction.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Operating Review 7 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 8 Investing We are committed to investing in new build rigs to meet the - requirements of clients in our key target markets.
T-208 working in Austria Operating Review - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 HR-5000 MARKET DEMAND: Winterised, hybrid drilling rig RIG DESIGN BUILD: Bentec RIGS: Six rigs in total, T-505 being built and will arrive in Russia mid-2007 CONTRACT: TNK-BP for four hybrid rigs, T-501, T-502, T-503 and T-504 LOCATION: Tyumen Oblast, Western Siberia DURATION: Five years, commencing Q2 2007 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 9 NOMAD HR-5000 T-208 In March 2006, KCA DEUTAG commissioned its At the end of 2005, KCA DEUTAG was awarded At the end of May 2006, T-208, Europes most sister company Bentec to design and construct a contract by TNK-BP to build four, fast-moving modern, modular, fast-moving drilling rig, two rigs which are the first of many to be built hybrid development drilling rigs to support started operations, drilling appraisal and to a standardised design called the Nomad class.
TNK-BPs operations in the Uvat region, Tyumen exploration wells in OMVs Vienna Field, Oblast, Western Siberia.
Built by Bentec, the as part of a three-year contract to increase oil These rigs have been developed with a plug rigs will begin operating in Western Siberia in and gas production from the field.
The first and play approach to suit client requirements, Q2 2007 under a five-year contract.
well, named Ebenthal Tief 2 has a planned for example a third mud pump and or depth of 3,700m.
generator set may be added.
They have an Bentec was also awarded a contract by Eurasia enhanced rig specification including high rig Drilling for four 250 tonne fast-moving hybrid Designed and built in only one year, T-208 can mobility, special HSE features such as antirigs, derived from the original HR-5000 design.
be operated using the electricity main grid collision system, iron roughneck and dedicated This contract brought the total number of rigs or with its own generator sets, and due to man-rider winch, a 1 million lbs hook load under construction by Bentec in 2006 to 10. its modular construction, can be moved very rating, NOV TDS 11-SA top drive system, cost-effectively on to small locations.
The rig is The Bentec design of this specialised high Wirth or Bentec 1,500 or 2,000hp drawworks completely sound-proofed, fulfilling the latest capacity, winterised unit has been developed and three Wirth 1,600hp mud pumps.
environmental standards, allowing it to operate specially for the Russian market.
The rigs are packaged to achieve fast rig move HR-5000 is designed for operating on cluster times over flat terrain conditions and can also locations, with a full winterisation package Equipped with a 1,500hp drawworks and be disassembled into smaller rig packages for incorporated into the design.
All direct drilling a hook load capacity of 347mt, the T-208 is moves over sand dune conditions.
related sub-systems are installed on a rail track, designed to a modular concept which allows allowing fast skidding in one direction.
The for high flexibility and mobility.
ATEX certified, skidding movement is predetermined in one allowing operation in the European market, the direction on each location to match the pad rig has a top drive, iron roughneck, 4-Q system, layout and well head positions.
Repositioning VFD control unit AC and three mud pumps.
the drilling rig and its auxiliary components is fast and reduces overall time.
The rig contains a derrick with 320 mt hook load capacity and a foldable substructure.
Additional equipment is installed on winterised trolleys, which move with the mast and substructure during rig skidding.
The rig can move in a 40km radius within 18 days, weather and road conditions permitting.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Operating Review 9 T-208 D: oving land rig MARKET DEMAN Modular, fast-m RIG DESIGN BUILD: Bentec CONTRACT: OMV LOCATION: Austria, Europe DURATION: Three years with extension options, commenced May 2006 CONTRACT: T-500 with Achimgaz LOCATION: Northern Siberia DURATION: Three well programme, started June 2006 NOMAD MARKET DEMAND: Highly mobile drilling rigs for desert terrain RIG DESIGN BUILD: Bentec CONTRACT: BP Sonatrach for two Nomad Class rigs LOCATION: Algeria, North Africa DURATION: One year with options, commencing fourth quarter 2007 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:30 Page 10 Operating Review continued The Group has also carried out similar geothermal Onshore operations in Denmark and Sweden.
While this type of activity is by no means a core business for the Group, it Europe does provide Abbot with a reputation in this area and a Operations in Europe provide a good counterweight level of experience which will be invaluable as the world to other global developments in the oil and gas sector.
continues to shift its focus onto more environmentallyIt is a stable and safe environment with no sovereign friendly sources of energy.
We are therefore keen to risk, which also offers healthy day rates on long-term explore further opportunities in this area.
At the same time, running costs in the region are not experiencing the same cost increase Russia pressures as other areas and we find that European During 2006, we continued the successful expansion operations are as profitable as most other locations of our operations in Russia following the opening of around the world.
a major operations base in Tyumen, Western Siberia, to oversee all our Siberian operations.
This underlines Austria the Groups strategy of growing critical mass in specific We are witnessing an upsurge of work in this area, areas by providing a concentration of rigs which driven by OMVs discovery, in April 2005, of the can be serviced through local offices and engineering largest gas field in the Vienna basin for 20 years.
We are also developing a training centre In May 2006, the Group delivered the Bentec-built in the same location.
T-208 rig on time and budget to OMV and we are Western Siberia now operating the rig on a three-year US$30 million In the second quarter of 2006 we successfully contract.
At the same time OMV also awarded commenced operations in Novyi Urengoi with our T-52 the Group a contract for its T-65 rig which has now T-500 rig on a three well contract for Achimgaz finished its upgrade by Bentec.
Before being mobilised Europe: Austria Wintershall Gazprom.
to OMV in May 2007, T-65 will first be deployed for a one well project with Wintershall in north Germany.
Our operations for Shell in Salym continued successfully Together with T-52, the Group will be operating three with the Group being awarded Shells Ferrari Trophy for rigs in Austria by mid-2007.
Our T-390 and T-391 rigs are on contract there until the summer of Germany 2009, where they will be joined in May 2007 by T-392, Our T-49 rig has redeployed from Dubai to Germany a new rig which is currently under construction.
under a two and a half year contract with EWE to carry out gas storage drilling.
There has been an We also mobilised three new Bentec-built HR-5000 rigs increase in this type of drilling as Europeans focus to a staging area near the Demianskiy field.
The fourth on stockpiling gas reserves as a strategic measure to unit, the T-501, has been operating for TNK-BP as a counter potential concerns over supplies from Russia.
training rig in Tyumen since June last year.
All four rigs, which are owned by TNK-BP, are currently being During the period we also negotiated the renewal of mobilised into the Demianskiy field to operate under two long-term, three-year framework contracts with a five-year operating and maintenance contract.
EMPG utilising our T-61 and T-25 rigs.
These became effective on 1 January 2007.
Eastern Siberia Our T-2000 rig has now arrived in the area and will be Netherlands operational by the end of March 2007 under contract The Groups T-46 heavy rig continued operations to VCNG TNK-BP Rosneft.
This rig was destined for with NAM throughout the year.
T-46 will finish its Sakhalin but plans had to be reviewed due to the work with NAM during the second quarter 2007 narrow weather window available for transporting and will be moved to Germany to work for EWE.
heavy equipment into the area.
As a result the Group Switzerland received a payment for its costs and for the early Our T-45 rig completed a geothermal well-drilling termination of its contract.
project for Geopower in Basel, Switzerland.
This type The Group sees Eastern Siberia as an area for potential of project involves drilling two holes roughly five development for the future.
Water is pumped into one well and is naturally heated underground: the resultant steam Sakhalin exits the other well via a turbine which is used to Our T-41 land rig arrived from Brunei to drill a two well generate electricity.
The first well has been drilled programme for Shell.
This was successfully completed T-501 successfully and the acquired data is currently being and the rig is now on its way to Gabon.
T-45 is now back in Germany working for Russia: Siberia Gaz fide France on a two well oil and gas project.
Operating Review - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 10 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 11 Middle East and Asia Africa Kingdom of Saudi Arabia West Africa One of the big stories in 2006 for Abbot in the Middle Our west African team, whose operations currently East was that, after an absence of some 15 years, focus on Nigeria and Gabon, were awarded the Group is once again operating in Saudi Arabia.
significant contracts during the period.
Our T-41 Overcoming manpower issues in an area with a wellrig is being mobilised from Sakhalin to Gabon, known shortage of skilled personnel, a complex visa to operate on a one-year contract plus extension system and the countrys harsh geography to get the options with Pan Africa.
operation running, was an achievement of which the In addition, we won contracts for two years, with team can be justifiably proud.
The net result for the options to extend, for two rigs to begin operations 9 rigs Group is that we have two rigs drilling in the region, in Nigeria.
T-209, a brand new rig, which was built one with Saudi Aramco T-67, on a three-year, in Jebel Ali, starts operations for Shell in the third Oman US$21 million contract, the other with SRAK T-79, quarter of 2007 and, in line with our strategy of on a one and a half year, US$20 million contract.
concentrating our assets in key areas, T-103, which Saudi Arabia is currently increasing its drilling has just finished a contract in Pakistan, is mobilising operations as a means of both maintaining production to the area to commence operations in the first half and replacing the Kingdoms reserves, and also to of 2007. exploit gas reserves for internal consumption as well North Africa as for export.
We therefore see further opportunities Algeria to build on our presence in country.
Aside from Russia, Algeria is arguably the most Sultanate of Oman important supplier of natural gas to Europe and, In Oman, the Group is again seeing its operations grow with around 70 operating rigs, is the biggest as drilling activity has increased to both keep up with drilling market in the region.
The necessary pipeline global demand and to replenish reserves.
Abbot now infrastructure, ensuring delivery to Europe, is in place has eight rigs under operation with PDO, which itself and the country has become both politically and has some 30 to 40 rigs operating in the region and, economically more stable over the last five years.
since January 2007, we have a further rig operating For these reasons we see Algeria as a place of great for EnCana.
In addition, we are also seeing other opportunity and in 2006 were pleased to have been clients, such as BP, BG and Occidental, increasing their awarded a gas-drilling contract with BP, utilising two presence in the area, which should provide further new Bentec-built Nomad rigs, which will commence opportunities for the Group in the future.
Whilst Abbot does not 10 rigs Iran build rigs on a speculative basis, it is important to In December 2006 we successfully completed our note that the decision to build these rigs was based Russia contract for Norsk Hydro in Iran and are currently on the Group being presented with a portfolio of progressing negotiations with regard to further opportunities where contracts were dependent opportunities in the area.
Whilst on a political level, on our ability to guarantee the delivery of equipment the country is viewed with some caution, Iran does within a short timeframe.
have the worlds second largest oil and gas reserves.
The Groups strategy is to increase its presence in In addition, its current drilling infrastructure is in Algeria to at least five rigs over the next three years need of upgrade and requires ongoing maintenance, and we are in the process of setting up an office in so there can be no doubt about its future in our Hassi Messaoud to provide operational support to market or of the size of opportunity it presents.
our ambitions in the country.
Pakistan Libya The Groups 2,000hp rig, T-75, continued its work Abbot has operated in Libya continuously for nearly for MOL, where it is under contract for another year.
The ongoing positive social, political and Additionally, our T-34 rig extended its contract with economic trends mark the country out as a place BP until mid-2008.
where we want to continue to leverage our experience Sultanate of Brunei to consolidate our position.
As part of our strategy Our T-201 rig successfully commenced operations to upgrade and replenish our Libyan fleet we are here in May 2006 under a three-year contract with decommissioning three of Abbots older rigs, Shell Brunei.
Whilst Brunei is not a core area for which are lighter and of lower capacity.
15 rigs the Group, this contract does demonstrate our ability We are deploying two heavy rigs, T-19, which is to undertake stand-alone projects where there is going in country with RWE for one well before Libya a demand from our clients and or a longer-term being contracted to Verenex for a one-year contract, financial and operational benefit for the Group.
and T-202, which is being deployed to Libya from Bangladesh, where it is completing a contract for Chevron, to commence a three-year contract with Shell.
We will then shut down our operations in Bangladesh.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Operating Review 11 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 12 Investing We continue to extend our rig portfolio through acquisition to meet the challenge of increasing demand for rigs worldwide.
In June 2006, Abbot Group acquired Norwegian company Songa Drilling, owner of three jack up rigs, the Songa Tellus, the Songa Jupiter and the Songa Neptune.
- All three rigs were refurbished and upgraded in the US and are being renamed the Ben Avon, Ben Loyal and Ben Rinnes respectively.
KCA DEUTAG also manages the Thule Power jack up drilling rig, owned by Thule Drilling AS, under a four year - - with one year option US$222 million contract with Saudi Aramco for a drilling - programme offshore Saudi Arabia commencing quarter two 2007.
Operating Review - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12 TELLUS CONTRACT: CNR LOCATION: Offshore Gabon DURATION: Three years COMMENCES: 2nd Quarter 2008 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 13 JUPITER NEPTUNE TELLUS The jack-up rig Jupiter commenced operations In December 2006 KCA DEUTAG was awarded Tellus commences operations in CNRs Olowi in Mexico for its national oil company Pemexs a three-year contract, with options from field, offshore Gabon, in the second quarter Cantarell field in September 2006 after its CABGOC, for its Neptune jack-up rig.
The three-year contract is valued 644 nautical mile tow from the Sabine Pass, at US$225 million, this contract is due to at US$170 million.
commence in the second quarter of 2007 CNR is an important, existing client for KCA at a day rate of US$190,000.
The rig will be The drilling contract has a duration of two DEUTAG with five platform rigs under contract mobilised to Angola from the Gulf of Mexico years and provides for a day rate of US$145,000 in the North Sea.
This contract will significantly for a fee of US$15million to be paid by together with a fee of US$2million for the augment the Groups operations in Gabon the operator.
mobilisation of the rig to Mexican waters.
where the Company currently has two land Pemex is also providing a substantial number The heavy lift vessel Transhelf has been rigs on contract to Pan Africa.
of the required crews, which will reduce the contracted to effect the mobilisation with an The rig has also been awarded a binding letter Groups operating costs.
estimated departure from the Gulf of Mexico of intent in west Africa to fill in ahead of the during March, following completion of the commencement of the CNR contract, and will rigs upgrade programme.
mobilise to the area together with the Neptune on board the Transhelf barge.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Operating Review 13 NEPTUNE CONTRACT: CABGOC LOCATION: Offshore Angola DURATION: Three years COMMENCES: 2nd Quarter 2007 JUPITER CT: CONTRA Pemex LOCATION: Gulf of Mexico DURATION: Two years COMMENCED: September 2006 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 14 Operating Review continued A further platform, Deepwater Guneshli, is due to Offshore commence operating by November 2007, again for AIOC.
This will bring the total to six rigs in the Caspian North Sea all of which are contracted until at least 2010, and in Activity levels on platforms in the UK increased some cases 2012, providing a strong line of visible to 10 operating rigs by the end of the year while forward earnings and further consolidating the in Norway activities levels were maintained, with Groups position in the area.
operations on six operating platforms.
Projections for 2007 indicate fluctuating levels of activity in the UK There are very significant plans for more developments and a slight increase in Norway.
The region remains in this area, providing many opportunities for which a core business area for the Group, providing a source we are well placed to take advantage.
of good people to support our worldwide operations.
Sakhalin The largest clients in the region include Norsk Hydro, Sakhalin has been the centre of an enormous amount CNR, BP and ExxonMobil.
of attention during the past year regarding the The Rubicon, a lightweight modular drilling and relationship between the Russian Government and workover rig acquired at the time of the Prosafe Gazprom on one side and Shell on the other, which Drilling acquisition, is currently on a standby has resulted in Shell retaining a reduced share in the agreement with Talisman on the Montrose fields it is operating.
Shell has, however, retained platform, where it will be reactivated later in 2007. management of its Sakhalin operations and from the Groups point of view our contracts are sound Caspian and we should continue with business as usual.
The Groups operations in the Caspian have progressed successfully and are focused principally During 2006 we continued to support Shell for the on activities in Kazakhstan and in Azerbaijan, where Sakhalin project, particularly with the construction and we are the only Western platform drilling operator.
hook-up activity of the Lunskoye and Piltun platforms.
In addition, we also set up a training school in Sakhalin In Kazakhstan, T-47 was drilling in very shallow water in co-operation with Shell, using the Groups DART from an artificial island for the entire year under contract training simulator.
This has enabled us to recruit, to AGIP KCO.
This contract was extended on 1 October train and employ a significant local workforce.
2006 for one year with a value of US$20 million.
Angola In Azerbaijan, we experienced significant growth The new-build platform, Benguela Belize, commenced in our operations, commencing drilling on two new drilling operations offshore Angola for CABGOC platforms in 2006, bringing the Groups total in the under a five-year contract which commenced in area to five: four contracted to AIOC and one to BP.
RDS designed the rig and project At the same time we increased our staff levels in the managed its construction in Houston in co-operation region to around 560. with NOV. CABGOC then transported it to Angola where the Group took over the management of drilling operations.
SHAH DENIZ Caspian The Shah Deniz platform commenced operating for BP in November 2006.
Operating Review - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 14 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 15 Our position as a qualified operator of jack-up rigs Mobile Offshore Drilling was underlined when the Group won a four-year contract in Saudi Arabia with Saudi Aramco which Units MODUs will utilise the Thule Power, a 250ft jack-up under a management contract with its owners.
This contract, Jack-Up Rigs which is scheduled to start in the second quarter 2007, In June 2006, we completed the acquisition of the provides the Group with a presence in MODU operation Norwegian company Songa Drilling, which brought in the Middle East, whilst also earning attractive rates three jack-up rigs into the Group, Tellus, Jupiter and and incentive payments.
Neptune, rated at 250 feet, 300 feet and 350 feet respectively.
The acquisition allowed Abbot to enter We continue to look for options for expanding our this market early in the cycle, independent of new presence in the MODU market, preferably in our build schedules which would have meant deliveries chosen strategic areas across the globe, by building in 2008 or 2009 and beyond.
on the successful track record and credibility we have achieved to date.
At the time of acquisition, a number of assumptions were made about potential day rates and the timing Self-Erecting Tender Rigs SETRs of contracts for each of the three rigs, which are in In the second half of 2006 we made a 10% equity the process of being re-named, Ben Avon Tellus, investment in four barge-based SETRs which can Ben Loyal Jupiter and Ben Rinnes Neptune.
operate in relatively benign waters off west Africa and certain parts of the Far East.
The deal provides The Jupiters schedule was met in respect of timing us with the dual benefits of being an equity partner and it was contracted to Pemex in the Gulf of Mexico and earning revenues derived from the attractive day from September 2006 for two years.
On contract rates received through the management of the rigs.
expiry, we will review the best available options for its placement either in the Gulf of Mexico or elsewhere Of the four rigs the Searex X is currently on contract within the Groups focused areas of operations.
in Angola: it will then fulfil a contract in the Ivory Coast in May 2007 before moving to south east Asia, Whilst the refurbishment programmes for the in September 2007, for refurbishment followed by remaining two jack-ups have taken longer than an anticipated long-term contract.
The Searex IX and anticipated, both of these now have contracts W D Kent rigs are being refurbished and upgraded in in west Africa, further consolidating the Groups Malaysia.
The W D Kent has a follow-on contract in position there.
In December the Neptune was Thailand with an established operator and the Searex contracted to CABGOC for three years offshore IX will also be put to work under contract in south east Angola, commencing in the second quarter of this Asia.
The Charley Graves is in Thailand on contract to year, and earlier in 2007, we announced that the Chevron, with whom it has a follow-on contract at Tellus had won a three-year contract, commencing improved day rates until April 2008 with discussions second quarter 2008, with CNR working in the Olowi ongoing about possible extensions.
The rig also has a binding letter of intent for a contract at attractive rates to fill in These investments are a major step forward for the ahead of the commencement of the CNR contract.
Group as the assets are designated for development drilling where long-term contracts are implicit.
The total value of these contracts is just over US$560 million and in each case contracts were negotiated at day rates which are significantly higher than those projected at the time of acquisition.
3 jack-up rigs Acquisition: June 2006 In June 2006, we completed the acquisition of the Norwegian company Songa Drilling, which brought three jackup rigs into the Group, Tellus, Jupiter and Neptune, rated at 250 feet, 300 feet and 350 feet water depth respectively.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Operating Review 15 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 16 Operating Review continued The first of the units, which will be assembled on Engineering Teesside on hulls acquired from the Sevmash shipyard in Russia, is due for delivery in 2009.
RDS KCA DEUTAGs engineering division, which, following Company wide, a new integrated operations structure the acquisition of the business of Rig Design Services has been developed to more closely connect RDSs in 2004, was recently rebranded RDS, has been London, Stavanger and Aberdeen engineering offices increasingly busy over 2006, experiencing an enabling them to share resources, where necessary, upsurge in offshore, greenfield and brownfield to handle the larger and more complex study or engineering projects.
In Azerbaijan, both the Shah Deniz and East Azeri Additionally, in response to its growing order book rigs for BP AIOC were successfully completed and and size, RDS moved its London office to larger, handed over for operations, on schedule, in June more modern premises in Old Street, London and September 2006 respectively.
The Deepwater Guneshli rig is currently undergoing Bentec final module assembly in Baku and is on schedule for Bentec, our design, engineering and rig fabrication operations start-up in November 2007.
An engineering subsidiary, has grown dramatically over the year office was also opened in Baku to provide brownfield as a result of the strategy designed to grow it into engineering support services.
In line with the Groups an independent stand-alone commercial business desire to recruit and train local staff, 50% of personnel operating competitively in the open market, rather currently employed at this office are Azeri nationals.
than simply as a feeder for the Groups requirements.
In support of the Sakhalin projects, engineering teams It is currently operating near capacity at its premises based in Korea continued to provide support during in Bad Bentheim and Nordhorn in Germany.
Its order construction and commissioning phases of the intake in 2006 reached almost US$250 million and Lunskoye and Piltun drilling facilities.
the forward order book looks extremely robust.
More than a dozen new front end engineering design In addition, and in the longer-term of more FEED studies were started for both fixed platform significance, Bentecs international reputation for rig and mobile rigs covering locations across the Gulf of design and construction continued to flourish, as it Mexico, Norway, UKCS and the Far East.
A number of established itself in the market for rig component these studies are expected to lead into major detailed and technology design and manufacture.
It recently engineering contracts for this complex work in 2007. completed its first sale of a Bentec 1,500hp drawworks as a single component, with a further nine being In the North Sea, in both Norway and the UK, our sold as part of rig packages.
Whilst this product is brownfield workload has continued to grow with at the top level in terms of quality and robustness, much operator interest in extended reach drilling.
competitive pricing has led to it receiving a lot of RDS is now carrying out projects and studies on attention from other interested parties.
a number of platform rigs to increase their performance and extend operational life.
An increased design and production capacity is an important part of Bentecs portfolio of expertise.
As an example, in the UK a large multi-million The Company continues to increase the scope of more dollar contract was won from Lundin Britain Ltd technical work it can undertake in-house, providing to refurbish and re-activate a rig which has not tighter controls over timings and budget, as well as been operated on the Thistle Alpha platform for increased margins, whilst at the same time outsourcing over 15 years.
Operation is due to commence lower value manufacture.
In 2006, Bentec delivered five completed rigs, In 2006, RDS also commenced an engineering on time and on budget.
contract for a semi-submersible drilling rig commissioned by SeaDragon Offshore Limited to address the chronic global shortage of deep-water, harsh environment semi-submersible rigs.
Operating Review - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 17 A 350 tonne AC rig was consigned to OMV in May Safety 2006 for utilisation in the Vienna basin gas fields.
Two HR-5000 rigs were delivered at the beginning We continue in our commitment to deliver safe, of 2006 to KCA DEUTAG in western Siberia, one effective and trouble-free operations in all Group to operate under contract to Achimgaz, the second activities.
Careful consideration is given to providing to operate for TNK-BP as a training rig in Tyumen, the resources and leadership required to maintain prior to working in the Uvat field in 2007.
These a safe place and safe systems of work in all are hybrid rigs designed specifically to operate our operations.
The Group is committed to continuously improving The balance of the rigs completed and delivered its safety performance and set a target for Total were the second and third of a series of four from RDS Recordable Incident Rate TRIR of 0.8 per 200,000 a substantial contract awarded to Bentec by KCA man hours worked in 2006.
Our result for the year SeaDragon Contract DEUTAG to develop highly-specialised winterised was a TRIR of 1.05, a flat performance when hybrid drilling rigs to support TNK-BPs operations in compared to 2005, which reflects the challenges In 2006, RDS also commenced an western Siberia.
This unique field-proven design can engineering contract for a semiassociated with recruiting, training and deploying operate comprehensively at temperatures ranging submersible drilling rig commissioned by 1,200 new staff during 2006.
It also highlights the o o from 45 C to -45 C and breaks down into modules SeaDragon Offshore Limited to address importance of our training and induction progress the chronic global shortage of deep-water, designed to be transported by the Russian railway in maintaining a performance which compares very harsh environment exploration rigs.
system, as well as by truck.
favourably with our industry International Association Bentecs standing as an innovative systems of Drilling Contractors figure of 2.19 for 2006. manufacturer and rig builder, able to complete The Group is committed to operating with no harm sizeable contracts on time and on budget has to people and the fact that this is an achievable led to significant levels of activity for 2007.
This is objective is demonstrated by the high number of valued at approximately US$165 million for nine rigs, our drilling rigs and engineering projects which have including five winterised rigs for Russia, two highly operated for several years without recordable incident mobile desert Nomad rigs and a highly mobile or injury.
In our continuing efforts to improve our European rig similar to the T-208.
safety performance, we will further invest in our own Spear specialised training programme under the Safe2Lead The Groups interest in Spear Technologies Inc. banner.
In 2006 over 300 staff were trained in was disposed of in April 2006 to a California-based techniques designed to improve the safety and investment group.
integrity of our operations and, in 2007, we plan to run a further 20 Safe2Lead courses training more than 500 staff.
In addition, during 2007, we will train and deploy 24 Rig Safety and Training Coaches RSTC to our expanding operations.
HR-5000 Rigs Delivered Two HR-5000 rigs were delivered at the beginning of 2006 to KCA DEUTAG in north western Siberia.
These are hybrid rigs designed specifically to operate in arctic temperatures.
1.05 Incident Rate The Group is committed to continuously improving its safety performance and achieved a Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR of 1.05 per 200,000 man hours worked in 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Operating Review 17 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 18 Operating Review continued Iran experienced a number of well-documented Risks and Uncertainties commercial and political issues during 2006.
By December, the Group had successfully completed The potential and existing risks and uncertainties facing its contracts with Total and Norsk Hydro in country.
Abbot are monitored continuously by the Groups Risk Iran presents operators with a number of unique Committee, which reports to the Board twice yearly.
circumstances and challenges which we have learnt to It maintains an ongoing assessment of factors deal with effectively over the last five years.
Iran continues including market conditions, the price of oil and gas, to offer a number of opportunities to work with Western competition, geography and resources, as well as the clients, which the Group is ideally placed to fulfil and, political and economic situations of the regions in in the event that the Group re-enters the country, it will which Abbot is active.
be on the basis of a business model which is suitably modified in the light of that experience.
Even with the recent small reduction in the price of oil, levels remain well above historic averages and, more As a direct result of the worldwide expansion of the oil importantly, well above the threshold level set by the and gas services market, a very significant risk to anyone oil majors when considering an investment.
As a result, operating in the sector is the recruitment, development the demand for Abbots services remains strong and and retention of personnel.
The Group has specific we see no shortor medium-term risk to the level of strategies for meeting this challenge and alleviating business opportunities or the utilisation of our assets.
this very real risk to the growth of the business.
6,000 The current strong, demand-led market environment Further details are to be found elsewhere in this report.
also reduces greatly Abbots exposure to contractual Group Employment Finally competitive risks to the business are shifting.
risk, as it enables the Group to negotiate more Traditionally, Abbots main competition has been equitable risk apportionment in contracts.
Additionally, The Group employs approximately viewed as North American corporations operating we are currently able to ameliorate certain specific 6,000 staff, a figure which will rise in similar markets to those of the Group.
However, in 2007 to support the growth of risks, such as early termination, in a number of our these companies are currently largely focused on ongoing operations and new start-ups land rig contracts.
their domestic markets and have not established any As a global business, the Group must monitor and significant operations in, for example, Russia, where assess the varying degrees of political and economic Abbot is increasingly strong: although they do remain stability across the jurisdictions in which it operates, aggressive in north Africa and the Middle East.
ensuring that the management is appraised of all Chinese contractors are becoming more active in a developments, which may adversely affect either its number of areas.
However, the current indications are business and or the security of personnel.
We utilise that their offering is characterised by a below average the services of professionals to expertly assess these performance record and lower-quality equipment.
risks and to advise on precautions or plans of action.
At the same time, the Group continues to distinguish itself from its competitors by ensuring top quartile For example, in 2006, Nigeria experienced significant service delivery, utilising good quality or new political upheaval and, despite much media attention equipment and an above average HSE record.
on the potential consequences for the Nigerian oil industry, our operations and personnel were largely The political climate in some countries can change rapidly, unaffected with operations curtailed only briefly with some issues diminishing in importance in terms on a purely precautionary basis on very few occasions.
of risk profile and others rising to a level where they In 2001 Abbot withdrew from operations in Algeria require increased attention.
The Group has invested primarily as a result of weak market conditions.
Whilst much time ensuring that it keeps abreast of potential the country experienced considerable internal political changes to the risks it faces and will continue to unrest during the mid to late 1990s, particularly in monitor closely any factor which will affect its the conurbations in the north of the country, it has operations and or the safety of its personnel.
subsequently experienced, over the last two years in particular, a sustained period of stability, with prospects for further positive developments.
KPIs In addition, as outlined earlier in this document, the country has become an important player in the The Groups activities are managed by teams of world market for natural gas, especially in the supply dedicated people whose performance is monitored of European markets.
This, and the demonstrable by a series of key performance indicators.
improvements in the countrys political stability, At the highest level, these are based on the led the Group to re-enter the market in 2007. enhancement of shareholder value.
The Group won contracts to supply and operate two newly-built Nomad rigs for BP and will continue The following graph shows the Companys to seek further opportunities to work in the country.
performance, measured by total shareholder return over a five-year period, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Share Index which is considered the most appropriate index for comparison purposes.
Operating Review - Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18 ABG-007 Annual Report 2006. qxp 12 4 07 11:20 Page 19 headquarters, office, rig, engineering and other 350 capacities, a figure which will rise in 2007 to support 300 the growth of ongoing operations and new start-ups 250 in a number of areas.
200 The attraction, training and retention of suitable and 150 experienced staff from Roustabout to Rig Manager 100 represent significant challenges to all industry operators.
50 0 KCA DEUTAG alone started-up 11 rigs in 2006 and Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 succeeded in staffing these with appropriately trained and motivated personnel.
Total shareholder returns for Abbot over the past five years vs. FTSE 250 The Groups strategy of attracting and retaining Abbot Group: Total Return Index valuable personnel includes measures, where attractive FTSE 250 Share: Total Return Index and competitive pay and bonus schemes are important but where quality of life, career training and Operationally, the number one priority is that of progression, variety and safety are also a priority.
safety and an attitude which subscribes to no harm to anyone.
Key performance indicators are generated As such, over the course of 2006, the Group paid such that all staff are aware of the emphasis the particular attention to the safety and education of its Group places on safety.
workforce across the globe, with the aim of attracting a local and loyal base of employees.
Each key region is The minimisation of the impact of our operations encouraged to source and train its own local workforce, on the environment is also a key operational element utilising accredited training schemes, rather than vital to our business.
This has a positive and sustainable economic impact on the areas in which we operate.
All of our rigs are equipped to minimise the likelihood of spillages and discharges.
Each operation is required to In addition, scholarships and career development report all such spills of whatever nature and actions are opportunities are offered to well-qualified and competent taken to avoid reoccurrence and to remediate any effects.
staff and the Group is committed to developing and This is mandatory within the Group regardless of whether sustaining a safe, organised, effective and progressive or not the incident is reportable to outside agencies.
working environment for all its employees.
The target is always to have zero discharges and local Rigs and Equipment management is tasked with meeting this objective.
A significant proportion of rigs and equipment on the Key operational staff from directors downwards market today is over 20 years old and, at the same generate annual budgets for their areas of time, build capacity is almost fully utilised.
By definition, these budgets contain of rig components as replacement parts and for new key performance requirements for turnover, margin builds is also becoming a concern for operators and and utilisation of assets.
These are discussed further manufacturers, with major components continuing to present both the Group and industry with challenges.
Rig design and manufacture cannot be commoditised Rig utilisation is key to the overall performance of the and Bentecs expertise in the design of both winterised Group and has been a key focus for management since and highly-specified rigs, provides Abbot with substantial the acquisition of DEUTAG in 2001.
At that time land engineering back-up and expertise, particularly as it rig utilisation was in the region of 60%: today we have scales up operations in its key strategic areas of Russia, achieved rig utilisation of approximately 90%.
north and west Africa and the Middle East, all of which Capital budgets are also implicit indicators of prudent present operators with the harshest and most cost controls for projects.
In general the Group targets challenging of environments.
12% ROCE for new projects and investments: this may As Bentecs operations grow, attention is being paid to vary but only for strategic reasons.
its ability to increase and efficiently utilise its capacity, Support functions, as part of their annual budgeting ensuring continued timely delivery of contracts while process, also work to key performance indicators, expanding both its product development and rig covering elements such as, recruitment and retention of fabrication operations at a sustainable rate.
personnel, rig down-time and cost-effective maintenance.
In December 2006 the Board approved an investment by Some business areas may have specific elements such Bentec in a new rig building facility in Tyumen, Western Siberia, to meet the expansion of the Russian and other as contract performance, or other particular items requiring focus placed upon them in order to meet markets.
This facility, which will significantly increase Bentecs capacity, will become operational in 2008. transient local needs.
Late delivery or the scarcity of key items of equipment are critical to the on time delivery of newly-built rigs Resources and the full use of operational rigs.
In this environment, having an in-house rig fabricator and engineer with People Bentecs reputation and ability to deliver projects on The oil and gas industry is characterised by time and budget is a major benefit to the Group.
Coupled with the industrys ongoing expansion, significant Michael J. L. Salter pressures continue to be applied on personnel.
The Group employs approximately 6,000 staff in Chief Operating Officer, 16 March 2007 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 - Operating Review 19
