Directors report Operating and financial review Industrial & Automotive Industrial & Automotive Sales by region Sales by end market Operating review North America 65% Automotive original equipment 25% Europe 19% Automotive aftermarket 27% Asia 11% Industrial original equipment 20% Rest of World 5% Industrial aftermarket 17% Other 11% The demand from automotive OE customers in North America, Industrial & Automotive which amounts to around 9% of the Groups total revenues, The Industrial & Automotive group supplies a range of products was weaker than anticipated through most of 2006 as the and systems to the global automotive and industrial original Detroit Three manufacturers continued to lose market share equipment OE markets, as well as the aftermarket for both to the Asian manufacturers.
Its portfolio comprises: The automotive aftermarket remained steady in the US for the Power Transmission: an extensive range of synchronous belt year overall, despite some monthly fluctuations caused by a and accessory belt drive systems for automotive powertrain and combination of weather, oil prices and customer consolidation heavy-duty industrial applications, gear components and oil and destocking.
In Europe and in Asia our aftermarket business pumps for automotive engines and transmissions and drive grew in the developing regions.
We expect trends to be similar belts for a number of general industrial applications: in these markets in 2007.
Fluid Power: hose, fittings and accessories for hydraulic power transmission systems and for conveying liquids and bulk The industrial OE market showed reasonable growth in North materials, and automotive hoses used in engine cooling, power America in 2006.
External forecasts indicate this market may slow steering, braking, transmission and fuel system applications: in the US in 2007, but remain robust in other regions.
Fluid Systems: remote tyre pressure monitoring systems, radiator, The industrial aftermarket showed good growth in North America oil and fuel caps, engine thermostats and fuel valving systems: in 2006.
This market tends to follow the OE market fairly closely and and may experience a gradual slowdown in 2007.
Other Industrial & Automotive Products: includes axles, trailers and frames, hose clamps, power steering hose assemblies, air Strategic progress and lubrication products, and material handling systems.
Organic growth New products and customers Market overview In Power Transmission, the new Micro-V XF belt for the automotive aftermarket is a quieter, multi-ribbed belt and has Key market trends been well received by customers, driving growth in Europe and Automotive OE: taking market share.
The CabRunner Integrated power system Detroit Three losing market share in North America: reduces fuel use and emissions by eliminating the need for truck Fuel prices and environmental concerns driving growth of engine idling and some initial contract awards are in place for 2007. smaller vehicles: China, India and Eastern Europe fastest growing regions: and In the Industrial Power Transmission market, there are ongoing Further consolidation likely, due to overcapacity in North opportunities to convert roller chain drives to Gates Poly Chain America and Europe.
with significant cost savings for the customer.
During the year, Gates installed Poly Chain drives at a number of large industrial Automotive aftermarket: customers in North America.
Consolidation of retail and distribution chain: and Distributor customers require large range of products.
At Stackpole, the product launches for variable vane technology oil pumps and carrier systems for the new six-speed transmission Industrial OE and aftermarket: programmes continue to be on track and new business development Capital spending is the main market driver for OE: has progressed well, with Gates being awarded an important first Growing demand for white goods in Asia and Eastern Europe: contract for variable vane oil pumps in Europe, using Stackpole New technologies replacing existing applications: and technology.
Stackpole has also started a development programme Aftermarket tends to track OE market.
with a Korean OE manufacturer, as part of its strategy to grow outside its existing market place and with new customers.
6 Annual Report 2006 Directors report Operating and financial review Global automotive production by region Growth rate US Automotive aftermarket v US GDP units % 2010 6.0 2009 5.0 2008 4.0 2007 3.0 2006 2.0 0 20m 40m 60m 80m 1.0 Europe North America 0.0 Greater China South America Japan Korea South Asia 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Middle East Africa Source: CSM Worldwide US aftermarket Source: US Bureau of Economic Analysis, US GDP Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association Fluid Power made continued progress in 2006, helped by its Geographic expansion Quick-lok family of products, which have attracted customer Chinas growing importance for the Industrial & Automotive interest due to the leak-preventing technology and consequent group was reflected in a 46.1% increase in sales during the year, warranty cost reductions for customers.
New awards with revenue albeit from a relatively small base, which contributed to an overall of around 8 million are to be launched in 2007 in both North sales increase in Asia of 11.5%.
Europe also performed well, with America and Europe.
sales up 12.4%, driven by expansion into Eastern Europe.
At Schrader Electronics, the development of the latest snap-in In China, the Power Transmission business saw sales grow strongly valve sensor and Wireless Auto Location technology has secured due to new business awards with automotive customers such as the award of around 90 million of new business with a major Chery and Brilliance and also in Korea with Hyundai, a company OE manufacturer in Europe and North America.
Schraders RTPMS that has sizeable global growth targets, and which became our technology will be fitted to 100% of this particular customers biggest customer in the region during the year.
On the industrial vehicles for model years 2009 to 2011 inclusive.
Power Transmission side, the strong economic progress in China resulted in increased opportunities to supply belts for white goods In 2006, 14% of Industrial & Automotive sales came from and for electrical products such as printers and photocopiers.
products launched in the past five years.
In India, the Fluid Power business enjoyed strong sales growth Operational excellence in line with the market and in Power Transmission, construction During the year, the Industrial & Automotive group continued to started on a new facility in Chennai where there is significant improve its operational capability through investment in new plant quotation activity with local customers.
and equipment, the closure and restructuring of certain older facilities and a focus on manufacturing excellence in all areas.
Sales in Asia of Power Transmission and Fluid Power products now represent approximately 17% of total sales.
Power Transmission opened a new 56,000 square foot facility at Suzhou, China.
In the Industrial & Automotive group, the number In Eastern Europe, Power Transmission saw good progress with of facilities based in low cost regions now represents around a its automotive aftermarket business and opened a sales office third of the total facilities, and this has given the business a better in Russia during the year to assist with future expansion plans.
cost base and a stronger position in high growth regions with In Fluid Power, capacity was increased at the Karvina plant in local customers.
the Czech Republic, to address growing demand for hydraulic equipment in this region.
A number of restructuring projects were initiated during the year and in 2007 the businesses should see the benefit from this in Acquisitions terms of improved operating efficiency.
At Stackpole, the Pump The investment in Winhere, a Chinese manufacturer of automotive Components facility in Ontario, Canada has been closed with water pumps in China, has given Gates access to supply the large production transferred to the recently constructed facility in North American water pump market using a low-cost production Ancaster.
In Fluid Power, the St. Neots facility has seen the initial source and this has already resulted in new awards.
The acquisition transfer of hydraulic operations to the facility at Karvina in the of Fleximak, a distributor and fabricator of flexible fluid transfer Czech Republic, and the process is expected to be largely products, has provided Gates with an established infrastructure in completed in 2007.
In Wiper Systems, the restructuring of the the Middle East with which to accelerate its market penetration of Pontypool facility in Wales was completed during the year, with Fluid Power and Power Transmission products.
production moved to the facilities in China and Mexico and a small Gates also made an investment in e-business and logistics services distribution facility retained for the UK and European aftermarket.
This paved the way for the launch of Gates online store for industrial power transmission products in January 2007.
Annual Report 2006 7 Directors report Operating and financial review Building Products Sales by end market The opening of Gates Winheres 14% of Industrial & Automotive Residential construction 42% new China plant was celebrated revenues come from products Industrial and commercial with a traditional music ceremony.
introduced in the past five years, construction 51% Production of the first joint product such as the Gates Poly Chain.
Future developments Building Products The automotive OE market will continue to be a challenging The Building Products group manufactures a range of products environment.
Our focus is on developing products that can for residential and commercial buildings, supplying both the respond to the growing demands of fuel efficiency and reduced new-build and refurbishment sectors.
Its portfolio comprises: environmental impact.
Here, our ability to innovate is shown Air Systems Components: manufactures a wide range of with concepts such as Gates twin-speed accessory drive, which components for the heating, ventilation and air conditioning results in cost reduction and an uplift in powertrain efficiency.
markets, principally in North America: With Stackpoles technology, we are also well positioned to Bathware: manufactures a range of baths, shower cubicles and benefit from the move in the US automotive OE market to luxury whirlpools for the North American residential market: and six-speed automatic transmission, which is forecast to become Doors and windows: manufactures uPVC doors and windows the standard by 2010. for the residential and manufactured housing markets in Schrader Electronics is expanding its sensor technology into North America.
the area of fuel level sensors, which has attracted interest Market overview from customers, with several demonstration vehicle tests already underway.
Key market trends The industrial markets offer significant opportunities to replace Residential construction: current power transmission applications with new technologies Changing demographics increasing overall demand for homes: and materials.
Innovation in material technology will also play an Ageing housing stock fuelling remodelling market: important role in winning this new business, and we are making Availability of affordable finance: and significant advances in materials such as nano-composites, Distributors value suppliers with broad product range.
carbon cord and engineered fabrics.
We will work with our Non-residential construction: customers to develop products that provide a more attractive Need for increased energy efficiency and reduced solution to their needs.
environmental impact: In Fluid Power, our focus is to build the competitiveness of the Strict building codes require quality product suppliers: and business outside of North America, with relocation of production Occupancy rates determine the new-build market growth.
to low-cost areas and expansion in Asia.
The residential new-build market in North America weakened Our aftermarket business will continue to identify new product slightly during the first half of the year from the record level seen opportunities to benefit from its distribution and logistics capability.
in 2005, then experienced a sharp and sudden decline in the latter half of August and September.
Demand has since remained weak, with excess housing inventory levels in the supply chain.
The non-residential construction market experienced solid growth in 2006 and within the commercial segment, the hotels and offices sector showed good growth.
External forecasts from Dodge, an industry forecasting service, indicate continued growth in 2007 at a slightly reduced level compared to 2006.
8 Annual Report 2006 Directors report Operating and financial review US non-residential construction US housing starts million sq ft million 2007 1,558 2007 1.525 2006 1,524 2006 1.802 2005 1,503 2005 2.068 2004 1,451 2004 1.956 The acquisition of Selkirk expanded 2003 1,405 2003 1.848 the Air Systems Components portfolio Forecast Forecast with a broad range of home hearth Source: Dodge Source: US Census Bureau, ventilation products.
National Association of Home Builders Strategic progress Acquisitions New products The acquisition of Selkirk, in March 2006, added chimney venting In Air Systems Components, our businesses are developing and home hearth products to the existing product range, together energy-smart products in response to the market drive for with a well-established market presence in the Canadian market.
Examples include control dampers that The addition of Heat-Fab and Eastern Sheet Metal, in October reduce energy usage through tighter sealing capability and 2006, added further product lines in the areas of venting systems fans that are both quiet and more efficient.
Lasco Bathware saw strong sales of its new FreedomLine range of These three acquisitions are part of the Air Systems Components assisted care products that are targeted at the ageing population groups ongoing strategy to offer a comprehensive product range in the US, providing them with barrier-free bathing products.
to the market through its distributor channel.
Despite the weak residential marketplace, sales of FreedomLine Future development achieved double-digit growth as a new range of shower products For 2007, the National Association of Home Builders has forecast was introduced to meet growing demand.
that housing starts will be 15.4% lower in the US than 2006.
The Philips doors and windows business continued its new New building permits issued in December 2006 stood at 1.596 million, product development programme, with its hurricane-resistant almost 25% lower than in December 2005.
This reflects the need window opening up good potential in the new-build market for housebuilders to reduce their current inventory levels, which in regions susceptible to hurricanes.
are running well above normal levels, before construction levels In 2006, 10.6% of Building Products sales came from products can pick up again.
launched in the past five years.
The commercial construction market is predicted to grow more Operational excellence slowly following a strong year in 2006, with figures from Dodge In the first half of the year, Lasco introduced new robotics predicting an overall growth rate of 2.2%.
technology at its fibreglass manufacturing plant in Moapa, The focus for all businesses in the Building Products group will Nevada.
The new technology provides an automated spray be to control costs during a period of weaker sales volumes in the deposition process that significantly improves material transfer residential market, ensuring that production can be adjusted to efficiencies, resulting in greater product quality and consistency, meet ongoing variations in customer demand and that discretionary as well as a reduction in overspray waste.
It plans to adopt this costs are reduced.
technology in all its plants over the next three to five years.
In Air Systems Components, we shall continue to look for In Air Systems Components, the rationalisation of production further bolt-on acquisition opportunities, to consolidate our facilities continued with the decision to close the New Holland market-leading position and strengthen relationships with the facility in the US in 2007, with operations transferred to a low major distributor customers.
cost facility across the border in Mexico.
Across the Building Products group, we will continue to respond to changing demographics and the demand for greener buildings with new and innovative products.
