Report of the Directors continued Operating review categories We are passionate about developing great global brands and Flora Becel has been ghting the spread of cardiovascular disease bringing them to market brilliantly.
Our Foods and Home and for over 40 years.
Since 2003 the brand has joined forces with the Personal Care teams invest heavily in world-class innovation in World Heart Federation to educate consumers and encourage order to create global brand ideas that can be rolled out fast.
This them to make heart-healthy changes to their diet and lifestyle.
involves close collaboration between our marketing and research Flora Becel pro activ is the worlds best-selling cholesterol-lowering teams, in order to develop breakthrough ideas that meet the food brand and in 2006 the Three Week Challenge engaged with changing needs of consumers the world over and full our consumers in a number of countries to demonstrate to them the mission of adding Vitality to life.
products effectiveness in lowering cholesterol.
Faster roll-out Throughout the year, the Dove Campaign for Real Beauty Changes to our structure, our One Unilever programme, and continued to challenge conventional denitions of beauty.
The better collaboration across our business are helping us get new strength of this global mission led to great examples of regional products to market faster than ever before, and this is having a execution.
For example, the Evolution advertisement, which big impact on brand growth.
exposed some of the tricks of the beauty trade, prompted much media attention in North America and was downloaded from Our Dirt is Good positioning including the Omo laundry brand YouTube.
com a million times in a two-week period.
now has sales of over 2.5 billion thanks to an alignment of the brand positioning and the rapid roll-out in Asia, where it delivered The Dove Self Esteem Fund works in partnership with schools and not only growth, but record market shares.
organisations such as Girl Scouts of America and the Eating Disorders Association to inspire girls to feel more confident about The new Rama Blue Band Idea!
spread was launched in 14 the way they look.
So far, Dove self-esteem programmes have countries within only five months.
is a breakthrough reached more than 750 000 young people and sales of Dove innovation with an advanced nutrient mix that supports childrens products are growing rapidly.
mental development an issue of interest to parents around the globe, both in developed and developing markets.
Lipton is committed to ensuring consumers everywhere are aware of the goodness of tea', which is rich in theanine and Dove Summer Glow self-tanning lotion was rolled out across antioxidants, and has zero calories.
Popular all over the world, four European countries in just a few weeks.
It became Lipton is the leading global tea brand.
In 2006, the brand grew our most successful personal care innovation in Europe in strongly, with leaf tea increasing by around 5% and ready-to- 2006, gaining sector leadership in most markets through an drink products, including sales through our joint venture with outstanding team effort involving marketing, supply chain, Pepsi, up by 25%.
Research & Development Brands with global missions We currently employ more than 6 000 scientists and product Throughout 2006 we continued to build brands with global developers in Research & Development R&D worldwide, missions and distinctive points of view.
Our brands aim to delivering total product solutions for Vitality innovations.
In 2006 communicate ideas that can be expressed wherever and we spent over 900 million on R&D worldwide.
whenever consumers encounter them, and play an active role in consumers lives.
Following our Science & Technology Review, which looked at all aspects of our R&D activities, we are focusing resources on worldAxe Lynx is one of the best-known examples: the Axe Lynx effect class R&D capabilities, working with clear innovation targets and giving guys the edge in the dating game underpins all the concentrating on fewer but bigger projects, which in many brands campaigns.
In 2006 this led to an innovative launch for cases involve patented technology.
We have also embraced Open Axe Click, our most successful anti-perspirant variant since Pulse.
Innovation, which has involved creating new working relationships More than 4 million consumers claimed a free hand-held clicker between our R&D teams, suppliers, customers, universities and to keep track of the irtatious looks they attracted as a result of other institutes worldwide.
using Axe Click, helping drive the brands growth in France, Germany and Mexico.
Launched in Turkey in December, Amaze Brainfood is the result of four years of development, long-term clinical trials and Overall, our deodorants business continues to grow.
The range of lunchbox snacks and milk with its wont let you down promise, played a big role in this drinks contains one-third of the nutrients children need daily for success, and reached a major milestone by breaking the brain development.
It was developed through collaboration 1 billion sales barrier.
between our product development teams and the Unilever Food & Health Research Institute.
20 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Report of the Directors continued Operating review categories continued In the Asia skincare market, Ponds launched Age Miracle, a When it comes to hygiene, Lifebuoy has already helped around breakthrough patented innovation containing a plant extract 70 million people in India become more aware of the importance called CLA conjugated linoleic acid which helps reduce signs of hand-washing with soap to control the spread of diarrhoeal of ageing and yields exceptional results in Asian complexions.
The brand has been working Age Miracle has gone on sale across Asia, helping build Ponds in partnership with organisations such as the World Bank and prole in fast-growing D&E markets.
UNICEF to promote hand-washing in other countries and as part of its roll-out in Africa.
We also developed Surf Excel, which enables consumers to achieve the same laundry cleaning results with less rinsing a big In early 2005 we made a commitment to reduce the amount of advantage in areas where water supply is limited.
fats, salt and sugar in our products a pledge which won the praise of the European Health Commissioner.
Since then we Following the theme of less is more in laundry, new technology have achieved our original targets: by the end of 2006 we had helped create all Small & Mighty concentrated liquid detergents, assessed more than 16 000 products and taken out more than which were launched in the US.
Small & Mighty is three times 37 000 tonnes of trans and saturated fats, 3 000 tonnes more concentrated than regular detergents, so you get a full load of sodium and 17 000 tonnes of sugars without compromising clean with just one-third of the amount.
This work continues through our ongoing Nutrition packaging materials, cheaper transport and less space needed Enhancement Programme.
for storage good news for consumers, retailers and the environment.
During 2007 Small & Mighty will be rolled out A great example is the nutritional improvements to our ice cream across Europe.
We have removed articial colours and avours, increased the fruit content and reduced sugar levels in water ices In June we submitted a dossier to the UK FSA Food Standards across our kids portfolio in Western Europe.
It is an ongoing Agency to seek regulatory approval under the EC Novel Foods improvement process which will extend to more products and Regulation for the use of Ice Structuring Protein ISP in ice cream regions in the future.
This breakthrough ISP technology enables a multitude of innovations in ice cream, including signicantly Through our global partnership with the FDI World Dental healthier options and better quality ice cream.
Federation we are helping to improve oral health around the world with practical, sustainable community programmes.
New Domestos 5x contains a molecule called C-TAC which clings To support these initiatives we have developed a low-cost to the toilet bowl ush after ush, killing germs up to five times toothbrush, the Pepsodent Fighter, which retails at a price longer than any other bleach or toilet product.
As part of its equivalent to just 0.20 and is proving a great success in India launch, consumers were supplied with a test strip to prove how and Indonesia.
Domestos 5x is due to be launched in all key countries for the brand.
Meanwhile our Choices programme is helping busy shoppers make quick purchasing decisions for healthier eating.
The frontVitality of-pack stamp helps identify products which are in line with Our Vitality mission is at the heart of everything we do.
It provides international recommendations for trans fats, saturated fats, salt clear direction for meeting consumers changing needs, and helps and sugar.
The programme has been launched in the Netherlands, us identify major growth opportunities for our Foods and Home Belgium and the US, and is now being rolled out globally to a and Personal Care brands.
We are also encouraging its adoption more widely in the foods industry.
For example, Knorr Vie shots pack lots of nutrition into each handy 100ml bottle.
These smoothie-style products made from Innovations in 2006 fruit and vegetables provide half the minimum daily intake of fruit The following are some examples of our brand innovations and and vegetables recommended by the World Health Organization.
Launched in 2005, they are now available in 12 European countries over 100 million bottles have been sold so far.
Lipton, the worlds biggest tea brand, is creating drinks that help people live healthier lives.
The brand has been rolling out a AdeZ our soya-based drink with fruit juices delivers 35% of communication programme to inform consumers of its the daily recommended intake of vitamins B6 and C, magnesium antioxidant health benets and is inuencing the wider tea and calcium.
AdeZ provides the goodness of soya in a great industry with its commitments to sustainability for example, tasting range of avours.
AdeZ started in South America and, sustainable farming practices and education and health.
In 2006 with the launch in the UK, this successful product has now Unilever Tea Kenya won a Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS been brought to Europe.
award for its work on the education, prevention and treatment of HIV AIDS in the workplace and beyond.
The brand has shown consistent high growth over the past few years.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Report of the Directors continued Operating review categories continued Dove Summer Glow self-tanning lotion keeps a body beautiful all jojoba and sweet almond oil, Comfort Crme is now used in over year round.
A great example of how a strong global platform can a million UK households.
Its success has overturned the idea help a brand extend into new categories, Dove Summer Glow that fabric conditioners are only popular with mothers with was launched in the US and rolled out in four European countries young children.
Its advertising continued to target women who, through earlier campaigns, already know that Dove is With each bottle able to dress more salad than a bottle twice its committed to real beauty for real women.
Dove Summer Glow size 26 salads in all Wish-Bone Salad Spritzers are helping helps them feel good about their skin, whatever the weather.
The easy-to-use bottles allow consumers to dress their salads perfectly with just one calorie per The healthy-heart foods market is growing fast.
Available in three avours Italian, Balsamic Breeze and our Goodness of Margarine campaign, Flora Becel continues to Red Wine Mist Wish-Bone Salad Spritzers are good for salads, lead the way.
Unilever has been a partner of the World Heart vegetables and waistlines.
Federation since 2003, and works closely with them to increase awareness of cardio-vascular disease.
Throughout 2007, Bad hair dramas are becoming a thing of the past for Americas Flora Becel is planning to take the message further than ever 20-something women.
Launched nationwide in 2006 with a witty, before, with its global Love Your Heart campaign which is $200 million campaign, the Sunsilk Get Hairapy approach to the intended to inspire and empower people to make heartdramas of kinky, at or frizzy hair is bringing this global brand to healthy choices.
Backed by innovative marketing, the campaign has led to more and more women solving their hair Backed by a passion-packed advertising campaign linked to the issues with some serious hairapy.
energy and excitement of football and the 2006 World Cup, Rexona scored this year when annual sales passed the 1 billion In 2001, when Unilever signed a joint venture with Indonesias mark for the first time.
The goal now is to promote the brands Kecap company, Bango soy sauce had a national market share market-leading body-responsive deodorant, with its technologyof less than 5%.
Today, following an imaginative programme based wont let you down promise, and turn Rexona into an designed to preserve Indonesias culinary heritage and enhance iconic brand worldwide for men and women.
the livelihood of the countrys soy bean farmers, the brand has sales of around 100 million and is growing by 10% year on Test-marketed in Ireland and Belgium in 2006, Frus our new year.
Unilevers guaranteed market, technical assistance and frozen snack is proving very popular.
Frus was created to access to finance, combined with improved work opportunities provide guilt-free pleasure for people who take their health for women and localised community involvement, have all helped seriously.
With Frus they have the best of both worlds: real develop the brand.
natural goodness without compromise on taste, pleasure or convenience.
Sales of Frus have beaten targets for market Right across Asia, from Pakistan to China, the Dirt is Good penetration and share, and repeat purchases.
Following the positioning with Omo Rinso has been washing well with success of this test-market, Frus is being rolled out to more consumers.
Based on the simple premise that, for children, dirt countries in 2007. and stains are a natural part of being active and learning through play, the campaign promotes the brand through communityDeveloped with empty nesters in mind and launched in the UK endorsed playgrounds, outdoor games and competitions involving in January 2006, Comfort Crme has shown thousands of older both children and parents.
The campaigns success has led to women that its good to wear softer clothes that help you look Omo becoming Unilevers first-ever billion RMB Renminbi sales and feel great.
With its gold-topped bottles and fragrances of brand in China.
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
