Operational Review Engineering Products: includes the combined activities of our Minerals, Clear Liquid and Valves & Controls operations which collectively grew their input, revenue and profits when compared to last year.
Operating 75 profit m 60 45 30 Operating profit Revenue Order Input 15 62.6m 608.5m 683.8m Up 49% Up 21% Up 23% 2005 2006 Operational review Mining Input grew 23% to 683.8m with almost 80% being attributable to the oil and gas, mining and power generation markets.
We achieved excellent On a commodity basis coal, alumina, copper, results from Minerals up 19% and Clear Liquid up 32% which combined iron ore, platinum and gold prices held at or with 20% growth from Valves & Controls to achieve the Groups highest near historically high levels over the year, ever level of order input.
prompting increased levels of both new plant construction and upgrading, particularly in the Operating margins before exceptional items as a percentage of revenue traditional mining markets of South America increased to 10.3% against 8.4% in 2005.
Increased revenue in the and Australia.
Minerals business, improved performances at the restructured Valves and Clear Liquid operations and the inclusion of Weir Gabbionetas higher margin product sales for the full year, all contributed to the improved result.
Our Engineering Products segment includes a strong portfolio of businesses Power in the mining, oil and gas and power generation markets where the Power generation is a strong and growing fundamentals point to sustained future progress.
market for Weir Engineering Products A key component of the divisions success in the year has been the strong businesses.
The traditional power markets of portfolio of businesses with solid positions in growing and attractive markets.
Western Europe and North America continue to demand life-extension, plant refurbishment The Engineering Products businesses reaped additional benefits from and enhancement solutions.
China remained focusing on Lean processes and continued to accelerate their execution the focus of new-build activity for both of the Weir Production Systems.
As a whole, the initiative provides all our conventional and nuclear power stations, businesses with a common set of world class practices which provide the fuel with good opportunities also in India.
to achieve improving results and prepare us for the challenges of the future.
Weirs track record in safety and delivery has given us a strong position in the nuclear upgrade market in the Former Soviet Union.
Key achievements Engineering Products delivered the highest ever level of order input.
Principal market of global mining accounted for more than 70% of Oil & Gas Minerals revenue.
Oil prices continued to be high in 2006, Valves and Controls built on achievements in Chinese, United States which meant that both the upstream and and Eastern European power markets.
downstream oil markets were buoyant, growing globally at over 15% and at much Clear Liquids 32% input increase reflected good levels of growth by the higher levels in some markets where we are speciality pump businesses in respective markets.
With high oil prices increasing the cost Strong portfolio of business in mining, power generation and oil and of pipeline downtime, the reliability of Weir gas markets point to sustained future progress.
products and our ability to deliver local engineering support have proved important factors in winning new work.
7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Minerals: Specialist businesses delivering and supporting slurry equipment solutions for global mining and mineral processing, the power sector and general industry.
400 300 Product brands 200 Order input WARMAN GEHO 100 Scot Smith CAVEX 390.5m Divisional Managing Director ISOGATE 2005 2006 Up 19% VULCO Operational review Key achievements 2006 was a strong year for Weir Minerals.
We invested additional resources Record sales of flue gas desulphurisation pumps into China, supplying to improve operational excellence in all of our factories, furthered our 20 separate power plants.
geographical expansion and improved our product portfolio.
Record slurry pump sales into the Australian and South East Asian We have continued to push through the implementation of the Weir mining industries.
Production System and now have a rigorous and proven system of Lean Significant growth in India, with output 35% higher than 2005 and assessment and audit to ensure that all our operations attain world-class profit more than doubled.
This is key to meeting growth in demand.
Weir Minerals China foundry comes online, with first pour achieved 2006 also saw a great turnaround and very satisfying improvement in on schedule in November.
the level of operational delivery to our customers.
At the start of 2006, the combination of massive and rapid market demand and insufficient Launch of new foundry in South Africa, using existing space made capacity resulted in a considerable delivery backlog.
This has now been available through implementation of Lean initiatives.
rectified and we are consistently achieving on-time delivery to customers Continuing success of Geho product lines sold 1,000th Geho to the required quality standards.
New foundries were successfully established in South Africa and China, European order input increases by 33%.
with the first pours for both taking place on schedule in November.
We expect both foundries to be in full production by mid-2007.
North American operation wins Top 25 Factory Award.
Rubber Engineering finished its first full year as part of Weir Minerals.
It Focus on operational excellence saw Lean scores across the Minerals now supports our North American facilities and will also help us to exploit businesses improve by 22%.
additional elastomer opportunities that we identify in the market.
Our geographical expansion plans continue.
We are bringing together our Russian activities under one managing director.
This will provide better continuity in customer support and ensure successful future growth.
Our Indian company experienced strong growth, and increased its top line by 35%.
It remains focused on growing our installed base and the spares market and strengthening our routes to market in all areas of the country.
We continue to expand and improve our product portfolio.
The new WS series slurry valve was launched successfully and all regions are now marketing, manufacturing and selling it.
The first Warman SLR pump field tests are also in progress.
Around the world, our end customers continue to look to us to improve their production processes.
Our divisional and local strategies, strong management teams and expanding global coverage ensure that we can support them regardless of their location.
The minerals industry is still being driven by a buoyant market and our strategy of aligning our capacity with customer needs in 2006 has paid off.
Continuing our Lean programme and expanding geographically in line with our customers should see us make further progress in 2007.
Scot Smith, Divisional Managing Director 8 Operational Review Case Study Weir Minerals best-in-class products are Engineering excellence designed and built to reduce downtime at Weir Minerals Australia and minimise disruption in heavy duty, Harder ore at Xstratas Ernest Henry Mine in Queensland, Australia, led to a 30% reduction abrasive or corrosive processes.
A robust in the wear life of the Warman type AH pump operating in the mill circuit.
This adversely global supply operation is backed by affected production and increased maintenance costs.
Our local marketing and engineering departments moved into action.
When design changes to the components of the metal lined pump did not create the Primary input breakdown desired product life, a more radical approach was considered.
The new, rubber lined Minerals 68.0% Warman MCR pump designed in Madison Power 12.1% for the South American market was showing good results in similar applications, which had General industrial 11.6% previously been the domain of metal pumps.
Oil 6.7% The first trial of the MCR pump at Ernest Water & Wastewater 1.6% Henry Mine yielded promising results and after further design improvements, the pump reached the target wear life.
In addition to Geographic breakdown increasing the wear life by 63%, pump Americas 45.4% throughput also increased by 8%.
Europe & FSU 16.0% Ernest Henry has now replaced all its mill circuit pumps with rubber lined Warman Australia 13.9% MCR pumps.
Indo Pacific 13.7% Middle East & Africa 8.6% UK 2.4% Checking the wear rate on the rubber liners in a Warman MCR Mill Circuit pump.
Market review Businesses within Weir Minerals supply slurry equipment solutions to mining, mineral processing, sand and aggregate, power and oil sands markets around the world.
All of our markets remained buoyant in 2006 and we anticipate another year of growth in 2007.
As customers continue to consolidate, we are increasingly moving towards setting up global account management, using interand intra-divisional collaboration to capitalise on available opportunities across the Group.
We are also focusing on expanding our service offerings.
In South America, customers have fully embraced the full service model, which sees Minerals service centres and teams embedded with customers.
To replicate this development across all regions, we have established a global working group to help instill a more consistent approach in all our centres, based on Lean processes.
This is coordinated by the Hazleton Service Centre, a showcase facility, which sets the benchmark for the Minerals businesses.
The Weir Minerals design centre is involved in redesigning our older products and developing solutions to take us into new areas of our customers business.
This supports our strategy of ringfencing customers, so that they dont need to go anywhere else for any part of their process.
Our strategy also includes building collaborative frameworks with other players within the market to offer a combined product portfolio that benefits everyone.
In terms of geographic significance, North America, South America and Australia remain the three key drivers for Minerals.
However, future growth opportunities in Russia, China and India present strong prospects for the future.
Our operations in India and China continue to experience very rapid growth.
India won significant contracts within the local power generation market during the year and now includes a 50-strong design team, which provides engineering design and modelling services to the whole Group.
The opening of our first dedicated foundry in China now provides a low cost source enabling us to attack the indigenous Chinese market more aggressively.
9 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Clear Liquid: World-class businesses providing end-to-end pumping solutions for major oil and gas, power generation, water and hydrocarbon processing projects.
250 200 Our brands Weir Lewis 150 Floway Gabbioneta 100 Order input Roto-Jet Wemco 50 Stephen Bird Girdlestone 222.7m Divisional Managing Director Begemann 2005 2006 Up 32% Zeron 100 Operational review 2006 was a year of significant achievement, with all businesses benefiting With our most important markets continuing to remain buoyant, our from our strategy of focusing on higher technology, higher margin and investment in Lean manufacturing and excellent project management speciality activities while exiting lower margin markets.
principles has enabled us to meet increased demand from our customers.
Lean principles are being driven across all of our businesses, including The acquisition of Italian pump manufacturer Weir Gabbioneta has been Weir Gabbioneta and we remain well placed to sustain ongoing an excellent strategic fit and the integration of this business has been continuous improvement.
The Group is investing in strengthening the organisation and improving the core processes of the company and Weir Gabbioneta is Following a year of consolidation and controlled expansion, Weir Clear now well placed to benefit from continued growth in the downstream oil Liquid Division is looking forward to continued growth in 2007 and beyond.
Weir Pumps delivered a significant improvement in 2006 results due to Key achievements the restructuring undertaken in 2005 and by refocusing the business on its most profitable activities.
These initiatives delivered full year profits Gabbioneta integration completed successfully and order input increased following significant losses in previous years.
We experienced further growth in our existing higher margin, niche Restructuring of Weir Pumps delivered significant improvement.
businesses of Weir Lewis, Weir Specialty Pumps and Weir Floway.
Weir Lewis order intake up 29%, with significant progress in North Africa.
The improvement in Weir Floway was particularly pleasing as it stems from Weir Floway order input up 27%, with growing position in the international the successful implementation of a number of operational and growth fire pump market.
initiatives, as well as the appointment of a new managing director.
The company produced an input increase of 27%, with much of the growth Weir Pumps experienced continued success in the Chinese nuclear market.
Targeting fire protection pumps for Manchester foundry gave other Weir companies significant competitive offshore oil exploration platforms has proved highly successful.
Weir advantage when high demand led to increased industry lead times.
Floway has developed supply partners whose technology uniquely supports this niche market and the team has established itself as a Materials business in Manchester increased input by 32% and won major leader in the design and manufacturing of this product line.
projects for supply to Chile, Spain and the Middle East.
Weir Lewis recorded another excellent year, on top of a very strong 2005 and Continued investment in implementing Lean principles resulted in saw input increase by 29%, with significant new orders from Northern Africa.
improvements in quality, on time delivery and working capital across the Clear Liquid businesses.
Our Manchester foundry played an important role in supporting both the Clear Liquid businesses and other Weir Group companies in 2006.
The demand for castings during the year was very strong and resulted in an extension of lead times throughout the industry.
However, the Manchester foundry was able to maintain short lead times and give Weir companies a competitive advantage on many projects.
This vertical integration and control of a critical component of our products has been important in meeting our customers needs.
Indeed, much of Weir Gabbionetas casting work was moved to the Manchester foundry to help Gabbioneta deliver key projects on time.
This was a prime example of how Weir companies work together to maximise the Groups competitive advantage.
2006 saw Weir Clear Liquid deliver a strong performance as a result of executing our strategy to focus on higher margin, specialist markets, successfully integrating Gabbioneta and restructuring Weir Pumps in Scotland.
Weir Clear Liquid is well placed to grow in 2007.
Stephen Bird, Divisional Managing Director 10 Operational Review Case Study Weir Clear Liquid is continuously Weir Floway Targets Offshore enhancing and developing its product Oil Exploration Market range to solve the technical and Weir Floway enjoyed a highly successful 2006 with input up 27%.
Much of this growth was operational challenges facing its driven by international expansion.
customers, enabling them to Weir Floways strategy for international growth includes the active pursuit of the highly improve performance and engineered international fire pump market.
Targeting fire protection pumps for offshore compete effectively worldwide.
oil exploration platforms has been highly successful.
Floway has developed supply partners whose technology uniquely supports this niche market and the team has established Primary input breakdown: itself as a leader in design and manufacturing of this product line.
Oil 43.8% General industrial 17.3% Continuing efforts to maximise penetration in Power 15.4% this market include the addition of dedicated engineering resources to design modular fire Water & Wastewater 14.3% pump skid packages for quicker delivery and Minerals 8.1% common specifications from platform builders.
This new design will enable Floway to meet Naval & Marine 1.1% the market demands for documentation while driving down manufacturing costs.
Floway anticipates that the worldwide demand for Geographic breakdown: new oil resources will continue to drive sales Americas 29.2% in the export fire pump market sector.
The Middle East & Africa 26.9% development of new fabrication capabilities at Floway is underway and expected to Indo Pacific 17.8% increase the profits for fire pumps by bringing Europe & FSU 15.8% work in-house for better plant utilisation.
UK 9.9% Weir Floways 2006 export fire pump order Australia 0.4% input has grown significantly and this growth complements Floways already strong presence in mining and other speciality vertical turbine pump applications internationally.
Weir Floways highly engineered fire pump achieving international growth in the offshore oil exploration market.
Market review The primary markets for Weir Clear Liquid are oil and gas, power generation, specialist water and wastewater and speciality products for general industrial markets.
The strategy is to strengthen participation in higher margin activities and focus our resources on those markets where we believe we can lead and bring added value to our customers.
Oil prices remained high in 2006, which meant that both the upstream and downstream oil markets continued to be buoyant and growing globally.
This resulted in significant business opportunities for Weir Pumps and Weir Gabbioneta, in particular.
We experienced strong growth in the Chinese power generation market in 2006 and expect this will continue due to Chinese plans for significant long-term investment in their future.
Our increased regional sales presence and an international reputation for both technical expertise and excellent quality resulted in significant orders for Weir Pumps in this market with particular demand for concrete volute units and our unique integral turbine pumps.
We remain selective about our activities in the water and wastewater markets and will continue to focus on more technical, higher margin products.
We currently operate successfully in the UK clean water market and in the United States, where we have leading positions in our selected municipal water and wastewater markets.
The minerals and mining sector continues to be a growth market, particularly with regard to our Weir Floway vertical turbine pumps.
By working closely with Weir Minerals, we have been able to grow our market share considerably, particularly in South America.
The niche Weir Lewis and Weir Specialty Pumps businesses enjoyed considerable success, outpacing market growth rates, and we anticipate equally impressive results in 2007.
Our 2006 performance in the general industrial market was also strong.
The sector continues to grow at 3-4% and the Clear Liquid businesses are well placed to grow ahead of this market.
11 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Valves & Controls: Specialising in high integrity valves for critical service, process protection and plant safety applications in the power generation and oil & gas sectors.
80 Our brands Atwood & Morrill 60 Batley Valve Blakeborough Controls 40 Order input Hopkinsons MAC Valves 20 Phil Clifton Sarasin RSBD 70.6m Divisional Managing Director Sebim 2005 2006 Up 20% Tricentric Operational review During 2006, all the Valves & Controls businesses delivered significant In the year, product development was focused on modifying existing improvements in their financial performance compared with the previous products to meet new customer needs, including our French nuclear year, showing the benefit of the recent transformational changes.
valve range for the United States market.
We are also re-working products for use in the next generation of conventionally fuelled power stations, The restructuring of our UK operation was completed on time and which operate at much higher pressure.
under budget in the first quarter of 2006.
As expected in such a major transformation, we have had to work hard to develop the new supply chain and we are now in a stronger position going forward.
Key achievements The capabilities, quality and reliability of the supply chain remain crucial Restructuring and relocation of the UK business and the implementation to Weir Valves & Controls, due to the demands of our highly technical of a new business model based on a higher proportion of outsourcing.
nuclear valves at the higher quality end of the market.
As a consequence, Weir is investing in its own foundries, including the Clear Liquid facilities Transformation of our French operation, resulting in strong growth and in Manchester and Minerals foundries worldwide, with benefits for excellent profit performance.
Acquisition and integration of a new wholly owned subsidiary in Suzhou, Our French operation enjoyed considerable success, turning the business China, including the successful introduction of Weir Production Systems.
around over the last two years and recording strong growth and excellent Significant order wins for the Middle East oil and gas market.
Delivery of the first Ukrainian nuclear contracts to programme and budget led to further nuclear valve work being won in Increased output and profitability from our commercial valve operation the Ukraine, in addition to significant orders from China and a major threein North Carolina following the implementation of Lean principles.
year nuclear service contract for EDF in France.
The commercial safety Creation of a Weir Group nuclear forum to maximise opportunities valve business achieved more output from the consolidated facility than in the power generation market across all Group businesses.
the previous two factories combined, with the implementation of Weir Production Systems and Lean thinking reducing bottlenecks and All the Valves & Controls businesses significantly improved their smoothing flow through the facility.
Weir Production System scores, resulting in delivery and lead time improvements in all plants over the year.
The acquisition of our new factory in Suzhou, China, was completed to plan and this operation was integrated utilising the now proven Weir 100 day integration plan.
We now have a modern facility operating to worldclass quality and safety standards, based on the Weir Production System and Lean thinking.
In the United Arab Emirates, we restructured our operation and commenced production of valves using a local supply chain.
In this region, we collaborate closely with Weir Services to provide both valve assembly and testing locally, which has proven to be very successful.
The transformation of the Valves & Controls businesses in France and the UK was substantially completed during 2006 and has shown significant improvement in profitability.
Together with improvements in the United States operations and the new plant in China, this gives a strong platform for further profitable growth in the future.
The oil and gas market continues to be strong, but most pleasing is the growth we are now seeing in the power generation market, both conventional and nuclear, where we have good products, strong references and excellent engineering skills.
Phil Clifton, Divisional Managing Director 12 Operational Review Case Study Weir Valves & Controls products reflect Cryogenic valves for our state-of-the-art product development Chinas first LNG plant and manufacturing focus.
Our global sales China, the hungriest and thirstiest energy market in the world, is likely to require the operation and engineering capability import of 19 million tonnes of Liquefied Natural Gas LNG by 2010.
Construction enable us to offer the whole-project, of Chinas first LNG terminal and associated high-pressure pipelines is currently underway whole-process solutions our in Guangdong Province.
Weir Valves & Controls was contracted to supply a customers require.
range of control valves for the project.
The valves we supplied included butterfly valves, globe control valves and cryogenic Primary input breakdown globe valves.
Based on our standard BV500 and BV990 ranges and manufactured in Power 56.0% stainless steel, the valves were fitted with Oil & Gas 25.5% specially constructed cryogenic valve General industrial 17.5% bonnets to ensure maximum heat dispersion and packing protection Minerals 0.6% at cryogenic temperatures.
Naval & Marine 0.3% The cryogenic valves were required to Water & Wastewater 0.1% undergo a rigorous round of cryogenic tests in a bath of liquid nitrogen to prove the integrity of the valve body and seals.
Geographic breakdown They were then slowly returned to ambient Europe & FSU 29.5% temperatures and re-tested to ensure Americas 27.0% continuing seal integrity.
Middle East & Africa 16.1% All of our valves passed this extensive testing UK 14.7% and were successfully supplied in 2006.
Indo Pacific 12.6% Australia 0.1% Assembly of Blakeborough control valves for cryogenic use in China.
Market review The two key sectors in which Weir Valves & Controls businesses operate are power generation and oil and gas.
The power generation market showed strong growth during 2006 and not just in China.
We are now seeing coal and nuclear plants in the advanced stages of planning in both Europe and North America.
We have taken the decision to relocate our nuclear valve operation to a new site in Massachusetts and have high expectations for this facility.
A Weir Group nuclear forum was established to capitalise on the opportunities in this important market across the Group businesses.
Weir is particularly well placed in the nuclear market on account of its technically advanced products, strong installed base over 75% of the worlds reactors use Weir equipment and excellent engineering capabilities.
We are also optimistic about opportunities in the conventional power generation market.
The latest conventionally fuelled power stations operate at higher pressure.
In 2006, we adapted our products to meet the requirements of this new operating environment.
The oil and gas markets are robust and growing.
Businesses operating in this sector continued to perform strongly in 2006 and we won significant orders, including several for the Middle East.
We are continuing to invest in local people and training in key emerging markets around the world and introduced new sales and operational offices in Dubai, Beijing and South Africa.
In 2006, we focused on after-market activities with several of the businesses improving their processes to become responsive to changing and ever more demanding customer requirements.
The growth achieved in this area is very encouraging and we see further opportunities for 2007.
13 T Th he e W We eiir r G Gr ro ou up p P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 06 6 Engineering Services: Weirs reputation for engineering excellence extends to the technical support of both our own installed base and other manufacturers equipment.
Engineering Services works across all Weir markets, supporting both the Engineering Products businesses and the Defence, Nuclear & Gas operations.
Weir Services also provides equipment maintenance, engineered solutions, process support and asset management across major industrial sectors.
A global programme of state-of-the-art analysis, design and production technology for spare parts is delivered through local and on-site engineering service centres.
Operating profit m Operating profit 20 12.4m Down 9% 10 Revenue Order input Steve Simone 225.2m 236.6m Divisional Managing Director 2005 2006 Up 3% Up 5% Operational review 2006 was a year of transition and consolidation for much of the Weir 2006 was a year of major restructuring in the UK as we consolidated Services Division.
All of the businesses continue to strengthen our offerings facilities and resources to focus on the most profitable activities and in niche markets, using our expertise and experience to improve customer markets.
We also won significant contracts and received notable health service, enhance equipment performance and accelerate delivery.
We and safety and outstanding customer service accolades from Scottish & continued to exit non-core products and activities that are not aligned Southern Energy and Sandon Dock.
Our field service group performed to our strategy of offering higher margin integrated engineering solutions.
well, with increased profits and safety improvements that saw them complete the entire year with no Lost Time Accidents.
In North America, we enjoyed significant success in the Oil Sands markets of western Canada.
During the year, we won a very high percentage of the The Weir Production System was successfully implemented during bids that were tendered for the specialised equipment we supply, and also 2006.
Its introduction was well supported throughout the division saw significant improvements in our distribution products business, for and across all geographic regions.
which we sell other Weir products throughout the region.
In 2007, we will continue to focus on value added services and After careful evaluation, the decision was made to close our unprofitable integrated engineering solutions, working together with other Weir United States service centres.
While we were disappointed with the need divisions to share technical resources and facilities that will enable to take this action, neither the competitive environment nor the margins profitable growth for all.
provided by these businesses were sufficient to provide ongoing opportunities and satisfactory returns.
Key achievements In the Middle East, our major facility in Dubai turned performance around and showed significant improvements in the second half of the year.
Success in the Oil Sands markets of western Canada.
Switching focus onto more localised opportunities in the oil sector resulted Adoption of Weir Production System produced operational benefits in considerable success, with input substantially up on the previous year.
across North America and the UK.
Dubai also became the first location in the Group to achieve OHSAS 18001 Weir-Amco joint venture in Saudi Arabia grew 50%.
accreditation following the successful audit of its Health & Safety Management System by independent certification bodies.
Aramco recognised our Saudi facility for outstanding customer support.
We enjoyed considerable success through our new joint venture with Amco in Saudi Arabia, which made significant progress during the year.
Market refocus produced significant improvements in Dubais We have great expectations for the business going forward.
performance in the second half.
Our Australian operations had an excellent year, exceeding targets Opened new facility in Bangalore, India.
Australia met all of its targets, reflecting growth over previous years.
Alloa business in the UK won three large Hydro projects.
Secured five year Canadian Natural Resources asset management contract in North Sea oil and gas industry.
Weir Services continues to be a strong customer focused organisation and prides itself in solving customer problems.
We continue to listen to our customers, developing the organisation to reflect the demands of the marketplace.
In 2006, we invested significantly in facility realignments to have more capable facilities with stronger technical and project management skills to enhance our position in our core markets.
Steve Simone, Divisional Managing Director 14 Operational Review Case Study The specialist technical expertise of Weir Weir-Amco: service engineers and project managers joint venture success enables customers to improve their Weir-Amco, our newest joint venture company, is the licensed authorised repair facility for operations by reducing downtime, Hydril Blow-out Preventors in one of the largest oil related markets in Saudi Arabia.
enhancing the performance and In April 2005, prior to the joint venture, Amco extending the working life of was placed on provisional status by Hydril and was under threat of losing its preferred status.
The new Weir management team and Weirprocess-critical equipment.
Amco employees have not only managed to attain fully approved status again, but have also received accolades from both customers Primary input breakdown and Hydril management.
Oil 35.6% At the start of the joint venture operations, General industrial 22.5% investigations revealed that the lack of specific threading capability was causing Power 18.0% major delays in the delivery of blow-out Minerals 10.4% preventors to customers.
Water & Wastewater 7.5% The use of the Weir Production System has Naval & Marine 6.0% successfully reduced turnaround of threading parts from three weeks to 3-4 days.
Weir-Amco now has full in-house capability to turnaround Geographic breakdown Hydril Blow-out Preventors and the number of Americas 48.1% Blow-out Preventors received from customers has almost doubled in 2006 from 2005.
UK 25.4% Middle East & Africa 11.8% During 2006, the estimated value of Hydril Australia 11.0% work also doubled, including winning back major customers, which were lost prior to Europe & FSU 2.4% Weirs involvement.
Indo Pacific 1.3% Market review Blow-out Preventors for the oil industry go through the service facility.
The oil and gas industries around the world remain busy, driven by growing demand and buoyant prices and this continues to be a key sector for Weir Services.
Billions of dollars are being committed to projects in the energy rich regions of the world, such as western Canada, Middle Eastern countries, Western Australia and the Caspian region.
Weir Services is involved in projects ranging from small productivity enhancement programmes to major greenfield operations for the Oil Sands in Western Canada and increasing drilling capacity by 50% in Saudi Arabia.
The Oil Sands business in western Canada has increased significantly in recent years and the division experienced continued success in this area in 2006.
The industry has committed to $10bn of investment in this region over a 10 year period, so it is likely that we will continue to stay focused on this market for the foreseeable future.
The power industry is also experiencing significant growth and we are seeing a commitment to increase capacity through a combination of new facilities, the investigation of renewable energy options and equipment life extensions driven by ageing plants.
New plants are prominent in China and India, while upgraded plants are planned for North America and Europe.
Around the world, commodities markets remain strong and the mining industry is being driven by demand in China, as well as Australia and Canada.
The importance of safety and equipment specification within the industry means that it is essential to offer an integrated engineering solution rather than a simple repair service.
We are generating successful business in this area and have enjoyed upturned market conditions in 2006.
Weir Services is well positioned to take advantage of buoyant market conditions globally through our existing service network around the world.
Our ability to marshal technical resources to the sometimes difficult locations of our customers sets us apart from the general competition.
We also enjoy an excellent reputation for solving ongoing performance or equipment problems, providing the technical expertise and experience that customers need to help to create optimal solutions for the long haul.
As a consequence of limited supply, customers are increasingly looking to work more closely with our Services Division, which offers a stable supply of qualified field labour and capable re-manufacturing locations.
To maximise the opportunities this situation presents, we will continue to promote the division as an integrated solutions provider, rather than simply a repair and maintenance supplier.
This puts us in an ideal position to benefit from the move by customers towards long-term asset management contracts and their requirement for more partnershipstyle relationships.
15 Photograph: Muskeg River Mine in the Canadian Oil Sands, courtesy of Shell Canada Limited The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2006 | Operational Review Defence, Nuclear & Gas: Specialist engineering design businesses, responsible for the design and management of complex engineering projects.
Operating profit m Operating profit 10 9.8m Up 46% 7.5 5 Revenue Order input 2.5 Phil Clifton 107.2m 179.1m Divisional Managing Director 2005 2006 Up 57% Up 60% Operational review Defence The nuclear and defence businesses delivered another strong performance in 2006, successfully building on our reputation for engineering excellence Growth in defence spending remains positive by working with customers to solve very specific problems in the defence worldwide.
Many major maritime and land and nuclear sectors.
system projects are predicted to start in the near future in the United States, Europe, In these buoyant markets our strengths lie in the ability to design and Australia, Canada and the Far East.
produce control systems and mechanical handling solutions, which meet very specific, safety critical and challenging requirements, such as the mechanical handling of weapons or nuclear waste.
We experienced significant growth overseas, successfully implementing our Nuclear strategy for opening up new markets outside of the traditional UK market, with contract wins for the Spanish, Canadian, Dutch, Korean and Australian The potential for nuclear power revitalisation navies.
The long-awaited confirmation of our Spanish submarine contract and demand for decommissioning solutions was particularly welcome.
have brought new confidence to the nuclear markets.
We forecast an increasing demand Within the nuclear industry, we remain focused on the UK market, where there for competent systems providers with is considerable opportunity in nuclear decommissioning waste management strong technological skills and detailed and clean up operations, once funding commitment is secured.
Weir LGE, our liquid gas shipping and onshore storage business, had another exceptionally strong year in 2006 making a significant contribution to divisional profits and winning virtually every new order possible during the year.
Gas The market for marine LPG gas carriers grew at record levels for the third The LPG transportation and onshore storage successive year, with limited availability of building slots forcing owners to market remains robust with increasing longorder now for deliveries into 2009.
However, following the recent boom in term new storage requirements particularly orders, we are expecting demand for large and medium sized LPG carriers in the Middle East.
to decline significantly in 2007 and throughout 2008.
We are continuing to develop our onshore LPG storage facility expertise and forecast a healthy and steady growth of opportunities for the future.
Primary input breakdown Geographic breakdown Naval & Marine 91.7% Indo Pacific 54.8% Key achievements Power 5.5% Europe & FSU 21.7% Major contract awarded to design and manufacture the Weapons Discharge General Industrial 2.8% UK 15.4% and Handling System for new Spanish conventional submarines.
Australia 5.5% Successful installation of an Intermediate Level Waste handling system at Americas 2.6% Hunterston A nuclear facility.
Five year Through-Life Support contract signed in Australia, enhancing our already close relationship with the Australian Navy and Defence Department.
The Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division successfully Record year saw Weir LGE build on its leading position in LPG carrier market.
opened up new markets for our defence business Successfully extended Weir customer base to include Norwegian ship owners.
Continued successful delivery of major equipment for the Royal Navy Astute and is well positioned to take advantage of submarine programme.
activity in the nuclear power market.
In the Continued growth in support of the Canadian Navy submarine programme.
burgeoning gas market, Weir LGE significantly Continued growth with British Energy to maintain and improve fuelling systems on its ACR nuclear power stations.
Phil Clifton, Divisional Managing Director 16
