Operating Review Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive In the 52 weeks ended 28 January 2006, total Group sales from continuing operations were 2,630.7 million.
This represents a decrease of 4.1 per cent, reecting the difficult trading conditions but also, in part, the actions taken during this and the prior year to rationalise the retail business going forward.
Overall Retail sales fell 8.3 per cent and sales in Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing grew 9.5 per cent.
Adjusted profit from continuing operations before taxation, exceptional items, adjustment for xed rental uplifts and amortisation of intangible assets arising on the creation of the 2entertain joint venture fell by 15.1 per cent.
Retail Retail sales from continuing operations were reduced by several factors during the year, most notably as a result of the recongured out-of-town estate where, following the disposal programme, fewer stores were trading and were doing so off reduced retail space.
We are focusing on Like-for-like sales including internet and in-store ordering were down 3.9 per cent.
Adjusted profits from the continuing retail operations fell to 17.1 million from 39.8 million.
the right channels, Woolworths Mainchain right stock, and right A low level of consumer confidence and high levels of competition provided a challenging backdrop to the year.
Trading across the year was characterised by lower year-on-year levels of demand store environment.
At the key Christmas period we saw a pick-up in business in the last weeks of December and in the early postChristmas sale period.
Fortunately, the business had anticipated this environment and so was able to take steps early in the year to mitigate the impact through cost controls.
We also continued to make significant investments in our infrastructure and proposition development, thereby driving efficiency across the business and enhancing the offer for our customers.
Given the underlying levels of sales demand, it was essential that we maintained our robust approach to cost control.
This year, costs were reduced through early action by approximately 37 million.
These savings were secured by a variety of measures taken across the business but not to the detriment of the customer.
Despite tight control of salary budgets, store standards and customer service improved with mystery shopper scores at all-time highs.
This is testament to the commitment of all colleagues to the business.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 4 More Choice Multichannel Retailing Trading performance at a category level was mixed.
The strongest performance across the year came from the Toy department.
Toys are at the heart of the Kids and Celebrations strategy and with our exclusive Chad Valley brand, the business was able to build both sales and margin.
The toughest markets were Clothing, which suffered from marked price deation, and the Home market which experienced very weak levels of demand.
The Entertainment market suffered from comparatively weaker releases and continued price competition.
In a challenging sales environment, we worked hard to manage margin delivery in Woolworths.
Overall gross margin increased by approximately 20 basis points across the year.
We believe that a key inuence on the changing shape of the Christmas season sales is the impact of Online Shopping.
To benefit from this growing consumer channel, we signicantly enhanced our online capability during the year.
The number of products available for sale through www.
co. uk was increased to 4,600 general merchandise lines by Christmas, with over 2,000 further electrical products added in January.
This was in addition to 245,000 entertainment products.
Thanks to recent investments in our IT systems capability, we were able to make our online offer available through all of our in-store tills, signicantly widening the choice of products available, particularly in smaller stores.
As a consequence, total sales made through our web-based offering rose by over 200 per cent across the year.
We now have a base business of some scale.
We plan to build on this position by continuing to enhance the product offer alongside building new customer service capabilities as part of our multichannel retailing strategy.
We think there is real potential for an order at home collect at store service.
With over 800 stores, the majority of customers are only minutes away from one of our shops so we have the potential to offer an easily accessible, cost-effective collection service on a very wide range of products.
Store Refurbishment We have continued to develop our customer proposition centred on the continued rollout of the 10 10 store concept.
We retted 48 stores during the year which, together with two new stores, brings the total number of 10 10 stores to 110.
Their performance is now a consistent 6 per cent uplift versus the Mainchain control group in year one sales.
We anticipate that during 2006 07 a further We have over 6,500 general 100 stores will be updated.
merchandise lines online, along with The costs and nature of the 10 10 format mean it is not an 245,000 entertainment products.
appropriate ret solution for smaller stores.
As a consequence, we Smarter Retailing have developed a small store concept called 5 5 which integrates Multichannel retailing MCR allows us internet kiosk and conventional catalogue-based retailing to give to offer a rapidly expanding product customers access to a broader range of products.
The store is range in the most convenient manner for our customers.
The size of the store supported with a more exible and responsive supply chain.
no longer constrains the size of the Early results from the 5 5 trial have been very promising.
product offer, so our stores get elastic We therefore plan, during 2006 07, to open a statistically valid walls.
We are extending our customer base and moving into growth markets, sample of 5 5 stores to gain a full understanding of the economics, such as hi-tech electricals.
while we evolve our overall supply chain to replicate that of the trial store.
More Convenient Shopping This growing range can be ordered and The 10 10 rets release store xtures which are then used delivered in a exible way: in-store at the to ret smaller stores.
We have retted 25 of these stores to date tills, through customer-operated kiosks, and they are achieving sales uplifts of approximately 5 per cent by phone, or over the internet.
New channels, like text messaging, are being versus the Mainchain.
Deliveries will be made either to a store for customer collection, or direct to the home.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 5 Operating Review continued Evolving the Supply Chain Entertainment UK EUK As part of our strategy to evolve the supply chain to exploit the EUK performed well, benefiting from the full-year impact of opportunities of multichannel retailing and potentially 5 5, we have new customers such as WH Smith and Morrisons, alongside continued our strategic investment programme.
During the year, we continued growth from the Tesco account.
Total sales excluding have closed two of the five Woolworths warehouses and replaced those made to MVC increased by 0.4 per cent and sales to thirdthem with two larger, better-sited and more exible units.
This was party customers rose 9.9 per cent.
Across the markets EUK accomplished with only minor disruption.
In the short-term, we will supplies, the fastest growth was seen in the computer games benefit from the better physical location of the new sites, as they market.
The weakest market was the music sector due, in part, to will reduce transport mileage.
In the medium-term, they provide increasing levels of digital downloading.
EUKs own digital business the backbone for a more effective approach to the management enjoyed significant year-on-year growth of over 600 per cent, albeit and deployment of stock within the business.
EUKs digital track database is used During the year, we have focused our energy on gaining a to support the online offer of its retail customers and also digital thorough understanding of the true costs and impact associated jukeboxes in pubs and clubs.
with the way the business currently operates.
At the moment, In January 2006, we updated the market with regard to because of physical distribution constraints, we tend to supply EUKs contract with Tesco.
We announced that the contract product to stores using a Push model.
That is to say, we allocate would continue for its full term but that revised terms would impact the majority of product into the stores without taking into account profitability.
We also gave notice of our uncertainty over whether detailed demand variations across individual stores.
On the back the contract would be renewed.
We confirmed, in our announcement of changes to the network initiated this year, which will enable to the market on 14 March this year, that this contract would more appropriate allocation of stock to stores, the total amount terminate in April 2007, although the separate contract to supply of stock deployed in the business can be reduced and net margins books is retained to March 2008.
While the loss of the contract enhanced as we reduce unnecessary markdown.
is a disappointment, we believe the long-term interests of EUK are better served by focusing on gaining new customers and MVC Discontinued Operation broadening the scope of EUKs capability, rather than entering In July 2005, the sale of MVC was completed.
This removed from agreements of marginal profitability.
To the extent that the Tesco the Group a loss-making business that faced many strategic business is not replaced, it will lead to a release of working capital challenges and, in our retail business, has allowed us to focus in 2007 08 but also require us to restructure EUKs operations.
entirely on our core business.
Trading prior to disposal was impacted by the disruption caused by the sale process and 2entertain the closure in April 2005 of the worst loss-making stores.
This was the first full year of trading for the 2entertain joint venture Following completion of the sale, the Group received a cash with BBC Worldwide.
The business brings to market DVD, video payment of 5.5 million.
The pre-tax loss including the exceptional and music programming, sourced from licensing arrangements cost of the transaction was 33.9 million.
with industry majors, the independent production sector and the BBC as well as through productions commissioned in-house.
In Entertainment Wholesale & Publishing the early part of the year, management concentrated on completing This year again saw continued profit progress from our the business integration plan.
This was accomplished on time and Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing businesses which on budget yielding synergy benets ahead of expectations.
In the comprise EUK, our entertainment distribution business and latter part of the year they concentrated on exploiting a very strong 2entertain, our joint venture with BBC Worldwide.
Adjusted profits line-up of titles that had been in development during the year.
from this part of the Group rose 14.9 per cent to 56.4 million.
There were many successful products published during the year and a driver of success was the breadth of products launched across many genres.
The biggest selling lines across the year were, on DVD, Little Britain 1 and 2, Jeremy Clarkson: Heaven and Hell, Dr Who, Pride and Prejudice and The Catherine Tate Show.
The Demon Music division enjoyed success with Daniel ODonnell: From Daniel with Love and Foster & Allen Sing the Number Ones.
Product Update Woolworths is a great place for kids!
The Ladybird clothing range continues to offer fun, fashionable and affordable clothing for every occasion keeping mums and kids happy.
Woolworths also stocks every type of indoor and outdoor toy from the Woolworths Chad Valley range as well as other well-known brands, bedroom and garden ranges just for kids and fun dress-up outts.
Woolworths homes ranges have something for every taste, from bright picnicware to sophisticated home accessories, beautiful bedding to pots and pans all at fantastic value.
With the growth of our MCR offer more items than ever are available for the home and garden, and customers can have sofas, beds and barbecues delivered straight to their front door.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 6 Distribution Network New Centre in Bedford Our new Distribution Centre in Bedford The continued success of 2entertain relies upon the quality is strategically sited to optimise our and continuity of product in the pipeline.
Much has been achieved logistics network.
The centre makes in the year to secure the rights to future output with significant levels use of the latest handling systems and also incorporates several environmental of investment made towards BBC programming and across the innovations.
Total sales at 2entertain were 192 million.
Smarter Distribution We have been conducting a root and branch review of everything to do with Outlook distribution, from achieving the most The retail environment looks set to remain challenging over the next appropriate property portfolio, to the handling of stock and its presentation.
12 months, with consumer spending likely to remain depressed.
Our product lines and distribution We anticipate that competition will continue to be erce.
Against channels are growing, which calls for this backdrop, it is appropriate that we continue to be diligent over more exible distribution systems with increased delivery frequency.
The aim the control of costs.
is to make the whole process more We consider the next two years to be a period of important efficient and to optimise resources evolution for the Group.
In the Woolworths retail businesses we and the solution needs to be the best for the whole business, not just its will build on the infrastructure and IT investments we have made.
We will rene our supply chain and distribution to meet more closely our customers requirements through the integration of our online and in-store offer, supported by a more demand-driven stock delivery model.
In tandem with this, we will focus on bringing our net margins forward and releasing cash from the business as we deploy stock more efficiently.
For EUK, our task will be to manage the loss of the Tesco business through a combination of winning new customers, entry into new markets and rationalisation of costs.
We were pleased to announce earlier this month that the business has secured a new contract to supply WH Smiths core DVD offer, which is in addition to the current music and non-core video supply.
For 2entertain the agenda is clear.
It is to use the momentum they have secured to continue to position themselves as the partner of choice for the exploitation of the DVD rights of quality British TV programming.
The competitive environment has continued, leading to a slow start to the new year.
However, due to the difference in the timing of Easter, we have a non-comparative trading period in the first quarter.
In accordance with prior practice we will update the market on trading at our AGM in June.
Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive 28 March 2006 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7
