Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 07 The essence of our strategy is to: Introduction Operational review focus on areas where Minerva and strategy City of London Offices: has a competitive advantage Introduction for example on projects where The Walbrook, London EC4 inherent planning disciplines and Minerva, over a number of years, site-assembly skills can be used has brought together several long-term We announced this time last year, to add value : development opportunities through that having secured an option to site assembly and the achievement use limited non-recourse terminate the occupational lease of planning permissions.
Our Chief structured finance to drive with Barclays Bank at St. Swithins Executive, Salmaan Hasan, has returns: and House, we were going to spearheaded a review of the business speculatively develop The Walbrook, deliver dividend returns to and, together with the Board and a 455,000 sq.
ft. office development shareholders based upon the its executive management team, in the heart of the City of London realisation of investment and focused on delivering shareholder designed by Foster and Partners.
value through: To achieve this, in January the Group the delivery of best value from our secured a 275 million senior debt Future evolution and development three large development schemes: facility to develop the building.
Minerva will continue: The Walbrook, St. Botolphs House This funding has enabled the Group and Park Place: to commence work on this prime the entrepreneurial nature of City development this Summer, our activities: the investment in new with completion expected in the opportunities primarily which the development of opportunities third quarter of 2009.
The financing, have development situations with partners and alliances: which initially provided 75 million to that have a turnaround time refinance existing bank debt on the to maintain a high quality skill within three to five years: and site, has been structured on a project base available to the Group, the establishment of a portfolio of basis and provides the Group with either directly or indirectly: and projects, coupled with appropriate further funding of up to 140 million the improved communication with structured finance and targeted for the development of the building.
An additional 60 million is available to be drawn on reaching pre-agreed The net effect of this new approach Performance targets as the project is completed has been a transition from an and let.
Set against this strategy, 2006 has ostensibly investment-based Group been a very productive year for the to a developer model.
As we explained in last years Group as we have positioned the Annual Report, we have re-examined business to deliver significant Strategy the internal design of the planning medium long-term returns for consented scheme renewed in 2005 Minervas primary objective is to shareholders.
We have arranged creating layouts that have a wider deliver superior, long-term returns to structured acquisition and appeal in terms of divisibility to single shareholders through the investment, development funding in excess of occupiers but also provide layouts for development and management of 500 million and have progressed multi-occupation.
This will widen the UK real estate.
planning applications and schemes range of potential tenants including including managing our Croydon the financial and professional sectors.
shopping centre scheme, Park Place, through a compulsory purchase inquiry.
We have also made substantial exciting acquisitions, some in joint venture with respected partners, in new alliances to drive shareholder value.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 08 Business review continued We have also undertaken a very St. Botolphs House, London EC3 Before making this decision we detailed exercise in value engineering approached the lending market to This project comprises St. Botolphs which has identified cost efficiencies assess the attractiveness of the House and Ambassador House and has increased the net lettable proposition.
We are pleased to report and the Group currently benefits area for the building by around that, since 30 June 2006, the Group from planning consents for two 15,000 sq.
ft. has secured a new site refinancing office buildings, both designed from HSH Nordbank, initially for Further to the agreement entered by architects, Grimshaw: 45.0 million, which allows the Group into last year with Barclays Bank, a landmark 14 storey office to proceed with the demolition and we terminated the occupational building comprising circa detailed design works without using lease in April.
ft. of offices and existing cash resources.
completed in July 2006 and the Group retail.
This permission, which received an amount of 26.1 million.
In terms of the construction of the was granted in November 1999, building, we have credit committee The demolition of the three existing has been implemented by the approved financing for half of a buildings on which The Walbrook Group.
This scheme is known 315 million senior loan facility to will be built is underway.
Under the as St. Botolphs House: and develop and construct St. Botolphs current programme, completion of a landmark tower comprising House, and we have started the project to Category A specification circa 1 million sq.
ft. of office discussions with other banks who is expected to take place in the third and retail accommodation.
have expressed interest to underwrite quarter of 2009.
The permission for this scheme, the remaining amount of the loan.
A formal marketing campaign has known as The Minerva Building, Furthermore, bearing in mind the been agreed and we plan for this to was granted in April 2004. speculative nature of our development commence towards the end of this at The Walbrook, we have resolved Over the last year management has calendar year.
not to undertake the construction of spent a considerable amount of time this building until a trigger pre-letting In terms of our investment in adjoining and effort reviewing both schemes, of around 25 per cent of the office properties, the Group acquired paying regard to the market, the space is achieved.
Initial marketing 111 Cannon Street for 9.0 million financial resources available to the has now commenced and if we are in June 2006.
We believe that this Group, the potential co-investment able to achieve a pre-letting within property will benefit from the overall and funding partner interest as our target programme, practical improvement in the area, fuelled by well as the financial dynamics of completion of the project will occur the development of The Walbrook.
We have in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Going forward we will be looking to concluded that, given the significant combine 111 Cannon Street, together scale and risks associated with The professional team on this project with other adjoining properties that The Minerva Building, the resources has been re-assembled over the we own along St. Swithins Lane needed, both of a technical and last few months and we are close and Cannon Street, as part of a new financial nature, are too large to appointing demolition contractors smaller development opportunity.
relative to the size of the Group.
with a view to demolition commencing Accordingly, we have taken the within the next six months.
decision to proceed with St. Botolphs House, a flexible and modern building that we consider presents a more deliverable and financially sound option for our shareholders in the current development cycle.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 09 City market overview WE HAVE TAKEN THE DECISION TO Both the City occupational and PROCEED WITH investment markets are performing ST. BOTOLPHS strongly.
HOUSE, A FLEXIBLE AND MODERN Total take-up activity in 2006 to BUILDING THAT WE date is 3.8 million sq.
ft. compared CONSIDER PRESENTS to 3.6 million sq.
ft. at the same time A MORE DELIVERABLE last year.
Take-up looks set to reach AND FINANCIALLY 5.1 million sq.
ft. this year compared to Our developments SOUND OPTION FOR 4.8 million sq.
The banking OUR SHAREHOLDERS St. Botolphs House, London EC3 and financial sectors continue to IN THE CURRENT dominate take-up activity being The St. Botolphs House development DEVELOPMENT CYCLE.
responsible so far for 41 per cent stands on an island site of of the total space taken.
approximately 1.25 acres located on the eastern side of the City The volume of available space now of London.
ft. which is historically just under two years Minerva has a detailed planning consent for the supply, a vacancy rate of 8 per cent redevelopment of the site to provide a prestigious with Grade A space standing at air-conditioned office building suitable for a major occupier in all amounting to some 530,000 sq.
ft. 3.7 per cent, the lowest since 2002. net of accommodation.
Developer confidence seen in late Office floorplates are generally uniform and the 2005 has continued apace with an principal floors each provide in the order of 37,000 sq.
increase of speculative starts in the The building will also provide some 28,500 sq.
ft. of first half of this year.
Total space under retail area at ground and lower ground floor levels.
construction stands at 5 million sq.
ft. A detailed design review of the building is underway with 2 million sq.
ft. due to commence with a view to commencing demolition within the next few months.
shortly, but with only 14 per cent of the pipeline due for completion in the remainder of the year, there is downward pressure on availability.
The shortage of Grade A space has driven rental values upwards.
Prime rents now stand at 55 p. s. f. with quoting rents at a number of prime City buildings now set at 60 p. s. f. With strong take-up activity forecast for the next five years and sharp falls in supply rates set to continue through 2009 2010, the outlook for the City, particularly for large floorplate buildings, remains extremely positive.
In the light of this favourable market our high quality office schemes at The Walbrook and St. Botolphs House, programmed for completion prior to 2010, are clearly well placed to reap the benefits.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 10 Business review continued Retail: Park Place, Croydon Following entering into arrangements with Lend Lease, as development project managers, in the Autumn of last year our efforts have been focused on preparations for the compulsory purchase inquiry which THE CITY MARKET HAS began in May 2006.
STRENGTHENED OVER The Lend Lease involvement has THE LAST YEAR OR provided the Park Place project with further retail expertise in terms SO WITH IMPROVING of design creation, development OCCUPIER DEMAND AND management, leasing and delivery skills of quality retail assets.
A DIMINISHING SUPPLY Lend Lease are best known in this OF OFFICE SPACE.
country for their development of Bluewater, Kent.
Together with Lend THIS TREND SHOULD Lease the Park Place team created by Minerva now has the core expertise to CONTINUE THROUGH develop and to complete the scheme.
NEXT YEAR WITH LIMITED Under the arrangement, Lend Lease has an entitlement to exercise their AVAILABILITY OF NEW right to purchase 50 per cent of the GRADE A SPACE COMING completed scheme at market value.
Over the course of the year we held detailed discussions with The Whitgift Foundation, a major land owner Tim Garnham within our scheme, and following the Development Director agreement of Heads of Terms for a new 250 year lease, they withdrew their objection to the compulsory purchase.
This was a major step forward for the Park Place project and set a positive tone to the inquiry.
Running up to the inquiry and during its course we were able to significantly reduce the number of objectors through negotiation and acquisition of their interests.
Following the close of the inquiry we have entered into agreements with further parties who have now withdrawn their objections.
We expect to have a decision from the Secretary of State within the first quarter of 2007.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 11 Furthermore, together with our The acquisition of this site represented development manager, Lend Lease, a strategic diversification of our discussions with John Lewis activities into a new area, which Partnership are ongoing.
will involve the creation of luxury residential units with car parking and Minerva and Lend Lease will jointly a new state of the art public cinema.
seek the arrangement of suitable A scheme is currently being prepared funding during 2007, whilst also following discussions with the working with the architects on the authorities and local stakeholders detailed design to create the identity and we expect to submit a planning Our developments for Park Place, which will assist in application shortly.
attracting additional large space Park Place, Croydon tenants to the centre.
The scheme is expected to Park Place has been granted detailed commence in mid-2007 following Our overall objective, assuming a planning permission by The London planning, with practical completion positive outcome from the compulsory Borough of Croydon.
When completed, of the scheme expected towards purchase inquiry, is to initiate it will provide 900,000 sq.
ft. of the end of 2009. pre-development activities during accommodation, comprising the course of 2007.
This will include Acquisition and construction loan principally of retail space and service diversion, highway and facilities of 77.5 million have restaurants.
A key component of other enabling works to facilitate the been arranged.
the retail space is the provision of main demolition and construction, a new full range department store.
scheduled to commence in 2008 Lancaster Gate, London W2 subject to arranging appropriate Designed by the leading international architects Since the year end we have completed project funding.
RTKL, this scheme will provide both the large retail the purchase of the former Thistle units and the necessary mall environment needed to re-establish Croydon as a Top 10 retail destination Hotel at 7589 Lancaster Gate for within the UK and the largest and most efficient 67.2 million and this represents our centre within South London.
High End Residential: second transaction with Northacre plc.
Situated in the heart of the town it will offer excellent access by car, rail, tram and bus and also The site, which is vacant, has a Odeon Cinema, Kensington, use and improve existing pedestrian routes for the high foot falls expected.
The area of the proposed current planning permission to provide London W8 development together with the roads affected some 162,000 sq.
ft. of residential by the scheme will occupy some 8.5 hectares.
In November 2005, Minerva acquired, accommodation in 139 individual in partnership with residential units.
A detailed review of the internal developer, Northacre plc, the Odeon layouts is well underway with a view Cinema in High Street Kensington for to increasing the net saleable area 24.0 million.
The freehold property is and improving the unit mix.
A planning located in a prime residential area on application for these changes will be the south side of Kensington High submitted shortly and we anticipate Street opposite the Commonwealth commencing development in the first Institute and just south of Holland half of 2007.
The low rise period homes of represents the longest contiguous Edwardes Square lie directly to the terrace overlooking Hyde Park, and west of the site.
The property is currently together with gardens, underground leased to Odeon Cinemas for a term car parking, fitness facilities and of five years subject to a development swimming pool, will create a landmark break in favour of our Partnership.
luxury residential scheme of grandeur in the West End of London.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 12 Business review continued An acquisition and construction DURING THE loan facility of 153.6 million has FINANCIAL YEAR, been arranged.
WE ENTERED INTO A JOINT In relation to Northacres participation VENTURE WITH in the above residential ventures, PARADIGM, they have a 5 per cent equity BANK OF SCOTLAND stake and can earn, subject to the AND KENMORE achievement of predetermined FOR THE ACQUISITION financial targets, an enhanced return.
Our developments OF SKYPARK In our view the high end residential IN GLASGOW.
The Odeon Cinema site, Kensington market in London represents one of the most valuable global urban Standing on Kensington High Street, residential markets and has this famous local landmark is set demonstrated consistent value to be redeveloped to create luxury accretion in recent years.
By using apartments befitting the location of the skills at Minerva and the specific the site.
sector knowledge within Northacre, we believe that the projects will Overlooking the Commonwealth Institute and with the low rise period homes of Edwardes generate highly favourable returns.
Square immediately to the west, the completed It is our intention to augment this development will have superb local facilities partnership if further opportunities nearby with the rest of London available through the excellent transport links.
Mixed use: Ram Brewery, London SW18 Since the year end, we have exchanged contracts to acquire the Ram Brewery and 2030 Buckhold Road, Wandsworth for 69.0 million.
The site will be acquired with vacant possession and the consideration is to be paid in instalments with 14.0 million paid on exchange, 8.5 million payable in June 2007 on completion of the acquisition of the site at 2030 Buckhold Road and 46.5 million payable in January 2008 on completion of the acquisition of the Ram Brewery site.
Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2006 13 To finance the acquisition, we intend The property is multi-let to over 60 IN OUR VIEW to arrange a predominantly non-recourse occupiers, comprising a wide variety THE HIGH END senior loan facility.
of tenants ranging from small local RESIDENTIAL businesses to high-profile occupiers MARKET IN LONDON This project represents in our view REPRESENTS such as 0.
The scheme has an 2 an exciting mixed use opportunity ONE OF THE excellent mix of asset management in an affluent catchment area of MOST VALUABLE and value-enhancement opportunities South West London.
Whilst it is early GLOBAL URBAN through rent reviews, refurbishment stages, we will embark upon a full RESIDENTIAL and redevelopment.
consultation with the local authority and other relevant stakeholders to Together with our partners, we are deliver a valuable master plan for progressing a site masterplan to Investment property portfolio value this important town centre location.
both expand the accommodation We anticipate that, subject to a on the site and create environmental successful change of use and master improvements.
579.2M 2006 planning, a significant mixed use 803.6M 2005 scheme can be delivered.
We will Orchard Brae House, Edinburgh of course update you on progress Orchard Brae House is an eight storey in due course.
It occupies a prominent position on the north side of Queensbury Road, Joint ventures: approximately one mile north west of Edinburgh City Centre.
The immediate Skypark, Glasgow area is recognised as a prime residential area benefiting from During the financial year, we entered close links to the City Centre.
into a joint venture with Paradigm, Bank of Scotland and Kenmore for The property was acquired in July the acquisition of Skypark in Glasgow.
2006 for 24.0 million in a joint venture The Group holds a 25 per cent interest between ourselves, Paradigm, Bank in the venture and has made an initial of Scotland and the Irvine Group.
Our initial investment was 1.7 million Skypark, which comprises around and provides the Group with a 550,000 sq.
ft. of mainly office 25 per cent interest in the Partnership.
accommodation, is located on the The strategy is to look at the added continually improving west side of value opportunities available with the Glasgow, with easy access to the lease expiry programme along with city centre, motorway network, development opportunities available public transport system and airport.
The buildings have largely been refurbished to provide good quality secondary office space, call centres and commercial workspace in a business park-type environment.
