Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11 I am delighted Chief Executives Operating Review to report another year of significant progress with the number of homes sold increasing to 7,117 at an average selling price of 169,000.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 12 Oaklands, Bolton, Lancashire This has resulted in the revenue from the sale also gives us the additional resource to areas of former local authority housing.
of homes reaching a new high of 1,203 establish future new divisions.
We anticipate the average selling price of million, up from 1,147 million last year.
these 950 new homes to be in the region of Other turnover of 37 million was generated 127,000.
This is an extremely affordable Divisional Performance during the year which came mainly from land price even for the North East and will help Northern Divisions sales and the sales of commercial units taking to grow volumes in future years.
A new the total turnover to a record high of division was formed during the year to cover During the year the northern divisions sold 1,240 million.
It is acquiring new 3,764 homes, an increase from the previous land opportunities in the region as well as years 3,685 homes.
Of this total, 221 handling the Solihull regeneration project New Appointments homes were sold to housing associations which has recently commenced.
We will compared to 196 the previous year.
Overall With regard to our volume growth see production from the division in the the average selling price in the north fell objectives, we have recently appointed two 2006 07 financial year and it increases the slightly to 154,569 but, with the volumes new regional chairmen, covering the north number of trading divisions to 18. increasing, turnover increased to and south of the country, to oversee the day 581.8 million.
Land acquisition The West Lancashire division, which is now and financial control will remain at Head building on several sites in the Liverpool Office to ensure strong controls remain in Pathfinder area, has successfully completed place.
This change to our structure is an 600 homes in the year with an average important initiative in driving output in those selling price of only 136,000.
The North divisions trading below optimum scale and East division has commenced two neighbourhood renewal schemes replacing Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 13 Town Wharf, Grays, Essex Divisional Performance continued provider of affordable homes in East Southern Divisions London, with an overall average selling The southern divisions sold 3,353 homes, price of only 169,000.
The division has an increase from the previous years recently completed a development of 214 3,316.
Of this total, 569 homes were apartments in the London Borough of sold to housing associations compared to Tower Hamlets and construction of a 632 the previous year.
Overall the further 532 houses and apartments is onaverage selling price in the south increased going in Stepney, in the same borough.
to 185,200 and with volumes increasing, Demand for these competitively priced turnover lifted to 621.1 million, a 7.8% homes is proving to be particularly strong.
increase on the previous year.
The Thames Gateway North division The South West division, only formed in which was only established in 2005 2004, increased output to 153 homes and completed 42 homes in the period.
It has is set to continue growing helped by been successful in acquiring several more further land acquisitions in Devon and sites and production levels will steadily Somerset.
The Thames Gateway South increase in the coming years.
division has established itself as a major Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Land Bank City Solutions The divisional network must also be City Solutions, a procurement team, is supported by an expanding land bank and taking advantage of the Governments in particular sales outlets.
The Group regeneration initiatives and is focused on presently has 22,600 plots owned with sourcing large scale regeneration planning permission on the balance sheet, opportunities where the operating margin is similar to last years levels.
However, the agreed in advance.
Once a project reaches medium term land bank, which is typically development stage it is handed over to a held by the company pending the receipt of division.
So far City Solutions has made its a planning permission, has increased first contribution towards the land bank, significantly from 12,000 to 15,000 plots.
handing over 500 plots to divisions and These plots often take several years to currently it has preferred bidder status on convert into active sites but are a valuable the previously mentioned 4,200 plots in source of land and often result in enhanced cities such as Leeds, Liverpool, margins.
A start will be made on a site next Middlesbrough and Newport.
These new year near Bedford, an old RAF depot, opportunities will be a sizeable boost to our which was acquired outright in 2001 and land bank.
has now received planning permission for around 600 homes.
In addition, the Groups long term strategic land contains the 4,200 plots being processed through the system by City Solutions.
These plots together with approximately 2,900 acres of greenfield land, typically held under option, will further enhance Bellways land bank and underpin our long term growth aspirations.
14 In addition, the Groups long term strategic land contains the 4,200 plots being processed through the system by City Solutions.
Linden Fields, Tunbridge Wells, Kent Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Design and Cost Control During the year the Group received Bellway delivering our first site of 234 awards from the Commission for homes to Eco Homes Excellent standard.
Architecture and the Built Environment To ensure the sustainability of raw CABE for outstanding design.
Whilst it is materials, especially timber, this year we pleasing to receive such recognition, it is undertook a review of our major suppliers important to ensure that we complement and introduced a new Group procurement good design with cost control.
This is especially important example, with the new Part A building considering the Groups increased use of regulations imposing additional design timber frame techniques.
Waste is a criteria on buildings over four storeys, we significant by-product of development and have introduced more timber frame an area we are continuing to focus upon.
construction which represents a cost saving In the year under review, 150 sites have against concrete or steel construction.
segregated their waste, more importantly As a result, timber frame construction 4,708 tonnes of plasterboard have been accounted for almost a third of output.
recycled representing a substantial increase This system brings a greater standardisation over the corresponding period last year.
of floor design and has economy of scale Throughout the course of the year the benefits.
As a highly insulated system, it Group has agreed, pursuant to agreements helps to reduce CO2 emissions, an item under s106 of the Town and Country high on the Governments list of priorities, Planning Acts, to make payments which in and as a consequence its use may well total amount to over 5m for such items as increase in the future.
These measures, education, highway and open space along with a greater use of standard facilities.
These payments provide benefits material specifications, have helped to for the whole community following the support the Groups operating margin.
Environment Customers 15 Government statistics demonstrate that There is a strong requirement to deliver a improvements in construction techniques quality product combined with a level of and materials have all contributed to a new service that satisfies customer demands.
home being 40% more energy efficient During the year the Group has undertaken today than it was five years ago.
New a comprehensive review of its customer building regulations and other Government care procedures and also appointed an initiatives will continue to improve the independent survey company.
The latest standard of new homes in the future.
figures from this survey show that over However, despite this, the effect of climate 75% of purchasers would recommend a change cannot be underestimated as friend to buy a new Bellway home.
This, housing is a major contributor in the and future surveys, will be used to focus production of CO2.
In an effort to improve the Groups efforts to produce quality the environmental performance of our homes and satisfy customers on a product, we are currently paying the consistent basis.
energy bills and monitoring the performance of several homes recently constructed in the North West of England where more innovative methods of generating heat and power have been employed.
The Group has also increased the number of Eco Homes built during the year and our development at Broughton in Milton Keynes will see Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2006 16 Windsor Gate, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire Health and Safety days, has been reduced for the fourth Bellways strategy remains unaltered and is A review of our health and safety systems consecutive year, a trend we hope can be supported by a strong order book which was carried out during the course of the maintained in the coming years by setting has grown to 647 million at the end of year by an independent firm of consultants.
new targets and introducing initiatives on September.
This places the Group in an Recommendations from the review have site to improve performance.
excellent position to maintain its track been implemented resulting in the Group record into the future.
devoting more resources into this area of our business.
In conjunction with the Outlook Health and Safety Executive, Bellway has been holding joint workshops throughout Revenue growth in a low inflationary the Group to make both sub-contractors environment more than ever relies on and employees aware of good practice with increasing our volume output.
The regard to manual handling.
K. Watson foundations for this growth are in place with result, made a number of changes to Chief Executive the number of sales outlets increasing by products being used on site and now insist 16 October 2006 around 7%.
The divisional network has on the use of mechanical lifting devices been expanded and the land bank is being when handling heavy materials.
further enhanced by future urban regeneration schemes.
The cost base will I am pleased to report that the number of benefit from more standardisation helping reportable accidents, namely those to reduce inherent cost pressures.
involving absence from work for over three
