The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 18 Our markets in Berendsen Operations review Our Berendsen business in Continental Europe provides textile maintenance Continental Europe services in 9 countries with 73 plants employing over 6,700 people.
Scandinavia We are market leading in Scandinavia.
Sweden and Denmark are amongst our largest businesses in Continental Europe and we offer a broad range of services.
We are well positioned as market leader to capture the opportunities for organic growth within these markets, with the current economic outlook providing a positive driver.
The cost and pricing environment, while challenging, generally allows for cost increases to be recovered in the pricing and therefore the increases in revenue will drive profit increases.
The facilities market in which we have a well established and profitable business is fragmented and offers opportunities for further growth.
As we are market leading we are well positioned to make bolt-on acquisitions of local businesses which are seeking to exit the market.
Our business in Norway Netherlands is growing strongly with a focus on workwear and facilities business.
The strength In 2006 our Dutch of the Norwegian economy, driven by oil revenues, provides opportunities for business launched Re-Vision, our solution significant growth well above the average that we have achieved in Continental for maintaining high Europe as a whole.
visibility workwear, which deteriorates Germany under normal washing In Germany we have a strong position providing services to the healthcare sector.
Through This is our most challenging market in Berendsen with Government policy now such innovations we have increased targeted to reduce the amount of healthcare spending by the nation.
The country our market position.
has a well invested healthcare system which to date has given rise to a large number Our business is of healthcare service providers and consequently there has been fragmentation concentrated on workwear and facilities.
among textile maintenance service providers.
New Government policy has been to restrict reimbursement of the length of stay in hospitals and this has led to excess capacity with hospitals closing and consolidating.
However, we are one of a few players of scale in the market and with healthcare providers themselves looking to consolidate for the future we are well positioned to meet these market changes.
Although margins are under pressure in healthcare, our business continues to generate acceptable levels of return and we believe there is the opportunity for long term volume growth.
Our aim is to broaden the German business by expanding our workwear business.
With the largest population in Europe the workwear market in Germany is large and we see the opportunity to increase market share by organic growth and by making further bolt-on acquisitions.
Christer Strm Managing Director, Berendsen Netherlands In the Netherlands we are in a leading position in workwear services.
The Dutch market is relatively concentrated with the largest four players each holding significant market shares.
The opportunities for acquisitions are limited and we continue to innovate with our service offerings to maintain market pricing and grow market share.
Central Europe In Central Europe we have a fast growing, profitable business in Poland, which focuses on the rental of workwear and mats.
The market is growing rapidly both as the economy, particularly in manufacturing, grows more quickly than in Western Europe and also as the benets of textile rental become rmly established with customers.
Other businesses We have a small business in Finland, which we entered in late 2005 through acquisition and we are investing in this as a base for growth.
In addition we have a direct sale business in Sweden, Bjrnklder, selling garments and personal protection equipment, as well as operating retail shops for these products.
We are growing the number of selling outlets and seeing revenue growth in direct sales that complements our rental business.
In todays changing textile markets, we need to invest resources to ensure we capture the most cost effective sourcing opportunities that exist throughout the world.
Consequently, we now have a dedicated sourcing company based in Sweden which has representation in the Far East but also operates its own garment manufacturing operations in Estonia.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 19 Performance review for 2006 Revenues in Continental Europe increased by 4% to 403.0 million from 387.3 million in 2005 and adjusted operating profit was 65.5 million compared with 62.4 million last year.
The adjusted operating margin was 16.3%, up from 16.1% last year.
These results have been restated to show Modeluxe, France, as a discontinued operation.
Foreign exchange had a negative impact on revenue of 3.1 million and operating profit of 0.5 million, compared with the rates last year.
Organic growth in revenue was 2% and we have made 17 bolt-on acquisitions in 2006, investing 19.7 million.
Achievements in 2006 Priorities in 2007 Grew the business organically with momentum in Target further organic growth.
Invested 19.7 million in bolt-on acquisitions.
Deliver returns from acquisitions while assessing Agreed to acquire Permaclean in Germany to further opportunities.
achieve a national workwear business of scale.
Target profitable opportunities in new territories.
GROWTH Divested businesses in France and Norway not meeting growth requirements.
IN NEW Our businesses in Scandinavia performed well, growing revenues, profit and CONTRACT margins.
Business confidence improved throughout the year and we were encouraged by the level of new sales.
The acquisitions we made have been WINS... successfully integrated and our strong position in these markets is producing EXPANDING a good pipeline of future opportunities.
We are investing in a new workwear plant in Bergen, Norway, which we expect to complete shortly.
WORKWEAR We grew our revenues in Holland by 3%, following the investments we made last year in increasing our sales force and improving its efficiency.
We continue IN GERMANY to improve our market position with new contract wins.
Having invested in 2005, we were able to deliver higher margins from the revenue gains.
Although the opportunities for acquisitions are more limited in this market, we nevertheless made three small acquisitions.
We took a major step this year in Germany to expand the base of our business.
In December 2006, we announced the purchase of the Permaclean group, which is focused on workwear rental.
Together with our small existing business, we now have a workwear business in Germany that provides coverage on a real scale.
It will enable us to start to compete nationally and will provide an operational base for delivering faster growth from the opportunities we see in the market and enhanced value from bolt-on acquisitions.
The German healthcare market remained our most challenging on the Continent as it continued to face a structural change in the provision of its healthcare service with Government policy to reduce costs and overcapacity in the market.
Disappointingly, the business nished the year with profits down on last year.
Continental Europe 2006 2005 Growth Growth in revenue 4.0% 1.0% 3% Operating margin 16.3% 16.1% 0.2% Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
Our Polish business grew strongly both its revenue and profits.
We continued to invest in this market to support the level of growth with the extension to our second plant in the south of the country, opened during 2006.
We commenced Estonia building a further plant in Warsaw and also identied land elsewhere in Poland for We have our own garment manufacturing further stages of development.
We entered the Finnish Our direct sale business in Sweden continued to perform well and achieved good market in 2005 through revenue growth.
We expanded the number of our retail outlets to develop a national acquisition.
We are business, which complements our rental service business in the country.
During the investing in this base for profitable growth.
year, we separated this retail business from our supply sourcing business, also based in Sweden, and which has manufacturing operations in Estonia.
Our supply business continued to innovate in terms of the sourcing and range of garments that it supplied to the group and we expect the proportion of garments supplied to group companies to increase over the coming years, benefiting from improved sourcing terms.
