Business review a 8 BG Groups global operations The integrated gas major BG Group manages its business segments on a regional basis.
From March 2006, the operations are managed in the five main geographical regions shown here.
North America and The Caribbean and Global LNG We have established a durable competitive position in the LNG industry with our portfolio of flexible, cost-competitive LNG assets and skills.
Martin Houston EVP & Managing Director Key activities Major gas producer in Trinidad and Tobago, supplying both the domestic market and exporting gas as LNG from its participation in four liquefaction trains.
Holds rights to 16.7 mtpa LNG import and regasification capacity in the USA at Lake Charles, Louisiana and Elba Island, Georgia.
Holds expansion rights at both facilities.
Owns E&P assets in Alaska and Canada, and during 2006 acquired Dighton 170 MW power plant in Massachusetts and agreed to acquire Lake Road 805 MW in Connecticut.
Major LNG importer into the USA and global LNG marketer.
South America a Exploration success in Brazil has the potential to be a major contributor to long-term production growth for BG Group.
Rick Waddell EVP & Managing Director Key activities Holds a 60.1% stake in the largest natural gas distribution company in Brazil Companhia fide Gas fide So Paulo Comgas.
Holds interests in one exploration block onshore Exploration and Production E&P and seven blocks offshore in Brazil, and in the Liquefied Natural Gas LNG transmission pipelines from Bolivia to Brazil and Argentina to Uruguay.
Transmission and Distribution T&D Supplies gas in both Bolivia and Brazil, and supplies Power liquids markets in Bolivia, from Bolivian production.
Holds a minority stake in MetroGAS S. A. the natural gas distribution company in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
com a For further information see Segmental analysis and results presentation, note 2, page 80. BUSINESS REVIEW 9 Europe and Central Asia Significant North Sea discoveries and a new LNG terminal at Milford Haven underpin our commitment to supply the UK market.
Mark Carne EVP & Managing Director Key activities Has interests in over 20 UK Continental Shelf UKCS fields which in 2006 supplied the equivalent of around 7% of UK demand.
Buzzard oil field onstream in January 2007.
Downstream activities in the UK comprise gas marketing, gas transmission and power generation.
Jointly developing a LNG import and regasification facility in Wales, expected to be operational in fourth quarter 2007.
Holds a portfolio of 23 licences in Norway.
In Kazakhstan, the giant Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field accounted for 16% of Group production in 2006 and exported over 16 mmbbl into western markets.
In Italy, developing the Brindisi LNG import and regasification facility, and holds interests in power.
b Asia Pacic We are pursuing a number of growth opportunities in the region, including our Mediterranean Basin and Africa existing countries, to add to our strong performance.
We BG Group is a key supplier are very excited at having to the Egyptian and Tunisian entered Oman in 2006. domestic markets, and participates in world markets William Friedrich Deputy Chief Executive through its LNG supply from the region.
and Jrn Berget Stuart Fysh EVP & Managing Director EVP & Managing Director Key activities Principal supplier to the Egyptian and Tunisian Key activities domestic markets.
Exploration acreage and discovered reserves are also Growing E&P business in India and interests in two located in Algeria, Israel and areas of Palestinian gas distribution companies, Gujarat Gas in Gujarat, Authority, Libya, Madagascar and Nigeria.
and Mahanagar Gas in Mumbai.
LNG exports from Egyptian LNG.
Power generation activities in Malaysia and the Philippines together with gas and condensate Long-term contracted supplies from Nigeria and production in Thailand.
Equatorial Guinea starting in 2007 managed as part of BG Groups global LNG supply portfolio.
Acquired acreage with existing discoveries in Oman and exploration acreage in China during 2006.
Jointly developing a four train LNG project at OKLNG, Nigeria.
b A new Asia Pacific region was established in 2006 and an Executive Vice President to lead this region will be appointed.
In the meantime it is being managed by William Friedrich and Jrn Berget.
