OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW MARKETS IAN CUMMINE Cattles operates in three UK markets: Chief Operating Officer non-standard consumer finance, debt recovery and invoice nancing.
Welcome Financial Services, which accounts for some 95% of our revenues, is a leading UK based provider of instalment credit and other financial services to consumers with non-standard credit proles.
The Lewis Group is a leading debt recovery and investigation business.
Cattles Invoice Finance provides working capital finance for small and medium sized businesses.
NON-STANDARD CONSUMER FINANCE Direct repayment Borrowers with non-standard credit proles are individuals who may not have access to mainstream lending typically due to perceived shortcomings in their employment, residency or credit histories.
We provide customers with an opportunity to build or repair their credit prole.
Our products consist primarily of unsecured personal loans, hire purchase loans for cars, and secured loans.
The sums involved are relatively modest: typical advances are 1,900 for unsecured loans, 6,200 for car hire purchase loans, and 8,700 for secured loans.
Repayments are mainly collected monthly by direct debit, and we have over 400,000 direct repayment customers.
Outstanding loans of this type at the end of 2006 totalled Fig 1 UK ADULT POPULATION over 2 billion, before allowance for loan DEMOGRAPHICS m loss provisions, accounting for over 94% of AB Upper middle and Welcomes loan book.
4.3 middle class C1 Lower middle class 12.5 Our direct repayment customers are C2D Skilled working and working class primarily in socio-economic groups C and E Lowest subsistence 17.8 D, which make up some 65% of the UK adult population.
But our market 13.4 also includes people in the higher categories who may have irregular earnings patterns or need to repair their credit history.
Fig 2 Datamonitor believes the total potential NON-STANDARD POPULATION market for non-standard consumer finance FORECASTS 000s is around 9.1 million people and is predicted 9,419 to remain stable in the medium-term.
9,328 9,252 9,165 9,101 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Source: Datamonitor 2006 16 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 We see significant opportunities for further New entrants also need the expertise and growth in the non-standard consumer resources to deal with customers face-to-face finance market.
Datamonitor forecasts that through a well-developed multi-branch borrowings in the UK consumer finance infrastructure.
Against the trend in financial market will grow at an average of 4.5% a services, we have continued to invest in our year until 2010.
Our market share has branch network in recent years.
We see our increased and we expect to gain further local branch presence as a significant share through our enhanced systems, strength, and have made it a central part of training and product development aided the way we manage both customer by mainstream lenders continuing to move relationships and risk.
away from this sector to concentrate on borrowers in the higher socio-economic Our national network of 236 local groups with stronger credit proles.
community branches is fundamentally important to the way we build our customer Our accumulated knowledge of customer We are one of the leading players in the UK relationships.
Our branches employ local behaviour in our sector enables us to in the non-standard consumer finance sector people with good communication skills, identify profitable lending opportunities.
and our principal competition comes from who understand local conditions and help specialist subsidiaries of major banks.
The us to engage in the local community.
financial needs of our target market are not well served by the high street banks, who Once a direct repayment loan has been nd it difficult to lend economically to advanced by one of our three central borrowers with non-standard credit proles.
processing units, most customers are Our potential market continues to grow as contacted by a local Customer Account mainstream banks and their subsidiaries Manager from their nearest branch to begin progressively tighten their lending criteria in establishing a close working relationship.
this area, for example by restricting lending Maintaining these relationships is a key part to tenants.
of our arrears management strategy and is the major role of our branch staff.
Tightening economic conditions and rising interest rates in 2006 resulted in an increase Home collected in arrears, bad debts, personal bankruptcies The home collected market is in long-term and individual voluntary arrangements decline.
We still rank second in this market, in the UK market.
This has added further but our accounts are reducing in number as impetus to the mainstream lenders we continue to disengage from customers withdrawal from unsecured products that we consider uneconomic to serve.
Because our Around 6% of our consumer credit assessment processes are designed to ensure receivables consist of home collected loans that customers repayment commitments to some 307,000 customers.
The typical are manageable and that they are not advances for these are small, at around over-committed, the industry trend in rising 300, and repayments are collected weekly arrears has been minimal for Welcome.
Our outstanding home collected loans totalled 114 million at the Unsecured lending, our main activity, is a end of 2006. challenging business.
New entrants come into the market from time to time, Regulation particularly during credit boom periods Government regularly reviews regulation We see significant opportunities when the prime lenders soften their lending and legislation to ensure a robust and fair criteria to extend into the non-standard end lending environment, and regulation has for growth in the non-standard of the market.
But there are significant signicantly increased in recent years.
We barriers to maintaining a successful presence This environment favours responsible, well expect to gain further market share in this market.
One is the need to build a managed businesses, and we welcome the through our enhanced systems, substantial knowledge base: while credit reassurance that it provides to customers training and product development history data is available from credit and investors alike.
Our own corporate reference agencies, it is our accumulated values require us to be a responsible lender knowledge of customer behaviour in this and we have always seen treating customers sector that enables us to identify profitable fairly and responsibly as an essential part We provide customers with lending opportunities and screen loan of managing risks.
an opportunity to build or applications.
This proprietary knowledge repair their credit prole is difficult to accumulate quickly.
17 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Our consumer credit businesses are licensed We are one of the top three players in under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
To the purchased debt market.
We helped to maintain high standards of integrity and establish the market in the UK, with a honesty among lenders, all providers of ground-breaking transaction in early 1998, consumer credit must have a licence of and now have an estimated market share of tness to trade from the Office of Fair over 10%.
The market is growing strongly Trading, which they must renew every five an estimated 3.8 billion of face value debt years.
This legislation has been under review was sold in 2006, with many lenders now and its replacement, the Consumer Credit nding outright sale of debt more attractive Act 2006, received final enactment in April than recovery on commission.
This is 2006: but some parts of this will not be in helping us to grow as we capitalise on our place until April 2008. strong market position.
Our 2006 debt purchases totalled 69 million, more than Our sale of mortgages and general insurance double the 32 million we spent in 2005. products are regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
There are substantial barriers to entering the purchased debt market, not least the need We are an active member of various to make large upfront capital payments.
trade associations including the But the strong growth in the marketplace Consumer Credit Association, the in recent years is attracting some new Consumer Credit Trade Association players.
As a result, prices paid for debt and the Finance & Leasing Association.
rose in 2005 although this rise moderated somewhat in 2006.
DEBT RECOVERY The Lewis Group is a UK leader in debt INVOICE FINANCE recovery and investigation services, serving Cattles Invoice Finance provides working both external clients and Welcome.
Its capital finance to small and medium sized The Lewis Group is one of the top three external clients are mainly large issuers businesses throughout the UK.
It has players in the UK purchased debt market, of credit cards and unsecured loans a broadly spread portfolio, specialising a market which is growing strongly.
as well as both central and local in young or fast growth businesses and government departments, insurance turnarounds.
As in Welcome, we manage companies, catalogue retailers, utilities, risk through rigorous underwriting telecommunications businesses and processes and by maintaining exceptionally educational institutions.
We have a close personal contact with clients.
reputation for quality and ethical collection practices: and we belong to the Credit There are around 75 companies operating Services Association and adhere to its in the UK market and consolidation appears code of conduct.
This provides comfort to to be under way.
The largest players are the blue-chip clients concerned to manage UK clearing banks, as well as a number risk to their own reputations.
of big-ticket lenders and overseas banks.
Cattles Invoice Finance is one of a number Around two thirds of Lewiss revenue comes of national independents and there are also from portfolios of non-performing debts.
a large number of smaller regional players.
It purchases these from credit providers, at a discount to their face value, and then There are currently some 3.7 million small recovers outstanding amounts.
The balance and medium sized enterprises in the UK.
of its business comes from recovering Of these, about 43,000 are currently debts for clients on a commission basis using invoice finance but we believe and supplying investigation services, there is a potential market of some such as customer care visits for insurance 250,000 businesses.
companies and arrears and pre-litigation visits for creditors.
Lewis operates one of the largest self-employed eld collection teams in its sector.
18 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES At present only about one in 10 customer In July 2006, The Lewis Group purchased Group strategy applications to Welcome results in a loan an unsecured debt portfolio of 52.2 million As outlined in the Chief Executives Review, being advanced.
In part this reects our from a third party credit provider for our group strategy continues to focus on highly selective, risk managed approach.
In December 2006, we also profitably expanding our consumer credit But speed of response is also a factor.
Many acquired a large portfolio of UK credit activities, underpinned by a policy of customers need an advance quickly, so apply card receivables under an agreement which responsible and compliant lending while to several providers and accept the first offer involves purchasing further smaller tranches maintaining stable credit quality.
Without softening our selection of similar debt each month during the are now also looking to expand our debt criteria, we have increased the proportion next three years.
The total investment recovery and invoice nancing businesses of successful applications by making and under this one agreement is expected to so that they generate an increasing communicating decisions faster, and making be around 65 million.
contribution to group revenue and profits.
Buying larger portfolios demands even We are developing a core culture shared Our new information technology and greater skill in valuing debt.
We continue to by all parts of the business under the customer relationship management systems, increase the size of our valuation team and banner of Accelerating Growth.
We want known as Phoenix and launched in 2006, are investing in enhanced software to apply to involve and energise all our people in the have supported greater throughput and our proprietary debt valuation methodology.
development of the group while enhancing faster turnround of applications.
We are This should help us to maintain rigorous the quality of customer service.
also establishing new delivery channels, risk management, protect margins if which will extend the options for acquiring prices rise, and maximise the competitive Welcome Financial Services and servicing our customers.
Recent changes advantage that our accumulated debt We aim to maintain our established pattern to our telephony systems now support more valuation data gives us over newer of sustained profit growth and stable credit efficient distribution of calls, enhancing market entrants.
quality based on responsible lending.
customer contact and response rates.
We remain committed to serving local We are developing additional customer The Lewis Group operates from three communities, sustaining close relationships service teams to visit applicants who offices Cleckheaton, Glasgow and Belfast with our customers through an extensive prefer to meet in their own home.
which provide national coverage for debt UK network of branches, while managing collection, including doorstep collection and risk through central underwriting and Fair play is key to the quality of our investigations.
There are no plans to open increasingly sophisticated customer customer relationships and to our further locations.
We continue to embed the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly principles Cattles Invoice Finance We have successfully evolved our consumer throughout the business by building on We aim to continue developing Cattles credit division from its historic roots in our existing customer service culture.
If Invoice Finance, primarily through organic home collected credit to a strong focus customers experience problems with us, growth from its six existing operating on non-standard direct repayment lending.
we aim to resolve them quickly and learn centres in Glasgow, Manchester, Leeds, Many mainstream lenders have tightened from the experience.
We encourage feedback Birmingham, Oxford and Maidstone, their underwriting criteria in unsecured and questions to our customer relations which are sufficient to achieve broad lending, in favour of secured products.
We department, and track customer coverage of key regional business have benefited from this, without changing satisfaction by independently surveying centres in the UK.
our underwriting and customer selection over 500 randomly selected customers criteria or our policy of not making large each month, by telephone.
In recent years Cattles Invoice Finance has unsecured loan advances.
We aim to have built an excellent reputation, supported by the exibility in our people, products and The Lewis Group industry awards and positive trade press processes to make the best of prevailing We are aiming for sustained growth in coverage, and consistently outperformed the market conditions.
As the debt recovery market.
We believe it will continue to gain market continues to shift from traditional market share while retaining its strong risk In 2006 we passed two important commission based collections to debt management controls and culture.
milestones in our direct repayment business: purchase, we plan to maintain and we took the total number of customers past grow our share of both.
As the sector has begun to consolidate, 400,000 and grew the loan book to over we will consider acquisitions to increase 2 billion before loan loss provisions.
This will involve increased investment the pace of expansion.
Most single To maintain growth we will continue portfolios coming to market now realise to develop our processes for customer prices estimated to be in the 0.5 million to acquisition and retention.
New technology 1.0 million range: but we are well placed enables us to approve loans more efficiently to bid on much larger ones and are likely and is already enhancing customers to focus our future efforts on longer-term experience of Welcome and making it forward ow deals.
easier for brokers and dealers to promote our products.
19 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED KEY RESOURCES As the regulated entity within the group, We have a clearly articulated equal The principal resources which support the Welcome has embraced the FSAs Treating opportunities policy and encourage successful delivery of the groups strategies Customers Fairly initiative.
We apply its diversity wherever appropriate.
Our are as follows: principles in our business dealings, have workforce tends to reect the local made it a formal part of our training environment and community wherever PEOPLE and are embedding it in our we work, and we provide diversity training Our people are essential to realising remuneration policies.
during induction and in our management our ambitions.
We rely on their development programmes.
skills, commitment and above all Leadership, training and development understanding of our markets and individual We are putting increasing weight behind Staff retention and motivation customers.
We support them by fostering leadership and management development.
The better we can retain and motivate our a positive and ethical culture, providing In 2006 we set up a Management Academy staff, the more efficiently we can operate.
effective leadership, training and to help our most promising people to Not least because many of our core skills development, and recognising and develop the leadership, management in arrears management, for example are rewarding them appropriately.
Our research and behavioural skills we need to lead in short supply.
We have been working hard confirms that our people are increasingly the business in the future.
to involve and engage our people with our engaged and committed to the success business goals, and give them attractive of the business.
We aim to move people more frequently working conditions and career paths.
between different aspects of the businesses Values and culture to develop a management team with We aim to provide appropriate total reward We are respectful of people, both our broader experience of the whole group.
And packages of salary and benets.
To support employees and our customers.
We want we are also bringing in talent from outside staff retention and enable people to share in the way we treat them to differentiate us to increase our exposure to fresh ideas, best our success we have an employee Sharesave positively from competitors and earn us practice, innovation and creativity.
A great scheme and also award free shares based on good standing with those who shape our advantage of our continuing expansion is a pre-qualifying period of service.
In 2006 regulatory and business environment.
that we can do this while maintaining a we were short-listed for Employee Rewards strong programme of internal development & Benets magazines most effective We believe it is possible to have a culture and promotion: in 2006, over 150 of our overall remuneration strategy award.
that is both performance oriented and people were promoted from one grade to customer sensitive.
We seek ways to support another, and another 300 were promoted There are clear indications that this work our customers through maintaining an within their existing grade.
In the past year our annual extensive local presence: we see this as the staff turnover has improved by over a fifth best way to ensure strong and sustainable We continue to invest in training at all and the response rate to our annual Speak growth in a range of economic conditions.
levels, particularly for customer facing Up staff survey has grown to 84%.
employees, to ensure that our people have The 2006 survey recorded good In 2006 we launched our Accelerating the skills they need to meet regulatory improvement in employees perceptions Growth programme to embed these values requirements, deliver our strategies and of the groups financial strength, culture and principles more deeply across the develop their careers.
In 2005 the sale of and way of working, professionalism and business.
Initially developed across the insurance products and mortgages became internal communication.
It also reects the Welcome Financial Services businesses, FSA regulated.
We introduced new training major progress achieved in recent years it is being rolled-out across other parts programmes to enable compliance by the group and its employees in helping of the group in 2007 reinforcing the with the FSAs requirements and with local communities and caring about the convergence of standards, culture and further regulatory changes in 2006. environment.
Key findings were that 87% behaviours among all the group businesses.
of employees said they believed they We see the Investors in People IiP standard worked for a good employer, 80% were We have appointed Accelerating Growth as a good third party measure of our proud to work for us, and 94% felt they Champions in each company to promote performance.
We first attained accreditation make a valuable contribution to the our strategies for customers, people and in 1997 and obtained the higher level IiP companys success.
profit, and the positive, pioneering and Prole standard in Welcome Finance in professional ways in which we aim to 2005 and Shopacheck in 2006.
Some 4,200 of our 4,900 Car Finance is currently working towards people are already involved.
The programme accreditation and The Lewis Group and draws on extensive consultation from Cattles Invoice Finance will start in 2007. across the business: rather than imposing The Lewis Group was the first company new values, it aims to refresh and invigorate in the debt collection industry to attain the values we already uphold.
the Quality Management accreditation ISO 9001, which it still maintains.
20 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 Were performance oriented.
We manage risks successfully by knowing our customers personally.
Were committed to training and developing our staff and providing leadership and motivation.
By investing in our people, and in our culture and values programmes, we are building a workforce thats increasingly loyal, engaged and focused on success.
And thats something we can all take pride in.
21 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 Information technology is core to our business and we continually invest in enhancing our systems and processes.
This year were benefiting from a new system that supports customer selection and underwriting in our consumer credit business.
It reduces risk by matching products and rates to customers more accurately.
And by improving the speed of response times and linking us more closely to introducers, it will also help us grow.
Its proving that careful investment in robust systems delivers excellent returns and lower risk.
22 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED PARTNERS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES 2006 was the result of several years The centralisation of our risk AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT careful planning and preparation.
RELATIONSHIPS This new system supports our customer management and underwriting A significant factor in the consumer selection and underwriting, enabling us processes enables us to give credit divisions sustained growth is the to match products and rates to customer an exceptionally high quality relationships we have built with our proles faster and more accurately.
of service to our introducers external distribution channels.
These are As potential customers often apply to mainly brokers and car dealerships who several lenders at once, speed of response refer their customers to us.
One reason is a critical competitive advantage.
we centralised our risk management and underwriting processes was to ensure that In 2007 further information technology we can give an exceptionally high quality of developments will enable introducers to service to these introducers.
They recognise link electronically into our systems, which our commitment to them and this market, will make for closer and more efficient which provides a sound basis for long-term relationships.
This technology is already relationships and trust.
The introduction being used for unsecured lending through of our new information technology and several of our larger brokers and will be customer relationship management systems extended to smaller introducers and car in 2006 is enabling us to develop improved dealers in 2007. access for them, so that they can obtain faster responses for their customers.
Further renements in our technology will be focused on improving the Progress continues to be made in our conversion ratio of loan applications partnership with Alliance & Leicester, and customer retention.
under which we manage applications for their secured personal loan product, In The Lewis Group we have recently with the option for Welcome to underwrite upgraded the information technology applications that do not meet Alliance & systems that apply our proprietary debt Leicesters own lending criteria.
We are also so far have been small as Alliance & developing a new management information Leicester gains experience in marketing system that will enable us to manage our this product and we rene the sales collection strategies better.
A number of launched LIS Online, giving investigation enhancements are planned during 2007, clients real-time access to our systems to build on the current performance.
to refer jobs and download results.
The Lewis Group has a number of large Cattles Invoice Finance went live with clients in the public and the private sector.
an industry leading customer relationship We sustain our relationships with these management system in 2006.
This will large blue-chip organisations by delivering increase business levels from introducers excellent service and taking care to ensure and help us manage the sales process better.
that our approach does not put their reputation, or ours, at risk.
Across the group we are upgrading and converging our telecommunications as Virtually all Cattles Invoices Finances part of the process of integrating all business comes through introducers, parts of the business more closely.
such as banks and accountancy rms.
We are aiming to grow relationships with larger institutions as an outsourced provider.
In 2007 we plan to appoint a corporate partnerships director to IAN CUMMINE pursue partnership opportunities.
Chief Operating Officer 15 March 2007 SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES The completion of project Phoenix provides a robust platform for continued growth in our consumer lending business.
Its successful development and implementation on schedule during 23 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2006
