Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 7 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Overview Our core strategy is to develop a diversified group of specialist businesses in order to provide for our shareholders, over time, consistent growth in profit and dividends.
Close Brothers is a diversified financial Our diversity, specialisation and focus Our business approach is to limit our services group with four divisions asset on high margin business provide the bases central functions to those that are best management, corporate finance, securities for consistent growth with attractive returns provided on a group wide basis by: and banking.
Our core strategy is to on capital and operating margins.
These  ensuring that management teams develop a diversified group of specialist are therefore important ratios with which to throughout the group have clear businesses in order to provide for our measure the success of our strategy and strategies and responsibilities shareholders, over time, consistent growth the quality of stewardship of our  monitoring carefully the business plans in profit and dividends.
and performance of each division priorities are to consolidate and build upon  initiating vigorous action, where the growth in our asset management The spread of the groups income reflects appropriate, to ensure that group division and to return the banking divisions the diversity of its activities.
targets are met growth rate to its long term trend.
 maintaining rigorous oversight of the 04 05 06 % % % risk management processes operated The groups operations are predominantly Net interest income 33 32 27 in each division and operating business in the UK, but an increasing amount of Net fee income 40 43 47  assessing all acquisition opportunities.
profit 16% came from operations outside Net dealing income 25 21 23 the UK.
Whilst we see many opportunities Other income 2 4 3 The group remained well capitalised and for continuing growth in all four divisions in 100 100 100 soundly financed.
The consolidated Tier 1 the UK, we are looking increasingly at risk asset ratio remained comfortably high growth potential overseas, particularly We also attach great importance to careful at 17% 2005: 17%.
We target an expense income ratio in respect of each division.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs used The overall group ratio increased marginally in managing the group are shown below as we continue the planned expansion of with a brief commentary on each.
These our asset management division.
Our and other metrics are also used in each of largest expense item relates to our people our operating divisions.
Given the and we seek to maintain our compensation differentiated activity of our businesses ratio broadly within a range of 40% to 45%.
there are significant variations in these KPIs There is a relatively high variable element in between divisions so the blended rate employee compensation in most of our reported at the group level will be non-banking businesses, where total influenced by our earnings mix.
remuneration is typically proportional to profit earned.
04 05 06 % % % Return on opening capital 24 24 27 Our central costs increased by 2 million to Operating margin 30 29 29 20 million, partly as a result of empty Expense income ratio 65 67 67 property provisions.
Compensation ratio 41 43 43 1 2 10 year CAGR profit 14 14 13 1 10 year CAGR dividends 14 13 13 1 Compound Annual Growth Rate.
2 Profit before goodwill and taxation.
8 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Asset Management Our asset management division had another year of further profit growth.
Funds under management grew by 16% to 8.2 billion.
Our asset management division has two Funds under management FuM grew Asset Management profit million main areas of focus, private clients and by 16% to 8.2 billion as shown in the 38 funds.
32 Private clients Funds Total Our private client business, Close Wealth m m m Management Group, offers a full range of 31st July, 2005 2,478 4,579 7,057 services for private clients both on and off New funds raised 388 945 1,333 shore.
Our funds side includes a thriving Redemptions and 17 16 private equity and VCT business, and withdrawals 293 593 886 Close Investments, where we provide a Net new funds 95 352 447 8 broad range of open and closed ended Acquisition 419 419 investment products for retail and Market movement 111 177 288 02 03 04 05 06 institutional investors.
These include 31st July, 2006 2,684 5,527 8,211 property, hedge fund and multi-manager products as well as more traditional The pleasing level of new funds raised was investment funds.
offset somewhat by maturing funds and withdrawals.
A key feature of this was our The market background for our asset decision to crystallise the excellent management division was favourable for performance of certain of our property most of our 2006 financial year.
the final quarter however these benign conditions were overshadowed by market The FuM by asset class chart shows the concerns about inflation, rising interest key sectors in which our funds are invested rates and the prospect of economic and it demonstrates a broad spread, with slowdown in the US and the UK.
The UK less direct exposure to equity markets than FTSE All-Share Index ended our financial for many other fund managers.
Against this backdrop the division had another year of further profit growth.
05 06 m m Income 119 140 Costs 87 102 Profit 32 38 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 9 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS KPls for our asset management division were: On the funds side we are also moving to FuM by asset class 31st July, 2006 harness our resources more effectively.
05 06 % % Here we are bringing together our 2005 in brackets Operating margin 27 27 collectives businesses under the name Expense income ratio 73 73 Close Investments in order to improve Compensation ratio 44 46 sales performance, product design and Net new money opening FuM 6.7 6.3 distribution.
We also anticipate that bringing together the back office aspects An underlying improvement in our of these businesses will, over time, lead expense income ratio has been offset by to a more efficient and scaleable one-off costs, particularly investments in administration operation.
our private client business, reorganisation of our funds business and a consequent Fund manager performance across our move to new premises.
activities in the period has been satisfactory.
A particular highlight was the Our private client business produced good performance of our VCT funds.
We profit growth offshore, where the benefits launched several successful new products, Equities 42% 43% of systems integration and investment in such as the 144 million Close AllBlue Fixed income and cash 17% 18% business development are beginning to be Fund, a single manager multi-strategy seen.
Onshore, good progress is being hedge fund, and we continued to attract Property 16% 18% made.
We have significantly increased our funds to our existing range, including the team of fund managers, which will add 53 million D share issue for the CHIP Private equity 11% 14% momentum to the development of this property fund.
Inevitably their impact will take Hedge funds 7% 2% some time to be felt and in the short term Our private equity business performed we expect this to restrict profit growth in strongly, benefiting from some good Other FuM 7% 5% this area.
In the next few months our realisations during the year.
We are private client businesses will combine encouraged that we are continuing to find under the name Close Wealth attractive investment opportunities and we Management Group.
expect this business to continue to perform well.
10 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Corporate Finance Corporate Finance profit Our corporate finance division surpassed Our restructuring group maintained its million expectations this year, recording a 44% activity levels and gained awards for both 17 increase in revenues and a 67% increase global and European restructuring work in profit.
advising Parmalat on its 21 billion restructuring.
We are currently engaged on 05 06 m m a number of interesting assignments, 10 10 Income 42 61 including the 6.5 billion restructuring of Costs 32 44 Eurotunnel.
Profit 10 17 5 The debt advisory team has been The year was marked by buoyant mergers particularly active.
It completed its largest 2 and acquisitions M&A revenues in all our ever assignment, the 1 billion refinancing 02 03 04 05 06 02 03 04 05 06 offices and particularly strong growth in our of Enterprise Inns.
As a result, our earnings mix shifted somewhat away from KPIs for our corporate finance division were: restructuring work, as shown by the 05 06 accompanying chart.
% % Corporate Finance practice areas Operating margin 24 28 Year to 31st July, 2006 One of the highlights of the year for our Expense income ratio 76 72 2005 in brackets M&A practice was the secondary buy-out Compensation ratio 55 56 of ERM Holdings for $535 million.
This was the largest professional services buy-out to Whilst revenues grew significantly this have taken place in the UK, providing a year, expenses continued to be tightly highly satisfactory outcome for its private controlled, which resulted in an equity backers.
Another was Wagons 128 improvement in our expense income ratio.
million acquisition of Oxford Automotive to form one of Europes leading automotive During the year we implemented some components suppliers.
We also won planned management changes with Acquisitions Monthlys award for the M&A Richard Grainger assuming the role of domestic deal of the year for our role in the executive chairman of the division and sale of a 200 million shareholding in Gala Martin Gudgeon becoming chief executive Group, the gaming business.
We also made selective acted for Duke Street Capital on the sale of recruitments at director level to broaden Mergers and Acquisitions 69% 65% its specialist healthcare investment, our sector expertise.
Paragon Healthcare, to Hg Capital, for Restructuring 18% 25% 322 million.
These transactions illustrate M&A activity amongst corporates and clearly the substantial impact that private private equity sponsors across Europe has Debt Advisory 13% 10% equity firms have had upon deal volumes in held up for the start of the new financial the M&A market in which we operate.
year and we have good prospects in the pipeline across all our practice areas.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 11 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Securities Securities profit This division has two trading companies, Winterfloods expense income and million Winterflood Securities Winterflood and compensation ratios also held steady at 48 Close Brothers Seydler CBS.
is the leading liquidity provider in UK 38 36 Winterflood is transacting an increasing equities to the retail stock broking number of bargains on the new community and it makes markets in more quote-driven Plus Markets platform, which UK stocks than any other London based 24 delivers competitive costs of execution for market-maker.
CBS is a major Frankfurt 17 larger bargains in smaller less liquid based broker dealer in domestic German securities.
Early in the year we supported a and international bonds and equities.
It is fundraising by Plus Markets Group plc in also the leading designated sponsor of which we now have a shareholding of 19%.
02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 CBS has had an exceptionally good year, Market conditions for both these its first as a member of our group.
It makes businesses were generally favourable.
On markets in some 2,000 stocks and bonds turnover of 134 million the division made a in Frankfurt where it acts as skontrofhrer profit of 48 million, up 34% on last year.
It is also the Whilst Winterflood and CBS operate in leading designated sponsor in Frankfurt different markets, they have many elements with some 130 corporate mandates.
However, as CBS is new to the a contractual fee-based relationship and group, we believe that for this year it is the role of the designated sponsor is to more helpful to review them separately.
In promote liquidity in that particular stock.
future years we will review the division as a 05 06 whole.
m m Income 5 30 Winterflood performed well with bargain Costs 4 21 numbers up 25% in a market where Profit 1 9 transaction volumes moved forward KPIs for CBS were: strongly.
However, as a higher number of our bargains were executed on the lower 05 06 % % margin LSEs SETSmm platform, the Operating margin 25 30 increase in our overall income was 13%.
Expense income ratio 75 70 Our investment trust team was active and Compensation ratio 38 33 had a good year.
Our key operating margin held firm at 37%.
German equity markets have followed a 05 06 broadly similar pattern to those in the UK m m with activity levels being up on last year.
Income 93 104 CBS has benefited from this with revenue Costs 58 65 and profit well ahead of last year, although Profit 35 39 last years contribution was for three months only.
12 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Banking The quality of earnings in our banking division is evidenced by consistent profit growth over many years.
Banking profit Our banking division provides specialist We continued to seek business at million lending and treasury services to small attractive margins and achieved, once 74 businesses and individuals in the UK, the again, a strong operating margin of 37% 70 70 Channel Islands, Ireland and Germany.
and a consistent pre-tax return on the 63 gross loan book of 3.8%.
The expense 55 The general market background for these income ratio is slightly up on last year, activities remained satisfactory during although at 53% it remains comfortably our financial year, with the UK economy the lowest in the group.
continuing to grow albeit at modest levels, with interest rates generally stable Bad debts remain well contained and our and with bad debts remaining low.
charge to the profit and loss account expressed as a percentage of average 02 03 04 05 06 Overall we had a better year than expected gross loans remained low at 1.0%.
However some This continues below our long term of our specialist sectors experienced average rate of 1.3%.
The charge to the tough conditions.
profit and loss account was 19 million, 9% of operating income.
05 06 m m Income 185 199 The quality of earnings in our banking Costs 115 125 division is evidenced by consistent profit Profit 70 74 growth over many years, with a compound annual growth rate in pre-tax profit of 10% over the last ten years.
KPIs for our banking division were: 05 06 Our customer loan book remains well % % spread, well secured and well funded.
Operating margin 38 37 Including securitised receivables, it Expense income ratio 52 53 decreased by 77 million during the year Compensation ratio 31 31 to 1.9 billion.
It represented some Return on opening capital 31 30 455,000 separate advances, only nine of Bad debt as percentage which exceeded 5 million, the largest of average loans 1.1 1.0 being 8 million.
Return on average gross loans 3.7 3.8 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 13 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS The principal cause for the modest fall in With good credit ratings from Fitch and Analysis of group loan book by asset security our loan book was the run-off of a motor Moodys maintained, we arranged a number finance book which we acquired last year.
31st July, 2006 of new committed facilities on attractive 2005 in brackets This reduced by 51 million during the year terms.
We have also extended our deposit as planned, and has proved to be a and foreign exchange services and profitable transaction.
increased the longer term deposits, which helped to strengthen our balance sheet.
Elsewhere, insurance premium deflation continued and, as a result, this part of our Across the division there are some loan book fell despite an increase in the interesting new developments afoot.
For number of transactions financed.
This is a example, we have attracted new specialist cyclical market and we believe that the rate teams into our asset finance business and, of deflation in insurance premiums is at the end of our financial year, we slowing, but we are less clear as to when launched Close Mortgages a new the cycle will turn.
specialist mortgage lender initially offering buy-to-let mortgages exclusively through In other areas we experienced good our mortgage broker network.
growth in both loan book and profit.
The Insurance premiums 21% 22% property market remained strong.
Property The UK banking market continues to see Transport, engineering & plant 20% 19% financing achieved record results and our significant pricing pressure in a number of mortgage broking business returned to areas.
Our policy is to seek to maintain Motor vehicles 19% 22% modest profit.
Our invoice financing healthy margins, in some cases at the business forged ahead on the back of expense of volume.
However we do Printing machinery 11% 12% improved sales performance in the UK and anticipate some modest growth in our loan a maiden profit in Germany.
The core of our book next year.
Property 11% 9% equipment financing business continued on its growth path.
Our priority is to return the divisions growth Healthcare and other assets 10% 9% rate to its long term trend.
We remain committed to a conservative Invoice receivables 8% 7% approach to the funding of our loan book.
14 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Finance and Risk Management INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Financial risk is mitigated by the group REPORTING STANDARDS Risk management is the process of having a well established reporting As required under European legislation, the identifying the principal business risks to structure for agreeing strategy, risk consolidated accounts reflect the the group achieving its strategic objectives, appetite, planning and budgets.
Detailed application of International Financial establishing appropriate controls to monthly group management accounts are Reporting Standards IFRS for the first manage those risks and ensuring that produced and variances and trends are time.
Comparative figures have been appropriate monitoring and reporting closely monitored.
Divisional heads report adjusted accordingly.
The groups risk to the group board each month on the management process balances cost performance of, and key issues affecting, As signposted in our last annual report, the against risk within the constraints of the their division.
Detailed budgets and three implementation of IFRS has had a slightly groups risk appetite and is consistent with year plans, which are based upon group adverse, but not material, impact on profit the prudent management required of a strategy, are stress tested to take account before goodwill and taxation principally large financial organisation.
of potential adverse conditions and are as a result of the requirement to expense subject to rigorous testing at divisional and 3 million 2005: 2 million relating to The group is exposed to a wide range board level.
These can be categorised as mainly because of the later recognition of reputational, financial, operational and Operational risk includes credit, market dividends IAS 10, both our consolidated compliance risks and are inherent in and liquidity risks as well as other risks balance sheet footings and our total equity many of our businesses.
Since each of specific to each of our businesses.
our divisions is managed separately and are clear reporting lines and defined areas there is little or no integration of systems, of responsibility at board, divisional and Other main areas of impact include: management or customers, risk business level.
This structure is designed to loan impairment reviews IAS 39 :  management is carried out by the local ensure, amongst other things, that key  restatement of income recognition management of each business.
This is issues and developments are escalated on policies IAS 18 : overseen on a regular basis by senior a timely basis.
 valuation of and accounting for group management supported by group derivative instruments IAS 39 : control and is reviewed by the audit and Credit risk is controlled by a number of  later recognition of proposed or compliance committee which reports local credit committees within centrally declared dividends IAS 10 : to the board.
For transactions  consolidation of the defined benefits above such limits, there is a group credit pension scheme IAS 19 : and The board considers reputational risk to committee.
As a general principle, the  taxation effects of the above be the most significant risk in a business group avoids the risk of multiple exposure adjustments IAS 12. operating in the financial services sector.
to one counterparty, for example, we do Awareness of the importance of the not normally lend to a corporate finance The reconciliation of the 2005 IFRS groups reputation and individual integrity advisory client, nor does one lending comparatives to the UK Generally underpins our control culture.
This risk subsidiary seek to lend to customers of Accepted Accounting Practice figures could crystallise as a result of a failure in another lending subsidiary.
Our loan book reported last year is shown in notes our financial, operational or compliance is also generally well spread, short term, 36 to 40. controls.
secured and with a low average loan size.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2006 15 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Finance and Risk Management Market risk mainly relates to Winterflood Each of our operations is responsible for its Returns from the groups capital and and CBS.
The senior management of each own liquidity within specified guidelines.
reserves are necessarily subject to interest is closely involved in its risk management Each is properly capitalised for its own rate fluctuations and as a matter of policy process, which is also regularly monitored business normally comfortably above the these are not hedged, as reflected in the at group level.
There are controls, regulatory minimum and, where interest rate repricing table shown in supplemented by cash limits, on individual necessary, has appropriate internal or note 24.
The capital position of each large or slow moving equity or fixed income external borrowing facilities.
The liquidity of division is compared to regulatory capital positions.
We also maintain real-time each division is reviewed at its monthly requirements and reported to the controls on the size and risk profile of their board meeting and the groups liquidity is board monthly.
overall trading books and of individual regularly reviewed by its board, assisted books within these.
The groups exposure by treasury.
We have minimal currency exposure, since to market price risk resulting from marketmost of our business is transacted in making is shown in note 28.
Our treasury operations do not trade sterling.
Non-sterling financing is funded by actively in money market instruments liabilities in the relevant currency or Our asset management division has a since these are normally held to maturity.
swapped into sterling to hedge currency range of controls to support the quality Nor do we trade speculatively in derivatives exposure.
Most of the groups activities are of the investment process, including asset as a principal.
The credit quality of our located in the British Isles.
Since currency allocation and investment committees, counterparties with whom we place exposure resulting from our investment in in which its senior central management deposits or whose certificates of deposit or overseas subsidiaries, although increased, participates where appropriate.
These floating rate notes we buy are monitored by is currently relatively small, the extent to are backed up by rigorous controls to the treasury committee which establishes which the groups profit and consolidated safeguard clients stock and money and specific limits.
Interest rate mismatch, balance sheet is affected by movements in regular reviews of investment performance.
liquidity and currency exposure policies are exchange rates is minimal.
established by the treasury committee with Apart from the operational risk inherent compliance thereof being monitored daily.
We have a central internal audit unit which in any advisory business, our corporate periodically examines the quality of the risk finance division is exposed principally to We continue to be able to finance our management, compliance and internal reputational and underwriting risks.
These customer loans and advances by capital control procedures operating throughout are controlled and monitored by the risk and reserves, longer term deposits and the group.
The frequency of examination committee in which senior management of committed facilities.
At the year end the depends upon the perceived risk and both corporate finance and group banks committed facilities amounted to prevailing issues within each operation.
Underwriting risk is decided over 1.7 billion, of which 1.0 billion was The internal audit unit is part of our central upon and monitored by a specific drawn.
We continue our long established group control unit which reports to the committee of the bank, which includes policy of broadly matching interest rate audit and compliance committee and has group directors who are not directly liabilities whereby we swap variable rate unrestricted and direct access to the involved in corporate finance.
financing into fixed rate, particularly in chairman of the board.
regard to our asset financing book.
The groups funding position is reported to Our separate businesses have their own the board each month.
financial control departments and, where regulated, their own compliance functions.
