Operating & Financial Review Review of Operations Our UK and Ireland retail insurance broking businesses Risk & Insurance operate in two distinct areas: Turnover for continuing operations grew by 2% to 379.2 million or 6% at constant rates of exchange.
Trading profit was General corporate and industry focus, providing a 61.4 million compared to 64.7 million in 2005, which gave a comprehensive service to a wide variety of mid-sized trading margin of 16%, or 19% at constant rates of exchange, companies through a network of offices in the UK and compared to 17% for 2005.
Profit before tax was 79.4 million, Ireland.
Specialist schemes and affinity businesses offer services Trading conditions remained very challenging for all of the across diverse markets, ranging from local government and Groups Risk & Insurance businesses.
Insurance market social housing to the leisure and veterinary care industries.
premium rates remained very competitive in all sectors Most divisions in this business area performed well in 2006, other than those relating directly to US catastrophe exposures.
although insurance rate reductions had a negative impact, There also continued to be downward pressure on fees as particularly on our London Market, Leisure and Irish competitors endeavoured to try to retain or win market share operations, where income is predominantly commission by reducing their fees.
In addition to the challenging insurance markets, Incentive commissions PSAs received during 2006 reduced there is fierce competition on fees in the corporate arena as further from 4.9 million in 2005 to 2.3 million in 2006 and now competitors seek to retain or win new business.
represent less than 1% of the Groups 2006 revenue.
During 2006, we finalised the conversion of our corporate JLT's Risk & Insurance operations can be viewed in two groups brokerage based turnover into fee-based remuneration in - our predominantly retail operations in the UK and overseas order to counter the effects of the competitive insurance and our specialist Risk & Insurance businesses which are largely market.
The specialist schemes and affinity businesses, which London Market based.
are predominantly brokerage based, again performed well.
These schemes occupy attractive market positions and have robust defensive characteristics whilst at the same time continuing to offer significant opportunities for growth.
As mentioned last year, a review of our UK retail business and Risk Solutions was expected to result in a merged operation.
In effect, it was decided to retain the separate teams with each concentrating on its own well-defined business area.
Retail - UK & Overseas The retail operations in the UK and overseas performed well with turnover of 176.3 million, being 4% over 2005 producing a trading margin of 21%, up from 20% in the prior year.
UK Retail Operating from eight offices in the UK and two in Ireland our As a result certain London based business was transferred corporate risks, specialist schemes and affinity businesses from Risk Solutions to our UK retail business.
Bolstered by good new business wins, which totalled almost 6 million, this We are currently planning a restructuring of the resulting operations into two divisions, advisory and non-advisory.
represented a 5% increase over the previous year and was achieved against the backdrop of very competitive insurance This will be accompanied by a name change from JLT Corporate Risks Ltd to Jardine Lloyd Thompson UK Limited markets where premium rates continued to decline significantly.
The trading margin was maintained at 19%.
and is expected to be finalised shortly.
12 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 In 2007 we will continue to drive our growth through our Australasia existing core competencies in Australasia.
Australia and New Zealand achieved an extremely creditable result despite deteriorating soft market conditions and fierce Asia competition among brokers.
Revenues were maintained in local In Asia, the Group employs some 600 people in 15 offices currency although turnover in sterling declined 2% to 59.8 across 12 geographic territories.
With the exception of the million and the excellent trading margin of 26% was treaty reinsurance account, which is part of the Groups global maintained.
reinsurance practice, the operations handle a blend of retail Our Australasian businesses are today a very substantial part insurance and risk management, wholesale facultative of the Group with some 800 staff, 18 offices in Australia and 4 reinsurance and employee benefits business.
offices in New Zealand, and together they generated about a Much of the business is focused on industry segments quarter of the Groups underlying trading profit.
including energy & power, marine & aviation, construction, Risk Services exited the Victorian Workers Compensation property, financial institutions, communications & technology, claims management scheme from 1st January which resulted hospitality, retail, education and industrial manufacturing.
in a loss of revenue in excess of 2 million.
Despite this deficit, In 2006, JLT Asias turnover increased 7% to 31.3 million Risk Services maintained its profitability in 2006 and excellent with a trading margin of 20%, marginally ahead of 2005. revenue growth was achieved by Western Australia, South Australia and Victoria.
Particularly strong turnover growth occurred in Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia supported by robust new client wins.
The retail segment recorded growth in revenue with an increased profit growth in excess of 4%.
Professional executive lines and natural resources and construction produced In June our 51% owned subsidiary company in China, excellent revenue and bottom line growth.
The other JLT Lixin, received a national insurance and reinsurance specialisms maintained their profitability despite tough trading broking license and commenced trading.
headquartered in Guangzhou in Southern China and will expand geographically to meet our overall ambitions in this The New Zealand operations benefited from the full year exciting marketplace.
The operation had more than 30 staff by inclusion of Risk Solutions Limited nine months in 2005, the end of the year and has exceeded our initial expectations in together with excellent revenue growth in their existing terms of financial performance.
This, combined with a vastly improved trading ratio, provided an excellent overall result.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 13 Operating & Financial Review Operating & Financial Review Review of Operations At the end of December we agreed to proceed with an Latin America acquisition in Osaka, Japan that will allow us to diversify our Latin America is a major growth market after China and India Tokyo-based business and enable a stronger focus on the and unlike these markets it has a long and well-established Kansai region including Osaka, Kobe and Kyoto.
Our business spans retail and reinsurance covering Mexico, Colombia, Peru and Brazil, which Insurance rates for most property and casualty lines continued in total have just over 500 people in 17 offices.
to soften across Asia in 2006 and this is likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
To counter the effect of this we have Turnover in the region was 18 million, an increase of 6%, increased our focus on employee benefits in a number of producing a trading margin of 19% compared to 18% in the countries and regionally this business grew by a very prior year.
There were particularly strong performances in encouraging 36% in 2006. reinsurance in Mexico and Colombia and from both insurance and reinsurance in Peru.
Canada Our Latin America business produces a meaningful flow of JLT's Canadian operation increased turnover by 14% to 18.1 business into the wholesale operations of JLT in London.
million while the trading margin recovered to 14% from 7% in Our immediate focus will be to achieve organic growth of our 2005.
This reflects the positive steps taken at the beginning of businesses in the region whilst continuing to strengthen their 2006 to reposition the business.
relationship with the rest of the JLT Group.
JLT has seven offices and more than 200 staff in four of the In terms of outlook for 2007, most lines of business continue to ten Canadian provinces these being in Ontario, Quebec, experience downward pricing pressure with the exception of Alberta and British Columbia.
In addition to general corporate risks exposed to the US and central America catastrophe business, our specialities include natural resources, market.
construction and public sector business.
Highlights of the year included the strong performances by our Continental Europe Associates offices in Alberta which specialise in oil and gas business and The contribution to Group profits from the Group's French our public sector business in Ontario.
associate SIACI was unchanged at 2.5 million.
In February 2007, we announced the merger of SIACI with A particular focus for improvement is the Quebec office where we will continue to look for opportunities to gain critical mass Assurances et Conseils Saint-Honor ACSH to create a major new force in insurance broking and employee benefits in during 2007.
As part of the transaction, JLT will also acquire SIACI's JLT's Canadian operations continue to perform well and this, former subsidiaries in Poland, Italy and Spain.
coupled with JLT's strength in the oil, gas and base metal industries means there are good opportunities to further build Following the merger, JLT will hold a 20% interest in the out our Canadian operations.
combined business and will continue to account for it as an 14 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 associate.
On completion JLT will receive a net cash operations of JLT Risk Solutions were transferred to the contribution of 14.2 million.
This will produce an exceptional management of Lloyd & Partners Limited from the beginning gain of approximately 30 million in the first half of 2007. of 2007.
Excluding the exceptional gain, the transaction is not expected With effect from 1st January 2007, under the reorganisation of to have any appreciable impact on JLT's earnings per share our London Market operations, JLT Risk Solutions Limited was in 2007. merged with Agnew Higgins Pickering & Company Limited to form Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited.
Going into 2007 this London Market specialist businesses combined business employs some 650 staff.
Our London Market businesses recorded turnover of 203 Previously, the Group had stated that the target margin for the million, 1% ahead of prior year but 7% ahead at constant rates Risk Solutions business was 15% to be achieved by the end of of exchange.
The trading margin declined from 15% to 12% 2008.
We are confident that the actions already taken to rewhile at constant rates of exchange the margin would have engineer the business will enable this margin to be achieved by been 16%, 1% ahead of the prior year.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited by 2008 with substantial progress being made in 2007.
Risk Solutions In Risk Solutions, turnover was 1% behind 2005 at 110.2 Agnew Higgins Pickering million, or 3% ahead at constant rates of exchange.
As Agnew Higgins Pickering AHP produced a good result in anticipated at the half year, the trading margin deteriorated 2006, turnover increased by 16% to 19 million, or 23% at further in the second half to provide an overall margin of 8% for constant rates of exchange.
The trading margin was 19% or the full year, or 12% at constant rates of exchange, compared 24% at constant rates of exchange, compared to 20% in 2005. to 10% in 2005.
The construction, power & energy and marine businesses all Throughout the year, the Company continued to concentrate achieved revenue growth.
Bermuda had another challenging on its core areas of expertise and specialism in natural and year, in common with other organisations in the region.
renewable resource insurance, and marine and energy reinsurance.
Most of the 103 employees were located in a During the year, the operating model has been reviewed and single office in London, with 3 people in the Bermuda the cost base rationalised to create a solid platform on which marketing office.
to base planned growth over the coming years.
The operating model is being designed to optimise superior service delivery Much of the oil and gas client portfolio is located in the and operating efficiency.
Gulf of Mexico region and therefore exposed to the risk of catastrophic windstorm loss.
Trading conditions in this sector During the year the aviation business was transferred to have probably been more challenging than at any time since JLT Reinsurance Brokers Limited to form JLT Aerospace, Hurricane Betsy in the mid 60s.
A benign windstorm season operating in the UK and USA.
The Bermudian broking Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 15 Operating & Financial Review Operating & Financial Review Review of Operations following the devastation of Ivan, Katrina and Rita has led to a JLT Re assumed responsibility for offices in London, Singapore, slight easing of trading conditions in the energy sector into Hong Kong and Tokyo.
During the year, we also opened offices 2007 which should produce further opportunities for JLT to in New York and Chicago as well as establishing a presence in differentiate itself from its major competitors.
Today, JLT Re employs over 150 dedicated reinsurance professionals serving Lloyds Syndicates, insurance Reinsurance operations saw significant gains in turnover and reinsurance companies worldwide offering both treaty and resulting from growth both in indigenous business as well as facultative solutions.
from the investment in new people over the last 18 months.
Whilst 2006 has been a transitional year, we have been able The ability of AHP to consolidate and expand relationships with to attract senior market practitioners and have achieved new existing clients remained a core strength and this, coupled with business wins.
meaningful new business wins, helped deliver a positive conclusion to the trading life of AHP as we knew it.
JLT already has a strong market position in marine and aviation reinsurance and both areas performed well.
Non-marine At the beginning of 2007 as part of the London Market reinsurance is the largest sector of the reinsurance market and reorganisation, the insurance operations of AHP were merged JLT is strengthening its capabilities in order to increase its with JLT Risk Solutions Limited to create Jardine Lloyd market share from a position of less than 1%.
Our consultancy Thompson Limited, and the specialist marine & energy team are now generating significant interest as both a value reinsurance operations have become an integral part of added extension to existing and new transactional clients and JLT Reinsurance Brokers Limited.
for its standalone advisory services.
Also, during 2006 the Groups aviation insurance business was brought under the management of JLT Re through the JLT Reinsurance Brokers Limited establishment of JLT Aerospace, a new global brand operating through offices in London, Herndon, Seattle and Miami.
Having recognised the decline in the Groups reinsurance This transfer of responsibility from JLT Risk Solutions and revenues during the period 2002 to 2005, changing JLT LLC was predicated on the historic product knowledge reinsurance buying patterns and the need for greater analytical held within JLT Res senior managers together with the Groups capabilities, it was decided to form JLT Reinsurance Brokers desire to consolidate its two global practices under a single Limited JLT Re with effect from 1st January 2006, through the management team.
JLT Aerospace employs some 85 consolidation of the various reinsurance activities within the professionals, is the fourth largest broker in its class and is the Group.
broker for many of the worlds major airlines.
16 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Overall in 2006, JLT Re had a successful first year achieving Following the London market companies restructure, a turnover of 44.1 million, 2% below a notional 2005 revenue Lloyd & Partners has strengthened its position as an or ahead 5% at constant rates of exchange.
A trading margin international wholesale broker and increasing its reach and of 9% was achieved or 15% at constant rates which was capabilities in Property and Casualty P&C, particularly by the down from 19% in 2006.
This was due primarily to the transfer of specialist teams from Risk Solutions.
Additionally, significant investment in reinsurance staff which is expected to Lloyd & Partners has assumed responsibility for the Bermuda translate into new revenue as we move into 2007 and 2008. insurance broking operations of JLT to complement its strategic goals for the development of P&C wholesale Lloyd & Partners Limited business.
A specialist US marine hull team has also transferred to reinforce the production efforts of our energy In its second full year of trading, Lloyd & Partners continued to team.
Lloyd & Partners is in good health going into 2007. build very successfully on its year one foundation, increasing turnover to 29.7 million, up 6% on 2005, or 15% at constant rates of exchange.
The trading margin was 22%, or 28% at constant rates of exchange, compared to 28% in 2005.
Following the hurricanes of 2005, market conditions were extremely challenging in all classes of business exposed to natural catastrophe in the USA.
In this regard, our offshore energy team which focuses on Gulf of Mexico business and our US property team produced very creditable revenue growth year on year, matched also by the cargo team in its first full year as an expanded operation within Lloyd & Partners.
By the end of 2006 the Company had doubled the gross premiums handled compared to 2005 and grown to some 139 employees, all based in its One America Square, London office.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 Operating & Financial Review Operating & Financial Review Review of Operations Finally, during the course of 2006, we have developed further Employee Benefits our presence in the Self Invested Personal Pension SIPP The Employee Benefits division once again produced a strong market.
We enable clients and their advisors to manage all financial performance.
Turnover increased by 8% to 75.9 aspects of their SSASs and SIPPs and we now offer access to million and trading profit was 13.1 million, up 15% over the a fund supermarket via the web to assist in the management prior year.
The trading margin improved by a further 1% to and investment of assets.
JLT now has 3,000 self invested 17%, a step closer to our long term goal of 20% for this personal pensions under management.
Our core activities of pension actuarial consulting and pension scheme administration both performed well.
The breadth of service offering is underpinned by our overall technical strength in the domain of pensions, our consulting The business is adapting to the evolving market as companies ethos and operational performance discipline.
reduce their use of defined benefit pension schemes and offer alternative pension arrangements to their staff.
The Group is Market review responding by investing to improve operational efficiency and Continuing legislative change particularly in conjunction with developing its activities in product categories provided by A Day and the implementation of Pensions Act reforms was a companies as benefits to their employees.
positive factor for our consulting activity which enjoyed good revenue growth.
2006 was a strong year for new business with Our services important wins including Skipton Building Society, Amphenol, The cornerstone of the range of services JLT UK Employee Cosalt plc and API Group.
Benefits provides is pensions and actuarial consulting and scheme administration to corporate pension schemes.
As employers investigate possible courses of action open to We employ 40 qualified actuaries and over 50 consultants.
them, including the closure of Defined Benefit schemes to new Our administration activity employs over 400 staff and covers entrants or for future accrual, demand for consulting has more than 1.5 million members in 1,500 schemes.
We also offer consulting and administration services for the benefits programmes companies provide directly to their employees, including flexible benefit programmes and we advise on group healthcare and risk coverage schemes.
Our Profund software is used by more than 200 pension funds to support in-house pensions administration and in addition, more than 50 increased around these issues.
The additional obligations on professional pension administration firms operate using this scheme trustees, inter alia, to negotiate robust funding software platform.
arrangements with sponsoring companies, increases the JLT is a major specialist provider of consulting and awareness of possible conflicts and we have therefore formed administration services to life assurance companies and a new business, Pension Capital Strategies PCS which will financial institutions in relation to their pension offerings.
focus solely on providing companies with broadly-based financial advice as the issue of pension scheme funding and its implications for strategy and balance sheet structure rises up the corporate agenda.
PCS has already started to secure appointments with new corporate clients.
18 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Our administration business had a strong year, particularly as Market environment clients have required support with projects and scheme The pensions market is very active with new participants changes, and we secured further new business, including ITV.
offering services and insurance solutions to the problem of how best to manage scheme deficits.
This provides The Profund software business was also buoyed by legislative opportunity for JLT UK Employee Benefits, but it will also change and we are pleased with the performance in delivering accelerate the shift from the legacy world of final salary upgrades to clients during the year and the positive responses pension schemes to the services which will support we have received.
We also completed further developments in employers future requirements.
relation to our oPen software product and a number of clients chose to migrate from the Classic platform to oPen.
Clients Our strategy is to be the provider of choice of the services including HBOS and The Daily Telegraph started to use oPen that continue to be required by final salary pension schemes during the year.
while developing further in the retirement savings and wider employee benefit markets of the future.
In recent years JLT UK Employee Benefits has developed a strong position as a specialist supplier of pension scheme services to life assurers: we were delighted to build on this position during 2006 when we formed a relationship with Paternoster and assisted their launch into the UK market as a new provider of bulk purchase annuities.
We have supported this launch by providing actuarial quotation services enabling Paternoster to make a big market impact with the timeliness of quotation delivery and we have entered into a long term contract to provide administration and annuity payment services to Paternosters growing book.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 19 Operating & Financial Review
