Operating and Financial Review Operating Review A well balanced business Legal & General reports its financial results Our worldwide operating profit on an EEV With a record 21bn in new institutional within three main business segments: Life and basis grew by 13% to 1,233m 2005: funds under management in 2006 and a Pensions, Investment Management and General 1,092m.
Contribution from new life and highly scalable platform, our investment Insurance.
The Life and Pensions segment pensions business increased by 26% to 418m management business grew operating profits comprises the Protection and Annuities, Wealth 2005: 331m and total experience and by 29% to 133m 2005: 103m.
Profit Management and With-Profits businesses in operating assumption changes were positive after tax on an EEV basis increased by 18% the UK and the international businesses.
UK life and pensions Operating to 1,446m and by 59% to 1,631m on an profit grew by 9% to 874m 2005: 801m, IFRS basis.
Overview of Results reflecting increased new business contribution.
Legal & Generals 2006 results demonstrate significant Events Operating profit from our international the continued strength of our core business During 2006, the following events had a business grew by 56% to 156m.
and also reflect the first benefits of our significant effect on the Groups results, both wide-ranging capital review, as outlined in a On an IFRS basis, worldwide operating profit on an EEV and IFRS basis.
The financial presentation to analysts on Capital and Cash increased by 16% to 752m 2005: 647m, impacts of these events are shown in Figure 2.
Flow in November 2006 and available on our owing to higher contributions from both the Corporate restructure creation of website: www.
UK non profit and With-Profits businesses.
pensions and annuity company On 31 December 2006, the non profit Fig 2.
Summary of financial impacts arising from significant events pensions and annuity business of Corporate Changes to FSA Annuity Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Restructuring reporting and investment capital rules policy Society was ceded to a new wholly owned reinsurance subsidiary Legal & General IFRS Pensions Limited LGP.
We believe this will 1 Increase in SRC 502m 496m 422m provide greater capital transparency and profit after tax 171m 496m 422m flexibility, enhance Legal & Generals ability to compete in the annuity markets and ensure EEV that both our non profit life and pensions Operating profit 97m 18m businesses are taxed appropriately.
profit before tax 216m 97m 9m Legal & General Investment Management profit after tax 171m 68m 6m LGIM provides investment services to LGP 2 Capital on a market-related fee basis.
IGD surplus capital 0.5bn Implementation of changes to FSA reporting Society surplus capital 0.5bn 0.1bn 0.4bn In 2006, the FSA introduced a more realistic Note: more detail of the impacts is set out in Note 2 of the Financial Statements and Note 14 of the Supplementary reserving framework for certain non profit Financial Statements.
businesses, as detailed in their Policy 1 There was an offsetting negative in LGP.
2 Management estimates based on draft regulatory returns.
Review of annuity investment policy 1 Fig 3.
Worldwide Operating profit IFRS Basis During 2006, Legal & General undertook a 2006 2005 Year ended 31 December m m review of its asset liability matching strategy for annuity business.
As a result of falling UK life and pensions yields, property assets backing annuity Distribution relating to non profit and shareholder net worth 388 312 liabilities were replaced with corporate bonds.
Subordinated debt interest 34 37 We entered into inflation swaps to better With-profits business 95 66 mitigate negative inflation risk.
As a result 517 415 of these actions, a closer match between assets and liabilities was achieved, together with International life and pensions 75 74 a lower capital requirement and a higher Investment management 133 103 valuation discount rate, reflecting the higher General insurance 9 14 yield.
Additionally, the margin within the Other operating income 18 41 reserves to cover an interest rate mismatch Operating profit 752 647 was reviewed and reduced.
com 9 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review cont.
Industry and Markets Regulatory and Political Environment for stand-alone Pension Term Assurance, Business Environment The majority of Legal & Generals business months after introduction, closed down Market Overview is conducted in the UK.
Both our principal the product to new customers, resulting The UK financial services industry has operating company, Legal & General in uncertainty for customers and sunk costs grown strongly over the last decade.
Value Assurance Society Limited Society, and for providers including Legal & General.
erosion in state pensions and the phasing out our investment company, Legal & General of employer defined benefit provision has led Outlook Investment Management Limited LGIM to a greater onus on individuals to plan for The Governments proposals to establish are regulated by the Financial Services their long term financial future.
Greater Personal Account pensions following the Authority FSA.
Amongst other things, FSA awareness of the need to increase retirement Turner Report are now being progressed regulation covers sales of products and levels provision as a result of increasing longevity, through legislation.
In common with the of risk and capital.
Our business is also subject as well as robust economic growth and a industry, we support the principle of to fiscal risk in particular relating to tax strong housing market, have helped the extending access to additional pension treatment of savings products.
savings, protection and investment market products to a broader market, but we have deliver compound annual growth of over Legal & Generals principal overseas businesses reservations about some detailed aspects of the 9%pa over the last ten years.
are also supervised by the relevant local financial proposals.
In particular, we are concerned that regulators.
Aspects of the financial services Personal Accounts should remain targeted at ABI market statistics show that Legal & General industry, financial products and sales are also the currently unprovided market for which we has succeeded in growing total UK market subject to European Commission directives.
believe they are suitable, and that they do not share from 4% in 1995 to the current level of undermine the existing levels of corporate and above 11% of life, pensions and investment The main regulatory and fiscal impact on our private pension provision.
We are engaged in business.
We believe this success is a result of business in 2006 was the simplification of UK dialogue with Government, both directly and our product quality, distribution strength and pensions regulation the A-Day reforms through our membership of the Association of strategic consistency.
which encouraged greater flexibility in British Insurers ABI, on this subject.
During the year, the The institutional fund management sector has Government announced it would extend the During 2007, the FSA intends to review similarly grown strongly, with an estimated existing Individual Savings Account ISA distribution of financial products, but has 3 trillion funds now managed in the UK.
regime and encourage switching from cash signalled that proposals for change should be LGIM manages institutional and retail funds.
to equity ISAs, which we regard as positive.
Legal & General, as a The majority of funds under management are company utilising a broad variety of channels On a negative note, the Government and derived from external institutions, in to market, is actively involved in providing Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC particular pension funds.
Historically, LGIM input to this process.
decision to withdraw favourable tax treatment has specialised in index-tracking and other passive investment strategies, but in line with 1 market developments it is also offering Fig 4.
UK Total Market Growth specialist active strategies including liability- 250 driven investment and Structured Solutions.
200 Outlook We envisage economic and demographic 150 fundamentals continuing to provide a favourable backdrop to growth in the UK 100 financial services sector.
We expect economic growth to continue at or around trend in 2007.
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 We expect to benefit as rising prosperity, later and longer retirements combine to increase Legal & General investment in long term financial savings and Association of British Insurers Total UK Market Size 1.
Based on new business APE rebased 2002 100 investment products.
We expect housing 10 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Expertise In-depth understanding of opportunities and risks in our chosen markets create a powerful proposition for customers and shareholders.
John Pollock Group Executive Director Protection and Annuities www.
com 11... that really s Topping the tables Last year, Legal & General was recognised in the media as the leading protection provider in the UK.
In January, Legal & General was awarded Best Life Assurance Provider by Professional Adviser magazine, and Best Service Provider at the Lifesearch Protection awards in February.
April heralded the Financial Adviser Life & Pensions Awards where we won Life Assurance Provider of the Year, Protection Provider of the Year and Term Assurance Provider of the Year.
On to September and the Moneyfacts Investment, Life & Pensions Awards, where Legal & General won awards for Best Protection Service and Most Competitive Term Assurance IFA Provider.
In October, Legal & General won Protection Provider of the Year from Bankhall Financial Services and in November Best Mortgage Related Insurance Provider from Your Mortgage.
The final awards of the year were first place for Term Assurance and first place for Critical Illness at the Financial Adviser Service Awards.
Best Life Assurance Adviser sets us apart Fast track underwriting academy Legal & Generals medical underwriting team is the largest in Europe, and is continuing to expand and develop through the Companys partnership with Cardiff University.
The University now offers an Underwriting Academy tailored to meet the needs of the company.
This has allowed Legal & General to create a fast track course to train new underwriters and expand the skills and knowledge of its existing underwriters and medical claims specialists.
Courses were designed with input from Professor Mansel Aylward CB, Chief Medical Adviser, Medical Director and Chief Scientist to the Department for Work and Pensions, and enable Legal & General specialists to interface with teams of eminent clinicians and academics.
Annuities mortality data Legal & Generals expertise in pricing annuities is driven by our in-depth understanding of mortality trends 3m and rates.
We have over 3,000,000 annuitant years of experience, and arrive at a highly informed understanding of mortality based on analysis of over twenty variables.
The result is accurate, differential pricing of annuities which reects street-by-street differences in life Annuitant years of expectancy.
Proof of our dedication to detail.
experience Operating and Financial Review Operating Review cont.
Protection and Annuities market activity, which has relevance to our Protection segment of our distribution underpins protection business, to remain robust though Protection and annuities represents 23% of our continued investment in product interest rate changes may lead to some Legal & Generals UK new business APE we and administration systems and processes.
Given that it is estimated only 11% are market leaders in individual protection with We own the systems used by the largest of the private sector workforce is now covered over 20% market share.
This is a business built controlled mortgage adviser network in by employer defined-benefit pension schemes, on protecting individuals and their families.
the UK, which along with advising on over we see further capacity for growth in personal Around a quarter of our total protection 20bn of mortgage business 2006, also sells long term saving and pension provision.
business comes from corporate clients who Legal & Generals insurance products.
IFAs seek protection for their employees.
too are an important distribution channel In the annuities sector, we have seen some for us, as they are for many products in increased competition in bulk annuities from Key strengths our industry.
The wide variety of channels new entrants.
We expect this trend to continue, Our scale in this market supports clear to market gives insight into customer buying especially for larger transactions, but we note competitive advantages: trends, market pricing and the needs of our that the potentially very large Bulk Purchase distribution partners.
Underwriting expertise Annuity BPA market for open schemes Legal & General has the largest team of life remains untapped.
Increasing longevity, in Margin underwriters in Europe.
Their expertise is at our opinion, creates a competitive advantage Protection has historically been, and remains, the core of our success providing confidence for companies like ourselves with a strong one of our higher margin products, and so is in our pricing decisions.
In 2006 we invested administrative and risk management skillset.
a key driver of our return on embedded value further in our capability, by opening a and EEV operating profit.
This reflects our As in 2006, we believe distribution and in dedicated underwriting office in Edinburgh scale and efficiency and the strength of our particular platform technologies will continue attracting a high-calibre team of specialists risk pricing and control mechanisms.
Pricing to be an important factor in our markets, and from the local market.
remains competitive in the protection market, we are strengthening our position in these areas.
especially through the IFA segment.
However The power of numbers The overall strength of the long term savings the competitive advantages that we have Legal & General underwrote over 50,000 market, and further efforts by companies to built, along with our market leading policies each month last year.
We have a reduce pension fund deficits, have the capacity systems, products and distribution support database of over 12m customer years of to drive further growth in the institutional fund our confidence in our ability to continue to experience.
Every time we write a policy, management sector.
While the market will build this business, profitable.
this volume of data means that we can do remain competitive, the flexibility inherent in so quickly, efficiently and with confidence our product and distribution mix enables us to Annuities individual in the price that we set for each individual.
When individuals reach retirement age, many choose to secure their income in retirement Administrative focus immediately, and most are required to do so Each time a customer or intermediary comes by the age of 75.
For many personal pension to Legal & General for protection, we believe it is essential to make sure their experience savers, this means using the proceeds of their is a good one.
This means making sure our accumulated savings to purchase an annuity systems are robust, that our processes are from a life company.
We have invested significantly promise a certain level of income flat in technology and believe we remain rate or indexed for the rest of the market leading.
In addition, the benefits may include income for dependants, Distribution further into the future.
Our distribution reach in protection is another great strength.
We work with a range of high In 2006, individual annuity sales accounted quality bank, building society and other tied for 4% of our UK new business APE.
Our agency brands delivering a strong and strategy in this highly price-driven market is dependable flow of new business.
This core centred on strict pricing discipline, requiring 12 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 that our target rates of return are met.
This their members expect in large block firm stance on pricing led to a lower market transactions.
These schemes can range from a share in 2006 than might otherwise have few lives in a small company, to very large been the case, given a heightened level of policies.
In each case, it is important to recognise that we are insuring the financial competitor activity in the first half of the year.
security of individual workers and pensioners, Prices in the market were inadequate to meet who will depend on Legal & General for their our return requirements, and so we were retirement income.
comfortable to see our sales reduce.
Our competitive position improved strongly in Key strengths the latter part of the year, and sales recovered We have a number of key competitive strongly.
This long term, profit driven stance advantages in this market.
means that Legal & General sells good 20% Exceptional experience and expertise.
volumes of business, at good prices, Market Share Last year was the 20th anniversary of our without short term volume-driven risks BPA business.
Our customers and their Individual Protection to shareholder returns.
advisers can see that we remain firmly This highly disciplined approach is committed to this market, and can see the reinforced by our understanding of risk we reliability of our administrative infrastructure, have a huge database of individual lives, over and our financial strength.
3 million annuitant years of experience, Reputation.
Working with pension trustees, giving us confidence in our pricing decisions and underpinning our long term profitable and insuring the income of a large number of position in this market.
pensioners and employees requires the trust of our clients.
Our customers are relying on us to Annuities Bulk Purchase fulfil their promises to their members, and we In 2006 we wrote over 1bn of single take that responsibility very seriously.
premium equivalent Bulk Purchase Annuity Scale.
As a long established participant in BPA business.
BPAs represented 6% of the annuities markets, Legal & General our UK new business APE in 2006.
BPAs are has a market share in Individual and Bulk policies that allow company pension schemes Purchase Annuities of 15%.
to insure some or all of the retirement income Fig 5.
Life and Pensions IFRS Operating profit 2006 2005 Year ended 31 December m m UK operating profit: Distribution relating to non profit and shareholder net worth 388 312 Subordinated debt interest 34 37 With-profits business 95 66 517 415 USA 58 52 Netherlands 7 18 France 10 4 Operating profit 592 489 www.
com 13 Operating and Financial Review Operating Review cont.
Margin We have continued to invest in and build Annuities are the highest margin business these businesses with the support of a category for Legal & General on the EEV very highly skilled team of specialists basis and are therefore a key driver of who understand the risks that we are operating profit and return on embedded underwriting, and how to price for them.
This reflects the extent of the risks that A further consequence of the risks inherent we are taking onto the balance sheet, and our in annuities and protection is that significant assessment of the period of time over which capital must be dedicated to them.
Our those liabilities remain in force.
The headline financial strength is clearly important in margin we report will depend on the mix of this respect.
We believe the diversity of business between lower margin individual our risk businesses group risk, individual business and higher margin bulk annuity protection, individual annuities and bulk business.
However, margins consistently 5.75m annuities allows us to allocate capital reflect our determination to meet our target more efficiently, pursuing those categories rates of return on capital.
Customers worldwide of business where returns are most attractive.
Our ability to meet these rates of return is A less diversified risk business would, we sensitive to a number of key factors: believe, be significantly disadvantaged in this respect.
The competitive environment we do not pursue irrational pricing to achieve volumes.
Our investment expertise, including the ability to source attractive yields in the Fig 6.
UK New Business Split APE for 2006 fixed interest market.
Ongoing trends in longevity, and how this must be factored into our pricing.
Risk expertise At their core, annuity and protection businesses are based on a statistical framework the assessment of risk, setting a price for that risk, and continually analysing the developments in those risks.
The size of our database of annuitant lives and Unit trusts and ISAs 38% insured lives means that our underwriting of Bonds 15% risk businesses is informed by statistically credible data.
This means that we can aim to Protection 13% identify those segments of business where we Pensions 12% can be more competitive than others, while With-profits 12% remaining profitable.
It also means that we Bulk annuities 6% can avoid taking on business that offers inadequate returns.
Individual annuities 4% 14 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Growth We move and adapt with economic, demographic and market changes, and are positioned to grow in a growing market.
Kate Avery Group Executive Director Wealth Management... that deliver Record LGIM Funds under Management 2006 saw record new business for Legal & General Investment Management LGIM with gross new inows of 20.7bn, an increase of 21% over 2005.
New business inows continue to be dominated by ows from corporate pension schemes, which accounted for 18.5bn.
New business from charities and other institutions enjoyed another excellent year with inows of 2bn.
Existing clients contributed 10.4bn 2005: 8.8bn of the total.
Growth in new business combined with excellent client retention levels and strong markets drove funds under management up to 233bn up 14% from the start of the year.
rs value Chelsea Financial Services One of our biggest growth sectors this year was unit linked bonds.
We recommend Legal & Generals Portfolio Bond because it offers our customers a large choice of external funds backed by Legal & Generals brand, which stands for value for money and great service.
Matthew Woodbridge, Bond Manager at Chelsea Financial Services New investment model Over for the 21st century Cofunds has over 11bn of clients assets under administration and is currently the biggest platform provider in the UK market on this basis.
Cofunds customers now have access to Legal & General 1 1 bn life products, and to one of the widest choices of investment managers funds.
IFAs now have both on platform and off platform ways of trading with their clients.
Legal & Generals Tied salesforce, circa 350 wealth advisors, have adopted a version of Cofunds Platform Technology of clients assets under through the deployment of the Investor administration Portfolio Service from October 2006 in their Wealth advice branch network.
Operating and Financial Review Operating Review cont.
Wealth Management investment contracts, which combine asset a leading platform business with an 65% of our UK new business APE was accumulation with protection.
There are tax established reputation with intermediaries.
generated through savings products in our benefits to qualifying investment bonds, such We have also built a platform using Cofunds Wealth Management division in 2006. as tax-advantaged withdrawal of income, architecture which is now available to our Our savings business encompasses a spectrum however, bonds must be held for a minimum banking and building society partners of products which allow customers to period to qualify.
reinforcing our product offering, as well as accumulate assets over a period of time on increasing the market to which our savings a cost effective basis.
This ranges from more Retail investments business has access.
liquid investments such as unit trusts and Retail investments accounted for 38% of UK ISAs, all the way through to very long term new business APE in 2006, a market share IFAs and other advisors can also access structured saving for retirement through of 4.3%.
These are unitised investment Legal & Generals savings products pension products.
contracts, like bonds and pensions, but are off-platform, and we continue to write not insurance contracts.
As a result they can significant volumes of business this way.
At the core of each of these products, however, be bought and then sold as soon as customers We also distribute retail investment products is a series of unitised investment funds, require their funds.
A limited amount of directly over the telephone and internet.
allowing access to different investment money can currently be invested each year styles and asset classes.
The choice of product in a tax-advantaged ISA.
Margins through which these are accessed then dictates Savings contracts normally expose shareholders the tax basis of the investment, the timescale Distribution trends to relatively low investment risk, since over which the assets are likely to be held, We believe the distribution landscape for customers benefits are normally linked and the eventual benefits that are withdrawn.
Recognising that the core directly to the performance of the underlying Access to the best investment returns, at of all savings products unitised funds is assets.
As a result, the risk to shareholders the most cost-effective price, with excellent the same, the delineation between products is, funds in savings business is relatively lower administration and customer service are we believe, less and less significant.
At the than it is for risk businesses.
This means that key to success in this business.
same time customers and advisors are margins for pensions and investment bonds increasingly sophisticated, appreciating There are three major categories of investment have generally been lower in the savings flexibility in investment as well as business pensions, investment bonds and business, albeit achieving attractive returns.
For all savings businesses, a key driver of As a result, open architecture platforms are Pensions returns is persistency.
In order to achieve a growing force in this market.
They offer 12% of our UK new business APE was our target margins, business needs to stay customers access to a wide variety of funds, represented by non profit pensions in 2006, on our books for a certain amount of time.
not just those of the insurance company.
They representing an estimated market share of 6%.
Persistency in pensions has been an industrycan also allocate these unit fund investments A pension contract allows a customer to invest wide issue for many years, particularly where to a number of different product wrappers.
for a very long time, perhaps as long as forty-five contributions have been made on a regular As a result, customers will no longer need to years, in order to accumulate sufficient assets to premium basis.
consider different pools of savings in different secure an income in retirement.
Pensions attract companies bond, pension or retail investment In pensions we have reported small negative some tax advantages, including limited contracts.
Instead, they can consolidate all margins in 2005 and 2006.
This reflects the deductibility of contributions, but require their long term savings, under one overall difficulty of achieving appropriate returns on that assets remain invested until late in life.
investment policy, with a number of different capital in an industry where legislative price Contributions into pension contracts product wrappers, all in one place.
limits have been imposed in some areas.
can either be regular or single premium.
This is a powerful proposition for customers Pensions also account for around a half of Investment bonds and their advisers, whether IFAs, or other all industry sales, and competition is always Bonds represented 15% of our UK new distribution partners.
This challenging environment has business APE in 2006, a market share of an early and leading position through our led Legal & General deliberately to focus 9%.
Bonds are normally single premium investment in, and alliance with, Cofunds, on those segments of the pension market 16 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 where profitability is better.
In particular we our platform model, customers can access have seen progress in 2006 on high-quality over 800 competing funds, should they corporate pension schemes, transfer business require a wider choice.
and early signs of success with our SIPP, Capital discipline launched in April 2006.
As we continue We allocate significant capital to the savings to build the business, focused on more business.
However, the relatively low risk to profitable lines, we aim to improve shareholders from investment volatility makes margins to more acceptable levels.
this a less capital-intensive business than Bond business, which does not have any protection and annuities.
Nevertheless for charge limits imposed upon it, reports a each individual contract, the early-year positive margin, reflecting our scale in this expenses can be significant, and can only market, and the attractive economies of large be paid back if the business remains with single premium arrangements.
This is a Legal & General for sufficient time.
It is product market which remains attractive to critical, therefore, that we monitor our many industry participants.
Our scale and pricing, competitive position and new efficiency, as well as the attractions of business volumes to ensure that we are not purchasing bonds on the Cofunds platform at risk of attracting too much business with mean we expect to remain profitable while still poor relative persistency, and that we are well building our business in a competitive market.
positioned to pick up more attractive, higher persistency business.
Key strengths Different advisory channels can choose to put business with a large number of insurance or 1 investment companies.
In order to continue to Fig 7.
Operating Profit from Continuing Operations m succeed, we recognise a number of key issues: 1,233 2006 Administrative capability 1,092 2005 In order to attract savers to place large 2004 762 amounts of money with Legal & General, we need to ensure that our processes are efficient.
2003 756 Customer service 686 2002 Savings customers are likely to come into 1.
Achieved Profits basis 2002-2003, EEV basis 2004-2006 regular contact with Legal & General.
Requesting statements, increasing their investment, fund changes or surrenders all require significant administration.
EPS Based on Operating Profit After Tax p We continue to refine our administrative infrastructure to improve our customers 13.45 2006 experience of saving with Legal & General.
12.02 2005 Access to excellent investment funds 2004 8.46 Our investment management business, 2003 8.49 LGIM, offers customers access to a number of very strong investment pools, including 8.49 2002 market leading index-tracking, active equity, 1.
EPS Earnings Per Share fixed income and property funds.
Achieved Profits basis 2002-2003, EEV basis 2004-2006 www.
