08 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Operating review We continued to focus on profitability and working capital management to drive improvements in return on capital employed.
We also completed the acquisition of 04 North America the remaining 51% of Levy Restaurants for Our business in North America has had $250 million.
The results so far another excellent year as we continue to leverage the leading positions we have Canteen, the worlds largest route vending established in each of our chosen market company, completed the rollout of its I-vend sectors.
route accountability and cash control system which is reducing shrinkage and improving Market position and trends labour efficiency.
Through our portfolio of specialist operating companies we are the largest contract Product and service development foodservice company in the USA and Canada.
During the year 203 senior executives have been through an intensive two-day training The largest market in the world, North America programme, Managing for Value, designed remains a significant opportunity with around to develop their strategic thinking and improve 50% contractor penetration.
The most attractive cash management and return on capital future growth opportunities are in Healthcare employed in their businesses.
and Education, where less than 40% of the market is outsourced.
As part of our commitment to tackling childhood obesity we have developed a In Business & Industry despite the relative nutritional awareness programme, Eat, Learn, maturity of the market there are still significant Live, specifically for our Education sector.
opportunities to drive volumes and spend per It encourages healthy eating through helping head through product innovation.
students gain a better understanding of what foods to eat, the health benefits and the link Healthy eating is the dominant consumer trend.
between good nutrition and academic Concerns over obesity and the composition and attainment.
provenance of foods are continuing to drive consumer purchasing habits.
Balanced Choices We have signed an exclusive 10-year agreement is our global healthy eating programme designed with the Dieticians of Canada as sponsor of the to help consumers make the right choices for National Nutrition Month which has as its focus their chosen lifestyles.
Using iconography on tackling childhood obesity.
menu cards and packaging, allied to healthy cooking techniques such as grilling as opposed As part of our commitment to sustainable to frying, consumers can select from a range sourcing, in March we announced a change of options low in salt, fats and sugar.
Over to our seafood purchasing policy with a 700 of our accounts in North America are commitment to buying one million pounds of Delivering on a now implementing the Balanced Choices sustainable seafood annually this accounts for grand scale.
Programme and we have trained over 2,800 of around 20-25% of our total seafood purchases.
our chefs and unit managers to the required Sector: Sports & Leisure operating standards.
Outlook From pretzel stands to fine dining restaurants, In 2007, we expect to see continuing good from the worlds leading cultural venues to Overview of the year revenue growth but at lower levels than iconic sporting locations, eating and drinking Organic growth was 12% fuelled by significant those seen in 2006. is an essential part of the visitor experience.
new business gains across all the sectors.
We are the leader in food service solutions Contract retention for the year was 96% with from up-scale corporate hospitality to grab major renewals including a five-year extension and go concession stands with the capabilities to Morrisons contract with BJC Health System to cater for 100 or 100,000 visitors.
worth $47 million in annual revenues and a 10-year extension to Chartwells contract with At the Charlotte Bobcats Arena we have Florida Atlantic University worth $9 million in developed a range of offers to meet the annual revenues.
needs of over 12,000 basketball fans.
North America contract gains Split of revenue Bon Apptit Management Company and Chartwells 4,290m have won a five-year contract with Duke University 2005: 3,761m worth $10 million in annual revenues.
Split of operating profit Morrison and Canteen have won a 10-year contract with the State University of New York Health Sciences 246m worth $7 million in annual revenues.
2005: 218m In Canada, Eurest won a five-year contract with Before exceptional items and including profit of associates.
the Ontario Science Centre worth $3 million in annual revenues.
09 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Operating review approach has stabilised the business and resulted continued in improved performances.
In Italy and Portugal we have put in place new management teams who are restructuring the business to reduce operating costs.
Continental Europe Trading remains challenging reflecting the Product and service development on-going weakness of a number of Continental In France, working in partnership with European economies.
We are focused on renowned Michelin starred chef, Yannick Alleno, improving the performance of poorer we have launched a new brand, Millessence, performing contracts and on restructuring targeted at corporate boardrooms and the country management teams to create a robust Fine Dining sector.
platform for sustainable growth in the future.
In Healthcare, Medirest has introduced two Market position and trends new concepts in the Nordic countries.
Meals The contract foodservice market in Europe has for Life has been developed specifically for an approximate value of 43 billion and with the residential and long-term care markets to outsourcing at below 30% represents an exciting respond to the demand for healthy, nutritious opportunity.
We have established strong positions and high quality food prepared to the very in all the major Continental European markets.
highest food hygiene and traceability standards.
Where there is sufficient market density we are Your Private Chef is targeted at meals-onsectorising the business to better tailor our offer wheels customers to offer a wider choice of to the specific needs of clients.
We have also introduced steam technology in Sweden and In the most developed markets, as in the UK the Noorlands University Hospital contract, and North America, the trend, particularly in which is being mobilised during January, will Business & Industry, is moving away from client be the largest to utilise this revolutionary steam subsidy to profit & loss and fixed price contracts.
In response we are adopting a more retail oriented approach to drive consumer volumes In Germany and the Netherlands we have and spend per head.
introduced programmes to reduce absenteeism and labour turnover through increasing There is growing consumer interest in healthy employee loyalty and satisfaction.
Our global programme, Balanced Choices, is being introduced across Europe In sports stadiums and arenas in Germany we and is being well received by both clients and have begun using biodegradable corn cups as consumers.
These environmentally friendly cups use 35% less fossil fuel to produce Overview of the year and are completely compostable.
Organic growth was 2% with flat operating profit in line with our expectations and reflecting Outlook Targeting growth the continuing weakness of a number of major In 2007, we expect to see similar levels of overall industries with innovative economies.
We saw strong growth in the Nordic revenue growth as we continue to be selective on countries as a result of the continuing strength new business.
With the significant reorganisation products and services.
of the offshore oil and gas sector and in Spain activity undertaken in 2006 we would expect to with double-digit growth in both the Education begin to see some margin progression.
Sector: Business & Industry and Healthcare sectors as well as significant Employees want foodservice offers at their growth in the senior living market.
place of work that deliver the choice, quality and value for money available on the high In Germany we saw some modest organic street.
For our clients in growth industries growth but a significant improvement in the such as financial services, legal and IT we operating margin, particularly in the Business are developing innovative new products and & Industry sector.
In France, Switzerland and services that respond to the needs of discerning the Netherlands the actions taken by the new consumers for all-day dining and healthy eating.
leadership teams to simplify the management structure and the adoption of a shared services Continental Europe contract gains Split of revenue In Norway, ESS won a five-year contract with Statoil 2,863m for four site camps, worth over 18 million a year in 2005: 2,830m annual revenues.
Split of operating profit In Germany, Eurest won a new contract with Motorola with annual revenues of 3 million.
169m 2005: 169m In Italy, Onama won new contracts with Bergamo Hospital and 3rd Age Housing in Turin with combined Before exceptional items and including profit of associates.
10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Operating review In May we appointed Ian El-Mokadem, continued previously Managing Director of Onetel, to run the UK business.
He has a wealth of experience in business strategy and in consumer and retail markets, which will be United Kingdom invaluable as the business responds to the The stabilisation of the UK business is trends in the marketplace.
progressing well under a new leadership team.
The introduction of a simplified and more Product and service development focused business model will underpin the As contract structures move onto a more delivery of improved financial performance.
commercial basis and client subsidies reduce, we are continuing to invest in developments Market position and trends that extend our product portfolio to meet We are the leader in contract foodservice customer needs and drive efficiencies.
in the United Kingdom and have market leading positions in many of the sectors in Using innovative steam pressure technology to which we operate.
cook appetising and fresh food quickly while preserving the nutritional content, is generating Across all the sectors there is increasing demand new growth opportunities in the Education, from customers for options that promote healthy Healthcare and Business & Industry sectors.
In the Education sector we have been at the forefront of helping schools meet the Though not a substitute for traditional Governments new standards for school meals.
production kitchens it provides a high-quality Over 60% of the contracts we operate already and cost-effective alternative for schools with meet the 2008 nutrient standards and exceed no hot meals service.
In West Sussex Scolarest the guidelines on fresh fruit and vegetables and has won a contract with the County Council to meat and portion sizes.
We have also launched provide meals for 238 primary schools as they a Putting the Fun into Food Programme to transition from a packed lunch to hot meals raise the profile of healthy eating in primary service.
When fully mobilised we will provide and secondary schools.
over four million meals a year.
In Business & Industry the trend away from In Healthcare one of the challenges for NHS client subsidy to profit & loss and fixed price Trusts is to provide high-quality nutritious contracts is continuing.
Meal times are meals that increase patient satisfaction and aid shortening, with the average lunch break recovery.
Utilising steam technology Medirest now less than 30 minutes.
There is also a is able to offer clients and patients a more marked trend towards all-day snacking extensive choice of hot meals cooked to order and this is increasing the demand for at ward level.
We are currently supplying over grab and go products.
10,000 such meals a day across 30 hospitals.
To meet demand we have developed a Cuisine Overview of the year Centre in St Albans capable of producing Maximising the value Our priority has been to start stabilising the 35,000 meals a day.
business and build a firm foundation for future growth.
We have made good progress in creating In Business & Industry steam technology is a Sector: Healthcare a more robust contract base by renegotiating or cost-effective option at client locations where the We are constantly looking for new ways to exiting poorer performing ones.
The impact of number of on-site staff would not commercially help hospital patients eat better.
At Londons these actions has been offset by new contract justify a traditional meal service.
Charing Cross Hospital we are using gains enabling us to achieve a similar level of revolutionary steam technology to deliver financial performance to last year.
Outlook a wider choice of appetising and nutritious We expect business to remain challenging in meals that aid their recovery.
Patients are The Education sector has again been the UK in 2007, particularly in the Education eating 36% more food and food going to challenging as we have responded to the sector.
We will, however, continue to simplify waste has reduced by one third.
Governments drive to improve school meals.
the business to generate cost efficiencies and There are now clear signs that this sector is focus on improving the margin, particularly on beginning to stabilise and during the summer poorer performing contracts.
we won new contracts in Reading, Sheffield, Kent and West Sussex.
United Kingdom contract gains Split of revenue Medirest secured a seven-year contract worth over 1,957m 9 million in annual revenue to provide full hotel services 2005: 1,982m at two hospitals in Merseyside for the St Helens and Knowsley Hospitals Trust.
Split of operating profit Scolarest won a new contract with Westminster City 115m Council worth over 2 million in annual revenue to serve 2005: 114m over 1.4 million meals annually at 39 primary and two secondary schools.
Before exceptional items and including profit of associates.
Leiths won a 10-year contract to provide full catering services for Beaulieu Enterprises Ltd, worth 1 million a year in annual revenue.
11 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Operating review We have seen good profit growth in Australia continued and other countries with remote site operations reflecting the buoyancy of the oil, gas and extractive industries.
Overall operating profit for the Rest of the World has been held back Rest of the World in part by the impact of the nationalisation of Organic revenue growth was driven by strong the extractive industry in Venezuela following performances in Australia and Latin America a change of government.
as a result of the buoyant offshore oil and gas and remote site mining sectors.
We completed China offers significant future growth prospects the planned exit from our Middle East military and we are very pleased with the development catering operations and continued to exit the of our business in this important market.
During high street retail restaurant market in Japan.
the year we won contracts with Nokia, Bayer Polymers, Tianjin Denso Electronics and Market position and trends Foxxcon International.
As planned we have The contract foodservice market in the Rest now completed our exit from military catering of the World has an approximate value of operations in the Middle East.
47 billion with outsourcing a little over 50% but with significant opportunities remaining Product and service development in the Education, Healthcare and Defence, Health and safety is the number one priority Offshore & Remote sites sectors.
for us and our clients in the Defence, Offshore & Remote sites sector.
In Australia, Over the last 10 years we have established a we have launched the Compass Care initiative presence in those countries that offer attractive to promote excellence in health and safety current and future growth prospects.
During this management and to facilitate the rehabilitation time we have established leading positions in and return to work of ill or injured employees.
Australia, Japan, Asia and Latin America and have clients in over 40 countries.
In Japan, we are responding to our clients increasing focus on the management of In the more developed markets, such as their environmental impacts by increasing Australia, we have begun to sectorise our offer the number of our units with ISO14001 to respond to the specific requirements of Environmental Quality Standards clients in the Healthcare and Education sectors.
We now have 360 of our In markets such as China and India we are units achieving the required standards.
continuing to ensure that our business is well placed to respond and benefit from the Also in Japan our Dessert Forest menu projected growth of these emerging economies.
development trial designed to boost sales by encouraging customers to select an additional The trend towards healthy living is continuing item has resulted in a 3% increase in sales.
and we are adapting our global healthy eating The programme will now be rolled out across programme, Balanced Choices, to meet the all our Business & Industry operations.
Understanding individual different cultural and culinary requirements of needs, all over the world.
Outlook In 2007 we would expect to see more moderate Sector: Defence, Offshore & Remote sites Overview of the year revenue growth but would now expect to begin For people working on offshore oil and gas We saw organic growth across all sectors up to see some margin progression.
rigs and remote construction and mining sites 13% overall.
The Defence, Offshore & Remote a hot nutritious meal, a clean bed and a freshly sites sector grew by 24%, as a result of strong laundered uniform are vital home comforts.
performances in Australia and Latin America, and now represents 35% of the Rest of the We recognise the importance of these basic, World business.
In Japan we are continuing but essential, needs.
Thats why we go to the our planned exit from the high street retail ends of the earth, literally, to deliver the restaurant market and this held back organic highest levels of customer support and service.
Most importantly of all we need to do it safely and with consideration for the environment.
Rest of the World contract gains Split of revenue In Australia, we have been awarded a five-year contract 1,705m with the Sydney Central Garrison Support worth over 2005: 1,500m A$30 million in annual revenues.
Split of operating profit Medirest in Australia has won contracts for three years with Jewish Care and Masonic Homes with combined 55m annual revenues of A$7.5 million.
2005: 53m In China, Eurest has won three-year contracts with Before exceptional items and including profit of associates.
Yew Chung International School of Shanghai Gubei and Hongqiao Campus and the Beijing International Singaporean School.
