12 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Operating Review Paper and Corrugated Packaging Market Overview After a period of major price erosion, both CCM and box prices increased in the second half of 2005 06.
The European market for corrugated delivery of products from internet purchases, Whereas boxes are generally sold locally, packaging is estimated to be approximately and retail-ready packaging which can be used CCM is sold on a pan-European basis and 16 billion, equivalent to circa 21 million as both transit and display packaging.
Supply pricing is therefore affected by European 1 tonnes or 39 billion square metres, of of corrugated board and boxes is generally supply and demand factors.
The total demand which the UK market is estimated to be relatively local to the point of production, with for CCM in western Europe is circa 20 million approximately 10%.
Demand for corrugated a typical operational radius of approximately tonnes, with an additional approximately packaging is principally influenced by overall 150 miles, owing to moderately high transport 3 million tonnes of demand in eastern Europe not including Russia.
The market for CCM economic activity and manufacturing output.
costs for what is a low-density product and the service requirements of customers.
in Europe is dependent upon European In the calendar year 2005, the European demand for corrugated packaging as imports There has been downward pressure on selling market by weight for corrugated board grew and exports of unfilled boxes are negligible.
In western Europe the market grew prices in recent years.
Pricing and margins in Demand for CCM in Europe as a whole has corrugated packaging are strongly influenced by 0.3% while growth in eastern and central grown at approximately 1.5% per annum over Europe continued to be much stronger at by pricing developments on corrugated the last five years, while the UK market, of 5.8%.
In DS Smiths principal markets, case materials CCM, the paper used as circa 2 million tonnes, has been static or the principal component in manufacturing demand by weight fell by 1.9% in the UK, declining in recent years and is now some 3% while in France and Italy it was flat 0.3% and corrugated packaging and typically accounting smaller than five years ago.
Approximately for around 50% of the cost of a box.
CCM nil growth, respectively, and in Poland and 75% of the market is waste-based or recycled Turkey it grew strongly by 9.3% and 7.6%, prices have been falling as a result of CCM, with the balance principally comprising overcapacity, although in late 2005 this respectively.
The continuing trend towards kraftliner, made from virgin wood pulp.
began to reverse as demand improved and the use of more lighter-weight packaging, for CCM capacity was closed.
The overall fall in During the first half of 2005 06, low growth cost and environmental reasons, meant that CCM prices, compounded by the cost-down in corrugated packaging demand and excess demand by area declined by 1.5% in the UK requirements of our customers, many of which CCM manufacturing capacity resulted in while it rose by 1.3% in Europe as a whole.
supply retailers, has put significant pressure The European market strengthened in the CCM prices declining.
new continental European CCM machines, course of calendar year 2005 and has remained relatively buoyant in the early months of 2006, especially in Germany.
The Corrugated Packaging Supply Chain Within the total European market, the growth rates of different segments vary considerably.
Corrugated packaging usage in some industrial Paper Waste Corrugated manufacturing sectors of western Europe has corrugated case paper packaging material CCM tended to decline as a result of the transfer of boxes manufacturing to lower cost countries, while Geographic Global Regional European Local typically 150 miles market usage for fast-moving consumer goods, which Product Principally OCC Recycled paper c. 75% c. 65% for fast-moving account for approximately two-thirds of the features old corrugated cases Virgin kraft paper c. 25% consumer goods corrugated market, has been relatively strong % of the cost c. 10% c. 50% due to the resilience of this economic sector.
of a box Other current growth segments are the home 1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board N. B. Indicative information: these factors vary for specic products or sectors of the market Manufacturers DS Smith estimates 2 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 13 European and UK Corrugated Packaging Market Indices Tonnes index 2000 100 105.6 106.5 103.3 99.5 101.9 98.5 97.5 97.6 97.6 95.6 Europe including UK UK Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1.3 million tonnes were commissioned.
This new capacity, which was concentrated on lighter-weight papers, resulted in a severe destabilisation of selling prices throughout the European market.
Since the autumn of 2005, the pace of removal of older CCM capacity from the market has increased with announcements of capacity closures from most of the larger producers as well as some from 1 2 smaller independent companies.
It is estimated that approximately 2.3 million tonnes of older capacity has been closed, or has been announced for closure, since the start of 2004.
One further CCM machine was commissioned in early 2006, but no other significant capacity additions are expected in western Europe before the end of 2007.
The squeeze on CCM producers margins from 3 4 depressed selling prices was exacerbated during 2005 by the sharp increases in energy costs.
of Packaging Recovery Notes PRNs, DS Smith waste paper collection Against a background of slightly stronger which are issued as evidence that packaging to corrugated boxes growth in demand for CCM across Europe and has been reprocessed, in compliance with 1 Severnside Recyclings principal objective is the removal of some capacity, CCM producers the UK Packaging Waste Regulations.
As to provide a secure supply of waste paper increased prices by approximately 20% for our UK paper mills.
a reprocessor of waste paper, we receive between November 2005 and March 2006 to 2 St Regis Paper Company is the leading revenue from the sale of PRNs to packaging recover some of the margin decline.
In response UK manufacturer of CCM: it is also a waste compliance schemes and companies major producer of plasterboard liner.
to this, box producers also increased prices in the packaging supply chain that have an in early 2006.
To date, anecdotal evidence 3 DS Smith Polska produces boxes, obligation under the Regulations to ensure principally for customers that are supplying suggests that the rise in box prices across that sufficient quantities of packaging are the fast-growing local Polish market.
the industry is well short of that required to being recycled.
We can set this PRN revenue 4 DS Smith Packagings Speciality sector recover the paper and energy cost increases.
designs and manufactures corrugated against the cost of purchasing waste paper display xtures.
and investment in our waste collection and The pressure on CCM margins has been increased by the relatively high cost of waste recycling operations.
Paper PRNs were in paper, the principal raw material for recycled relatively plentiful supply during 2005, mainly CCM.
Waste paper is a globally traded due to the sharply increased quantities of commodity: its continuing high level of waste packaging being exported for recycling.
Consequently, the price of paper PRNs demand from Asia is contributing to a modest continuing increase and short-term spikes in remained relatively low during 2005 and its price in Europe.
In the UK, the net cost of has softened further in calendar year 2006 our raw material is also affected by the price to date.
14 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Operating Review UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging factors by increased production and a better sales mix at the divisions largest mill at Kemsley.
This improvement came from our drive to increase sales of plasterboard liner which resulted in the sales volume of this product increasing to a run-rate of approximately 160,000 tonnes per annum in April 2006 from approximately 95,000 tonnes The benets of our actions to per annum in April 2005.
The capital expenditure programme to upgrade existing strengthen the segment were machines at the Kemsley and Wansbrough mills, in order to satisfy the plasterboard liner more than offset by price pressure supply requirements of BPB, is proceeding as and increased energy costs.
This investment will also enhance the quality of other products produced at these mills.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS The Kemsley mill benefited from its 2006 2005 advantageous energy supply position as Revenue m 649.6m 631.2m a result of previous investment in on-site Adjusted operating profit m 20.5m 31.6m combined heat and power and waste-to-energy plants.
The five smaller mills experienced Adjusted EBITDA m 55.1m 67.3m a further sharp increase in energy costs.
Adjusted return on sales % 3.2% 5.0% This particularly affected results at the Adjusted EBITDA margin % 8.5% 10.7% Sudbrook, Wansbrough and Taplow mills, Adjusted return on average capital employed % 4.0% 6.0% all of which were in loss.
Hollins mill, which specialises in white top testliner, raised its before exceptional items of 28.9 million 2004 05: 4.9 million output and enhanced the quality of one of its key products.
Higher Kings mill continued integration process which required the 2005 06 Performance to focus on higher margin, speciality, nonclosure of two large facilities and the packaging papers.
Sudbrook mill, which was Our actions over the last two years to subsequent transfer of production to other St Regis most energy-intensive production enlarge our Corrugated Packaging business plants to reduce costs.
In the second half unit, was closed in March 2006 to staunch and to enrich our product mix in Paper have of the financial year, margins were squeezed losses, as part of the Groups strategy to strengthened the UK Paper and Corrugated by increased CCM costs.
At the conventional concentrate on mills with a long-term future.
However, the benefits plants, sales were lower and margins were The closure of the smaller of the two paper of these actions were more than offset by affected by substantial price pressure.
The machines at Wansbrough mill is expected lower selling prices during much of the speciality sector, which concentrates on early in the 2006 07 financial year.
These year and a circa 18 million increase in higher added-value products, performed capacity closures contributed 28.9 million energy costs.
well, benefiting particularly from our to the overall exceptional charge of Revenue increased by 2.9% to 649.6 businesses design and printing capabilities.
Following these million as a result of increased sales of The Tri-Wall heavy-duty business, which sells closures, Kemsley mill now accounts for higher added-value products from Kemsley, predominantly to the industrial manufacturing over 60% of the divisions paper production: our principal paper mill, and growth in sector of the economy, had a difficult year.
it ranks in the upper quartile of European Severnside Recyclings external sales.
Despite Market conditions for our sheet feeding mills in terms of cost-competitiveness.
the achievement of the expected synergies operations, which supply corrugated sheet Sales and profits at our UK waste collection of 14.5 million 2004 05: 6.1 million, board, were especially competitive due to business, Severnside Recycling, advanced, resulting from the integration benefits of industry over-supply.
principally as a result of the enlargement of our 2004 corrugated packaging acquisition, At our UK paper business, St Regis, profits its network of collection depots during the adjusted operating profit was lower at remained depressed due to a combination of previous financial year.
The price of waste 20.5 million 2004 05: 31.6 million.
a further squeeze on margins from substantial paper remained high relative to the selling DS Smith Packaging, our UK Corrugated increases in energy costs and depressed selling price of recycled paper with continued strong export demand.
In addition to meeting the Packaging business, was affected by the prices for our main product, CCM, the latter weak demand for boxes in the UK and some during the first half of the financial year.
We requirements of St Regis mills for waste disruption to its operations as a result of the paper, Severnside increased its exports of partly mitigated the impact of these external DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 15 waste paper and grew further its facilities box prices in order to benefit the overall result.
As the box price increase took place management business where it manages late in our financial year, these box price rises customers entire waste recycling and had only a small effect on the 2005 06 profits.
The box price increases should benefit results We raised prices of the main grades of CCM in 2006 07 but the net effect they have on by approximately 20% during the second half profits across the UK businesses will depend of the financial year in order to recover some heavily on how input costs develop.
We of the previous margin erosion.
Towards the currently expect to incur a further increase end of the financial year, we increased box in energy and fuel costs in our ongoing prices, which had been falling consistently operations in this segment in 2006 07. until that point.
Given that the Groups CCM In addition, the net cost of waste paper is production and usage are broadly in balance continuing to increase as a result of rising overall, higher CCM prices need to be passed demand from Asia and the falling value on to our external customers through higher of PRNs.
Design in action DS SMITH PACKAGING, ELY, UK 1 2 DS Smith Packaging has seized the opportunity of the growth in demand for retail-ready packaging.
Our Impact Centre simulates the layout and display features ADDING VALUE FOR OUR of a retail store.
It provides an excellent setting in which we can demonstrate our capabilities to design and produce packaging that succeeds in-store as well CUSTOMERS as in transit.
3 1 Computer-aided design enables 2 Retail-ready packaging must be 3 Our designers work closely with products to be developed faster rapidly convertible from a transit customers to think back from and proofed on screen by to a display pack, reducing store the shelf and develop more the customer.
handling and shelf lling time.
sophisticated boxes which work well in the retail environment.
16 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Operating Review Continental European Corrugated Packaging at Kutno, west of Warsaw, opened in November 2005 and complements the existing plant at Kielce.
This Polish business primarily supplies the rapidly expanding, fast-moving consumer goods FMCG sector in Poland.
Profits advanced well at our small converting business in the Czech Republic.
DS Smith Kaysersberg performed well despite the tough trading conditions.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2006 2005 Revenue m 276.6m 265.7m Operating profit m 20.1m 20.2m EBITDA m 33.6m 33.6m Return on sales % 7.3% 7.6% DS Smith Kaysersbergs businesses concentrate EBITDA margin % 12.1% 12.6% in particular on higher value-added sectors of Return on average capital employed % 12.4% 13.7% the market.
In Turkey, where our business broke through into profit in 2004 05, we continued to focus in France.
Despite an increase in energy 2005 06 Performance on growing sales in higher margin industrial costs of circa 3 million and sharply Despite the tough trading conditions, DS Smith market sectors.
OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and increased CCM costs during the second Kaysersberg performed well thanks to our Packaging Mill in the Ukraine, in which we targeted market positions, good management half of the financial year, adjusted operating hold a 39% stake and the results of which profit was broadly flat at 20.1 million of product mix and growth in eastern Europe.
are reported under associates, continued to 2004 05: 20.2 million.
Revenue increased by 4.1% to 276.6 million, perform well.
Sales and profits at the French paper mills principally as a result of strong growth in We implemented box price increases in all grew following investment at the main Poland and increased sales of solid board continental markets in our efforts to pass Kaysersberg mill in 2005 which increased on the higher CCM costs but, as in the UK, production capacity and reduced costs thereby Continental European Corrugated this had little effect on results in 2005 06.
This mill, which has Packaging Locations 2006 07, we anticipate being able to recover reduced its emissions of carbon dioxide a substantial proportion of the increased through investment in a combined heat and CCM and energy costs.
power plant, also benefited from the sale of excess carbon credits under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
The French Corrugated Ukraine Poland Packaging operations increased their market Czech Republic share but were affected by the pressure on France box prices during much of the financial year.
Despite highly competitive trading conditions Italy in its local market, our Italian business Turkey performed satisfactorily and maintained its strong positions in the pizza box and ceramics market sectors.
The Groups continental corrugated packaging NB Indicative relative sizes of operations not drawn to scale Our Polish business grew both its sales and businesses produce heavy-duty boxes and Associate business profits strongly.
Its new green-field factory corrugated pallets for industrial customers.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 17 Growth inaction DS SMITH POLSKA, KUTNO, POLAND 1 2 3 BUILDING ON OUR EXPERTISE 4 Our successful Polish plant at Kielce, south 1 DS Smith Polskas new 20 million factory, of Warsaw, had reached full capacity.
located on a green-eld site, opened on time in November 2005.
We used the expertise of our continental European team to plan, build and open the 2 Paper reels are loaded onto the corrugator to new 28,000 square metres factory at Kutno, produce corrugated board.
The factory is one of the 3 The corrugator converts paper into corrugated board.
most advanced box plants in Europe and 4 Prior to commissioning, employees were trained was built and tted out without any lost at other Group plants in Poland and Italy.
time accidents occurring on the site.
5 Boxes are produced to the high standards of quality and safety required by major fast-moving consumer 5 goods customers.
18 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Operating Review Plastic Packaging adjusted operating profit was 2.0 million H1 2004 05: 6.2 million while that in the second half improved to 5.2 million H2 2004 05: 3.1 million.
The full year result was adversely affected by polymer and energy costs combined being circa 7 million higher during 2005 06 than in the previous financial year.
We endeavoured to pass on these higher Our actions resulted in costs by raising our selling prices but in some cases this led to a loss of business and an improving profit trend where we did achieve increases these were insufficient to restore margins to acceptable at DS Smith Plastics in the levels.
The cumulative effect of this input cost second half of the year.
under-recovery was approximately 3 million during 2005 06, largely concentrated in our RTP business.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS In liquid packaging and dispensing, sales were 2006 2005 flat and profits were significantly lower.
Our Revenue m 202.4m 195.9m US operations performed satisfactorily on the Adjusted operating profit m 7.2m 9.3m back of good product development while sales of dispensing products remained strong.
In Adjusted EBITDA m 19.3m 20.6m contrast, we faced increased competition in Adjusted return on sales % 3.6% 4.7% Europe, particularly in higher margin products, Adjusted EBITDA margin % 9.5% 10.5% although in the second half of the financial Adjusted return on average capital employed % 5.6% 6.6% year results started to benefit from earlier restructuring action, our increased emphasis before exceptional items of 2.6 million 2004 05: 5.8 million on new product development and growth in higher margin sectors.
of multi-trip, reusable packaging on cost Market Overview Sales of RTP for 2005 06 as a whole were and environmental grounds.
However, during The global market for liquid packaging significantly higher than in the previous year 2005 06 it is believed that there was relatively and dispensing products is estimated to be despite being slow during the first half of the little growth in the European RTP market, approximately $750 million.
Margins were squeezed by the underprincipally as a result of the higher polymer uses of bag-in-box packaging are for wine, recovery of the higher polymer prices and, in costs.
RTP products are used most within agricultural produce such as fruit juice and the extruded sheet sector, by industry capacity the retail, automotive, electronics and dairy products and food service applications increases at a time of weaker demand.
Demand is heavily such as carbonated soft drink concentrate for improved in the second half of the financial influenced by industry sector activity levels the hotel and restaurant industries.
There is year with the achievement of some price and, as RTP is often a capital purchase driven modest volume growth in North America and increases and a sharp revival in the volume by particular projects, annual demand can Europe but value growth is lower due to price of crate sales.
The extruded product businesses be of an uneven nature.
The market in Asia-Pacific is at continued to experience difficult trading but an early stage of development and growing benefited, in the second half of the year, from 2005 06 Performance rapidly.
The market for dispensing products Results at DS Smith Plastics were affected principally taps, other than for bag-in-box Plastic Packaging Revenue by Sector by the high level of polymer prices and a systems, is fragmented across a wide range of uses.
DS Smith is a major supplier to the more competitive trading environment in Total: 202.4m both of our major sectors: liquid packaging wine and liquid detergent sector: the latter has and dispensing: and RTP.
Our actions grown strongly in recent years in the USA Liquid packaging to raise prices, strengthen our sales and and is now starting to develop in Europe.
and dispensing 26.6m product development capability and increase The European market for returnable transit RTP productivity resulted in an improving profit 88.5m packaging RTP, which is estimated to be Other trend in the second half of the financial year.
approximately 1.4 billion, is fragmented into 87.3m many sub-sectors.
The overall market has Revenue increased by 3.3% to 202.4 million experienced steady growth in recent years, but adjusted operating profit was lower at due to the increased requirement for the use 7.2 million 2004 05: 9.3 million.
First half DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 19 action taken to strengthen their sales functions.
specialises in modified atmosphere packaging, We are expanding our capability to supply grew strongly.
The small, non-core plastic in eastern Europe from the Groups plant in coating and laminating business, BSK, was the Czech Republic, in response to increased sold in December 2005, resulting in a loss sourcing of RTP products in that region by on sale of 2.6 million.
Looking forward, a key issue in Plastic The aggregate result of the smaller speciality Packaging is the outlook for polymer prices businesses improved significantly.
The and the extent to which we can recover the packaging management business moved higher costs and further rebuild margins.
from break-even into profit following good We expect the improving trend within this sales growth, while sales at StePac, which segment to continue in 2006 07.
Innovation in action DEVELOPING PRODUCTS & MARKETS DS SMITH PLASTICS 1 We are developing our Plastic Packaging business through new product development and by moving into new geographic markets.
In liquid packaging and dispensing, our bags and taps incorporate innovative technology, which is opening up new uses for bag-in-box packaging.
In RTP, we combine technical advances with custom-made design to meet individual customers needs.
5 2 3 4 1 A new injection moulded 2 Returnable, stackable 3 Taps for dispensing liquid 4 An award-winning 3-litre 5 Taps and other dispensing pallet for transporting and boxes designed for specic detergent, which we have bag-in-box pack uses equipment must perform to storing beer kegs automotive components give sold in high volume in the Rapaks Intasept high standards: they undergo incorporates many strength, good protection against USA, are now being sold technology to extend extensive quality control.
20 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Operating Review Ofce Products Wholesaling Wholesalers account for approximately 10% of the total market.
The direct wholesaling competition that Spicers faces varies by country.
In the UK there is one other significant national wholesaler of office products.
In most continental markets, competition from other national wholesalers is limited, but there are significant numbers of Spicers result was substantially regional and local wholesalers.
The European scale of Spicers business assists it in offering affected by erosion of sales margins a broad range of products at competitive prices relative to those of many of its smaller in the UK.
Spicers commitment to supplying only the trade and not, as some of its competitors do, supplying end-users, gives it a competitive advantage.
Spicers FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS competes indirectly with a number of other 2006 2005 distribution channels.
The most significant of these, contract stationers, accounts for Revenue m 518.7m 499.7m approximately 15% of the total market: they Operating profit m 12.6m 21.5m generally sell to larger offices and offer a EBITDA m 19.2m 28.5m smaller range of products than dealers.
The Return on sales % 2.4% 4.3% principal other competitor channels to market EBITDA margin % 3.7% 5.7% are: mail order, office superstores, other retailers and manufacturers selling direct Return on average capital employed % 9.9% 18.1% to offices.
2005 06 Performance stationery sector declining and electronic Market Overview 1 Despite continued progress at our continental office supplies EOS growing at up to 10% The office products markets of the UK, France European businesses, Spicers result was per annum.
The volume of products bought and Germany, in which Spicers currently has substantially affected by a sharp decline in by offices continues to increase but the value over 90% of its sales, are estimated to be the profitability of its UK business, largely of the market is being held back by price worth approximately 9 billion, 8 billion from the erosion of its sales margin in the deflation caused by intense competition and 11 billion, respectively, at trade prices.
Spicers cash between suppliers and the trend for consumers In 2005, these markets were estimated to have flow remained strong.
to buy lower-specification or own-branded been broadly flat overall, with the traditional products.
EOS, which is a growing sector Spicers revenue advanced by 3.8% to 518.7 of the market, accounts for approximately Spicers Distribution Centres million, the growth coming almost entirely 50% of the total office products market: from the contribution of Timmermans, the it is especially price-competitive on the Benelux business acquired in October 2005. high-volume EOS products.
The fall in profit in the UK more than offset better profits from continental Europe and The relative shares of the various supply channels to the end-user market differ by resulted in the adjusted operating profit being lower at 12.6 million 2004 05: 21.5 million.
However, in the countries in which Spicers operates, the sector that Spicers Spicers UKs sales were flat but its profit was principally supplies, that of office products sharply lower.
This reflected general market dealers, accounts, on average, for approximately price deflation, a significantly reduced sales 35% of the total office products market.
margin from increased competitive pressure, The share of the market held by dealers has and higher costs incurred to overcome been relatively stable in recent years.
products dealers primarily sell to smaller and medium-sized offices, generally offer a high In response to increased competitor activity, standard of service to their customers, and Spicers UKs selling prices were eroded and source most of their products either from customer rebates were increased significantly.
Opening autumn 2006 wholesalers or direct from manufacturers.
The substantial deterioration in margins in 1 Source: DS Smith estimates based on national data DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2006 21 Spicers UK, particularly from higher levels of customer retrospective rebates, only became Expansion fully apparent late in the financial year.
This highlighted management process and control in action issues in Spicers UK which were addressed in that business unit through senior management changes and a review and reinforcement of control processes.
The managing director and finance director of Spicers UK have left the business and action has been taken to strengthen SPICERS, HANNOVER, GERMANY 1 the UK sales and operations functions.
We are also accelerating the programme to reduce our structural cost base in the UK.
In 2005 06, Spicers made further major advances in rolling out its business model in continental Europe.
Spicers France continued to perform well and profits advanced strongly.
A new central distribution centre at Chateauroux, in central France, has been commissioned early in 2006 07.
Spicers Germany consolidated its 2 3 profitable position by concentrating its business on higher margin sectors of the market.
The Spanish business continued to grow strongly STRENGTHENING OUR and achieved a profit for the year through substantially higher sales at better margins.
A new distribution centre near to Madrid is due to open in autumn 2006 which will extend NETWORK our sales coverage across central and southern Spain.
Spicers Italy, which was launched in the autumn of 2004, continued its encouraging build-up of sales.
On 30 September 2005, we further extended Spicers sales coverage in continental Europe through the acquisition of Timmermans NV, the leading office products wholesaler in the Benelux region: Timmermans has performed in line with our expectations.
Spicers Germany, which started trading in 1998, is a key part of Spicers development in continental Europe.
1 Over 16,000 product lines are selected for It consolidated its profitable position inclusion in the Spicers Germany catalogue.
in 2005 06 through high service levels, increased efficiency and focusing on 2 Over 90% of customers orders are delivered within 24 hours.
higher margin sectors of the market.
Spicers successful continental expansion 3 efficient order picking systems allow very has strengthened its ability to purchase high service quality levels.
its product range at competitive prices.
4 The Hannover distribution centre processes 4 over 20,000 orders per week.
