TEN The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Operations Review This region includes the land markets AMERICAS of US and Canada and the deepwater and shelf markets of the Gulf of Mexico.
The onshore activity is largely cased hole while the offshore activity is a combination of cased hole and subsea.
Expros operations are centred in four geographic development strategy and partly from the benefits regions.
The Europe FSU region, headquartered of the established infrastructure.
The number of in Aberdeen, covers the UKCS, Norway, recorded manhours has increased by 17% on the Continental Europe and FSU, including Western prior year.
Against this background, Expro has Russia.
The Africa Middle East region, managed bettered its HSE targets for the year and delivered from its hub in Dubai, covers North Africa, West a best in class HSE performance.
Africa and the Middle East.
The Asia region, also based in Dubai, covers South East Asia, China Regional businesses and Australia.
The Americas region spans North Europe FSU regional revenue was 77.1m, up and South America, with headquarters in 29% on the prior year.
Higher oil prices saw a Houston.
The group operates in over forty build up in well maintenance activity during the countries worldwide.
year, as operators strived to optimise production.
At the same time, the market experienced an In addition to the Regional businesses the group upturn in development and exploration activity in operates a number of Business Units that rely on the North Sea.
Limited availability of personnel the regional infrastructure for operations support.
and equipment saw improved pricing and The Subsea Business Unit, based in Aberdeen, margins despite underlying cost pressures.
This provides subsea intervention equipment used to was the first full year of the Shell pan-European access subsea wells for completion, testing and wireline and well testing contracts, under which maintenance.
The Production Solutions Business Expro performs well operations across all of Unit, with offices in Reading and Houston, Shells European activities.
In the FSU, the supplies and operates fast track production contract to provide multiple services on the facilities to establish early production from proven Karachaganak field was extended for a further fields.
The Tronic-Matre Business Unit provides a two years with two one year options, at enhanced specialist range of subsea electrical connectors rates.
The group was also successful in expanding and sensors.
its client base in the FSU with campaigns for Top to bottom: Caspian Oil & Gas, Uralsk Oil & Gas and Maersk Schematic model of EPF for Performance Oil & Gas.
Increased activity using under balanced Chevron in Nigeria.
DHVI equipment with portable The year has seen a significant improvement in drilling technology in the Netherlands boosted cases for air freight, Aberdeen.
activity, partly due to increased investment by income.
In the North Sea, the use of Slickline Nang Huan EPF facility in operators both in field development and well Perforating SLP technology together with construction.
operations, partly due to the impact of Expros innovative StimGun products provided cost Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group ELEVEN AMERICAS Expros operations are centred in four geographic regions Europe FSU, Africa Middle East, Asia and the Americas, together with Business Units, which are grouped within the Global businesses segment.
effective solutions to operators keen to optimise pressures within the industry.
are further evidence of Expros strong position in the all important deep water West Africa market.
Africa regional revenue was 32.9 m, up 44% on Offshore Cte dIvoire, Expro combined its Drill the prior year.
A slow start to the year in North Stem Testing DST and Tubing Conveyed Africa was offset by some notable contract Perforating TCP expertise to provide CNR with awards in the second half of the year and a pick a seamless testing capability on its Espoir field.
Recent awards included contracts This was the first time that this expertise had for bp, Repsol, Total and Woodside.
The been applied to a major contract outside application of multiphase metering technology the United States.
and Expros proprietary GOLD system, delivering laboratory standard Pressure Volume Temperature Asia regional revenue was 24.9m, up 16% on PVT analysis in the field, is providing clients in the prior year.
Cased hole services activity was North Africa, and elsewhere, with valuable fluid up by over a third in Australia as operators data on site.
The provision of well testing and increased well maintenance activity both onshore cased hole services on a number of major West and offshore.
A similar picture emerged in Coast deepwater projects accounted for the Thailand, where the continuing well services majority of the increase in activity.
A successful contract with Chevron saw activity increase by campaign for Woodside on their Chinguetti field almost 40%.
Work continued through the year on offshore Mauritania was completed during the a major integrated services contract with year, with the prospect of further work in the area PetroVietnam in the Cuu Long basin.
The start up of testing and cased contract utilised Expros proprietary Tubing hole operations for Amerada Hess offshore Conveyed Sampling system that enables Equatorial Guinea expanded Expros presence in operators to retrieve fluid samples whilst testing this all important West Africa region.
Major rather than with a separate wireline deployed contracts were awarded in Angola during the sampler, saving time.
Wireless Well Solutions, year, for the supply of clean up and testing TM CaTS, Wyoming.
services on deepwater Blocks 18 and 31 for bp, Americas regional revenue was 34.6m, up 26% and on Blocks 17 and 32 for Total.
Income was boosted by the capability offshore Angola has increased acquisition early in the year of Downhole Video significantly during the year.
This was achieved Inc. DHVI.
This provided a valuable addition to against a background of increasing supply chain Expros portfolio of wireline deployed tools.
TWELVE The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Operations Review continued This region operates across the diverse ASIA markets of Asia and Australasia.
Operational activities include cased hole activities in Thailand and Australia, Production activities in Indonesia and Sahkalin, well test activities in Vietnam and New Zealand and subsea activities offshore Malaysia.
Despite the worst hurricane season on record in operated tools on Enis K2 development.
Work the Gulf of Mexico, TCP activity was up 18% on continued during the year on the development of the prior year and activity increased noticeably in the next generation of high pressure tools for the final quarter.
This was in part due to increased Chevrons deepwater Tahiti development in the market activity and in part due to increased Gulf of Mexico.
This is the largest single market share.
The EXCAPE perforating subsea contract ever placed with Expro and technology was successfully deployed in high represents state of the art subsea intervention rate horizontal wells in the Barnett Shale in Central technology, confirming Expros position as Texas, opening up a new area for this technology.
market leader in this field.
During the year, As a result, EXCAPE activity was up 23% on the equipment was delivered for use on bps prior year.
Despite a slow take up of the Block 18 development offshore Angola, technology, downhole tractor operations in on Chevrons Lobito Tomboco development Canada recorded combined runs of 200,000 also offshore Angola and on Norsk Hydros metres in extreme well conditions with no lost Ormen Lange project offshore Norway.
Other notable technical achievements were the development of a combined video and Production Solutions Business Unit revenue was production logging tool to identify fluid entry into 39.9m, up 115% on the prior year.
This was wells and the use of PowerPerf propellant to despite the early shut down of the Ardmore Field provide enhanced perforating services.
in the North Sea where Expro was providing and operating production facilities on the jack up Global businesses based production facility.
The equipment was Subsea Business Unit revenue was 39.1m, up decommissioned and is currently being 49% on the prior year.
In the North Sea, a redeployed to other projects.
The most significant significant increase in the number of subsea well achievement during the year was the successful interventions and well clean-ups saw equipment start up of the interim production facility for ENL utilisation at record levels.
This was reflected in on the Chayvo Field, Sakhalin Island, Eastern Top to bottom: improved pricing.
It was a similar picture in the Russia.
This enabled ENL to commence oil and Expro staff at Offshore Europe, Gulf of Mexico with a 37% increase in the number gas production from the giant Sakhalin-1 Aberdeen 2005.
of interventions, to record levels.
In addition to development, on time and on budget.
Income in Tarim Basin Rig site, NW China.
conventional intervention equipment, the year South East Asia was boosted by the start up of saw the successful deployment of the latest the Nang Nuan development, with Expro generation of high pressure electro hydraulically providing and operating the production facilities Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group THIRTEEN ASIA Cased hole services activity was up by over a third in Australia as operators increased well maintenance activity both onshore and offshore.
A number of smaller onshore orders for subsea equipment continued to early production facilities were also commissioned increase as more and more subsea development during the year in Indonesia.
In China, sales of projects were approved.
This is directly reflected production and testing equipment reached record in Tronics order book.
Work started during the year on the both facilities and personnel during the year has construction of a barge mounted production ensured that Tronic-Matre can meet the demand, facility for Chevron Nigeria Ltd.
The facility is due delivering high quality products on time, for to be completed in the next financial year and will projects across the globe.
Development of be used to increase Chevrons production from enhanced subsea connectors for ultra high the Delta Region.
voltage power supply and for fibre-optic cables has continued, ensuring that Tronic-Matre Tronic-Matre Business Unit revenue was 39.4m, remains at the forefront of subsea connector up 48% on the prior year.
With the acquisition of technology.
Matre at the end of the previous financial year, the business added pressure and temperature Finally the Fluid Analysis Centre and Ecodrill sensors to its product range, enabling Tronicmanpower business, which fall within the Global Matre to offer integrated sensor and connector businesses segment, also showed significant packages for installation on subsea wells.
Income growth on the prior year.
was also boosted by an increasing number of orders for high voltage subsea power connectors, a technology where Tronic has established itself Mike Martindale as a market leader.
After a record year in 2005, Chief Operating Officer Top to bottom: Expro facility, Houston.
Opening of the Expro Technology Centre, Aberdeen.
