group operating review group operating review building on strong market accelerated investment 2006 was another encouraging year for our business, with Our Fluid Controls businesses 69% of revenue, 77% of results buoyed by a strong performance in our Fluid profits are clearly faring better than our Retail Dispense Controls businesses and an impressive contribution from our businesses 31% of revenue, 23% of profits at present, recent acquisitions.
Another year of strong cash benefiting from strong end markets and a significant exposure performance highlights the cash-generative qualities of our to the faster growing emerging markets of Asia and Eastern businesses, leaving year end net debt at 80m.
The medium term prospects for our Fluid Controls We made good progress against our well defined businesses continue to look positive and, notwithstanding the operational strategies in each of our businesses, building on short term impact of the much anticipated fall in US truck strong market positions through accelerated investment in volumes this year, we expect further top line growth and new products and key account management.
Our Retail Dispense businesses had a introductions included the launch of new control valve and more challenging year, with consumer-led sectors generally strainer products within Severe Service for the rapidly less favourable, and market-specific issues resulting in a growing liquefied natural gas and nuclear markets: a new postponement of capital expenditure and a downward technology product within Indoor Climate for protecting pressure on margins.
Nonetheless, the long term drivers for against legionella in water-borne cooling systems: and inthese businesses remain encouraging, and the scope for store merchandising for the launch of Microsofts highly volume and margin recovery, through product innovation in successful Zune digital music and video player.
and bespoke product solutions that deliver engineering We accelerated our programme of upgrading management, advantage for global blue chip customers in well defined through both external recruitment and increased investment niche markets remains the common theme within IMI, and in the development of our existing team.
This programme is is our chosen pathway to sustainable long term growth and progressing well.
We are encouraged by the calibre of our margin improvement.
new recruits, and confident that we are assembling the right Organic revenue growth Operating margins Organic revenue growth excludes the impact Operating margins are defined as the ratio of our key of acquisitions and foreign exchange rate operating profit before restructuring costs and movements.
The revenues from acquisitions intangible amortisation as a percentage of performance are only included in the current year for the revenues.
In 2006 these margins increased period during which the revenues were also from 12.2% to 12.7%.
Our target is to raise indicators included in the prior period.
In 2006 the these margins over time to 15%.
Groups organic revenue growth was 4.2%, just below our long term target of around 5%.
Business performance is evaluated regularly by the Board of IMI plc using a variety of tools.
Five of the most important measures are indicated here.
2006 4% 2006 12.7% 2005 2005 5% 12.2% 2004 5% 2004 10.5% 6 Group operating review positions through skills and experience to fully capitalise on future business opportunities.
The recent strengthening of the Board, with the appointment of Roy Twite as Executive Director for the Retail Dispense businesses, is another very positive development in this regard.
Our balance sheet is in excellent shape and we are well placed to fund further acquisitions.
We were particularly pleased with the performance of the Truflo acquisition which we concluded in April.
A number of other acquisitions were considered in the year but did not proceed for a variety of reasons.
Our investments in restructuring to accelerate further the transition of manufacturing to lower cost economies continued to plan in the year, and we have additional investments of around 20m programmed for each of the next two years.
We are already starting to see the benefits of the actions we took during 2006 and with a continued focus on margin improvement we look forward to achieving further progress.
Martin J Lamb Chief Executive 5 March 2007 Economic value added Lost time accident rates CO2 emissions per billion of revenue Economic value added is defined as the The Group takes seriously its responsibility for Our CO2 emissions in 2006 from all forms of net operating profit after tax on continuing the safety of all our employees.
Our lost time energy usage in our operations amounted to operations before restructuring costs less a accident rate improved marginally in 2006 to 110,000 tonnes compared to 104,000 tonnes capital charge.
The capital charge is arrived at 0.50 accidents per 100,000 hours worked from in 2005.
However, as a ratio of emissions by applying the after tax weighted average cost 0.53 in 2005.
The 3 year rate to 2006, of 0.49, per billion of revenue, our performance of capital to the average invested capital net also compares favourably to the 3 year rate improved by 5% with a reduction in the assets plus net debt, but net debt excludes the to 2003 which stood at 0.76.
We are not year to 73,000 CO2 tonnes bn of revenue.
complacent and continue to reinforce the All of our major factories have local energy responsibility of all our employees to contribute saving targets and initiatives to deliver to our safe working practices.
