Directors report - Business review Operational review Our trading performance Key performance indicators emphatically demonstrated the strength of each of 2006 2005 Change Interserves three main Revenue 1,408.5m 1,214.5m 15.9% operating divisions.
Headline earnings per share rose by 68 Headline earnings per cent to 31.7 pence 2005: per share 31.7p 18.9p 67.7% 18.9 pence and cash 1 Cash conversion 153.1% 150.2% 2.9% pts conversion remained strong at 2 over 150 per cent.
We also Future workload 5.6bn 4.8bn 16.7% made the exciting acquisition 3 Staff turnover 7.9% 7.9% 0% of MacLellan, which opens up new markets, augments the All-employee accident range of services we can offer incidence rate per to existing clients and enables 100,000 workforce 556 788 29.4 % us to bid for work using the combined skills and scale of the two organisations.
We have made good progress with Sector the integration of MacLellan and of the Industrial Services 71% 29% division into our Facilities Public and privatised Private Services operation.
Work type In addition to delivering an excellent performance during 76% 24% the year we accelerated the Longer-term relationships Projects and pace at which we won new shorter-term business, which will support our relationships growth in the future.
Our future 1 Cash conversion is calculated as the workload on 31 December percentage of cash generated from both from new contracts and Facilities Services 2006 was 5.6 billion 2005: operations of 49.3m 2005: 45.5m from our continued success in Facilities Services has divided by the sum of: operating profit 4.8 billion - over half the growing existing contracts.
Our of 1.4m 2005: 30.5m : plus developed an excellent increase coming from organic amortisation of intangible assets of South East Prime contract, reputation through the growth, with around 360 2.1m 2005: nil : plus impairment of covering the MoDs estate in provision and management of million being the acquired goodwill of 30m 2005: nil : less profit London and the south-east of an integrated range of FM on disposal of property and investments MacLellan order book.
England, was a notable example services to the public sector.
of such growth: in 2006, its 2 Future workload comprises contracted first full-year of operation, Results summary: work plus work that has been settled revenue more than doubled.
and on which final terms are being 2006 2005 agreed principally PFI projects at Contribution to Total preferred bidder stage.
Operating Profit 21.4m 17.8m Our new contracts are a mixture of those which have 3 Staff turnover measures the proportion Revenue 4 of managerial, technical and officenet of works bills 447.8m 383.3m an immediate impact and based staff leaving voluntarily over the those which will do so in Margin 4.8% 4.6% course of the year.
future years once the facilities 4 Works bills pass-through costs on in which we shall deliver our This strong performance with certain MoD contracts on which no services have been an increase of 20 per cent in margin can be earned were 28.2m constructed.
They include: total operating profit resulted 2005: 60.9m.
8 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Far Left: London Borough of Croydon Our total facilities management contract has so far achieved efficiencies in the region of 2 million a year on a property portfolio of 320 buildings throughout the London Borough of Croydon.
Centre: Tesco Ireland Initially awarded to MacLellan in 2004 for a year, renewed in 2005 for a year, and in 2006 for a further two years, this contract provides an integrated retail cleaning solution to 48 stores throughout Ireland and employs over 290 staff.
Right: Beth Flood In November 2006, Beth Flood, 28, our Facilities Manager for Coopers Square Shopping Centre, in Burton-upon-Trent, scooped the prestigious FMA Young Manager of the Year at the PFM Awards.
Croydon Council: a 60 Tunbridge Wells Pembury MacLellan million, seven-year contract Hospital PFI first choice Results summary providing a broad range of bidder: once the new sevenno 2005 comparators : services in over 600 storey hospital has been built 20 Julyproperties from the Town we shall deliver FM services 31 December 2006 Hall to libraries, youth clubs over a 30-year period.
Contribution to Total Operating Profit 5.2m and sports grounds where Derry Schools PFI, Northern we not only maintain the Revenue 114.1m Ireland preferred bidder: building fabric, plant and Margin 4.6% we shall provide FM services equipment but also provide in two new schools over 25 services such as security, This is in line with our years following their cleaning and catering for the expectations at the time construction.
MoD Cyprus Prime Contract: The integration of MacLellan Amongst the new work secured worth 100 million over five and of Industrial Services with in 2006 are an integrated FM years.
Interserve is providing our Facilities Services contract for PRUPIMs part of maintenance, repair and operations is at an advanced Prudential plc portfolio of minor construction services stage.
We have now 14 retail schemes, a two-year covering buildings and reorganised into two business renewal of the contract to infrastructure including streams: Facilities Management clean 48 Tescos stores in roads, water and power.
FM Ireland and a three-year provides a range of services Holy Cross College PFI, contract with Cable and which we bundle together Strabane, Northern Ireland: Wireless covering 72 sites in and manage on behalf of our we shall deliver services the UK.
clients, while Specialist worth 15 million over the Services offers a number of colleges 25-year life MacLellans pedigree was individual services to clients beginning in 2008. underscored by the PFM with discrete requirements Premises and Facilities MoD Corsham PFI preferred although we also incorporate Management Awards 2006 bidder: a 180 million our Specialist Services into FM where we won in three out of contract where, once contracts where appropriate.
12 categories: constructed, we shall The two sections of the division provide a range of FM already share many of the Beth Flood, Facilities services to this key same back-office and support Manager at Coopers Square communications centre over functions and this will increase Shopping Centre in Burtonits 25-year operational as the integration of the upon-Trent, won the phase.
Facilities Management We expect to achieve 3 Associations Young Manager Metropolitan Police: worth million of annualised cost of the Year award following 150 million over seven savings as a result of this previous Interserve winners years, this contract for a integration programme.
Cleantha Nodwell in 2003 broad range of services and Vicky Rennie in 2004. begins in April 2007 and continues the relationship MacLellan, PRUPIM and Interserve has had with the Intelligent Property Group client since 1999. won the E-Business category for their innovative Centremonitor.
net asset and task management system.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 9 Directors report - Business review Operational review continued 68% growth in headline earnings per share The team at our contract Rory Stoddart with HM Revenue & Customs Duty Facilities Manager, and the Department for UCL Hospital contract.
Work & Pensions in Named as one of the rising Newcastle won the Multiyoung stars of the FM industry Service award.
"by the British Institute of Facilities Management in its MacLellan is already making a ""35 under 35"" poll, Rory, 26, significant contribution to the has been with Interserve for Group."
We are cross-selling its three years and for 18 months services, particularly the in his current role.
He joined specialist security and window the Group in an accounting cleaning capabilities, into both position and made the move into existing and new contracts FM when the UCLH opportunity such as University College was advertised internally.
London Hospitals, Network Rail and the London Borough of Croydon.
This has so far generated revenue of 7 million.
The benefits of combining the skills of both organisations have already been proven in securing contracts such as those with the Metropolitan Police, the Office for National Statistics and Fujitsu-Siemens, worth over 160 million in aggregate.
Industrial Services Industrial Services, now integrated within the Facilities Services division, provides specialised, maintenance-led services on industrial and similar sites.
It also supplies access equipment to these sites where required.
Results summary: 2006 2005 Contribution to Total Operating Profit 6.1 m 5.4 m Revenue 154.1m 148.9m Margin 4.0 % 3.6 % As previously reported, upon uncovering accounting misstatements in the division Left: Doha International Airport Helping put Qatar on the map, Interserves associate company, Gulf Housing & Constuction, has undertaken a succession of contracts at the Doha International Airport for Qatar Airways.
Right: Sohar Industrial Complex The Independent Water & Power Plant was one of several projects undertaken at the port development of Sohar in 2006 by Douglas OHI, Interserves associate company in the Sultanate of Oman.
we made wide-ranging changes We have continued to win The industrial sector is still to the management team.
work with new and existing comparatively young in its use These involved the clients despite the challenges of outsourced services, and we secondment of a number of faced by the business during believe that our consolidation senior managers from across the year.
These include: model, where we displace the Group and subsequently several single-service providers Two further contracts with the recruitment of external and give the client one point Scottish Power where we are personnel to provide of contact and improved now carrying out overhead leadership, to enhance coordination of services, is line refurbishment on three operational, commercial and one the market is finding separate lines: financial control measures and highly attractive.
to effect the assimilation of We have continued our the business into the relationship with BAE Project Services established review and Systems, winning a further Project Services works in close reporting systems of the contract to provide the collaboration with clients in Facilities Services division.
access equipment and the UK and certain overseas conduct the blasting and markets, providing professional In light of our reappraisal of painting in all machinery services to lead the design and Industrial Services historic spaces and deckheads on construction process in the profitability we have new Type 45 destroyers for creation of a broad range of undertaken an operational and the Royal Navy.
strategic review of the A further contract with longdivisions future prospects.
Results summary: term client Urenco to This has included a critical 2006 2005 provide mechanical and evaluation of the contract and Contribution to Total electrical maintenance and Operating Profit 23.4m 18.3m cost bases, together with a installation, structural root-and-branch review of the UK 12.7m 12.2m steelwork, painting, organisational structure and, International 10.7m 6.1m insulation and other services as a result of integrating the Revenue 556.0m 514.2m at its state-of-the-art business into our Facilities Margin UK only 2.3% 2.4% uranium enrichment site at Services operations, the Capenhurst in the northamalgamation of the two backThe division performed very west of England.
well, with total operating We have concluded that the A two-year framework profit rising more than 25 per industrial FM market remains agreement with Central cent.
The majority of this attractive, particularly for a Networks for the provision came from the impressive business with the broad of high-voltage transmission growth in our international service range that we offer.
refurbishment services to its operations in the Middle East, With a more efficient eastern area substations and which have continued to organisational structure and underground and overhead benefit from the ongoing benefiting from improved cables.
demand for reliable, high business development focus, quality construction of the A contract awarded by North we judge that it is capable of type we are well placed to London Waste Authority to making a profitable deliver.
Our UK operation deliver Insulation Services contribution to the Groups maintained its sound trading on its Edmonton Solid Waste future results and are record, with increased profits Incineration Plant for a implementing our plans at a stable margin.
Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 11 Directors report - Business review Operational review continued 1.8bn work won The majority of Project Brunel Medal 2006 Institute Among the larger UK contracts BT, developing exchanges Services UK work comes from of Civil Engineers : River won in 2006 are: to form part of BTs 21st a large number of small-toGaunless Flood Alleviation Century Network.
Two major educational medium-scale, low-risk Scheme for the Environment projects: NHS Procure Scotland, Fife: projects with long-standing Agency.
worth 40 million and clients who value our Plymouth Schools PFI Award for Architecture RIBA involving phased work at understanding of their business preferred bidder: a East Midlands : Defence two major hospitals linked and our input to their planning primary school and a Sixth Form College for the to a separate PPP process.
We deliver these ground-breaking allMoD.
through our highly efficient through school which network of regional offices, Best Leisure Regeneration brings together an earlyEach of our principal associate which are able to call on local Project Property Week years, primary, secondary companies in Qatar, the United resources as necessary as well Retail and Leisure awards : and specialist school on a Arab Emirates and Oman as having the back-up of our Liberty Stadium for the City single campus.
Once these where we increased our central functions.
are constructed we shall holding in the associate from agreements are a case in deliver FM services over a We were also runners-up in 33 to 49 per cent, contributed point, where our central 25-year period.
This three categories in the strongly to Project Services management team interacts contract has since reached Building Better Healthcare outstanding international with the client, architects and financial close.
We completed other consultants while the Leeds Building Schools for several major projects including regional teams manage on-site A major project completed in the Future preferred three works packages at the delivery and the performance 2006 was the Hadley Learning bidder: we shall initially existing Doha International of the supply chain.
This be creating 14 schools Airport, the majority of a undertake more extensive innovative PFI project was the with a capital works value series of 49 electricity building work, including PFI subject of a television of 220 million and shall distribution substations contracts such as prisons and documentary entitled Future then provide FM services throughout Qatar, the addition schools and the more complex School, charting its progress over 25 years.
of new exhibition halls at the projects under ProCure21 for from design through to the Dubai World Trade Centre and the NHS, through our Strategic Addiewell Prison PFI: we are opening of the secondary an  unit.
building a 70 million facility school last September.
The commission EPC contract at for the Scottish Prison Service primary and special-needs the Sohar refinery in Oman In all cases the feature of our to house 700 prisoners.
schools and the other involving the creation of service that clients value most remaining elements of the Four framework agreements various plant and general highly is our ability to deliver Community, all of which form with an aggregate value of buildings, substations and logistically-complex projects part of the same extensive 400 million: other facilities such as a consistently, on time and to structure, opened to schedule laboratory, medical centre, budget.
These skills were Welsh Health Estates in January 2007 and we are mosque and fire station.
recognised in a series of programme Designed for now providing a full range of awards during 2006: Life: Building for Wales.
FM services through a 28-year We also won a number of PFI PPP Contractor of the contract.
The BBC, working across significant new contracts in Year Building awards : its UK portfolio.
the Middle East during the Defence Sixth Form College year including: Barclays, refurbishing for the MoD.
This project offices and branches In Qatar: was also shortlisted in the throughout the country.
Major Contractor of the Year The provision of airline category.
facilities at the New Doha International Airport.
12 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Left top: Plymouth Schools PFI Advancing school design for Plymouth City Council, providing new facilities and operating them over 25 years.
"This ""all through school"" combines early-years, primary, secondary and special schools on a single campus."
Left bottom: HMP Addiewell PFI This new 700-place prison is being built by Interserve in Scotland, underlining our position as a key player in the custodial sector.
Right: Building Schools for the Future Interserve is in a long-term partnership with Leeds City Council to deliver design, construction and operational services in the Building Schools for the Future programme, providing modern, inspirational learning environments.
The construction of two Varadarajan main power stations and a Sundarajan further 35 substations across the country.
Sundar is a contracts manager In the UAE: for Khansaheb Civil Engineering, an Interserve associate company We have begun building a in Dubai, UAE.
He is responsible 554-room hotel complex for overall contract management, as part of a staged planning the work programme programme based on a and co-ordination with the partnering agreement with client, consultants, statutory Majid Al Futtaim authorities and subcontractors.
Sundar, who has been with We are creating two new Khansaheb since 1985, is championship golf courses currently managing projects - Fire and Earth - worth 400 million dirhams 55 designed by Greg Norman million.
In Oman our success at the Sohar Industrial Complex continues with: a contract to build a power station for an aluminium smelter plant and a further EPC project associated with an aromatics chemical plant.
Directors report - Business review Operational review continued Alshor Plus shoring system, a construction of the piers and Equipment Services variety of flying and other beams supporting the road Equipment Services provides tables were used in deck and parts of the deck temporary structural conjunction with heavilyitself.
equipment and the engineering loaded tall supports to help designs for its use in complex create the Hamad City Main Regionally: infrastructure projects.
Hospital and its car park.
Middle East Once completed this will be We have continued to expand Results summary: the largest hospital complex our presence in the Middle 2006 2005 in the world.
East to take advantage of the Contribution to Total Operating Profit 22.6m 20.5m dynamic market conditions and The Pearl: our equipment is the region now houses our Revenue 108.3m 107.2m being used to make 26 largest design capability.
Our Margin 20.9% 19.1% bridges to give access to this export business from our huge land reclamation Middle East operations to We maintained a healthy level project off the coast of territories in the region where of investment in our Qatar.
It is the biggest we do not yet have equipment fleet and this, bridge-building project in distribution centres grew combined with the strategic the world.
alongside our established development of our Middle Tricastle, Ireland: we hired markets.
East operations, has out 4,500 square metres of contributed to the growth in formwork for a 10-month Europe both total operating profit and period to enable our client The UK traded well, with a margin in 2006, following the to create a multi-millionstrong performance in the already excellent performance euro mixed development building market offsetting a of 2005. consisting of a shopping weaker infrastructure market.
centre, hotel, office space The result was further buoyed The business generates revenue and apartments.
We invested in through both hire contracts and people and facilities in Ireland equipment sales of both new Ciopsa Bridge, Spain: in a and increased profit and used components.
The complex piece of significantly in a market relative proportions of these engineering design and growing in both the remained largely unchanged implementation, we infrastructure and commercial from 2005 and followed the provided formwork tables sectors.
In Spain our typical pattern, with slightly and supports which were investment in a new more revenue coming from moved using electric motors distribution centre is bearing hire than sale.
Some of the and cables to create a series fruit as, in a strong larger projects undertaken of spans in four viaducts infrastructure market, we had in 2006 were: along a section of motorway a record year.
We believe this running from Valencia into Dubai Mall: when complete growth is likely to be France.
this is scheduled to be the sustained.
worlds largest shopping East Tsing Yi Viaduct, Hong centre.
We are still involved Kong: this is part of the Australasia in the project and have a Route 8 project linking Sha Although the Australian market total of some 14,000 tonnes Tin in the Eastern New was relatively buoyant in 2004 of equipment on site Territories to Tsing Ma Bridge and 2005, a slowdown in covering many of our and on to Lantau.
We are commercial and residential different product ranges.
supplying a mixture of offactivity in Victoria and New the-shelf and purposeSouth Wales led to a reduction Al Hamad Hospital, Qatar: designed equipment for the in contribution in 2006.
Our based primarily on the 14 Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 Far Left: East Tsing Yi Viaduct, Hong Kong Rising up to 60m high, the structure's complex design requires high levels of planning and technical expertise in order to meet the tight timetable and guarantee worker safety.
Centre: St Stephens, Hull A new shopping and leisure complex in the 2 centre of Hull.
A 52,000m scheme which includes a state-of-the-art transport interchange, 30 shops and new homes for the Hull Truck Theatre and the Albemarle Music Centre.
Right: Al Hamad Hospital, Doha RMD Kwikform supplied Alshor Plus shoring, designed in flying tables, mobile back propping tables and heavily loaded 26m high supports to assist with the construction of the new Hamad City main hospital and car park.
performance in New Zealand Myriam Martn also peaked in 2004 2005 but, despite the countrys economy Myriam is Commercial and now being in recession, our Marketing Manager for the cost containment and Equipment Services division in introduction of new products Spain RMD Kwikform Ibrica.
She joined the company in 1992 as personal assistant to the Far East managing director, just one year Our business in this region is after the Spanish operation had somewhat smaller than our been established.
At that time others and provides a mixed there were only four employees: picture.
Hong Kongs now there are over 100.
Myriam infrastructure spending was has grown with the business, weak in 2006 although there adding a Masters degree in sales are prospects of improvement and marketing to her previous in the near term offered by business management degree.
the likelihood of casino developments in Macao.
We had a record year in the Philippines, where we have the largest local base of any international supplier.
Directors report - Business review Operational review continued 5.6bn future workload PFI Investments Ian Lamerton The PFI Investments division Ian is a manager with the PFI leads all the Groups PFI Investments division.
It manages our management services to the Special investment portfolio and, in Purpose Company SPC set up to run many cases, delivers the Armada project in which management services to the Interserve is building and operating Special Purpose Companies the MoD's Single Living Accommodation established to run the in the Fleet Accommodation Centre contracts.
2006 2005 Ian, who has been with Interserve for Contribution to Total three-and-a-half years, is responsible Operating Profit 1.1m 0.6m for the day-to-day running of the SPC Interest received including ensuring compliance with the on subordinated debt investments 3.8m 2.6m project deliverables, health and safety monitoring and risk management.
He 4.9m 3.2m also reports on the performance of the project to Interserve's equity partners The growing maturity of our and the project's lenders.
PFI portfolio as more projects move into their operational phases means that the contribution from interest on subordinated debt investments has become increasingly important.
With the completion of two further facilities during 2006 Dungannon College in Northern Ireland and the Hadley Learning Community in Telford we now have 19 fully operational projects plus five under construction, in three of which we are providing interim services.
We sold our interest in one PFI contract, Oxford Littlemore hospital, at the beginning of 2006 for 1.6 million, generating an exceptional profit of 1.3 million.
At the end of the year our total investment commitment for signed contracts was 53.8 million of which we had already invested 36.3 million.
Left: Derry Schools Interserve will deliver facilities management services valued at an estimated 17.5 million over a period of 25 years.
Services will include security, waste management, porterage, site maintenance and energy management.
Right: Omagh College, Dungannon A major element in the continuing regeneration of the Omagh community area, Interserve is responsible for 50 per cent of the equity and the facilities management of this project including caretaking, cleaning, building and grounds maintenance.
Photographs supplied by OHare and McGovern We were also named preferred ourselves to take advantage of remain strong and in aggregate or first-choice bidder on five this through targeted the European market is also further projects one of which investment in new facilities likely to grow, while conditions has since reached financial and capabilities at local and in the Far East and Australasia close, bringing our total regional level as well as with are more challenging.
the Groups acquisition of pursuit of our ambitions to As detailed in the Facilities MacLellan.
expand the business Services and Project Services geographically we have sections above, these are: The acquisition gives our identified a promising Facilities Services operations potential market in South Plymouth Schools Project increased access, breadth and Africa and also plan to and Facilities reached scale in a range of growth commence other new financial close in early 2007 sectors.
The demand for operations in 2007.
MoD Corsham Facilities outsourced services is still expanding.
The potential UK Our markets are attractive and Leeds Building Schools for market for FM, already worth our ability to succeed in them the Future Project and more than 100 billion a year, was demonstrated by the Facilities is expected to increase at a notable value of new business Tunbridge Wells Hospital real annual growth rate of generated in the year.
Our 1 Facilities between 2 and 3 per cent.
future workload grew Within this market the Total organically by 10 per cent to Derry Schools Facilities Facilities Management sector, 5.3 billion 2005: 4.8 which embodies our integrated billion.
MacLellans order We see PFI as a significant approach, is forecast to be the book boosted this total to 5.6 source of value.
The Financial fastest growing segment.
billion, representing an review on pages 23 and 24 increase of 17 per cent gives a detailed analysis of its Project Services has built a overall.
With the underlying contribution to the Group and reputation in the UK and the strength of the business to its past and expected future Middle East for the consistent demonstrated in our 2006 cash flows.
delivery of projects on time performance, our record and to budget.
This is future workload and the Group Services underpinned by a commitment opportunities created by our The costs accounted for within to fostering long-term acquisition of MacLellan, we Group Services are principally relationships both with clients are confident in the prospects those relating to our PFI and with our supply chains.
the future holds for Interserve.
bidding activity, a range of The UK market is showing centrally-provided services steady growth and real GDP in and the Group Board.
The the UAE, Qatar and Oman is reduction in the 2006 figure forecast to grow at annual to 11.4 million 2005: 14.8 averages of 6, 8 and 4 per million was achieved through cent respectively over the continued rationalisation of 2 next three years.
With this the property portfolio and foundation the opportunities lower Board and staff costs.
for the division remain positive.
Outlook The markets in which The outlook for Equipment Interserve has chosen to Services is encouraging.
1 Source: MBD report March 2006 operate are, overall, growing Prospects in the Middle East healthily.
We have positioned 2 Source: Business Monitor International Interserve Plc Annual report 2006 17
