31 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Operating review 2006 was a year of significant change for both the sector and the company.
Introduction Operating review 2006 was a year of significant change for both the sector and Broadcasting the Company.
Our traditional core business, ITV1, continued to In 2006 we put in place the strategies we believe will deliver be affected by a number of negative factors and we continued long-term sustainable growth in our broadcasting business.
to develop new businesses and revenue streams.
These include: The Market environment section of the Business Review a new commissioning team and continued investment of on pages 17 to 20 outlines the structural changes and approximately 1 billion per annum in our programme schedule: other factors impacting on our business, and the Strategy section on pages 21 to 22 explains how the Board is positioning investing in new programming and channel brands: the Company to address those challenges.
The KPI section optimising schedule efficiency: and on page 29 confirms the extent to which evolving market pressures have affected the Companys operations and financial working to modernise our regulation including CRR and our results.
The Operating review places these sections in the context Public Service Broadcasting PSB obligations.
of the Companys performance in 2006 in its three areas of We maintain tight control on costs and are one of the most operations: broadcasting, content and consumer.
efficient broadcasters in the UK as measured by the relationship 2006 has seen ITV continue to adapt to the demands of the between programme spend and audience share.
Our programming consistently delivers mass audiences on ITV1 and we have launched more new channels Highly efficient UK broadcaster to add to our successful family of digital channels.
Our online Share of total Total audience presence will achieve a significant step forward with the launch UK channels programme efficency 2005 programme spend share Efficiency of our new itv.
com broadband portal in the Spring of this year.
m % % ratio Five 4.0 6.6 1.65 The Board of ITV have made significant changes to the leadership ITV1 17.3 21.3 1.23 of the Company in recent months.
In November the Board BBC1 19.2 23.1 1.20 announced the appointment of Michael Grade as its new Executive Chairman.
He took up his position on 8 January 2007 BBC2 8.0 9.5 1.19 and assumed the responsibilities of the Chairman, Sir Peter Burt, C4 10.4 9.8 0.94 who resigned on the same day, and the executive responsibilities Source: 1 Ofcom Communications Market 2 BARB, Ofcom Communications Market, BBC Annual Report 2005 of the former Chief Executive, Charles Allen, who left the company on 4 January 2007.
Although the appointment of an In 2006, ITV remained the leading free to air commercial Executive Chairman is not consistent with the provisions of the broadcaster in the UK, and ITV1 was the most popular channel Combined Code, the Board considered the circumstances within in peak time between 7.00pm and 10.30pm in the evening.
which it was made justifiable in terms of restoring strategic In our programming, we broadcast a mixed portfolio of genres leadership to the Company.
The appointment has been warmly including high budget entertainment and drama, major sporting welcomed by ITVs leading investors, the broadcasting industry, events, popular factual programming and agenda setting news media commentators, the advertising community and other and current affairs.
Whilst long-running popular shows such as key stakeholders.
Coronation Street, Emmerdale and The Bill have seen some overall audience decline during 2006, we are working hard to In 2007 John Cresswell, ITV Finance Director, was also appointed revitalize them.
ITV had significant rating successes in 2006 to the role of Chief Operating Officer.
He takes on all operating with newer programmes such as Dancing on Ice, Wild At Heart, responsibility and the executive team report directly to him.
In 2006, ITV produced more new programmes with an audience in excess of 5 million viewers than all other UK broadcasters combined including the BBC.
32 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Operating review Digital channels Generating new programme successes New programme brands and titles with audiences over 5 million in 2006 We increased our investment in our digital channels by 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 14 million to 75 million in 2006, with a further 25 million ITV 1 projected for 2007 to increase our audience reach, and we BBC 1 launched a number of new channels.
Because of the strength of BBC 2 ITVs family of digital channels, we were able to keep high-value C4 Five audiences within the ITV family through cross-promotion, Source: BARB complementary scheduling and strong distinctive branding for each of our channels.
We increased audience reach using the ITV In 2006, ITV News opened a bureau in Beijing to expand its family of channels to target valuable, but distinct, demographics coverage from one of the worlds largest economies and, in at different times of day.
For example, our younger audiences October, China correspondent John Ray marked the opening were attracted to programmes on ITV2 or ITV4, when ITV1 with a week of special reports from the region.
In March 2006, was showing programming with more appeal to older viewers.
ITV News launched the highly acclaimed Three Degrees from The success of this approach in 2006 was that ITV2, ITV3 and Disaster series, assessing the evidence of climate change around ITV4 produced 29% of all year on year multichannel adult the world.
This has been followed up in January 2007 with impact volume growth and 50% of all year on year multichannel Mark Austin providing the first ever live coverage from advertising revenue growth.
Overall advertising revenue from our Antarctica for ITV News, with film of the melting glacial ice cap.
digital channels grew by 41% to 157 million in 2006 exceeding ITV News also managed to secure exclusively the only phone our target of 150 million p. a. a full year ahead of plan.
video footage of the police raids in Forest Gate on 2 June.
In the week that marked the anniversary of the 7 7 London Delivering for our advertisers bombings, ITV News set the news agenda after undertaking the biggest ever survey of British Muslims.
In 2006, ITV1 broadcast all the programmes on any commercial channel achieving over 8.2 million viewers 2005 all programmes over 7.5 million.
With this scale, ITV helped advertisers achieve ITVs awards their brand building objectives of high impact delivery and In 2006, ITV won over 100 awards.
The Queen, starring Helen viewer engagement.
Mirren and made by ITV Productions, scooped best female In 2006, ITV created a new Integrated Planning team to build actor and best screenplay awards at the Venice Film Festival.
stronger relationships with strategic planning advertising This popular and critical acclaim continued into 2007 agencies.
They work alongside the airtime Trading team, who with the award of two BAFTAs best film and best actress focus on ITVs portfolio of programming and digital channels and for Helen Mirren and best actress Academy Award for negotiate directly with media buying agencies.
The two teams Helen Mirren at the 2007 Oscars.
work closely with our advertisers to offer them bespoke ITV Productions one-off drama See No Evil: The Moors multimedia solutions for both mass audiences with ITV1, and Murders won two RTS Awards.
In entertainment, Ant & Decs targeted audiences across our digital channels and new media popularity continued as the duo were awarded a best platforms such as mobile and online.
We are also unique in our entertainment award for Saturday Night Takeaway at the competitive environment in having regional and local advertising Broadcast Awards, most popular entertainment presenter sales capabilities, and our ability to offer regional and sub-regional and most popular quiz for Gameshow Marathon at the advertising solutions has driven regional advertising revenue National Television Awards.
In childrens programming, our own Pocoyo won a BAFTA SOCI performance in 2006 Childrens Award for best pre-school animation and the Cristal best animated TV series gong at the International As described in Our Market Environment on page 17, a number Animated Film Festival.
Our news teams had an excellent of factors have contributed to the decline in ITV SOCI during 2006. year, scooping accolades for programme of the year and For ITV1 the decline in adult SOCI was 10% to 33.1%.
Under the news event of the year at the RTS Journalism Awards, CRR mechanism our advertisers would be able to reduce the as well as the RTS London award for London Tonight.
share of their total UK TV advertising committed to ITV1 by a proportionate 10% in 2007 whilst retaining their previous discount Our soaps continued to entertain and amuse our viewers, with and pricing structure.
This loss will be partially offset through the Emmerdale and Coronation Street winning nine awards at the continued investment and growth in our digital channels revenue British Soap Awards, including best comedy performance for and through some outperformance against CRR on ITV1, where Charlie Hardwick as Val Lambert in Emmerdale.
And ITV Sport for instance regional advertising has been performing strongly.
won eight awards at the RTS Television Sport Awards, for creativity, innovation and commentating.
33 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 It is almost impossible for all programmes to be instant Share of commercial impacts successes, and ITV Productions during 2006 did make a number ITV1 was the biggest UK commercial channel in Adult SOCI of programmes that did not deliver the expected audiences.
Whilst acknowledging that there will continue to be some programmes, including well made and presented programmes, ITV2 was the biggest non-terrestrial channel in Adult SOCI that do not achieve the ratings expected of them, we are working terms in 2006 with a 3.0% share 2005: 2.8%.
hard to improve the hit rate for both new and returning shows ITV3 was the second biggest non-terrestrial channel in and recognise that we must not be risk averse.
As a producer-broadcaster ITV generates a significant amount of content in-house.
There are clear synergies involved in combining ITV4 ranked 11th biggest non-terrestrial channel in Adult our broadcasting and production operations.
SOCI terms in 2006 with a 0.7% share.
For broadcasting, the advantages are that we can secure development and innovation in-house, keep programme inflation ITV Channels 2006 all time adult impact share costs to a minimum, and gain access to rights and key talent.
and volume in all homes For our production team the advantages include: a high volume of production attracting and supporting key talent both in front Share of commercial Volume of impacts impacts % billion of and behind the camera, the ability to develop formats for ITV Channel 2006 2005 2006 2005 that can then be produced for and sold to broadcasters in other ITV1 33.1 37.0 234.8 258.2 countries, and increasingly the opportunities in digital and new media to exploit the rights that are created when programmes ITV2 3.0 2.8 21.5 19.3 are commissioned.
ITV3 2.3 1.6 16.7 11.3 ITV4 0.7 0.1 5.0 0.6 We continued to grow our production for other broadcasters, M&M 0.4 0.4 2.6 2.6 in the UK, with hits like The Street for BBC.
Citv 0.1 0.8 ITV News 0.1 1.1 GMTV 2.5 2.6 17.3 17.8 ITV Productions success GMTV2 0.1 0.4 0.3 Lewis, an Inspector Morse spin-off, achieved an outstanding Total 42.2 44.6 299.1 311.2 audience of 11.0 million and a 48.4% share, making it the top Source: BARB performing drama of the year on UK television.
Content David Jason confirmed his leading place among UK talent with Ghostboat ranking as the highest two-part drama ITV Productions is one of Europes largest and most successful in 2006 audience of 8.6 million, and a 36.5% share and commercial producers, creating more than 3,000 hours of original A Touch Of Frost Endangered Species winning an impressive programming each year.
audience of 9.7 million and a 41.7% share.
ITV Productions has dominated ITV1's list of top ten most Dancing on Ice became an immediate new hit, ranking popular programmes in terms of viewing share in 2006 with as the top performing entertainment programme on eight of the top ten programmes 2005: six of the top ten.
ITV1, averaging 8.5 million viewers 41.0% share and peaking Five of the top ten shows on all UK television were made by with nearly 11 million viewers.
ITV Productions 2005: four of the top ten.
ITV Productions made seven of the top ten dramas on all UK television ITV soaps continued to draw impressive audiences.
Source: BARB Coronation Street was the top-performing show in the UK in 2006, excluding sport, with one episode delivering an Moving forward, as part of ITVs strategy for growth, ITV audience of 11.4 million, and a 53.1% share.
Throughout the Productions is focusing on high-value genres, such as high-end year it was the top performing soap, averaging an audience contemporary drama and factual entertainment, and exiting of 9.4 million and a 46.6% share 2005: 10.1 million viewers, low-growth and low-margin businesses.
Emmerdale attracted an average audience of 7.1 million and a 39.5% share 2005: 8.0 million, 44.7% share, and won the head-to-head battle with EastEnders for all nine out of the nine times they competed directly in 2006 2005: seven out of the eight times.
Note: Statistics are for adult impacts and share of viewing achieved.
34 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Operating review Worldwide Broadband Internationally, our ITV Worldwide production businesses Our online presence has three key components.
In 2006 increased their turnover by 16% in 2006.
Growth at Granada we started the planning and preparation for itv.
com to be America, Granada Germany and Granada Australia was fuelled by re-launched with improved functionality, content and design.
a strong year for returning formats such as Nanny 911 and Hells In Spring 2007, we will re-launch the new itv.
com, having Kitchen with Gordon Ramsay in America, Das Perfekte Dinner committed more than 20 million to the development of a Come Dine With Me in Germany, and Dancing on Ice and fully interactive broadband platform and content digitisation.
Dancing with the Stars Strictly Come Dancing in both Australia The site will enable viewers to watch all of ITVs channels live, and Germany.
In 2006 Granada America produced programmes catch up on any programme from the last 30 days, and access for major cable television and US networks including Hit Me Baby ITVs extensive archive.
Revenues will initially be delivered through One More Time NBC, Gameshow Marathon CBS and Nanny advertising, and the ITV brand and cross-promotional capability 911 Fox.
will be used to drive traffic to the site.
Alternative revenue models such as subscription and pay per view will be trialled in due Granada International increased its sales by 31% in 2006 to TV course, building on the success of the on-demand Champions broadcasters, home entertainment partners and new media League service launched in September 2006. platforms in more than 200 countries worldwide.
Particular successes included TV movies, and format sales including Dancing Our wholly-owned community website, Friends Reunited, is On Ice to 12 territories including Russia, Belgium and Holland.
the second key part of our online strategy and builds on usergenerated content.
Friends Reunited has grown under ITVs Granada Ventures increased revenue in 2006 by 13%, particularly ownership with EBITA of 8.8 million in 2006 up 52% on 2005. from DVD sales.
Key programming included box sets for Cracker and Agatha Christies Poirot, the launch of Pocoyo on DVD, Integration of Friends Reunited moved apace during the year, and a range of interactive DVD games launched at Christmas.
with work undertaken to maintain its leading market positions Two of these interactive games featured in the Top 10 releases in schools reunion and genealogy, improve the consumer in the UK, with Little Britain the fourth best selling title in the proposition, and increase functionality through the upload of UK active charts.
Advertising sales for the sites are now handled in-house at ITV, and Friends Reunited provides dating Consumer and jobs services for itv.
Friends Reunited also provides itv.
com with the infrastructure and traffic to leverage a Throughout 2006, ITV continued to develop its presence host of significant, related commercial opportunities, including and pursue growth opportunities in new markets and on targeted advertising, the provision of enriched online content, new platforms.
ITVs expanding Consumer team raised our and interactive services, to drive further growth.
These are some business-to-consumer capability through a range of innovative of the ways that Friends Reunited and our other operations can market offerings, and new pay revenue opportunities.
In 2006 leverage off each others core competencies.
ITV Consumer made a number of senior appointments to help drive this growth forward in the coming months.
ITV Local is the third business in our online portfolio.
Following a The performance of its separate businesses are set out below.
successful trial in the Meridian area, we have identified a strong consumer demand for local information, news and services that Platforms are accessible online.
ITV Local blends two key ITV strengths, our regional news brands, and our relationships with advertisers.
Our platforms business focuses on exploiting and managing In 2006, ITV acquired business directory specialist Enable Media ITVs interests in broadcasting platforms.
Our Freeview multiplex currently operating as Scoot which gave us an immediate and SDN one of the six multiplexes carrying digital channels on significant foothold into the online business directory listings Freeview will deliver increasing revenues as the digital terrestrial sector, a market which is estimated to be worth approximately platform grows in popularity and our contracts with channel 150 million, and is projected to grow by 20% in 2007 and operators come up for review from 2008 onwards.
Intended as a richer video-led, more interactive, version of a local paper, ITV Local is now adding London and Central regions to its service, with other regions to follow throughout the year.
35 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 ITV further developed its web presence in 2006 offering a wide range of streamed content, video on demand and services such as the Emmerdale interactive web channel.
ITV will launch a full broadband channel in Spring 2007 with streaming of ITV's channels, 30 day catch-up, archive programming and many other interactive features.
36 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Operating review Transactional Mobile In 2006 we launched ITV Play, our participation TV brand.
2006 saw some strategic developments for ITVs mobile presence.
This has proved popular with both viewers and those who We re-launched our entertainment portal, which offers news, participate.
In 2006 we have given away nearly 12 million to entertainment, TV listings, weather, ring-tones and wallpapers, over 26,000 winners.
ITV Play has a well-used and well-publicised and many other services for mobile users.
ITV also agreed content free route through which comes one in five entries.
The vast partnerships with Virgin Mobile and 3, becoming the first UK majority of viewers enjoy ITV Play without phoning in three terrestrial to stream its channels on 3G phones.
Within a month quarters of viewers typically watch the show on ITV1 during the of operation more than 100,000 sessions took place on the night without participating.
Viewers generally play in moderation.
3 mobile TV simulcast service, demonstrating a real demand for When they do play, 77% of entrants play fewer than five times a ITVs mobile TV services.
We will continue to work with mobile day and typically play once every five weeks.
network operators as they experiment with new offerings.
We await the result of the current enquiry into participation TV Summary formats, and we are ensuring that our own systems are robust and our programmes are compliant.
The Operating review highlights how the strengths of ITVs operations helped us deliver programmes and services to satisfy ITV Play Viewer Care our viewing and advertising customers.
Many of our successes have been significant peaks of performance in the face of ever Participation TV is a new sector, and we will continue more challenging competitive pressures.
However, our aim is to to work with all relevant regulatory bodies to ensure that achieve more consistency in our on-screen performance.
standards of viewer care across the industry are appropriate.
Examples of measures ITV Play has in place include: The degree of structural market change, especially the move to digital and channel proliferation, has meant that some Reminder phone alerts every 10 calls areas of performance have declined, as shown by some of our On-screen information about all available entry routes, non-financial KPIs.
Some of these pressures will reduce, as the referred to regularly by the presenters move to digital nears completion.
An in-house viewer care team The Financial review that follows explains how these factors have translated into the financial results.
Caller activity monitoring with pro-active calls to high-volume players Daily limit on all entry routes Entry limited to over 18s A code of conduct in place with our production company suppliers
