Chief Executives operating review Justin King was cited as our number one performance issue, but Were now serving 16 million customers weve improved significantly.
Our night shift colleagues each week which is 1.5 million more than are the unsung heroes of this change.
Together with this time last year.
Competition between our new store processes, theyve helped reduce the retailers is intense, so this is a big step gaps on our shelves by 75 per cent, and our availability is now back in line with other supermarkets.
Were now working on the other 25 per cent as we want This year we increased sales inc VAT by 5.8 per cent to improve even further.
In March 2006, for example, to 17,317 million and we increased like-for-like sales we completed the roll-out of a new hand-held stock by 3.7 per cent, delivering a fifth consecutive quarter and sales system.
This provides up-to-the-minute sales of like-for-like sales growth.
We also increased our and supply data to colleagues on the shop floor, helping market share.
These results are the clearest measure them to monitor and respond to stock levels faster.
I can think of to show that customers are responding At the same time we have a more accurate picture of to the changes were making.
the stock we have versus the stock we need and this If we exclude revenue from our petrol and banking has helped reduce our wastage and therefore cost.
businesses, we achieved total sales growth of 722 Weve also made considerable investments in pricing million.
This is a solid start towards achieving an this year, and it is now very competitive across all extra 2.5 billion in sales the goal we announced in ranges.
Great food at fair prices is a strong tradition October 2004 in our Making Sainsburys Great Again at Sainsburys, and our aim to generate 1.4 billion recovery plan.
extra sales from core grocery products is dependent I wanted to show you some examples of the many on getting the right balance of price and quality.
things weve done to improve our offer, so I asked ten Grocery deflation the percentage reduction in price photographers to go out and look at our business in of products sold of 1.5 per cent last year was largely action on just one day 19 April 2006.
I briefed them the result of the 8,500 price reductions we made, and to each provide one picture capturing an aspect of underlines how competitive we have become on price.
Sainsburys, and to tell us a little about their experience We now highlight price reductions under the Ways of our business.
to save logo, like the one in the picture opposite, which The first picture was taken at 2.30am at our Moortown we launched in August 2005.
This reinforces our store in Leeds.
Like the majority of our supermarkets, competitiveness by helping customers to identify offers, this store now has a night shift in operation to replenish promotions and price-checked products those that shelves ready for the morning.
Back in 2004 availability are the same price or cheaper than competitors.
Thinking on our feet These handsets give colleagues accurate real-time information about stock and sales wherever they are in the store.
The result: faster decision-making, fewer empty shelves, less wastage.
4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 2.30am Night shift, Moortown store, Leeds Everyone here said the same thing - the night shift has made the store much more efficient and customers love it.
You just have to look at the shelves, they said: more empty spaces at night, more full shelves in the morning.
Photographer: Matt Stuart 7.20am The bakery, Fosse Park store, Leicester It may be early but hundreds of trays of hot bread, buns and doughnuts are whizzing around, all of it baked here in the store.
Delicious aromas waft into the aisles, drawing in the customers.
Photographer: Nick David subjects such as nutrition.
We also run food master Passion for food remains at the heart classes on everything from Thai cookery to onions of our brand.
We understand that quality and British cheese to chocolate.
The classes provide food, and fresh and seasonal products, an opportunity for product developers to learn are as important to customers as fair more about individual ingredients so that they can improve the taste and variety of the products we sell.
Thats why sales of our food products have outpaced the market Were obsessed with ingredients and have developed clear and exacting product standards for all ranges, over the past year.
together with a new tracking system that ensures these We would say that, but theres growing recognition for are adhered to.
At depots weve improved the way we our commitment to quality.
At the industrys leading check the quality of products before accepting them retail Quality Food and Drink Awards last December, into our supply chain, and customers are now giving 30 Sainsburys products were short-listed, the most us their highest rating for healthy, fresh and tasty food from any retailer.
Every nomination in the fresh since we set out on our recovery programme.
produce category was a Sainsburys product.
We won This year we improved or introduced around 3,000 nine category awards, and for the third year running food products, and we re-ranged and simplified every were given the overall award for quality.
product category to ensure the best choice of products Our bakery departments demonstrate what our focus is in place for customers.
on food means in practice.
We bake fresh bread Basics, our fastest growing own-brand range, appeals throughout the day.
In fact, by the time the photograph to everyone and covers many different products.
It has opposite was taken at 7.20am the bakery team at our generated incremental sales, and research shows that Fosse Park store in Leicester had already been in action around 50 per cent of customers buy from both for over two hours.
Basics and our premium range, Taste the Difference.
We encountered a growing problem this year as we New brand standards, such as only using free-range expanded our bakery departments bakery skills are eggs and British-sourced chicken and pork, and the dying out in the UK.
Our response was to launch an removal of hydrogenated vegetable oils, have been apprenticeship scheme for new recruits to develop applied to Taste the Difference products this year.
the required expertise and skills.
The scheme is being Hydrogenated vegetable oils, or more precisely trans piloted in ten stores in the North East of England.
fatty acids sometimes contained in them, have been Weve strengthened our product quality and innovation associated with health issues such as heart disease.
team considerably this year, and introduced new They will be removed from all Sainsburys products training and development for store colleagues in by January 2007 and we will be the first major supermarket to achieve this.
Salad days Weve started to wash and rinse bagged salads in natural spring water.
Customers tell us they prefer their food to be prepared with the minimum of fuss.
Using spring water is a simple and natural way to wash the salad, and a first for any supermarket in the UK.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 7 our full range of over 700 Sainsburys and branded Health and vitality are at the heart of what organic products and sales are up 20 per cent, we offer.
In January we updated our Be with particularly good sales in fresh food areas.
Good to Yourself range, evolving it from In the UK rising demand for organic milk currently a diet brand to a broader health brand.
outstrips supply, so we are working with farmers to cover the costs involved in conversion, as well as The new Be Good to Yourself range provides customers offering 12-month supply contracts once the milk with low fat diet products as well as healthier options, is organic.
and plus meals with added ingredients such as Our commitment to sourcing products from the UK prebiotics, probiotics and Omega 3.
There are around whenever we can inspired us to find a local solution 500 products in the range, of which 100 were new this to the supply issue, rather than simply import organic year.
Many of these were the first product of their kind milk from abroad.
We are the only supermarket that in any UK supermarket.
So in May 2006 we achieved another What weve done with bread shows that you can offer market first by selling milk from British farms like healthy choices without affecting taste.
We invested Chalder Farm, shown here that are in conversion 2 million to produce a bread with higher fibre and 15 to organic standards.
We call it Farm Promise and per cent less salt.
It tasted just the same as our existing it means we pay a premium to cover all the extra best-selling bread, but with healthier ingredients.
And we sell it to customers at the same price as before, In February we launched Active Kids for the second despite the significant investment weve made.
This provides schools with activity worry about what goes into our products so our equipment and experiences in return for vouchers customers dont have to.
Last year the scheme attracted In February we introduced our Kids range and became 80 per cent of all UK primary and secondary schools, the first retailer to provide Guideline Daily Amounts and we donated equipment worth more than 17 million.
GDAs for children aged five to ten years on packaging.
On average, each school received around 700 of Were now rolling out childrens GDAs across other rewards, a substantial contribution given that the ranges because customers tell us they welcome help annual primary school budget for such equipment in making healthy food choices for their children, is estimated at around 200. and many parents want their children to eat the same Over 30,000 schools and nurseries have registered meals as them.
to take part in Active Kids in 2006.
Around 95 per This year we re-launched around 300 organic products cent of our customers are aware of the scheme and under the Sainsburys SO organic brand, which sets believe it is providing a valuable contribution for the very high organic standards.
Our larger stores carry local community.
In February we became the first UK supermarket to include Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs for children aged five to ten years on our product packaging.
Now parents can judge the content of their childrens food, rather than rely on guesswork.
8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 11.40am Converting to organic, Chalder Farm, Chichester Theres clearly an excellent understanding between Alison, from Sainsburys, and Chris, the farmer.
Both seem interested in the long-term.
And the cows seemed pretty interested too.
Photographer: Nick Dawe 12.15pm Active kids, Fleetdown Junior School, Dartford A recipe for active kids... take one school, choose from over 30,000.
Add 700 worth of activity equipment, mix with 12 excited school children, photograph and enjoy, immediately!
Photographer: Iain Crockart 1.55pm Food Standards Agency, London What was obvious from the meeting between Erica from Sainsburys and the FSA was a shared desire to make food labelling as clear and honest for customers as possible.
There is something about this photograph that captures the way the two organisations are working together.
Photographer: James Bell of approval from customers, who found it easy to Were leading standards in UK food understand and helpful when deciding which products labelling and have really improved our to buy.
The traffic light colours of green, amber and understanding of what people want red were universally understood.
The Wheel of Health and whats important to them.
Were is now on over 1,300 of our products and we continue to add more.
listening to customers and responding.
Research conducted in April 2006 found that around We are the only large-scale supermarket chain that 80 per cent of customers have noticed the labelling places its priority on food.
Our focus on fresh food and believe it influences what they buy.
Products really sets us apart, as does the way we help customers with greens and ambers on the Wheel of Health are to understand more about the food they buy and the generally showing positive sales trends in comparison choices they have.
Were proud of the work we do in to similar products with ambers and reds.
this area and our customers rate Sainsburys approach to healthy eating above that of every one of our We are convinced that colour coding the salt, fat, competitors.
saturated fats, total sugars and calories in a serving of each product in grams goes much further in helping Good, healthy food is part of our DNA at Sainsburys.
customers than simply moving GDA information Weve cared about food quality issues ever since from the back of packaging to the front.
Taking the Sainsburys opened its very first store in 1869, and bold step of putting red on a product shows you weve gone further than any other supermarket in care more about your customers than short-term communicating with customers about the food they sales.
Our approach was endorsed by the FSA when buy and eat.
it announced its recommendations for nutritional There is a clear trend of customers wanting more labelling in March 2006.
We continue to share our information about what they eat, and well continue research and findings with the FSA.
to innovate and lead in this area.
We are also receiving external recognition for our Heres an example of these commitments in action.
commitments to the wellbeing of colleagues.
In In January 2005 we led the industry on nutritional March Sainsburys was voted Londons Healthiest labelling by introducing a multiple traffic light system Large Employer as part of the BBCs Big Challenge called the Wheel of Health.
This was developed Healthworks initiative, a nationwide search to find following extensive consumer research, together with the healthiest employers across the UK.
We were input from the Food Standards Agency FSA.
It was commended for the health initiatives we run for reviewed after six months and received a huge vote colleagues throughout the UK.
On your marks, get set... Providing a very clear colour code for the salt, fat, saturated fats, total sugars and calories in a product is much more helpful than bringing information already on the back to the front of the pack.
Using green, amber and red is a bold and open way to help customers make the right choice for themselves.
It shows we care more about our customers than sales of an individual product.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 13 3.52pm Trying something new, Brighton Beach, Sussex Someone shouts Action!
and suddenly the entire beach area comes alive.
Its a great British scene the pier, the people, and Jamie Oliver being passionate about spinach in an ice cream van as he encourages people to try something new.
Photographer: Stuart Franklin Colleagues now get to try products and recipes so they Our new branding, Try Something New can experience them first hand and recommend ideas Today, is much more than a slogan.
More than seven million customers are The spirit and success of the campaign collecting our tip cards, and weve given out more has inspired our entire business, and than 100 million cards so far.
Clearly, the relationship between colleagues and customers can make an enormous difference and we The idea for Try Something New Today came about take it very seriously.
Every store colleague received because we wanted to encourage people to visit new customer service training last autumn.
their local store to experience the improvements we had made.
The insight behind the campaign was My Board colleagues and I also piloted a two-day that although an average supermarket stocks around training course focused on embedding new ways to 30,000 products, customers tend to purchase from lead our business, and helped to then deliver that around the same 150 products each week and often training to 1,000 of our managers from stores and dont notice whats going on around them in the store.
They, in turn, are delivering that training to a further 9,000 managers.
We tested this idea by reworking research originally carried out by Harvard University.
We dressed someone We try to be innovative with training and development, in a gorilla suit and sent them into store.
We then and our Scan School is an example of that.
The school asked customers if they had noticed anything unusual is actually two specially fitted double-decker buses while doing their shopping.
The vast majority had not that visit our stores to train our training colleagues.
and the concept of sleep-shopping was born.
Colleagues have to go no further than the store car So Try Something New Today aims to inspire customers park to receive the training.
The buses have travelled to think beyond their normal range of products.
around the country so that 90,000 colleagues at The campaign provides simple ways to make small around 500 stores can give customers a faster and but significant changes to the food we buy and eat.
The campaign has been incredibly well received by We track how engaged with our goal and values colleagues and customers.
colleagues are, and marked improvements have Our advertising, featuring Jamie Oliver, has publicised been achieved since September 2005.
Im delighted the campaign to an even wider audience, and sales that 117,000 colleagues will receive a share of a of whole nutmeg increased from 1,400 jars to 6,000 52 million bonus pot a just reward for the huge a week after Jamie used it as seasoning for pasta.
effort they have made this year.
Fresh ideas Weve applied the thinking behind Try Something New Today to the way we work.
For example, we now have an email free day in our Store Support Centre, to encourage colleagues to get up from their desks and communicate in person.
16 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 4.47pm Scan bus colleague training, Coldhams Lane, Cambridge Colleagues from the store were inside the bus, busily learning the best ways to work with the store technology.
What a great idea to take the school to the students, rather than the other way round.
Photographer: Anders Hald 5.14pm Every customer counts, Castle Lane West, Dorset Sainsburys has a lot more customers now than a year ago and two things really stood out.
Every time I asked someone if I could photograph them they were excited to take part.
And everyone at Sainsburys talks about customers, not consumers.
I think both things say a lot.
Photographer: Victoria Nightingale we grew sales of non-food items by eight per cent Research shows a marked improvement which was ahead of the market.
This is the Our Bank is an important part of our customer offer but result of the many changes we are it had a difficult year, making an underlying operating making every day.
loss of 10 million due to additional charges for bad debt.
The debt relates largely to loans made two and In addition to our core offer weve also been working three years ago when the Bank was taking on lots of on non-food ranges which currently account for new customers seeking loans.
Sainsburys Bank has around ten per cent of our total sales.
We concentrate been particularly affected because the type of products on things customers now want to find in a supermarket in its offer were those most likely to be affected as the like greetings cards, DVDs and clothes and accessories.
consumer credit environment worsened this year.
The Our target is to generate 700 million of additional position is now stabilising and we have put processes sales from non-food products.
The focus this year was in place to tighten our credit policy and associated to make the space already dedicated to these products risk controls.
work harder and we tested new products, fixtures On a more positive note, customer numbers are growing and layouts in 20 stores.
and accounts were up eight per cent to 2.5 million and The results were pleasing and were now introducing we continue to grow the part of the business for which more space for non-food products as stores are we receive commission.
extended and reformatted, and we estimate that Tim Pile stepped down as Chief Executive of the Bank around 50 stores will be altered in this way over the in March 2006 and we appointed Rob Walker as our next 12 months.
new Chief Executive in May 2006.
We believe that the TU, our own label clothing range has been incredibly supermarket banking model is robust and the move successful this year, with sales up by more than 40 to more commission-based products is appropriate per cent.
As part of our refurbishment and extension for long-term growth and profitability.
programme we plan to introduce TU into around Together with our partner, HBOS, were committed 40 more stores in 2006 and extend the current TU to the Bank and on working together to return it to offer in around 60 stores.
Our target is for the Bank to breakeven in We have also added 41 pharmacies during the year the 2006 07 financial year and return to profitability taking the total number in our stores to 169.
In fashion Our TU range of adult and childrens clothing and accessories is now available in 202 stores.
Its very popular with customers and sales are up over 40 per cent this year J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 19 We now have 297 convenience stores, trading under Working with local communities is key the brands Sainsburys Local, Sainsburys @ Bells to our search for new stores.
Its not just and Sainsburys @ Jacksons.
Last year we opened what we sell but how and where we sell it 20 stores, refurbished 34 Sainsburys Locals and thats important.
We want to ensure our 60 Sainsburys @ stores.
stores complement the local environment.
We achieved another good year in our convenience stores and expect this part of our business to generate The store environment affects everything from the 400 million of the 2.5 billion of additional sales customers experience to the efficiency with which we set out in our recovery plan.
can manage stock, so upgrading stores is an expensive but critical activity.
In October we earmarked 131 Refurbished and converted stores are generating stores for investment and by the end of March 2006 substantial sales increases, and were improving our we had refurbished 37 of these.
Ten stores were existing stores and integrating acquisitions as quickly extended and 14 new stores were opened, including and effectively as we can.
Customers particularly nine Safeway stores purchased from Morrisons.
By the value our fresh food offer and sales of these products end of 2005 we had 455 supermarkets in our portfolio.
following store conversions have increased by around 100 per cent.
We were able to refurbish and re-open the new Safeway stores in time for Christmas trading.
In the 14 stores Customers are also more satisfied with our online home we acquired from Morrisons earlier in 2005 sales delivery service, where our investment in enhancements are up, on average, by around 20 per cent, which has improved sales by more than 25 per cent.
We put demonstrates the appeal of Sainsburys when we expansion plans on hold while we fixed the basics introduce our brand to new locations.
of the operation, and we re-launched the website in September 2005.
The service, now fully integrated Were now pursuing new sites for supermarkets under with our stores, has much better product availability.
the leadership of Peter Baguley who joined in August 2005 as Property Director.
Early indications from We carried out little marketing activity for the online councils and developers are encouraging.
We believe service this year, yet managed to attract many new our commitments to food, quality and the wider customers.
We think this demonstrates the power community are helping to set us apart from other of word of mouth, with customers responding to our large retailers when seeking and developing sites.
In improved service by recommending us to friends.
Maidenhead, pictured opposite, we are building a new At the start of 2006 we added new post codes to 55,000 sq ft store as part of the overall regeneration our delivery areas and we plan to extend the service of the town centre.
to a further 200,000 households this year.
Our focus on food sets us apart We believe our commitments to food, quality and the wider community help to set us apart from other large retailers when seeking and developing sites.
20 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 6.10pm Maidenhead town centre regeneration The thing is, you cant hide a development.
Its right bang in the middle of the community and everyone knows whats being built.
People here seemed pleased it was going to be a Sainsburys.
Photographer: Charlie Fawell In January 2006 Roger Burnley joined us as Supply Weve made big changes in the supply Chain Director and Lawrence Christensen moved into chain, reorganising processes to ensure a part-time consulting role.
Roger will now concentrate we get the right products to the right on consolidating the numerous changes already made.
Replenishment orders are being delivered faster and in a store-friendly way, with products already sorted Ultimately, our recovery is dependent on how we according to the aisles in which they are found in store, perform here in the engine room of the business.
and were working with suppliers to help us improve What goes on inside somewhere like our Hams Hall availability even further and reduce costs.
depot makes an enormous difference to our customers experience, and so to the Sainsburys brand and We completed the insourcing of IT systems and the ultimately to our financial performance.
I hope the transfer of 470 colleagues, all assets and third party photograph here gets across a flavour of the energy contracts back into Sainsburys in April, just six months and momentum behind the scenes at Sainsburys.
after announcing our decision to terminate our contract with Accenture.
We expect to recoup the costs Getting the supply chain right has required decisive involved in ending this outsourcing agreement within action.
We transferred our operation at Charlton to the next two years.
a third party operator, closed our depots at Northfleet and Rotherham and reorganised our Basingstoke and Its appropriate we finish this review by showing our St Albans depots into multi-purpose facilities, providing supply chain as this is where the Sainsburys day chilled, ambient and fresh products to stores.
We have really starts and ends.
At 10.37pm were working on used our Buntingford facility to provide additional tomorrows deliveries and the day after that to capacity at Christmas for the past two years, but replenish our stores for another very busy 24 hours will now keep it open to help us keep pace with sales within Sainsburys.
We worked successfully to win support for Weve made hundreds of small changes as I mentioned our actions from colleagues and unions.
at the beginning, here in the supply chain and Our Waltham Point and Hams Hall depots are now throughout the entire business, and were beginning processing an average of two million cases a week, to see the effect of these changes.
Our recovery is on track, but were not complacent.
The many changes weve made have saved the We know we have to keep improving things for business substantial amounts of money.
We identified customers, increasing sales and reducing costs as we 400 million of cost reductions in October 2004 and continue to work on Making Sainsburys Great Again.
delivered more than 110 million this year, primarily in the areas of stock loss and central costs.
We expect to deliver a further 175 million savings in the current year bringing the cumulative total to 285 million and stretching our original target to 440 million.
Justin King Chief Executive Delivering a profit At the start of 2006 new post codes were added to the area served by our online home delivery operation as more and more people recommend the service to family and friends.
22 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 9.47pm Hams Hall depot, near Birmingham What Ill never forget is the size of the place.
Id never thought about the scale of a supermarket distribution system before.
Photographer: Slater King Our commitment to the communities in which we operate Corporate responsibility isnt new for us.
When we opened our first store in 1869 the guiding principle was to offer good quality products to everyone, including those who had never had access to healthy and safe food before.
Today, our commitment to the communities in which we operate is still every bit as important and the five principles below underpin our activities.
Customers trust us to take care of their concerns, and that sets us apart from competitors as you will have seen in this Review.
In many areas we already lead our industry, but were committed to innovating and setting even higher standards.
Weve provided some examples of our activities but our full corporate responsibility report can be found at www.
co. uk cr The Best for Food and Health Making a Positive Difference Our goal is to provide customers with healthy, to your Community safe, fresh and tasty products.
We want to We believe were part of your community, not make healthy eating easier, enjoyable and more apart from it.
That belief goes back almost 140 affordable for everyone.
years when we had just one shop located right in the heart of the local area.
The quality of the information we provide is an important part of this commitment.
We work closely Weve been involved in all sorts of community with organisations such as the Food Standards Agency initiatives, from encouraging customers to Grin and to develop clear and honest labelling.
during wartime rationing to todays Active customers balance their diet by providing a wide Kids scheme and our investment in charitable range of food choices and help people learn more activities.
Our policy is to consult the local community about ingredients, cooking and nutrition.
when we open a store, and to keep talking to local people once its built.
Sourcing with Integrity A Great Place to Work Weve a long tradition of working with suppliers Sainsburys isnt just a collection of stores, its a to source, produce and provide excellent food for group of committed, hard-working people the customers.
Our suppliers are partners we rely colleagues who provide the products, services, on them and respect their expertise.
advice and help customers need.
Weve been working with some of our suppliers for decades.
Successful relationships are based on open Colleagues are more than employees: theyre members dialogue and a shared understanding of customers of the wider community, they are customers, and nine concerns and changing tastes and needs.
We also out of ten live within a mile of their store.
Many are demand high ethical standards.
Were committed to providing a safe, healthy and productive working environment.
We want colleagues to benefit from their time at work Respect for our environment and provide a range of training and development Ten years ago we were the first major British opportunities.
food retailer to publish a comprehensive report on our environmental performance.
Weve built This year, donations to charitable organisations on that commitment, reporting regularly on and other community projects totalled 5.6 million.
In addition, we made significant contributions to other The environment is integrated into our commercial community-related initiatives and our Active Kids decision-making and we always work to minimise scheme donated 12.5 million at cost to schools.
any potentially adverse effects of our operations.
Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers Were as committed to investing in improving impacts raised 3.25 million for charities such as Home-Start such as emissions and energy use, as we are about and the Childrens Society, through events supported more tangible things like carrier bags and packaging.
24 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 Taste of Success, supported by the Department for Last year, customers recycled around 100 million Education & Skills, teaches children about food and plastic bags through our recycling collection points.
It includes awards, teacher training sessions They also buy 120,000 of our Bag for Life each week, and an interactive website.
We provided more than saving an estimated 50 million standard bags a year.
Were re-branding the In 140 stores were trialling fully compostable GM-free scheme Active Kids, Get Cooking to combine healthy wrap on organic apples and potatoes, the first of its eating with the healthy lifestyle concept of Active Kids.
In a market first, we started selling milk from British We'five donated food since 1998 to charities such as the farms converting to organic standards in May 2006.
Salvation Army, FareShare and Food For All.
The food Demand for organic milk outstrips UK supply so were is safe, edible and nutritious, beyond its display-by working with farmers to cover additional associated date but within its use-by date.
By March 2006, 270 costs during conversion and offering 12-month supply stores were donating surplus food.
This year we aim contracts once the milk is organic.
to link all supermarkets with a charity.
We led the industry in January 2005 with our Wheel Weve invested extensively in energy efficiency of Health - a multiple traffic light nutritional labelling projects for many years and have trialled state of the system.
Developed after extensive research and following art recycling banks in six London sites which recycle input from the Foods Standards Agency, around 80 per products such as CDs and clothes as well as plastic cent of customers have noticed the labelling and believe and glass.
Were now rolling them out to around it influences what they buy.
Were a long-standing supporter of the Fairtrade mark and We have industry-leading fish sustainability plans, the UKs leading Fairtrade supermarket.
Weve introduced supported by the Marine Conservation Society Marine many new products such as the UKs first Fairtrade MCS, which included the removal of skate Conservation baby food.
In February we placed the UKs single largest and huss in February 2006.
We were also Society MCS Fairtrade cotton order for 200,000 T-shirts to support first to sell Marine Stewardship Council MSC Sport Relief.
approved cod, one of the most endangered fish species.
Our new healthy apple stamp is the symbol of health We sold over 6 billion of British products in our at Sainsburys.
A sales increase of almost 15 per cent stores last year and encouraging local producers is a for products carrying the apple stamp indicates the key part of our sourcing strategy.
Buying from smaller underlying concept of encouraging healthier choices suppliers can stimulate local economies and we currently has worked in 2005 06. stock 3,500 locally produced products.
Our Local Heroes awards recognise colleagues who Active Kids provides schools with activity equipment donate time and effort to good causes outside work in return for vouchers earned in store.
We match funds 80 per cent of all UK primary and secondary schools, and raised with between 200 and 500.
Colleagues who donated activity equipment worth over 17 million.
The volunteer in their own time receive 200 for their 2006 scheme has over 30,000 schools and nurseries charity or community group.
Weve supported Comic Reliefs Red Nose Day since Talkback is our internal colleague feedback survey 1999 and now also support Sport Relief as part of a which now operates on a rolling basis.
It provides us six-year deal which runs until 2011.
Money raised helps with a monthly snapshot of colleague engagement talkback take part and help make your future!
poor and disadvantaged people in the UK and some across all areas of our business.
We have seen marked of the poorest countries in the world to help make improvements in the scores we have achieved during long-term changes to their lives.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 25
