Broad Markets and Widest Range of Technologies Growth Platform Customer Base reduced risk exible and cost effective organic and acquisition growth Our high proportion of small to Having more tools in our kit-bag We have an excellent long-term medium-sized contracts and the enables us to solve customers track record, built on organic split of market sectors we serve problems as they emerge and growth and acquisitions.
Operating Review Justin Atkinson This was another outstanding year for Despite robust competition, in 2006 the KPIs US the Group, in which all four of our major Group continued to gain market share Our growth compared with divisions increased their profitability and and to outperform the competition in the growth of our markets signicantly improved their operating most of its markets.
2006 19% 5% margins, whilst continuing to gain 2005 43% 9% market share.
Operations Denition and method of calculation In addition to the organic growth Key performance indicators KPIs Year-on-year sales growth compared generated across all our main markets, In accordance with the EU Accounts with growth in the total US construction 1 the three acquisitions made in 2006 Modernisation Directive, now introduced market in brackets.
performed even better than we into UK company law, we are including Return on net operating assets expected at the time of purchase.
KPIs in this report for the first time.
2006 48% We have selected measures which 2005 35% Conditions in our major markets correspond with the four principal Denition and method of calculation In North America, the public infrastructure areas of uncertainty for the business, Operating profit expressed as a percentage and particularly the commercial sector summarised on page 20.
We believe 3 of net operating assets including goodwill remained extremely buoyant, with 2006 these KPIs, shown by principal business acquired through acquisitions.
non-residential expenditure as a whole area in the divisional reviews which around 13% higher than the previous follow, illustrate well the development, Operating margin 1 year.
As expected, the residential sector performance and position of the business.
2006 13.4% 2005 10.5% contracted as the year progressed, with In our Social Responsibility Report housing starts for single-family homes on pages 24 to 29, we give further Denition and method of calculation The ratio of operating profit to sales, ending the year some 15% down on KPIs which measure the Groups safety 2 expressed as a percentage.
Taken as a whole, construction performance.
We are pleased that, overall, expenditure in the US increased by these demonstrate a further improvement 2 Staff turnover 1 around 5% year on year.
in our safety performance in 2006.
2006 12% In Europe, Germany experienced Denition and method of calculation a long-awaited recovery in construction Operations The number of managerial, professional and output, whilst activity levels in Kellers North America technical staff leaving the division in the period, other main Continental European markets The 2006 performance of our North expressed as a percentage of employees in France, Spain and Eastern Europe American operations surpassed our this category.
remained high and the UK showed highest expectations at the start of the continued improvement.
year, beating their previous records for The Middle East saw high levels revenue and profit.
Revenue of 476.9m of construction activity, whilst the Groups 2005: 399.9m was 19% ahead, with Far East markets once again offered good operating profit of 64.1m 2005: 42.1m opportunities.
Australia saw a significant up by 52%.
increase in expenditure on infrastructure, fuelled in part by the boom in mining and 1 related activities.
Data published by the US Census Bureau of the 1 Data published by the US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce on 31 January 2007 2 Department of Commerce on 31 January 2007 Not reported before 2006 2 3 Monthly housing starts published by the Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred National Association of Home Builders in January 2007 consideration and net dened benefit pension liabilities 11 Keller Group plc Operating Review Justin Atkinson Keller Group plc Local Focus People with Deep Experience Global Scale excellent service huge knowledge base creates opportunity Our regional structure means Our culture helps us to attract We have the financial strength, that we can respond quickly and retain the best people, the know-how and the global to our customers needs and allowing us to accumulate reach to tackle some of the to changes in our marketplace.
a wealth of knowledge largest and most demanding and experience.
In addition to the Operating Review organic growth Justin Atkinson continued generated across all our main markets, the three acquisitions made in2006 performed even better than we expected at the time of purchase.
Hayward Baker The strength of Hayward Bakers product McKinney Hayward Baker had another excellent range has been improved with the launch Whilst again working on some 1,500 year across most of its regions, helped during the year of its vibro piers system, contracts in the year, McKinney took in part by a very strong contribution which was developed as a fast and on more large jobs, increasing by around from Donaldson, its September 2005 economic treatment for the support 50% its average job size to $60,000 acquisition.
Given the large number of lighter loads.
It again worked in collaboration of contracts which Hayward Baker popular and looks set to make a growing with other US Group companies on a undertakes in any one year almost 1,500 contribution in 2007 and beyond.
number of projects where it was able in 2006 it is pleasing to report further to bring complementary expertise or improvement in its contract performance.
The Murano Tower project Whilst strong market conditions have Case had an outstanding year, which in Philadelphia, undertaken in joint assisted, this improvement also reects saw the completion of several large and venture with Case, is one such project, a renement of Hayward Bakers technically demanding projects, on time where the requirement for different-sized approach to risk management over and to budget.
These included the twocaissons to support this 42-storey the past two years.
year $20m 10.2m contract to install four luxury condominium development Amongst the projects worked on by shafts to provide intake water for the Elm played to the respective strengths Hayward Baker in 2006 were a number of Road Generating Station near Milwaukee, of Case and McKinney.
tunnel-related projects on the West Coast, Wisconsin.
Each shaft had a diameter With its high contract volume, where the company has a solid track of 4.5 metres and a depth of 45 metres, McKinney usually has its fair share of record of performance on similar projects.
establishing a record for the largest rock notable projects.
In 2006 these included Specialty grouting services were provided shafts ever installed by Case.
the foundations for the new 100,000-seat under the $10.2m 5.2m Lower North The ability to continually stretch Dallas Cowboys Football Stadium and the Outfall Sewer Rehabilitation contract, to boundaries to deal with ever-more foundations for several safe houses in stabilise the soil above an existing sewer complex ground problems depends not New Orleans, where the pump operators tunnel for the City of Los Angeles: and only on the technical skills of our people for the local storm water system will be under the $9.4m 4.8m Gold Line but also on the power and durability of able to ride out future hurricanes without contract, to stabilise tunnelling works for our equipment.
Investment in Cases large leaving their work stations.
the Metro Gold Line Eastside Extension.
drill rigs has further improved productivity Also on the West Coast, Hayward Baker and has been an important element in Anderson contributed to a large and complex offthe success of many of the large jobs The latest of the Groups US acquisitions, shore vibro replacement test project undertaken in 2006, such as the Anderson, had a very good first three in San Francisco Bay for the seismic foundations for the new Goldman Sachs months under Kellers ownership.
upgrade of the Bay Area Rapid Transit building in New York.
Investment in the Anderson, purchased for an initial $21.7m tube system the deepest in-service eet has also enabled Case to expand 11.8m including the assumption of vehicular tube in the world.
its product offering to include secant pile debt, is a provider of heavy foundations, walls these continuous earth retention serving the commercial, industrial and walls formed by interlocking, concretepublic infrastructure markets on the lled shafts are gaining in popularity in West Coast of the US.
the US, following extensive development and use in Europe.
12 Keller Group plc Operating Review Justin Atkinson Broad Markets and Widest Range of Technologies Growth Platform Customer Base reduced risk exible and cost effective organic and acquisition growth Our high proportion of small to Having more tools in our kit-bag We have an excellent long-term medium-sized contracts and the enables us to solve customers track record, built on organic split of market sectors we serve problems as they emerge and growth and acquisitions.
In 2006, we undertook over 8,000 contracts, with an average contract size of just over 100,000.
Our contract portfolio is well balanced between small and large: public and private: and newbuild and refurbishment projects.
Keller Group plc Local Focus People with Deep Experience Global Scale excellent service huge knowledge base creates opportunity Our regional structure means Our culture helps us to attract We have the financial strength, that we can respond quickly and retain the best people, the know-how and the global to our customers needs and allowing us to accumulate reach to tackle some of the to changes in our marketplace.
We pride ourselves on having some of the best talent in our industry acknowledged experts in ground behaviour who work closely with our customers to nd the best and most cost-effective solutions.
Operating Review Justin Atkinson continued Anderson represents an excellent substitution opportunities which should KPIs Continental Europe & Overseas strategic t with our other US foundation enable the business to continue to Our growth compared with businesses and will assist our growth on grow market share over the longer term, the growth of our markets the West Coast, where we were formerly notwithstanding the difficult market France under-represented in heavy foundations.
conditions which Suncoast faces 2006 38% 7% We are pleased with the progress in 2007.
2005 24% 6% of its integration into the Group, with Germany a migration to the Groups principal Continental Europe & Overseas 2006 10% 3% 2005 -11% -3% reporting and accounting systems Our Continental Europe & Overseas Spain now well under way.
business reported a very good 2006 15% 13% performance, with revenue of 255.0m 2005 15% 10% Suncoast 2005: 204.8m up some 24% on the Denition and method of calculation After a very strong first half, the downturn previous year.
It is particularly pleasing Year-on-year sales growth in France, Germany in the residential market was clearly felt that the improvement was so evenly and Spain compared with growth in these major 1 in the second half of the year, particularly spread across the countries represented European construction markets in brackets.
in the states of California and Arizona, within the division.
Operating profit was Return on net operating assets where Suncoasts slab-on-grade revenue 41% above the previous year at 17.9m 2006 27% was down 32% on the previous second 2005: 12.7m.
This downturn, although severe, Our French business had an Denition and method of calculation compares favourably to a fall of 39% in excellent year, in which its share of the Operating profit expressed as a percentage the number of residential building permits domestic ground improvement market 3 of net operating assets including goodwill for these states across the same period.
continued to grow, largely in the acquired through acquisitions.
In contrast, residential sales in Texas commercial and residential sectors.
remained resilient for most of the year.
Further progress was made in extending Operating margin Timely management action, in our French export markets, with several 2006 7.0% 2005 6.2% reducing the headcount and cutting large contracts awarded across North capacity in the face of reduced volumes Africa and in the French West Indies.
Denition and method of calculation The ratio of operating profit to sales, and increased pricing pressure, helped In Spain, Keller-Terra saw another expressed as a percentage.
substantial increase in revenue in 2006, Throughout the year there was but with some weakening of its excellent 2 Staff turnover strong demand for commercial high-rise margins.
Measures have now been 2006 12% products, which resulted in Suncoast taken to strengthen our resources and Denition and method of calculation reporting revenue slightly ahead of the key business processes to handle this The number of managerial, professional and previous year and a good profit.
rapidly growing business, which has technical staff leaving the division in the period, In the second half, Suncoast added trebled its revenue in the four years expressed as a percentage of employees to its range the WAFFLEMAT system a under Kellers ownership.
new product which is particularly effective in medium expansive soils.
Both this and 1 Estimates of real annual growth plus estimated change in construction prices published by Euroconstruct in Suncoasts existing slab-on-grade system December 2006 2 are alternatives to traditional foundation Not reported before 2006 3 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred methods, offering good product consideration and net dened benefit pension liabilities 15 Keller Group plc Operating Review Justin Atkinson Keller Group plc Local Focus People with Deep Experience Global Scale excellent service huge knowledge base creates opportunity Our regional structure means Our culture helps us to attract We have the financial strength, that we can respond quickly and retain the best people, the know-how and the global to our customers needs and allowing us to accumulate reach to tackle some of the to changes in our marketplace.
Operating Review Justin Atkinson continued In Central and Eastern Europe, our In the Far East, several ongoing KPIs UK operations in Austria had a very busy contracts, such as Malaysias Stormwater Our growth compared with year, with projects including ground Management and Road Tunnel project the growth of our markets improvement works for the new and development of the Universal KGE Klagenfurt Football Stadium, which will Terminal on Jurong Island, Singapore, 2006 40% 5% be used as a venue for the 2008 European underpinned a growing stream of 2005 12% 4% Championship.
Further advances were work, whilst in India we strengthened Makers made in Eastern Europe, particularly our resources in order to benefit from 2006 36% 5% 2005 -34% 4% Poland, where our organic growth again an expected growth in demand for Denition and method of calculation exceeded that of the market.
Year-on-year sales growth compared with to extending our range of ground the growth in the total UK construction improvement techniques, we undertook UK 1 market in brackets.
some of our first heavy foundations Revenue in the year was 38% up work in this region a key element of our on the previous year at 123.2m 2005: Return on net operating assets strategy for growing the business in this 89.2m, with an operating profit 2006 23% area and made good progress on our of 3.2m 2005: loss of 0.3m.
Denition and method of calculation Revenue in Germany grew by KGE Operating profit expressed as a percentage 3 of net operating assets including goodwill around 10% which, combined with Keller Ground Engineering KGE doubled acquired through acquisitions.
increased margins, produced a its previous years operating profit on signicantly improved result.
Whilst much revenue some 40% ahead, including Operating margin of the increased demand related to new around 9m of revenue from Phi, to 2006 2.6% commercial structures, such as logistics report its best-ever year.
2005 -0.3% centres, several large infrastructure The foundation support division Denition and method of calculation projects in which we have been involved had an excellent year.
Amongst the The ratio of operating profit to sales, over recent years, including tunnel projects completed was the installation expressed as a percentage.
stabilisation works in Leipzig and of foundations for a major distribution 2 Staff turnover Cologne, helped to maintain high levels facility adjacent to the Dartford Crossing 2006 KGE 7% of activity throughout 2006. in Kent.
KGE was able to optimise the 2006 Makers 19% The Middle East reported a very original piled scheme by utilising a range Denition and method of calculation good result, with an excellent contribution of engineering techniques: driven piles The number of managerial, professional and from Saudi Arabia, where we were in areas of weak soil, with ground technical staff leaving the division in the period, engaged on a big foundations project improvement by dynamic compaction expressed as a percentage of employees in for a power station, and good results and vibro replacement in areas of shallow this category.
This value engineering man-made islands in the Gulf area delivered substantial reductions in produced many related contracts, programme time and cost.
Another including foundations for large hotel major contract in 2006 was at Mere 1 Estimates of real annual growth plus estimated change in construction prices published by Euroconstruct in complexes on Palm Jumeirah and Park in Surrey, where the site of a December 2006 2 for a luxury residential development former sand and gravel quarry is being Not reported before 2006 3 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred comprising six 20-storey towers on the redeveloped into an urban village.
consideration and net dened benefit pension liabilities Amwaj Islands, off the Bahrain coast.
16 Keller Group plc Operating Review Justin Atkinson Broad Markets and Widest Range of Technologies Growth Platform Customer Base reduced risk exible and cost effective organic and acquisition growth Our high proportion of small to Having more tools in our kit-bag We have an excellent long-term medium-sized contracts and the enables us to solve customers track record, built on organic split of market sectors we serve problems as they emerge and growth and acquisitions.
Our tailored solutions are designed to solve a range of site enablement and substructure problems and to deliver to our customers the maximum savings in programme time and cost.
As the clear market leader in the US and Australia, with prime positions in established European markets and a strong prole in Asia and emerging European markets, we work on some of the most prestigious projects in the world.
Operating Review Justin Atkinson continued Backlling of the former quarry and the Also, internal and external refurbishment KPIs Australia installation of some 16,000 linear metres works were carried out at the Coldharbour Our growth compared with of vibro stone columns has enabled Estate in the London Borough of the growth of our markets around 350 new homes to be built in Greenwich, where a programme to 2006 75% 8% difficult ground conditions.
upgrade some 470 individual properties 2005 15% 8% The geotechnical division had a was completed on time and to budget.
Denition and method of calculation quieter, but on-budget year, performing The performance on this project helped Year-on-year sales growth compared with well on some demanding projects.
These to secure Makers position as one of four the growth in Australias construction market 1 included work for the Parliamentary Works contractors appointed by the London in brackets.
Department, improving the foundations Borough of Greenwich as their strategic Return on net operating assets beneath Westminster Hall to enable partners for a period of four years.
2006 38% the main public entrance to the Palace 2005 24% of Westminster to be relocated there.
The Australia Denition and method of calculation division was also involved in a major new Revenue of 65.1m 2005: 37.1m was Operating profit expressed as a percentage hotel at Heathrows Terminal 5, where it some 75% above the previous year, whilst 3 of net operating assets including goodwill provided temporary anchor support for operating profit increased nearly fourfold acquired through acquisitions.
the retaining walls to a basement car park.
An already very good year was This record result from our Australian Operating margin topped off by an excellent contribution businesses included five months 2006 10.7% 2005 4.8% from Phi, the retaining wall specialist contribution from Piling Contractors, acquired in April 2006 for an initial whose performance exceeded our Denition and method of calculation The ratio of operating profit to sales, consideration of circa 6m, net of cash expectations at the time of acquisition.
KGEs existing earth retention With its strong links with civil engineering, activities were rebranded and assimilated infrastructure and mining, Piling 2 Staff turnover into Phi and the enlarged business is Contractors is taking full advantage 2006 5% now fully integrated into the Group.
of the current boom in these sectors in Denition and method of calculation Australia.
One of the largest foundations The number of managerial, professional and Makers projects performed in the region in technical staff leaving the division in the period, The volume shortfall in social housing 2006 was a A$40m 16.3m contract expressed as a percentage of employees in experienced in 2005 was largely performed by a joint venture including this category.
recovered in 2006, to give a break-even Piling Contractors to install a diaphragm result for the year.
Social housing projects wall and sheet piling for a bypass near undertaken during the year included the airport at Tugun on the New South internal refurbishment works under a Wales Queensland border.
Another partnering arrangement with the Epping significant contract for Piling Contractors Forest District Council as part of its was the Inner Northern Busway project Decent Homes programme.
Our other Australian businesses also took full advantage of the strong 1 Data   2 market and completed a higher than Not reported before 2006 3 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred average number of large contracts.
consideration and net dened benefit pension liabilities 19 Keller Group plc Operating Review Justin Atkinson Keller Group plc Local Focus People with Deep Experience Global Scale excellent service huge knowledge base creates opportunity Our regional structure means Our culture helps us to attract We have the financial strength, that we can respond quickly and retain the best people, the know-how and the global to our customers needs and allowing us to accumulate reach to tackle some of the to changes in our marketplace.
Operating Review Justin Atkinson continued These included the Rapid Expansion Principal risks and uncertainties Technical risk The main areas of uncertainty facing the Group It is in the nature of our business that we are project at Port Hedland the 16th project relate to market conditions, acquisitions, technical continually assessing and managing technical, performed by Frankipile for BHP Billiton risk and people.
These also represent the Groups and other operational, risks.
The controls we over the past 15 years and the greatest opportunities and how we manage these have in place, particularly at the crucial stage foundations for the new Melbourne risks is a key differentiator between Keller and of bidding for contracts, are discussed in Convention Centre, which at A$14.5m similar businesses.
the Internal Control section of the Corporate 5.9m was the largest contract ever Governance Report on page 45.
Increasingly, given our size, it is unlikely that any one undertaken by Vibro-Pile.
Market cycles contract is able to materially affect the results Whilst our business will always be subject The ground engineering business, of the Group and the average contract value to economic cycles, market risk is reduced in its third year of operations, continued approximately 113k in 2006 is important in by the diversity of our markets, both in terms of to make good strides in introducing new this respect.
Our ability to manage technical geography and market segment.
It is also partially techniques to the market.
For example, risks will generally be reected in our profitability.
offset by opportunities for consolidation in our it completed what is thought to be the KPI: operating margin.
Typically, even where first compensation grouting contract in the we are the clear leader, we still have a relatively People small share of the market.
Our ability to exploit southern hemisphere on the Perth Metro The risk of losing, or not being able to attract, these opportunities through bolt-on acquisitions Rail project and introduced Kellers dry good people is key and never more so than in is reected in our track record of growing sales, soil mixing technology to Australia for a buoyant markets.
We pride ourselves in having and doing so profitably, across market cycles.
railway upgrade in Newcastle and for road some of the best professional and skilled people KPI: our growth compared with the growth stabilisation at the Waterfront City project in the industry, who are motivated by the Groups of our markets.
culture and the opportunities for career growth.
The processes for training and developing our Acquisitions employees are discussed in the Social We recognise the risks associated with acquisitions Securing the future Responsibility Report on page 29. and our approach to buying businesses aims During our busiest year ever, we have KPI: staff turnover.
to manage these to acceptable levels.
We try to not lost sight of the need to sustain our first get to know a target company, often working business by continuing to invest time and in joint venture, to understand the operational money in modernising our equipment and cultural differences and potential synergies.
This is followed by a robust due diligence eets, updating our methods of work, process, most of which is undertaken by our recruiting people with great potential, own managers, and we then develop a clear providing training, motivation and a safe integration plan which takes account of the work environment for our employees unique character of the target company.
and reinforcing our strong relationships KPI: return on net operating assets.
with industry partners be they customers, consultants, suppliers or standard-setters.
We will continue to invest in all these aspects of our business which we see as being crucial to our continued success.
Justin Atkinson, Chief Executive 28 February 2007 20 Keller Group plc Operating Review Justin Atkinson Broad Markets and Widest Range of Technologies Growth Platform Customer Base reduced risk exible and cost effective organic and acquisition growth Our high proportion of small to Having more tools in our kit-bag We have an excellent long-term medium-sized contracts and the enables us to solve customers track record, built on organic split of market sectors we serve problems as they emerge and growth and acquisitions.
In the last ten years, we have delivered compound annual growth rates in sales and operating profit of 15% and 22% respectively.
Going forward, we see potential for further long-term growth in all our markets.
