ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 OPERATING REVIEW Platinum Diamonds 2006 2005 2006 2005 Operating Operating pro t pro t $2,398 m $854 m $463 m $583 m EBITDA EBITDA $2,845 m $1,282 m $541 m $655 m The Amandelbult 1 shaft Overview Overview optimisation project was completed in March 2006.
1 primary producer of fide Beers is a global leader in the deepening of Bafokeng-Rasimone platinum world diamond industry and the sinking of the Lebowa Highest ever operating pro t in 2006 Global retail sales continue to rise Merensky declines are well One of the biggest capital expenditure fide Beers group diamond production advanced.
The PPRust North programmes in world mining surpasses 50 million carats expansion project commenced Long term outlook is favourable Upcoming projects will add 3.3 million and the Paardekraal 2 shaft and for platinum and other platinum carats to fide Beers annual production Amandelbults East Upper UG2 group metals capacity projects have been approved.
Paardekraal 2 shaft replacement project is expected to yield 120,000 ounces of re ned Anglo Platinums operating pro t platinum per annum by 2015 and climbed by 181% to a record the Amandelbult East Upper UG2 Right: X-Ray separation machines $2,398 million, supported by a project will contribute an employed in the diamond recovery signi cantly higher price achieved additional 106,000 ounces a process at the Venetia mine in for the basket of metals sold, year by 2012.
South Africa increased production and a weaker exchange rate.
The average dollar Anglo Platinum is continuing with price realised for the basket of its expansion programme and Anglo Americans share of produced 14.6 million carats and metals sold rose by 46% to expects re ned platinum output operating pro t from fide Beers 2 million carats, respectively.
of between 2.8 and 2.9 million declined by 21% to $463 million, Re ned platinum production was ounces in 2007.
Studies continue largely due to lower sales by In Canada, fide Beers is on target 15% higher at 2,816,500 ounces, to evaluate the ramping up of The Diamond Trading Company to start production at Snap Lake with platinum mining output up various projects to support its DTC, the marketing arm of in October 2007, while Victor in by 5% to 2,638,600 ounces.
stated average compound growth fide Beers, and the dilution in Ontario should commence in the target of 5% per annum.
Another earnings following the sale of last quarter of 2008.
In South strong performance is forecast 26% of fide Beers Consolidated Africa, fide Beers has been Below: Drill rig operator and section for 2007, with the most Mines to a South African black granted a mining licence for the safety representative straighten and signi cant variables affecting economic empowerment long closed Voorspoed mine and check drill hoses on the front of a drill rig earnings being metal prices and consortium.
is progressing its $145 million at the Waterval Shaft of Anglo Platinums Rustenburg Platinum mine the exchange rate.
Sea Areas marine mining project.
Global retail sales for 2006 grew by about 4%-5%.
The DTCs Demand for rough diamonds sales were $6.2 billion, a slight remains steady, though growth decline on 2005, re ecting the in DTC sales is likely to be reduced supply available to the constrained by shortages DTC and the challenging following the reduction in environment in the rough Russian purchases as agreed diamond wholesale market.
fide Beers will continue to bring Group production increased by new production on stream and 2 million carats to a record invest downstream through the 51 million carats.
Debswana venture with Mot Hennessy raised output from 31.9 million Louis Vuitton and the carats to 34.3 million carats, Forevermark marketing while South Africa and Namdeb programmes.
16 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 See also Anglo American at a glance IFC Business unit heads p24 The business p34 Base Metals Ferrous Metals and Industries 2006 2005 2006 2005 Operating Operating pro t pro t $3,876 m $1,678 m $1,360 m $1,456 m EBITDA EBITDA $4,214 m $1,990 m $1,560 m $1,779 m Attributable copper production Highvelds operating pro t Overview Overview increased to 643,800 tonnes, declined to $230 million with record operating pro ts of following a weaker vanadium One of the worlds leading copper Further progress in optimising the $3,019 million.
Evraz, which with Credit producers, with important nickel and asset base: formation of Kumba Iron El Soldado pit extension project Suisse has acquired 49.8% of zinc assets Ore as a pure-play iron ore company was completed on time and Anglo Americans 79% stake in Operating pro ts in 2006 set a new Kumba Iron Ore has a $754 million under budget.
Highveld, has an option to record of $3.9 billion expansion programme to boost acquire the remaining 29.2%.
$1.2 billion Barro Alto nickel project production by 40% by 2009 Nickel output was 26,400 gets go ahead Record iron ore production tonnes, similar to 2005, with the Scaw Metals produced a record Signi cant expansion potential in copper Scaw makes record operating pro t of nickel, niobium and mineral sands operating pro t of $160 million, $160 million division accounting for operating on the back of increased pro t of $405 million.
The acquisitions of nickel production will increase AltaSteel in Canada and the In 2006 Anglo Base Metals materially by 2011 when the remaining 50% of Moly-Cop generated its highest ever level recently approved $1.2 billion, Canada contributed $32 million of operating pro t of $3,876 36,000 tpa Barro Alto project Below: Kumba Iron Ore for the year.
excavator working a million on the back of increased in Brazil reaches full capacity.
stockpile at Saldanha Bay, copper, zinc, lead and Sishens export port on ferroniobium production and Zinc output increased to South Africas Atlantic coast signi cantly higher metal prices, 334,700 tonnes.
Skorpion partially offset by signi cant experienced a slight decline due rises in the costs of energy and to a tankhouse re, which was most key consumables.
more than offset by increases at Lisheen.
Agreement has been reached to Below: Copper sheets sell 100% of Namakwa Sands awaiting export at Mantoverde mine in Chile and 26% each of Black Mountain and Gamsberg to black economic empowerment group Exxaro for a combined total of R2,195 million $314 million subject to the satisfaction of conditions precedent and contractual price adjustments.
Operating pro t declined by Anglo Americans attributable 7% to $1,360 million, due to share of Samancors operating The current consensus is one the sale of non-core businesses pro t dropped to $52 million, of slightly lower growth in and lower vanadium and while Tongaat-Huletts rose to 2007.
While supply demand manganese prices.
fundamentals remain supportive, this suggests an easing of prices.
Kumba made an operating pro t The outlook for Ferrous Metals The full extent of any price of $778 million, re ecting and Industries remains broadly moves and the pace of such ongoing strength in global iron positive, though earnings will be change will be dictated by ore demand.
A $754 million in uenced by the timing of a uctuations in speculative and expansion programme at Sishen number of the restructuring investment funds sentiment in will increase annual sales transactions.
what is likely to be a volatile volumes by 40% to 45 million pricing environment.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 17 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 OPERATING REVIEW Coal Industrial Minerals 2006 2005 2006 2005 Operating Operating pro t pro t $864 m $1,019 m $336 m $370 m EBITDA EBITDA $1,082 m $1,243 m $580 m $618 m work is under way on the $264 Overview Overview million Mafube mine, which will increase thermal coal production New capital expenditure projects Completion of strategic review by 5 million tonnes per annum in Australia: Dawson project facilitates continuous improvement Mtpa from 2008.
$835 million set to come on stream both operationally and commercially in late 2007 and Lake Lindsay Tarmacs international businesses The Australian operations $516 million in 2008 increase their contribution by 5% operating pro t reduced by Cerrejn is ramping up to 32 Mtpa, Tarmac acquires assets in Turkey and 14% to $279 million.
The $835 with full production scheduled for 2008 Romania for first time million Dawson and $516 million Market remains strong for thermal coal Work under way on Tarmacs largest Lake Lindsay projects are now ever contract resurfacing a stretch of ramping up.
Dawson expects to Englands M1 motorway attain design capacity of 12.7 Mtpa in 2007.
Lake Lindsay plans to produce its first coal in 2008.
Anglo Coals operating pro t Right: The Streetwalker is a new decreased by 15% to $864 million, generation tool used to break up road In South America, Cerrejn despite a marked recovery in the surfaces and reduces exposure to handincreased output by 9% to second half, due to an overall arm vibration syndrome.
It is being 28.4 Mtpa, with further expansion introduced throughout Tarmac decline in export volumes and to 32 Mtpa scheduled for 2008. a pull back in export prices from Operating pro t was 5% lower at Anglo Industrial Minerals mixed concrete business in 2005s high levels.
$227 million following a decline operating pro t fell by 9% to Romania.
in export selling prices, higher $336 million.
Tarmacs operating Operating pro t for South operating costs and a stronger pro t was 7% lower at $315 Tarmac has completed its African sourced coal, at $380 Colombian peso.
million, principally attributable to operational, commercial and million, was 19% below 2005, dif cult UK market conditions, organisational restructuring.
re ecting lower average export Exchange rates and coal prices where margins were eroded by The scope of its activities is prices and a marginal decline in will be the two main variables in high energy costs.
These input now also clearly fide ned as export sales volumes.
Thermal coal prices should cost pressures were partly aggregates, together with the went into full production, while remain strong though still mitigated by cost savings of three routes to market asphalt, susceptible to volatility, while some $63 million.
concrete and concrete products, Below: Dragline stripping overburden at hard coking coal prices have with integration of cement where Anglo Coal South Africas new Isibonelo softened up to 20% for 2007 Despite a substantial decline in appropriate.
colliery that is supplying synthetic fuel producer Sasol with 5 Mtpa of coal contracts beginning in April.
demand from the housing sector, Tarmac Building Products Market conditions in the UK are improved results.
Demand, expected to remain challenging, however, remained weak for with weak demand in certain aggregate products, particularly sectors and high cost pressures.
in the road and housing sectors.
The uncertainty of government spending on infrastructure is also Operating pro ts for Tarmac a cause for concern, as is the International improved owing increasing impact of different to stronger markets in France, types of construction materials Germany and Poland and the such as steel and timber on the opening of a quarry in the Middle industry.
Tarmac has boosted its prices and the impact that has on presence in eastern Europe by the business will also continue to entering Turkey and acquiring a affect performance.
developing quarrying and ready- 18 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 See also Anglo American at a glance IFC Business unit heads p24 The business p34 Gold Paper and Packaging 2006 2005 2006 2005 Operating Operating pro t pro t $467 m $332 m $477 m $495 m EBITDA EBITDA $843 m $871 m $923 m $916 m In 2006, AngloGold Ashantis upturn in packaging paper pricing Overview Overview production from ongoing offset by higher input costs and operations declined by 9% to continued margin pressure in the Strategic alliances established in Agreement in principle reached for 5.64 million ounces.
During Russia and are being pursued in China Mondi to become a Dual Listed in output in Tanzania, South the year Mondi strengthened its Continuing investor interest in gold Company Structure, with listings in Africa and Ghana were only position in the high growth niche The gold price has risen for six years London and Johannesburg partly compensated by small release liner segment, in sack in succession In 2006, productivity improved at Mondi increases from operations in kraft and extrusion coating Packaging by 9% across the business Australia, Argentina and Mali.
First phase of modernisation programme Mondi Business Papers operating at Syktyvkar in Russia under consideration AngloGold Ashanti is focusing pro t was down 20% at $365 million capital expenditure in on growing the reserve and $130 million, owing to the slow Poland or Czech Republic being considered resource base, both through start up at Merebank, South exploration and through a Africa, of the PM31 paper AngloGold Ashantis operating disciplined, value adding mergers machine following a major pro t increased by 41% to and acquisitions programme.
rebuild and tough trading $467 million.
Total cash costs Below: An extensive range of tinted conditions.
PM31 is now papers is made in Austria, with rose by $27 per ounce to $308 AngloGold Ashanti is now operating at an improved rate production at the plant in Kematen and per ounce, mainly resulting from looking outside of the worlds and producing better grades of special nishing featured here in the stronger operating currencies, mature gold regions and has plant in Hausmening paper.
Syktyvkar in Russia and in ation and lower grades.
exploration projects in the Democratic Republic of Congo and in Colombia.
In Russia, a strategic alliance has been formed with Polymetal and other Below: At AngloGold Ashantis Mponeng strategic alliances are being mine in South Africa a miner pumps pursued in China.
Exploration ammonium nitrate into drill holes which partnerships in the Philippines are then charged before being electronically detonated and Laos have resulted in land positions being acquired in several prospective areas.
The gold price has now risen for six years in succession.
Ongoing strong demand from the growing economies of China and India as Operating pro t declined to Ruzomberok in Slovakia recorded well as continued investor $477 million, due to margin strong results, as did Mondi speculation and of cial sector pressures as a result of Packaging South Africa.
activities are seen as being signi cant input costs of bre, supportive of the gold price.
chemicals and energy, partly While pricing is still well below offset by improving prices.
historical mid-cycle levels, the However, Mondi was able to trading environment has deliver $224 million in cost improved, though concerns saving and pro t improvement remain about the strength of initiatives.
the recovery and the level of overcapacity in some markets.
Mondi Packagings operating A better financial performance pro t was $6 million lower at overall is expected in 2007.
$287 million, with a strong Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006 | 19 ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 OPERATING REVIEW Exploration Technology Anglo Research is a world class Overview R&D organisation that supports the strategies of the business For decades, Anglo American has been units.
Numerous technology distinguished by a strong technology developments are under way, base.
Its unique portfolio of in-house including otation optimisation, ore and partnered technologies and upgrading, improved comminution associated skills has served to maintain ef ciency and alternative the Groups leadership in key areas of hydrometallurgical processes.
its core mining activities, adding signi cant value to operations.
Safety improvement remains a A technology council has been formed prime concern and appropriate to better co-ordinate the Groups technology is assisting in the R&D initiatives drive to reduce injury and fatality rates.
Vehicle collisions are receiving particular attention and a Groupwide initiative is Above: fide Beers Marines Peace in Africa investigating and developing is currently being re tted as a mining Overview vessel in the search for diamonds off warning devices for personal use.
South Africas Atlantic coast Exploration is one of the key activities In the exploration eld, SQUID Other projects are aimed at for the continued growth of Anglo and Scandinavia through is a superconducting quantum reducing environmental impact American.
The strong competition for alliances and zinc programmes interference device, cooled by and improving energy ef ciency.
resources globally has led the Group into continue in Australia, South liquid helium, that is being used Anglo American is engaged in more remote regions, to create Africa and Namibia.
in highly sensitive instruments partnerships with major energy exploration alliances and to apply new to nd and characterise buried companies with a view to and innovative technology in its search Anglo Platinum $30 million is deposits of conducting or securing coals future as a vital for new mineral resources.
In 2006, the exploring in and around existing magnetic materials.
Anglo part of the energy mix by both Anglo American Group was active across operations in South Africas Technical Division is also making it cleaner and adding 33 countries, including 111 alliances with Bushveld Complex.
Drilling employing a gravity gradiometer value through downstream coal- 103 different entities in 25 countries continues at its Danba project to measure small changes in to-liquids applications.
in China, following encouraging gravity, facilitating the structural exploration results.
mapping of deposits of nonBelow: Anglo Platinum piloted the metallic minerals.
application of a high intensity, submerged In 2006, Anglo Base Metals spent Anglo Coal $24 million is injection furnace installed at its plant at Rustenburg $53 million and has increased its continuing to investigate exploration around its Chilean resources for thermal and coking copper mines, adding signi cant coal, coal bed methane and oil resources at Los Bronces.
sands, mainly looking in Exploration to the south of southern Africa, China and Los Bronces continues to report Australia.
Anglo Coal conducted signi cant intervals of copper advanced resource evaluations of mineralisation.
In Brazil, further the Xiwan project in China and drilling at the Jacar nickel projects in Canada and Australia.
discovery has indicated the potential for a major new nickel Anglo Ferrous Metals $9 million asset for the Company, while is exploring for iron ore in South work continues in the Philippines Africa and other iron ore growth to complete a pre-feasibility opportunities are being pursued.
study at Boyongan by the end of 2007.
At Gamsberg, South fide Beers spent $140 million Africa, initial drilling of several and is currently active in Angola, key zinc targets has provided the Democratic Republic of encouraging results.
Copper Congo, Botswana, Canada, India, exploration is being undertaken South Africa and Namibia.
in Brazil, Chile, Indonesia, Mexico, Peru and the US.
Nickel sulphide mineralisation is being sought in Arctic Canada, Russia 20 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2006
