Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW Joe is Chief Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer Over the financial year of AVI.
Joe has been British Empires named the total net asset value portfolio manager return was 10.0%.
since 1 October 2015, Joe Bauernfreund continuing the natural Chief Investment Officer progression that has seen only three portfolio managers at British Empire Trust in the last 30 years.
WEIGHTED AVERAGE DISCOUNT Performance For the financial year to 30 September 2018, your Companys NAV Weighted average discount to NAV in portfolio Percentage discount to NAV returned 10.0% on a total return basis in Sterling.
This represents 40% an outperformance of 4.8% against the benchmark the MSCI All Country World ex-US index which returned 5.2%, also in Sterling 35% terms.
Following this, NAV total return is now 71% over the last three years, a 14% outperformance of the benchmark.
30% Whilst we are very much bottom-up fundamental stock pickers, 25% it is both interesting and important to consider your Companys performance in the context of the wider market environment.
As 20% has been the case for much of the past decade, the US was again 15% the standout stock market performer this year.
US markets appear Sept 08 Sept 10 Sept 12 Sept 14 Sept 16 Sept 18 unfazed by whatever is thrown at them, with the S&P 500 and Source Estimated by Asset Value Investors.
NASDAQ Composite returning 21% and 29% respectively in the face of political scandal, fears of a full-blown trade war and further monetary policy tightening.
With the US now technically in its longestANNUALISED NAV 10 YEAR TOTAL RETURN PER SHARE ever bull market, the question du jour concerns the sustainability of continued US outperformance.
Recent setbacks have brought the issue into stark relief, with market participants either taking the view that any setback is a buying opportunity, or fretting about the end 10% of the long bull run.
As stock pickers, we focus on the prospects for our investments and try to screen out the distracting noise made by commentators and politicians.
For non-US equity markets, the going was much tougher.
In Japan, the TOPIX returned 13%, whilst broad-based European equity indices rose slightly by 3% over the year.
There has been considerable pain in emerging markets most notably Turkey, Argentina, Indonesia and Brazil which have, amongst other things, suffered from currency weakness against the US Dollar as the Fed delivered its eighth hike of the cycle, with another likely before 2018 is out.
The portfolios major exposure to this trend was in Brazil, where two holdings, Cosan Ltd and GP Investments, underperformed.
These are discussed in detail below.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 19 INVESTMENT REVIEW INVESTMENT MANAGERS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW Portfolio Commentary Closed-end funds also performed well this year.
Of particular note, it was pleasing to see the validation of last years decision to add British Empires Portfolio When thinking about the types of companies in which your Company to Pershing Square Holdings on continued weakness, leading to a swing from being one of last years largest detractors to being invests, it is important to consider both the NAV and the discount at which the share price trades to that NAV: these two factors will be the this years third most significant contributor.
As discussed in more detail below, Pershing Squares NAV performance has been much key determinants of how your portfolio performs in any given year.
stronger, although its discount of 24% remains exceptionally wide With that in mind, we note that the portfolios weighted average for a portfolio of liquid, US-listed large-cap equities.
discount widened from 26% to 30% over the year.
While roughly half of this was due to reducing holdings with tight discounts and buying When it comes to closed-end funds, we often take a more activist or adding to positions with wider discounts, the portfolio discount approach to creating value.
Our investment in Aberdeen Private movement was nonetheless a drag on returns.
However, superior NAV Equity Fund APEF is a case in point, and contributed 0.43% to growth more than outweighed this, leading to outperformance.
Having completed detailed pre-investment research into the implied valuation discrepancy between APEFs portfolio Performance was particularly strong in European holding companies.
in the public and private markets, we built a 25% stake in the In this area of the portfolio, we seek to invest alongside prudent, longcompany.
From this position, our engagement steered the company term oriented capital allocators who will actively manage their portfolio toward a sale of its entire portfolio at a modest premium to NAV, of businesses and grow their companys net asset value over time.
1 with the investment generating an internal rate of return IRR NAV growth amongst these companies was generally positive, although of 22% in Sterling over a period of just under 11 months 36% somewhat offset by discount widening in cases such as EXOR and in APEFs reporting currency of US Dollars, with Sterling strength Investor AB.
In holdings such as Pargesa and Jardine Strategic an acting as a headwind to returns over the holding period.
Asian holding company, we observe discounts on listed portfolios at levels previously seen at times of heightened economic stress such as One final area of note is Japan, in which 20% of your Companys 2009 and 2011.
That said, discounts did not homogenously increase: assets are invested.
As a recap, in 2017 our focus on undervalued, Aker, this years largest individual stock contributor, benefited from asset-backed quality companies led us to Japan, where many significant discount narrowing on top of strong NAV performance.
companies trade at discounts to the purest asset cash and Having traded on as much as a 46% discount within the last three yet also offer value and quality.
We built a basket of heavily years, we believe Aker is one of the clearest demonstrations of how over-capitalised small-cap Japanese equities, which are sentiment can drive wild swings in discounts and provide compelling attractive businesses in their own right and which we believe are opportunities for disciplined investors.
well positioned to benefit from Prime Minister Abes corporate governance reform agenda.
1 Refer to Glossary on page 88 for further details.
EXOR FIAT CHRYSLER AUTOMOBILES EXOR, one of British Empires largest investments, has an indirect stake in Maserati S. p. A. through its holding in Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.
Maserati is an Italian producer of luxury vehicles established in the early twentieth century.
5.6% % of total assets less current liabilities Source Maserati S. p. A 20 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information This year saw our first public engagement with a Japanese company.
In June, we submitted a shareholder proposal calling for an in specie distribution of 40% of Tokyo Broadcasting Systems stake in Tokyo Electron.
As discussed in more detail below, we put considerable effort into the campaign, which led to the launch of a dedicated website www.
com and the hosting of various information sessions in Tokyo.
Through favourable and extensive press coverage appearing in over 150 articles we have laid the groundwork on which to engage with the other Japanese companies in your portfolio.
LOOK-THROUGH COUNTRY EXPOSURE 2018 2017 % % United Kingdom 0.9 1.1 North America 24.3 19.9 Europe 27.8 32.0 Asia 17.9 17.4 Japan 18.6 18.0 Latin America, Africa & Emerging Europe 10.5 7.8 Other 3.8 Based on location of companies underlying assets.
EQUITY PORTFOLIO VALUE BY MARKET CAPITALISATION 2018 2017 % % 1 billion 41.8 43.8 1 billion 5 billion 39.5 23.6 5 billion 10 billion 13.0 10 billion 18.7 19.6 PORTFOLIO VALUE BY SECTOR 2018 2017 % % Investment Companies 46.6 42.5 Investment Holding Companies 34.4 43.9 Asset-backed Companies 19.0 13.6 Source Asset Value Investors.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 21
