Strategic Report PERFORMANCE REVIEW Against an uncertain backdrop we remain focused on our strategy The Office occupational market Demand for the best quality space has remained firm, with businesses continuing to make long term commitments to London 13.7bn 7.7 years despite wider uncertainty.
Initial estimates for Brexit-related job portfolio valuation weighted average lease length to first break losses in the financial sector have been substantially lowered and financial services companies have continued to take space, although media and technology companies are now a more significant source of demand.
Flexible workspace was another important driver, with 7.0% 97.4% its share of take up increased from an average of 7% in 2012-16 to total property return occupancy rate 21% in 2017.
This represents a shift towards more collaborative workplaces on more flexible terms.
This is largely driven by the growth of small and medium sized businesses, but also many larger corporates, who increasingly require flexible workspace in addition 1.8% 2.2% to their core office space.
ERV growth valuation movement The supply pipeline has moderated substantially since the referendum, and nearly 50% of all space under construction is Market backdrop currently pre-let, including nearly 60% of space due for completion in The economic environment remained uncertain across the year, 2018.
As a result, occupiers with relatively large space requirements with consumer spending more subdued, as inflation measured by have limited options in the coming years, which should support rents CPI reached a high of 3.1% in November.
The impact of political and on the best quality space.
economic uncertainty relating to the ongoing Brexit negotiations weighed on investment decisions for UK businesses and in The Retail occupational market November 2017, we saw the first interest rate rise in 10 years.
In Retail, the occupational market became more challenging as the However, at 4.2%, unemployment is at its lowest in more than year progressed.
The long term structural impact of online continues 40 years and inflation is slowing, as the impact of Sterling weakness to affect operators, and these issues have been exacerbated by short moderates.
So while UK GDP growth forecasts remain below other term factors, notably rising costs and subdued consumer confidence.
major economies, the relative strength of the global economy is Retailers continue to rationalise their store networks, and several supportive for UK businesses.
highly leveraged operators with challenged models have applied for CVAs company voluntary arrangements.
However, this negative The investment market sentiment obscures healthy performances from operators with The London investment market proved resilient, with real estate strong and differentiated offerings, who are evolving the role of continuing to offer good relative returns, and the unique attractions their stores to reflect the changing way people shop.
of London remaining persuasive, particularly for overseas investors.
However, buyers have become more selective, with well-let, In the casual dining sector, operators who over-expanded in recent best-in-class assets still generating good interest while pricing on years have been similarly impacted by short term cost pressures, other assets has softened, driving further polarisation.
The picture although the overall leisure market remains strong.
Spending on is similar in retail, where higher quality assets, both large and small, leisure has continued to grow and this year is expected to reach continue to see demand, although the market remains cautious with nearly 130 billion, a 17% increase compared to five years ago.
investors generally demanding a higher yield to compensate for a perceived increase in risk.
As a result, polarisation is accelerating rapidly.
The best quality retail schemes, which meet a much broader mix of uses, including leisure and entertainment, and which support the important role physical retail can play in an omni-channel strategy are still generating good rental tension and delivering income growth.
32 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our strategy Broadgate Estates Our strategy is to create outstanding places, which reflect the In May 2018, we announced the sale of the third-party portfolio changing lifestyles of the people who work, live or spend time in of Broadgate Estates, our property management business, to our space we call this creating Places People Prefer.
We do this by international real estate adviser Savills.
This transaction enables understanding and responding to the evolving needs and expectations us to focus exclusively on our own assets and enhance the service of our customers.
Increasingly people want to combine working, we provide to our customers as our business becomes increasingly shopping, socialising and entertainment in a single place.
business we are responding to this trend by curating the environment inside and outside our buildings to create more of these opportunities, Portfolio performance Total which include a mix of activities.
As our markets evolve, we will Valuation ERV Yield property continue to position our business to benefit from the long term Year ended Valuation movement growth shift return trends to drive enduring demand for our space.
31 March 2018 m % % bps % Offices 6,705 4.5 2.1 7 9.0 London Offices Retail 6,596 0.3 1.6 6 5.7 Our campus approach enables us to successfully differentiate our space by creating neighbourhoods we can enhance and enliven Residential 132 1.6 n a n a 4.6 through placemaking.
78% of our offices are located on our three Canada Water 283 7.0 n a n a 3.9 central London campuses at Broadgate, Paddington Central and Total 13,716 2.2 1.8 1 7.0 Regents Place.
At each, we are delivering a growing mix of uses alongside our offices, including dining, shopping, leisure and The portfolio value was up 2.2%, driven primarily by our leasing entertainment as well as events and activities people can enjoy seven activity, in particular the pre-letting of our developments which saw days a week.
Our newest buildings reflect the changing ways people a valuation gain of 9.6%.
ERV growth was positive in Retail and Offices, are working, with more collaborative space, distinctive features such but was stronger in the first half, particularly in Retail.
Office yields as roof terraces and smart technology, and sustainable characteristics, contracted 7 bps mostly in the first half reflecting our leasing all of which is driving good demand from a wide range of occupiers.
success, whilst Retail saw yield expansion of 6 bps, which was more pronounced in our Local centres.
Overall, the portfolio equivalent Storey, our flexible workspace business, is an integral part of that yield was broadly flat at 4.8%.
approach, helping to attract new occupiers to our campuses and allowing us to meet the evolving needs of existing customers.
The portfolio underperformed the IPD all property total return index Importantly, our campuses benefit from excellent connectivity and by 310 bps over the year, largely reflecting the continued strength of transport infrastructure, which will be further enhanced by Crossrail the industrial sector within the index, where we have no exposure.
at Broadgate and Paddington Central.
This makes them accessible Offices outperformed the sector benchmark by 70 bps on a total and convenient, and will drive footfall, providing a strong rationale returns basis while Retail underperformed by 50 bps.
for extending the retail and leisure offer.
We have completed the first phase of our valuer appointment policy, Retail which restricts the engagement of valuers on individual assets to We believe that physical stores have a key role as a part of 10 years.
As a result, this year, 45% of the portfolio was subject to a a successful omni-channel retail strategy, but that the market is change in valuer.
Despite some variations on individual assets, there polarising towards the best locations.
Size should be appropriate was no material impact at a subsector level, and therefore overall.
to the catchment and quality of space and services are key.
All of these changes were reported at half year and full details on Placemaking is an important part of how we can add value as our policy can be found in the Governance section of our website.
owners and managers of property: by curating our space to meet the needs of our customers, we can support the way the role of Investment and development the store is changing.
This is where our investment is focused.
Canada Retail Offices Residential Water Total There are typically three phases to a modern consumer journey: From 1 April 2017 m m m m m discovery, transaction and fulfilment.
Our Regional centres Purchases 199 7 206 typically support the discovery phase: they attract visitors from 1,2 Sales 419 577 312 1,308 a wide catchment so we are enhancing the nature of this space to encourage people to stay longer and spend more by enlivening our Development spend 31 82 54 23 190 space with more leisure and entertainment.
Our data shows that Capital spend 57 5 62 when customers engage with our catering offer, their retail spend Net investment 132 490 258 30 850 is typically 27% higher.
Gross investment 706 664 366 30 1,766 The second stage is the actual transaction, which may take On a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of joint place in store or online.
For retailers, transactions which are ventures and funds.
1 made or fulfilled in store are preferred, as they do not incur the Includes 575 million Leadenhall Building disposal exchanged during the year ended 31 March 2017 and completed this year.
Includes sale of Richmond which cost of last mile delivery, reducing pressure on margins.
exchanged during the year and completed post year end.
2 Includes 193 million of Clarges completions which exchanged prior to FY18, The third stage is fulfilment.
Retailers are focused on rightsizing of which 168 million completed after the year end.
their store networks, but are committed to maintaining good coverage, with stores increasingly playing a role in logistics and distribution.
Across our portfolio 27% of shoppers now use click and collect, up from 19% three years ago, and here, our Local centres, which provide convenient shopping for local communities, have a particular role to play.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Strategic Report PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED Across our portfolio, we have created attractive development opportunities in line with our strategy, giving us the optionality to progress when the time is right.
This is a unique advantage in 1.8bn 2.4m sq ft the current environment, where we see limited opportunity to gross investment activity lettings and renewals make accretive acquisitions, given the continuing strength of investment markets.
We believe that space which meets a broader range of needs 1.3bn 8.2% will be most successful long term, so our development pipeline disposals lettings and renewals ahead of ERV focuses on our London campuses where we see the potential to further enhance the mix of uses, with retail and residential in addition to our core office space.
0.5bn In line with our disciplined approach to capital allocation, we acquisitions and capital expenditure carefully manage our development risk, and pre-letting our space is an important part of that approach.
55% of the 63 million ERV in our committed pipeline is already pre-let or under offer and our total The gross value of our investment activity since 1 April 2017, as speculative exposure is just 4.5% of portfolio gross asset value GAV, measured by our share of acquisitions, disposals, capital spend well below our internal risk threshold for speculative development on developments and other capital projects, was 1.8 billion.
In addition, costs to come on our committed pipeline of includes our share from the sale of The Leadenhall Building of 427 million are substantially covered by residential receipts to 575 million 100%: 1.15 billion which completed in the year, come of 373 million from our Clarges Mayfair development.
419 million retail sales in line with book value and more than 200 million of asset purchases.
Looking forward, our medium term pipeline comprises a broad mix of opportunities including mixed use schemes at Eden Walk, Kingston We exchanged or completed residential sales of 119 million in the and Ealing where we see potential to deliver sizeable residential year, on average 16% ahead of most recent valuations.
In addition, schemes alongside an improved retail offer.
At Canada Water, we are we have completed on 193 million of Clarges sales which exchanged creating a new urban centre for London, which will comprise offices, prior to 1 April 2017, of which 168 million completed post year end.
retail and leisure as well as residential.
We signed a Master This brings total completed and exchanged sales at Clarges to Development Agreement with Southwark Council and submitted our 344 million to date.
outline planning application for the masterplan in May 2018.
In total, our medium term pipeline covers 4.8 million sq ft, with the majority This year, development spend has totalled 190 million, with the of projects currently income producing or held at low cost.
majority relating to Broadgate developments and Clarges.
Capital expenditure of 62 million relates to income enhancing investment Construction cost forecasts continue to suggest that the rate of and more general asset enhancement initiatives including at growth has moderated from the level in recent years.
However, Meadowhall, Glasgow Fort, Peterborough and Teesside.
pressure on labour costs and limited capacity in the industry indicate the rate of cost inflation will increase in 2019 20 back to closer to Development activity 3-4% per annum.
To manage this, 89% of the costs on our British Land share committed development programme have been fixed.
ERV let Current Cost to under More details on the portfolio, property performance, individual Sq ft value complete ERV offer Residential developments and assets sold and acquired during the year can At 31 March 2018 000 m m m m exchanged be found in the detailed supplementary tables on pages 166 to 174.
Completed in year 170 488 17 2 1 344 Committed 1,614 572 427 63 35 Near term 578 55 436 30 Medium term 2,992 Canada Water 1 Phase 1 1,848 On a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of joint ventures and funds except area which is shown at 100%.
1 Total site area is 5 million sq ft, of which 193 million completed to date including 168 million post year end.
34 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 LONDON OFFICES Strong leasing activity driven by our campus strategy and good market demand Tim Roberts Head of Offices Campus review 78% of our offices are located on our three central London campuses, Broadgate, Regents Place and Paddington Central.
Each benefit from excellent transport links, as well as vibrant local neighbourhoods, which supports our placemaking initiatives and makes them more dynamic and interesting places to work and visit.
Broadgate At Broadgate, our leasing activity covered nearly 590,000 sq ft, including 160,000 sq ft at 100 Liverpool Street, to SMBCE, the European subsidiary of SMBC Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation.
Having committed to this building on a speculative basis at the end of 2016, we are now 37% let on the office space by area, and are seeing good levels of interest on the remaining space.
Highlights A key focus remains increasing the mix of uses at our campuses, and Portfolio value up 4.5%, with the West End up 5.8% and the this year we signed a major deal with Eataly, the Italian marketplace City up 2.8% at 135 Bishopsgate, where they will open their first UK location Yield contraction of 7 bps overall, with 13 bps contraction covering 42,000 sq ft.
This is an important letting for the campus, in the West End, weighted towards the first half, and 2 bps in line with our objective to make Broadgate an internationally expansion in the City recognised centre for new food, retail and culture.
We are under ERV growth of 2.1%, with the West End up 2.5% and the City offer or in negotiations on a further 269,000 sq ft of office space at up 1.5% this development, together accounting for around 80% of the space.
70 bps ahead of IPD on a total return basis, 100 bps ahead At 1 and 2 Finsbury Avenue 1FA and 2FA, we are building on a capital basis, with ERV growth 100 bps ahead Broadgates reputation as a centre for innovation and finance.
Leasing activity covered 1.2 million sq ft, four times the area We have let 79,000 sq ft to Mimecast at 1FA and are under offer on achieved last year, adding 40 million to future rents: under a cinema 11,000 sq ft, together representing more than one third offer or in negotiations on a further 548,000 sq ft of the building.
At 2FA, we have let 14,500 sq ft on a short term basis Rent reviews covered 226,000 sq ft, 10% ahead of passing rent to Starling Bank, as well as a host of lettings in the technology and Activity generating like-for-like income growth of 2.4% creative sectors through Storey, our flexible workspace business 664 million excluding residential sales at Clarges of gross which covers 60,000 sq ft at Broadgate at 2FA and Appold Street.
capital activity, including our share of The Leadenhall Building 575 million This year, we were pleased that Broadgate was the winner of two Revo Opal Awards.
The first recognised how our commercialisation strategy had helped transform and positively enhance the environment at Broadgate, and the second recognising our Winter Forest as a best in class build, execution and visitor experience.
Regents Place At Regents Place, our leasing activity covered 411,000 sq ft, with our pre-let to Dentsu Aegis of all the office space at 1 Triton Square accounting for 310,000 sq ft, the largest pre-let in the West End for 22 years.
As part of this letting, Dentsu Aegis have an option to return their existing space at 10 Triton Street in 2021, which if exercised, would have a compensating adjustment covering the rent free period of the letting at 1 Triton Square.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 35 Strategic Report LONDON OFFICES CONTINUED Our Offices portfolio in London Regents Place 1.7m sq ft Broadgate 6.7bn 4.9m sq ft portfolio valuation British Land share Paddington Central 1m sq ft 7.3 years Kings Cross weighted average lease length Euston to first break Regents Warren Whitechapel Farringdon Park Street 96.7% Bond Street occupancy rate Liverpool St. Paddington Tottenham Court Road Heathrow Clarges, Mayfair 15 mins from Paddington The Portman Cluster Marble Arch House York House 10 Portman Square Facebook reaffirmed their commitment to the campus, taking Storey a further 39,400 sq ft at 10 Brock Street, bringing their total Since its launch in June 2017, Storey, our flexible workspace brand, occupation to 213,000 sq ft across two buildings, doubling their has made good progress.
We introduced the concept in response to initial requirement.
This is a good example of how we have been changing customer needs, and to broaden the range of services we able to accommodate the needs of our occupiers as their business offer campus occupiers.
It is now operational at all three of our expands or needs change, so we are pleased that Storey is now campuses, as well as International House, Ealing, covering a total of operational across 23,000 sq ft at 338 Euston Road.
We also signed 114,000 sq ft, of which 77% is now let.
We are differentiating our offer Flykick, a new kick-boxing gym at 350 Euston Road, which opened to appeal to innovative businesses that have outgrown conventional in March 2018, in line with our focus on enlivening our spaces and co-working space, as well as larger organisations seeking additional diversifying the mix.
space on more flexible terms in addition to their core requirement.
Marketing and fit out are tailored accordingly, so our occupiers are The Regents Place Community Fund is also entering its second year, able to create their own brand within our space, but benefit from bringing together occupiers to support local charities and make a shared facilities in the building as well as the advantages that our positive local difference.
In its first year, over 2,600 people benefitted campuses provide.
from projects addressing employability, social cohesion and health and wellbeing.
The average size of occupier is 52 employees and the average lease length is 27 months 21 months term certain, with existing occupiers Paddington Central from our campuses accounting for more than half of the space taken.
Paddington was our best performing campus, up in value AIM-listed robotic software company Blue Prism have taken space more than 7% in the year as we benefitted from the placemaking at 338 Euston Road and at Broadgate our activity is supporting the activities we have undertaken across our five years of ownership.
campuss emergence as a centre of technology and innovation, This has delivered a total unlevered return of 12% per annum.
with lettings to Wipros strategic and digital arm, Digital Designit, 4Kingdom Street 147,000 sq ft, reached practical completion in Tantalum, an automotive technology innovator, and Rotageek, April 2017 and was nearly 90% let ahead of launch in June 2017, which offers data-driven employee scheduling services.
to occupiers including Vertex, Sasol and Mars, whose activities span pharmaceuticals, energy and food products.
Storey is now The premium to ERV we are achieving is at or above target, and operational across 15,000 sq ft and a further 25,000 sq ft has we have allocated a further 119,000 sq ft to Storey from within the been allocated.
portfolio, of which 73,000 sq ft will be at 1FA.
10,000 sq ft will be club space at 4 Kingdom Street, where customers will be able Pergola, an outdoor drinking and dining experience which welcomed to host events and meetings and benefit from collaboration with 179,000 people in 2017, reopened for the summer season at the end fellow Storey and other campus occupiers.
This brings total space of April.
We are continuing to improve the food, beverage and leisure committed to Storey to more than 230,000 sq ft. offering at Paddington with six operators, including a gym, barbers and a number of independent cafs, together covering 12,500 sq ft, Residential signed in the period.
We completed stage one of our public realm Clarges Mayfair, our super prime residential development, reached improvement programme and are now underway with stage two, practical completion in December 2017.
To date we have completed which will enhance and enliven the canal-side space.
or exchanged on 24 residential units totalling 344 million and will commence marketing of the remaining 10 valued at 141 million, this summer.
This scheme, which has delivered profits of more 36 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Paddington Central In March 2013, we raised nearly 500 million to fund attractive investment opportunities through a share placing.
Four months later, we acquired Paddington Central for 470 million, and in 2015, One Sheldon Square for 210 million, at the entrance to the campus.
In February 2015 we committed to the speculative development of 4 Kingdom Street.
When completed, it was nearly 90% let ahead of the launch in June 2017, at rents 5% ahead of pre-referendum ERVs.
Today, top rents across Paddington are more than 30% higher.
Over the last five years we have invested over 10 million upgrading the campus environment, making it more attractive and engaging, and last year added Pergola, a pop-up dining concept which has welcomed nearly 180,000 visitors.
The evolution of Paddington continued this year.
We now have four canal boats of which three are restaurants and recent lettings to six independent food and restaurant operators have nearly doubled the food and beverage allocation.
We also have consent for a 332,000 sq ft office-led development at 5 Kingdom Street and a 105,000 sq ft hotel.
Rooftop of 4 Kingdom Street than 200 million to date, of which residential accounts for over At Blossom Street, Shoreditch, we have an option over two acres 150 million demonstrates our expertise in residential.
The offices of land which expires in February 2019.
We have consent for a element of this scheme reached practical completion in June 2016 340,000 sq ft mixed use development, integrating 258,000 sq ft of and is nearly 90% let.
character office space, with retail and residential, to create a mixed use development that builds on the historic fabric of the area.
Our Offices development plans envisage a mix of floorplates, to appeal to small and growing Over the year, we have committed to nearly 1 million sq ft of businesses, particularly in the technology and creative sectors, with development opportunities on our London campuses, more than the potential for some space to be allocated to Storey.
We will make doubling our development commitments, but without a material a decision on this development before the end of this calendar year.
increase in our speculative exposure.
56% of the ERV in our committed office developments is pre-let or under offer.
Medium term pipeline Looking further ahead, we have created options across our portfolio, We achieved planning consents covering more than 1 million sq ft which provide opportunities to grow and develop our business well across our three campuses, and are already on site on more than into the future.
Our medium term office pipeline covers 1.4 million sq ft, 90% of this space.
of which three-quarters is at Broadgate.
Committed pipeline At 2-3 Finsbury Avenue 2FA and 3FA, we have consent for Our committed pipeline covers 1.5 million sq ft.
This includes 366,000 a 563,000 sq ft development, adding 374,000 sq ft to the existing sq ft at 1 Triton Square, Regents Place, but the majority is at Broadgate.
space, but would seek a significant pre-let before making any commitment.
In the meantime, the space is generating a good income We are making good progress at 100 Liverpool Street, our 522,000 sq ft through short term more flexible lets and is proving particularly development adjacent to the Crossrail station at Liverpool Street successful amongst technology and creative occupiers.
The building targets the Platinum WiredScore certification has been let to TMT and creative occupiers through our core business for connectivity, a BREEAM Excellent rating for sustainability and the at 2FA, and a further 60,000 sq ft by Storey at 2FA and Appold Street.
WELL Gold certification for wellbeing: our plans include 20,000 sq ft We recently achieved vacant possession at 3FA, and the space is of outdoor terraces on five levels providing outside spaces for office enjoying similar success, with 44,000 sq ft of short term lets agreed workers to come together.
We have pre-let 37% of the office space to as well as 1,700 sq ft of events space which we expect to launch in SMBCE and are seeing good interest on the 90,000 sq ft of retail space the coming months.
This short term activity provides us with options here.
Also at Broadgate, we are on site at 1FA 291,000 sq ft, which over when we commence development.
We are progressing our will include a cinema and roof terrace, and 135 Bishopsgate 328,000 plans at 1-2 Broadgate, in total covering 507,000 sq ft, including a sq ft, with 42,000 sq ft of retail pre-let to Italian marketplace Eataly.
significant retail, leisure and dining element.
Vacant possession is In total we are delivering more than 1 million sq ft at Broadgate, of not expected until the end of 2019 but we expect to make a planning which 15% of the space will be retail or leisure, with 32% of the total application towards the end of this year.
ERV pre-let or under offer.
At 5 Kingdom Street, at Paddington Central, we have existing Near term pipeline consent for a 240,000 sq ft office-led scheme: our plans will increase Looking ahead, our near term pipeline covers 445,000 sq ft of this to more than 332,000 sq ft and we expect to submit a revised opportunities we would look to progress in the next 12 months.
The site sits above the Box, a 70,000 sq ft It includes the Gateway Building at Paddington Central, and our site which will become redundant on the completion of Crossrail, option at Blossom Street in Shoreditch.
when ownership reverts to British Land.
This represents an interesting opportunity to create an alternative use, potentially retail, In line with our strategic focus on expanding the mix of uses at our leisure, conference or events space, which will further differentiate campuses, we were pleased to achieve planning consent for the our campus offering.
Gateway, a 105,000 sq ft premium hotel at Paddington Central.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 37 Strategic Report RETAIL Quality space driving operational outperformance in polarising markets Charles Maudsley Head of Retail, Leisure & Residential Operational review We have a focused leasing strategy, informed by our insights, which keeps our offer relevant in todays market: this means we are targeting growth subsectors and meeting customer needs.
Compared with 2015, we have undertaken 8.8% more leasing to health and beauty operators, and 5.6% more in outdoor and sports clothing.
At the same time, we have reduced leasing to sectors where sales have declined, notably general fashion is down more than 10%.
We are also leveraging our insights to demonstrate the attractions of our assets to potential occupiers.
This year for example, we signed Decathlon at Ealing after providing compelling research on the strategic fit between its demographic profile and the local Highlights catchment, and at Broughton, Chester, Footasylum opened its Portfolio value up 0.3%, with the multi-let portfolio down 0.5% first out of town store, having demonstrated to the occupier that a offset by positive movements on our solus and leisure assets physical store was an opportunity to enhance their previously low In the multi-let portfolio, Regionals were marginally up in brand awareness to over one million residents in the catchment.
value whilst Locals were down 1.5% Early indications are that it is trading well.
This approach is integral Yield expansion of 6 bps overall, with 9 bps expansion in the to our leasing strategy across the portfolio and instrumental in multi-let portfolio, more pronounced in the Local portfolio encouraging operators to open out of town stores, with recent ERV growth of 1.6%, with 1.9% growth in the multi-let examples including Lush, Ann Summers, Disney and Joules all portfolio reflecting our successful leasing activity opening at Glasgow Fort, and Hotel Chocolat at Teesside, Stockton.
Underperformed IPD by 50 bps on a total return basis and In addition, our rent to sales ratio remains attractive at 11%.
70 bps below on a capital basis: ERV growth was 70 bps ahead of the index At Meadowhall, we have seen a strong response to our 60 million Leasing activity covered 1.2 million sq ft, adding 7 million refurbishment, with nearly 80 occupiers investing 46 million to future rents upgrading their stores.
We have signed 28 new occupiers, including Virtually full with occupancy at 98% online retailer Joe Browns first physical store, and Australian Completed more than 100 rent reviews, 4.2% ahead of homewares brand House, who opened one of their first UK stores passing rent here.
We have strengthened the premium offering to reflect the Nearly 90% of leases reaching expiry were either retained or improving catchment, with Godiva, Michael Kors, Flannels, replaced on terms ahead of ERV, with a further 5% re-let in Tag Heuer, Neals Yard, Joules and Nespresso all signing.
We have the short term relocated or upsized a further 21 occupiers and renewed or re-geared Activity generating like-for-like income growth of 1.2% leases on another 14.
This year, deals were signed 13% ahead of ERV, Footfall up 0.3%, 340bps ahead of benchmark: retailer sales and our activity has generated ERV growth of 2.8%.
We are also down 1.6%, 130bps ahead of benchmark pleased that our investment has benefitted the local community, Gross investment activity of 706 million, with sales of with 69% of construction spend going to local businesses and 419 million, overall in line with book value: 199 million 24 people supported into apprenticeships.
of acquisitions, including 152 million of regeneration opportunities in London, benefitting from Crossrail 38 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Our Retail portfolio 1 6.6bn 98.0% portfolio valuation British Land share occupancy rate 7.9 years 315m weighted average lease length to annual footfall first break Our portfolio has the potential to reach Key Regional centres Local centres 60% Asset catchment areas of the population On a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of joint ventures and funds.
1 Occupancy reduces to 97.5% treating space as vacant where occupiers have gone into liquidation post 31 March 2018.
Source: CACI Retail Footprint 2016 Note: Catchment includes Broadgate Across the market, sales and footfall are down but our assets have We have invested 88 million into the portfolio, of which 70% is income continued to outperform.
Footfall was up 0.3% across the multi-let producing capex, and the remainder focusing on improvements to portfolio, outperforming the market by 340 bps with the scale of the public realm.
We have a strong track record of delivering value our outperformance continuing to grow.
A number of our centres with assets benefitting from material investment more than 5% of performed particularly well, including Stockton, Teesside, where we value delivering a total return outperformance of c. 80 bps, over the are on site with a 30 million refurbishment, and SouthGate, Bath, last three years, driven by ERV growth.
where the dining offer has been revitalised, introducing new brands like Comptoir Libanais, Thaikhun, Franco Manca and Absurd Bird.
Retail development Retailer sales which only capture in store sales were down 1.6% Across the Retail portfolio, we achieved 44 planning consents at our centres, but were ahead of market by 130 bps.
In what has been a more challenging occupier market, we are We completed our 66,000 sq ft leisure extension at New Mersey, confident in the relative strength of our portfolio.
The combined Speke, which added an 11-screen cinema, pre-let to Cineworld, and impact of administrations and CVAs during the year was 0.6% of total six restaurant units.
Overall, the scheme is 80% let or under offer, gross income or 3.7 million and the portfolio is virtually full with and will open in summer 2018. occupancy of 98%.
Committed pipeline Capital activity We are on site with a 107,000 sq ft leisure extension at Drake Circus, We are committed to reshaping our Retail portfolio to focus on Plymouth, which will add a 12-screen cinema and 15 restaurants.
assets which best align with our strategy.
This has been ongoing We expect to reach practical completion towards the end of 2019 for some time: in the last four years, we have made 2.3 billion of and are already 38% let or under offer.
This year, we sold 419 million of assets 662 million on a gross basis, in line with book value, of which Near term pipeline 122 million were made in the second half, 7.6% ahead of book Our near term pipeline includes leisure extensions at Stockton, value, and we are now under offer on a further 72 million.
Teesside 84,000 sq ft and Forster Square, Bradford 49,000 sq ft. At Teesside, we received a resolution to grant planning for our Acquisitions of 199 million in the period included a Tesco JV swap, masterplan, which includes a redevelopment of the existing which resulted in a net 73 million of superstore disposals.
We also terrace, the introduction of smaller retail and restaurant units acquired The Woolwich Estate and 10-40 The Broadway in Ealing for and improvements to the public realm, overall adding 51,000 sq ft, a total of 152 million.
These acquisitions are in line with our focus on but we will seek a significant pre-let before committing to this well-connected assets with mixed use potential, strong or improving development.
We expect to submit a planning application for our local demographics and where we can put our placemaking expertise plans at Bradford this year.
Both areas benefit from Crossrail, and have already seen significant regeneration ahead of that.
This brings total gross activity, including development and capital spend, to more than 700 million.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 39 Strategic Report RETAIL CONTINUED Fort Kinnaird, Edinburgh British Land has managed Fort Kinnaird, a 560,000 sq ft shopping scheme in Edinburgh, since 2005.
In the last five years, we have invested over 12 million, including a 57,000 sq ft leisure extension in 2015, adding a seven-screen Odeon cinema, a new play area for children, and a range of restaurants including Pizza Express, Nandos and Five Guys.
The environment has been improved through shopfront works, additional new planting and refurbishment of dated units.
Occupiers who have benefitted from this include JD Sports, Primark, Waterstones and Currys.
Fort Kinnaird provides employment for 2,000 local people, and accounts for one retail job in every 20 in Edinburgh.
In 2017 we employed 28 apprentices and all 12 participants in our Bright Lights Starting Out in Retail and Hospitality programme secured employment.
Medium term pipeline This agreement enabled us to submit our planning application in Our medium term pipeline includes our 330,000 sq ft leisure May 2018, which included a detailed application for the projects extension at Meadowhall, where we secured a resolution to grant first three buildings, comprising workspace, retail, homes of which planning consent.
Our plans will transform the centres leisure offer 35% will be affordable and a new leisure centre.
These buildings with new dining and entertainment options, a new cinema, caf are part of a major first phase of the development covering a total court, gym, open-air terrace and space for leisure, event and of 1.8 million sq ft of mixed use space.
This includes one million sq ft community use.
We also submitted planning for a 208,000 sq ft of workspace, 250,000 sq ft of retail and leisure space and 650 leisure extension at Serpentine Green, Peterborough, which will add homes.
The overall masterplan, of which phase 1 forms part, is 139,000 sq ft. Our mixed use opportunities include a 400 million expected to deliver up to 3,000 new homes, two million sq ft of redevelopment of Eden Walk, Kingston, where we have consent for workspace and one million sq ft of retail, leisure, entertainment 380 new homes, 28 new retail units, 12 restaurants and cafs and and community space.
35,000 sq ft of flexible office space.
At Ealing, we are working up plans for a wider mixed use development.
Subject to planning approvals, construction of the first detailed plots could begin in spring 2019.
Potential structures will be explored Canada Water when we have greater visibility on timing, but we are already seeing At Canada Water, we are working with the London Borough of interest in the space from a range of sectors and discussions are Southwark on one of Londons most significant development projects.
Our long term vision for the area, spanning 53 acres, will deliver a major new mixed use urban centre for this part of London, In the meantime, the success of the Printworks, our award-winning just one stop on the Jubilee Line from Canary Wharf, in Zone 2. entertainment space in the old Daily Mail Printworks, is building awareness of the area.
With capacity for 5,000, it has welcomed In March 2018, we were delighted to receive Southwark Cabinet more than 250,000 visitors since launch, and has hosted bands approval to enter into a Master Development Agreement with including So Solid Crew and Django Django as well as the Southwark Council, which was signed in May 2018.
Under the terms Beavertown Brewery Extravaganza, bringing over 70 of the of the agreement, we have negotiated a new headlease, which worlds best breweries together.
The space has proved to be such consolidates our holdings including the Printworks, the Surrey a commercial success, as well as an effective driver of footfall, Quays Shopping Centre and the Mast Leisure Centre into a single that it has now been incorporated into our development plans.
500 year headlease, with Southwark Council as the lessor.
This structure effectively aligns the ownership of these assets, with While the gross valuation of Canada Water was marginally up to British Land owning 80% and Southwark Council owning the 283 million, the net valuation was down 7%, reflecting feasibility remaining 20%.
Southwark Council will have the opportunity to costs incurred over the year which were not recoverable through participate in the development of the individual plots, up to a the valuation, pending achievement of planning.
maximum of 20%, and returns will be pro-rated accordingly.
40 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018
