Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 15 Chief Financial Officers review We are simplifying and strengthening I joined the Board in January this year, and have spent time meeting our people, clients, suppliers, shareholders and other stakeholders to gain a better understanding of the business.
What has struck me most is the importance to our clients and customers of the services we provide and the commitment of our people to creating better outcomes.
In 2018 we developed and started to deliver on the strategy simplify, strengthen and succeed as part of which we launched a multi-year transformation plan, started to simplify Capita and progressed work to make our cost base more competitive.
We strengthened the balance sheet by raising new equity and disposing of some non-core businesses.
We delivered adjusted 1 profit in line with the January 2018 trading update and remain on track with work to deliver our 2020 financial targets.
We revised our non-statutory reporting measures to improve transparency and make it easier for the readers of our Annual Report to understand the Groups financial performance.
Capita is a large and complex set of businesses, has recently implemented IFRS 15, with IFRS 16 to come, and is at the end of the first year of a three-year business transformation.
As a result of these What has struck me most is the importance to our factors, work will be done during 2019 to clients and customers of the services we provide and the identify additional improvements to the commitment of our people to creating better outcomes.
clarity and transparency of the presentation of our financial performance, position and prospects.
Patrick Butcher, Chief Financial Officer As part of our plan to strengthen the balance sheet, we launched a rights issue on 23 April, We also strengthened Executive Committee which received shareholder approval on oversight of financial reporting, including 9 May and successfully completed later that enhanced monthly performance reviews, month.
The rights issue raised 701m gross with clearer financial and operational KPIs proceeds and 663m after expenses, with a at business, division and business unit take-up rate of 97.3%.
level, and new governance committees.
These include: the Contract Review 408m was raised from non-core disposals Committee, set up to review proposed in 2018, ahead of the target of 300m.
new and amended customer contracts This included 157m from the disposal of prior to making formal bids: and the Supplier Assessment Services, including Investment Review Committee to approve Constructionline, 232m from the disposal investment cases and budgetary release of ParkingEye, and an aggregate 19m from for division, function and transformation the disposal of a number of small businesses.
1 Refer to alternative performance measures on pages 197198.
