Group Finance Directors review Enabling success by building long-term trust The strength of Technology Sourcing continues to drive the Groups performance.
The Group result was underpinned by an improving performance in France, another strong result in Germany and recovering UK revenues.
Germany again significantly exceeded our expectations from what was a very good comparative in 2017.
This was well supported by strong Technology Sourcing growth in both the UK and France as customers invest in new technology, particularly in Security, Networking and Workplace.
Overall, Professional Services revenue across the Group was weaker than expected, mainly due to a decline in the UK, following strong growth in 2017.
Demand for our Professional Services resources in Germany has continued to outstrip our capacity to service new customers and assist with difficult Managed Services business take-ons.
Managed Services growth was flat overall, although a significant reduction in France offset pleasing growth in Germany and a flat performance in the UK.
Several difficult contracts in the UK and Germany reduced the expected margin.
Across all Segments and revenue lines, growth has been driven by the continued performance of key existing customer accounts, rather than the addition of material new customers.
1 A reconciliation between key adjusted and statutory measures is provided on page 57 of this Group Finance Directors review.
Further details are provided in note 4 to the WHILST THE UKS Consolidated Financial Statements, segment information.
For the avoidance of DEPARTURE FROM THE EU IS duplication, further information on the Groups financial performance can be found on pages 46 to 55 of this Strategic Report.
FREQUENTLY SEEN AS ONLY A Profit before tax RISK OR A NEGATIVE EVENT, The Groups statutory profit before tax decreased by 3.2 per cent to 108.1 million 1 IT MAY ALSO CREATE NEW 2017: 111.7 million.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 11.3 per cent to 118.2 million 2017: 106.2 million and by the same OPPORTUNITIES AND WE 2 amount in constant currency.
REMAIN WELL POSITIONED The difference between statutory profit 1 before tax and adjusted profit before tax primarily relates to the Groups reported net TO SUPPORT OUR loss of 10.1 million 2017: net gain of 5.5 million from exceptional and other adjusting CUSTOMERS WHATEVER THE items, primarily as a result of the acquisition of FusionStorm on 30 September 2018.
Further information on these items can be found on page 60.
The adjusted profit for the year increased by 2 9.8 per cent to 87.4 million 2017: 79.6 million and by 9.9 per cent in constant currency.
Net finance income Net finance cost in the year amounted to 1.2 million on a statutory basis 2017: income of 0.6 million.
The charge includes 0.5 million relating to interest on the 100 million facility drawn down for the FusionStorm acquisition and 0.3 million for the unwind of the discount on the deferred consideration for the purchase of TeamUltra 2017: cost of 0.1 million.
It also includes exceptional interest costs relating to the unwind of the discount on the deferred consideration for the purchase of FusionStorm of 0.4 million and CSF interest of 0.3 million 2017: 0.2 million, both 1 of which are excluded on an adjusted basis.
1 On an adjusted basis, the net finance cost was 0.5 million in 2018 2017: income of 0.7 million.
Taxation The statutory tax charge was 27.2 million 2017: 30.4 million on statutory profit before tax of 108.1 million 2017: 111.7 million.
This 1 represents a statutory tax rate of 25.2 per cent 2017: 27.2 per cent.
The Groups adjusted tax rate has benefited from the historical tax losses in Germany, which were fully utilised during the year.
The utilisation of the asset of 1.9 million 2017: 3.5 million has impacted the statutory 1 tax rate but is considered to be outside of our adjusted tax measure.
In 2018, this impact increased the statutory tax rate by 1.8 per cent 2017: 3.1 per cent.
In 2018, a credit of 1.4 million arising from the tax benefit on the FusionStorm exceptional acquisition costs has been recognised as tax on exceptional items.
In 2017, a tax charge of 0.4 million was recorded as tax on exceptional items, related to the release of the remaining German onerous contract provisions.
A further tax credit of 3.1 million was recorded due to post-acquisition activity in FusionStorm, related to the transaction, which has resulted in a material in-year tax benefit.
This activity included settlement of phantom stock awards, deal bonus and change of control payments which were settled by the vendor, out of the consideration paid, via post-acquisition capital contributions to FusionStorm.
As this credit was related to the acquisition and not operational activity within FusionStorm, is of a one-off nature and material to 1 the overall tax result, we have classified this as an exceptional tax item.
Further, this tax benefit is larger than the adjusted profit before tax of 2.9 million achieved by FusionStorm since the acquisition.
The tax credit related to the amortisation of acquired intangibles was 1.2 million 2017: 0.03 million.
The significant increase relates to the 4.2 million of amortisation of acquired intangible assets charged against the assets recognised as a result of the FusionStorm acquisition.
1 As the amortisation is recognised outside of our adjusted profitability, the tax benefit on the amortisation is also only recognised in the statutory tax charge.
1 1 The adjusted tax charge on ordinary activities was 30.9 million 2017: 26.6 million, on an adjusted profit before tax of 118.2 million 2017: 1 106.2 million.
The effective tax rate ETR was therefore 26.1 per cent 2017: 25.0 per cent on an adjusted basis.
The 2018 ETR was higher than the previous year primarily due to the increasing cash tax in Germany, as the historical tax losses readily available for use have now been fully utilised.
The ETR, excluding the impact of FusionStorm, is within the range that we indicated during the year at 26.5 per cent H1 2018: 27.1 per cent.
1 The increasing adjusted tax rate in 2018 in Germany, as the last of the readily available losses have been utilised, has had a direct effect on the 1 1 Group adjusted ETR.
At 2018 levels of profitability, the increase in German cash tax would raise the Group adjusted ETR from 26.1 per cent in 2018 1 to 27.8 per cent in 2019, without regard to other factors that could influence the Groups adjusted ETR.
Factors that could also increase the Groups 1 1 adjusted ETR in 2019 include the increasing reweighting of the geographic split of adjusted profit before tax from the UK to Germany, where tax rates are substantially higher.
The Group Tax Policy was reviewed during the year and approved by the Audit Committee and the Board, with no material changes from the prior year.
We make every effort to pay all the tax attributable to profits earned in each jurisdiction that we operate in.
We do not artificially inflate or reduce profits in one jurisdiction to provide a beneficial tax result in another and maintain approved transfer pricing policies and programmes, to meet local compliance requirements.
Virtually all of the statutory tax charge in 2018 was incurred in either the UK or German tax jurisdictions.
Computacenter will recognise provisions and accruals in respect of tax where there is a degree of estimation and uncertainty, including where it relates to transfer pricing, such that a balance cannot fully be determined until accepted by the relevant tax authorities.
There are no material tax risks across the Group.
For 2018, the revised Group Transfer Pricing policy, implemented in 2016, resulted in a royalty payment charged by Computacenter UK to Computacenter Germany equivalent to one per cent of revenue or 19.5 million 2017: 17.4 million.
This royalty charge was driven by our tax advisors interpretation of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD base erosion and profit shifting requirements.
The royalty charge is recorded outside the Segmental results found in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, segment 1 information, which analyses Segmental results down to adjusted operating profit.
59 Group Finance Directors review continued 1 The table below reconciles the statutory tax charge to the adjusted tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2018.
2018 2017 000 000 Statutory tax charge 27,199 30,381 Adjustments to exclude: Utilisation of German deferred tax assets 1,933 3,457 Exceptional tax items 3,091 Tax on amortisation of acquired intangibles 1,169 31 Tax on exceptional items 1,353 351 1 Adjusted tax charge 30,879 26,604 Statutory ETR 25.2% 27.2% 1 Adjusted ETR 26.1% 25.0% Exceptional and other adjusting items The net loss from exceptional and other adjusting items in the year was 6.4 million 2017: gain of 1.7 million.
Excluding the tax items noted above which resulted in a statutory gain of 3.7 million 2017: loss of 3.8 million, the profit before tax impact was a net loss from exceptional and other adjusting items of 10.1 million 2017: gain of 5.5 million.
An exceptional loss during the year of 5.2 million resulted from costs directly relating to the acquisition of FusionStorm.
These costs include a severance payment for the FusionStorm Chief Executive Officer, agreed as part of the acquisition, advisor fees and a finders fee that was paid on completion of the transaction.
These costs are non-operational in nature, material in size and unlikely to recur and have therefore been classified 1 as outside our adjusted results.
A further 0.4 million relating to the unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration for the purchase of 1 FusionStorm has been removed from the adjusted net finance expense and classified as exceptional interest costs.
The amortisation of acquired intangible assets was 4.5 million 2017: 0.2 million, with the increase due to the amortisation of the intangibles acquired as part of the 1 FusionStorm acquisition.
We have continued to exclude the effect of amortisation of acquired intangible assets in calculating our adjusted results.
Amortisation of intangible assets is non-cash, and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions, which distorts the understanding of our Group and Segmental operating results.
The gain in 2017 resulted from the disposal of an investment property in Braintree, Essex, and the release of the remaining provisions for the last two onerous contracts in Germany.
The 4.3 million gain on disposal, net of disposal costs, was classified as exceptional due to the size and non-operational nature of the transaction.
The release of the remaining onerous contract provisions resulted in an exceptional gain of 1.4 million, as these provisions, originally booked as exceptional items, were no longer required.
Earnings per share 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share increased from 65.1 pence in 2017 to 75.7 pence in 2018, due to the increased earnings generated by the business and a lower diluted weighted average number of shares, as a result of the Tender Offer buyback of ordinary shares completed in February 2018.
The statutory diluted earnings per share increased from 66.5 pence in 2017 to 70.1 pence in 2018.
2018 2017 Basic weighted average number of shares excluding own shares held no.
000 113,409 120,766 Effect of dilution: Share options 1,984 1,471 Diluted weighted average number of shares 115,393 122,237 Statutory profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent 000 80,929 81,314 Basic earnings per share pence 71.4 67.3 Diluted earnings per share pence 70.1 66.5 1 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Parent 000 87,357 79,625 1 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 77.0 65.9 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 75.7 65.1 Net funds Cash and cash equivalents decreased from 206.6 million at the end of 2017 to 204.4 million as at 31 December 2018.
During the year the Company completed a buyback of ordinary shares, by way of Tender Offer, for 100 million.
The Group saw an increase in its overall cash generation from operations in 2018, with record net cash flow from operating activities of 115.2 million 2017: 106.1 million.
This continues our story of cash generation seen over recent years, with the year-end cash position again very 60 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 strong.
Working capital trends continued to customers marginal cost of finance to diluted earnings per share.
In 2018, the cover affect cash volatility at the year end with discourage this activity.
higher fourth-quarter product sales and an increase in early customer payments, ahead There were no interest-bearing trade Subject to the approval of shareholders at of the associated payment for product.
The payables as at 31 December 2018 2017: nil.
our Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2019, 3 Group days payables outstanding are The Groups net funds position contains the proposed dividend will be paid on Friday marginally higher than the Group days sales no current asset investments 2017: nil.
The dividend record date is set outstanding and therefore when sales are as Friday 31 May 2019 and the shares will be high we tend to have a lower working capital Trade Creditor arrangements marked ex-dividend on Thursday 30 May 2019. requirement overall.
Computacenter has a strong covenant and enjoys a favourable credit rating from IT Capital management 3 Net funds decreased from 191.2 million vendors and suppliers.
Some suppliers Details of the Groups capital management at the end of 2017 to 57.3 million as at provide credit directly on their own credit policies are included in note 27 to the 31 December 2018. risk, whereas some suppliers decide to sell Consolidated Financial Statements.
the debt to banks which offer to purchase The Group had two specific facilities at the the receivables and manage collection.
The Implementation of, and transition to, end of the year and no other material credit terms offered by suppliers are IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition borrowings.
The Group drew down a 100 typically between 30 and 60 days, whether Basis of preparation million facility on 1 October 2018 to complete provided directly or when sold to a third The Group has adopted IFRS 15 from the acquisition of FusionStorm.
This facility is party finance provider.
In the latter case the 1 January 2018, which has resulted in over a three-year term.
The Group also had cost of the free trade credit period is paid by changes in accounting policies and the specific facility for the build and the relevant supplier as part of the overall adjustments to the amounts recognised in purchase of our new German headquarters package of terms provided by suppliers to the Financial Statements.
The standard and Integration Center in Kerpen which was Computacenter and our competitors.
The provides a single model for measuring and 31.4 million 2017: 10.7 million as at finance providers offer extended credit recognising revenue arising from contracts 31 December 2018.
The Integration Center terms at relatively low interest rates, with customers.
It supersedes all existing opened in November 2018 and is fully however, these rates are always higher than revenue requirements in IFRS.
The office facility is due to open the rate at which we deposit and therefore revenue is recognised when customers in March 2019, which will conclude the project.
we do not currently avail of this facility.
obtain control of goods or services and so are able to direct the use, and obtain the Capital expenditure in the year was 51.4 Dividends benefits, of those goods or services.
million 2017: 40.1 million and was primarily The Group remains highly cash generative 3 the investment in our German headquarters, and net funds continue to regenerate on the Importantly, and in accordance with the additional SAP licence spend and other Consolidated Balance Sheet, following the modified retrospective transition approach, investments in IT equipment and software share buyback and the acquisition of the comparative results for the year ended tools, to enable us to deliver improved FusionStorm.
Computacenters approach to 31 December 2017 have not been restated service to our customers.
capital management is to ensure that the under the accounting policies adopted as Group has a robust capital base and a result of transition to IFRS 15.
Under the The Group continued to appropriately maintains a strong credit rating, whilst transition approach adopted, the manage its cash and working capital aiming to maximise shareholder value.
retrospective cumulative impact of IFRS 15 positions using standard mechanisms, to If further funds are not required for has been recognised within the opening ensure that cash levels remained within investment within the business, either for balance of retained earnings as at 1 January expectations throughout 2018.
The Group fixed assets or working capital support, and 2018.
The overall net impact of all adjustments had no debt factoring at the end of the year the distributable reserves are available in was a credit to retained earnings of 6.5 outside the normal course of business.
the Parent Company, we will aim to return the million as at 1 January 2018. additional cash to investors through one-off In certain circumstances, the Group enters returns of value, as we did in February 2018.
An analysis of the impact of transition is into customer contracts that are financed by Dividends are paid from the standalone presented in note 2 summary of significant leases or loans.
The leases are secured only Balance Sheet of the Parent Company and, accounting policies on page 121 of this on the assets that they finance.
Whilst the as at 31 December 2018, the distributable Annual Report and Accounts, and is outstanding balance of CSF is included within reserves were approximately 184.4 million summarised below: 3 net funds for statutory reporting purposes, 2017: 298.9 million.
this balance is offset by contracted future Implementation journey receipts from customers.
Computacenter The Board is pleased to propose a final Beginning in 2016, we performed a detailed retains the credit risk on these customers dividend of 21.6 pence per share.
The interim analysis of the impact of IFRS 15 on our and ensures that credit risk is only taken on dividend paid on 12 October 2018 was 8.7 business.
The preliminary analysis identified customers with a strong credit rating.
Together with the final various areas in which adjustments may be CSF increased in the year from 4.7 million to dividend, this brings the total ordinary required to revenue and cost recognition 8.9 million, all within Germany.
CSF remains dividend for 2018 to 30.3 pence per share, and in the related procedures and processes.
low compared to historical levels, due to representing a 16.1 per cent increase on the As we moved through the project our reduced customer demand in light of the 2017 total dividend per share of 26.1 pence.
conclusions on the implementation of IFRS 15 current credit environment.
However, we are The Board has consistently applied the evolved, which we documented in our Annual seeing increasing use on a deal-by-deal Companys dividend policy, which states that and Interim Report and Accounts over the basis.
Currently we apply a higher cost of the total dividend paid will result in a dividend period from 31 December 2016 to 1 finance to these transactions than cover of 2 to 2.5 times based on adjusted 31 December 2017.
61 Group Finance Directors review continued The most significant of these was expected interpretations of what can constitute The specific performance obligations and to be that some of our Technology Sourcing unavoidable costs when determining invoicing conditions in our Managed Services revenue, which has previously been whether a contract is onerous.
One of the contracts are typically related to the number presented gross, will be presented net under acceptable interpretations noted by the of calls, interventions or users that we IFRS 15 as agency revenue due to the Committee is in line with our current manage and therefore these contracts change in the primary indicators used to practice, which is to consider costs such as typically generate variable revenues over assess the agent principal presentation of overhead allocations as unavoidable.
The time and have not been impacted by the revenue, from the previous standard to IFRS matter has been put on the agenda for implementation of IFRS 15.
We thought at the time, after assessing future discussion at the IFRS Interpretations the changes in the standard against our Committee, with a view to drafting As noted above, IFRS 15 has been adopted general contractual terms and conditions, clarifications to IAS 37.
Until there is clarity using the modified retrospective approach, that this change was likely to impact our on this matter, we have concluded that our therefore comparative amounts have not Software sales and certain Resold Services, current approach remains acceptable.
For comparability purposes, which contributed 337 million and 298 result, we did not change our method for the tables giving the impact of the adoption of million to the Groups gross revenue in 2016 assessment of onerous contracts upon the new standard on the Consolidated respectively.
Our preliminary assessment transition to IFRS 15.
Balance Sheet and Consolidated Income made in 2016 was based upon our general Statement for the year ended 31 December contractual terms and conditions.
Following Impact of transition 2018 show what the results would have been this process, we concluded that there was a Following the implementation project, where had they been prepared under the previous finely balanced judgement which would we reviewed all revenue streams as part of accounting policies.
These tables are on result in a change in presentation of our our IFRS 15 impact assessment, we identified pages 121 to 122.
Technology Sourcing Software revenues and, the following principal areas which have potentially, certain Resold Service revenues been affected on adoption of IFRS 15.
Agent vs principal to agency revenue on a net basis compared Since the finalisation of the revised Group to the current presentation as gross Adjustments were required in relation to: revenue recognition accounting policies and principal revenue.
Certain costs, such as win fees a form of adoption of IFRS 15 on 1 January 2018, a new commission and fulfilment cost referred line of business has emerged within our As our IFRS 15 project continued through to by the Group as Entry Into Service, Technology Sourcing business.
Typically, 2017, the judgements held under the previous which are capitalised and spread over the vendors and customers approach us with an standard were reviewed again.
Following life of the contract, as opposed to being opportunity where the vendor is taking the further evaluation, including detailed expensed as incurred, as was the case contract and performance risks, sets the analysis of how terms and conditions are under the previous policy.
This resulted selling price and uses Computacenter as a applied in practice, the weighting applied to in an increase to retained earnings of pass-through agent in the channel, to the agent principal indicators and 7.6 million as at 1 January 2018, with transact the deal for a set fee.
To date these evaluation of emerging practice, we updated the corresponding entry to prepayments.
have been primarily large software deals our findings and concluded that, whilst this The tax impact of this adjustment is a where there is no ongoing obligation of remains a finely balanced judgement, no debit to equity of 1.4 million and a service on us following the transaction.
We change to the presentation of those revenue corresponding increase in deferred tax have no say in the pricing or selection of the streams is required on transition to IFRS 15. liabilities as at 1 January 2018.
The net product and are merely standing in the sales Revenue for these items have continued to impact on retained earnings as at channel between the vendor and customer, be presented gross from 1 January 2018, 1 January 2018 is 6.2 million.
Based on the when this assessment will form part of the Certain elements of Managed Services facts and circumstances of each deal, we critical judgements for the Group.
contracts, for example those relating to assess how the terms and conditions of the Entry Into Service, are not treated as deal are applied in practice against our Under IAS 11, certain costs, such as allocated separate performance obligations under revenue recognition policies, by reviewing overheads, were allowed to be taken into the new policy.
Under the new policy, the weighting applied to the agent principal account when considering what constitutes these services are treated as part of the indicators.
As a result, we have classified unavoidable costs of a contract, affecting ongoing performance obligations in the several of these deals as agency, concluding whether the contract is considered to be contract.
This means the revenues and that the fee received should be booked as onerous.
From 1 January 2018 onwards, costs associated with Entry Into Service net revenue.
The total value of these deals IAS 11 was no longer applicable and onerous are recognised over the life of the during the year, on an agency basis, was contracts need to be considered under IAS 37, contracts with customers, rather than 3.1 million.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and being recognised as incurred as was the Contingent Assets.
At the date of publication case historically.
This resulted in an Segmental reporting structure changes of our 2017 Interim Report, we believed that increase to retained earnings of 0.5 During the first half of the year, Management IAS 37 did not allow for the inclusion of million as at 1 January 2018, with the reviewed the way it reported Segmental overheads as unavoidable costs when corresponding entry to prepayments.
The performance to the Board and the Chief considering if a contract is onerous.
We thus tax impact of this adjustment is a debit to Executive Officer, who is the Groups Chief concluded that our approach would need to equity of 0.1 million and a corresponding Operating Decision Maker CODM, to change from 1 January 2018.
Subsequent to increase in deferred tax liabilities as at determine whether it could improve the the publication of our 2017 Interim Report, 1 January 2018.
The net impact on transparency and understandability of the we became aware of an agenda decision retained earnings as at 1 January 2018 trading performance of its core Group published by the IFRS Interpretations is 0.4 million.
As a result of Committee outlining that the current this analysis, the Board has adopted a new wording of IAS 37 allows for two Segmental reporting structure from the 62 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 period ended 30 June 2018 and year ended Western European heartland and beyond, costs associated with Group Executive 31 December 2018. and the need to continue to identify members not aligned to a specific talent-rich offshore locations, to ensure that geographic trading entity were 4.3 In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating we can remain both cost and resource million 2017: 4.3 million : Segments, the Group has identified four competitive in the Services marketplace.
share-based payment charges revised operating Segments: associated with the Group Executive UK: The French Segment remains unchanged members identified above, including the Germany: from that reported at 31 December 2017.
Group Executive Directors, were 2.7 France: and million 2017: 2.6 million : and International.
This new Segmental reporting structure is strategic corporate initiatives increased the basis on which internal reports are from 8.4 million in 2017 to 15.0 million in As the location of the Groups headquarters, provided to the Chief Executive Officer, as 2018, primarily due to increased spend on the UK entity has also borne an increasing the CODM, for assessing performance and projects designed to increase capability, share of corporate costs since the rollout of determining the allocation of resources enhance productivity or strengthen the Group Operating Model from 2013. within the Group.
systems which underpin the Group.
Certain expenses such as those for the Board Segmental performance is measured based Financial instruments 1 itself and related public company costs, on external revenues, adjusted gross profit, The Groups financial instruments comprise 1 1 Group Executive members not aligned to a adjusted operating profit and adjusted borrowings, cash and liquid resources, and specific geographic trading entity and the profit before tax.
various items that arise directly from its cost of centrally funded strategic corporate operations.
initiatives that benefit the whole Group, are The change in Segmental reporting has no not allocated to individual Segments impact on reported Group numbers.
The Group enters into hedging transactions, because they are not directly attributable principally forward exchange contracts or to any single Segment.
Accordingly, these Further information on this Segmental currency swaps, to manage currency risks expenses are disclosed as a separate restatement can be found in note 4 to the arising from the Groups operations and its column, Central Corporate Costs, within Consolidated Financial Statements where, sources of finance.
As the Group continues the segmental note.
to enable comparisons with prior period to expand its global reach and benefit from performance, historical segment lower cost operations in geographies such Under the previous Segmental reporting information for the year ended 31 December as South Africa, it has entered into forward structure, the UK Segment included a number 2017 has been restated in accordance with exchange contracts to help manage cost of other operating entities, primarily the revised Segmental reporting structure.
increases due to currency movements.
The international Global Service Desk locations.
All discussion within this Annual Report and Groups policy is not to undertake speculative Whilst these entities have limited external Accounts on Segmental results reflects this trading in financial instruments.
The main revenues, and a cost recovery model that revised structure, the reclassification of risks arising from the Groups financial suggests better than breakeven margins to Central Corporate Costs and the resultant instruments are interest rate, liquidity and ensure compliance with transfer pricing prior period restatements.
The overall financial regulations, this generated unnecessary instruments strategy is to manage these complexity when presenting the UK results Central corporate costs risks in order to minimise their impact on to the Board and the CODM, with the growth As noted above within Segmental Reporting the Groups financial results.
The policies for in the number and scale of these other Structure Changes, certain expenses such as managing each of these risks are set out operating entities blurring the underlying those for the Board itself, and related public below.
Further disclosures in line with the performance of the core geography over company costs, Group Executive members requirements of IFRS 7 are included in the time.
The revised UK Segment now only not aligned to a specific geographic trading Consolidated Financial Statements.
comprises the trading performance of entity, and the cost of centrally funded Computacenter UK.
The German Segment strategic corporate initiatives that benefit Interest rate risk has been revised to remove the the whole Group, are not specifically The Group finances its operations through a independently run Computacenter allocated to individual Segments because mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings, Switzerland operation, including cITius, they are not directly attributable to any finance leases and loans for certain which has been transferred to the single Segment.
The Groups general International Segment, leaving the German bank borrowings, other facilities and country trading operations standing alone.
Accordingly, these expenses are disclosed as deposits are at floating rates.
No interest a separate column, Central Corporate Costs, rate derivative contracts have been entered The new International Segment replaces the within the segmental note.
The Groups specific borrowing facility Belgian Segment and includes the Belgium, borne within the Computacenter UK Limited for the purchase of FusionStorm, and the Switzerland, FusionStorm, Computacenter legal entity and have been removed for undrawn committed facility of 60 million, USA and TeamUltra trading operations, along segmental reporting and performance are at floating rates, however the borrowing with the international Global Service Desk analysis but form part of the overall Group facility for the new operational headquarters locations in South Africa, Spain, Hungary, administrative expenses.
in Germany is at a fixed rate.
Mexico, Malaysia, Poland, India and China.
The International Segment has been created to During the period, total Central Corporate Liquidity risk reflect the Groups ambitions to continue to Costs were 25.2 million, an increase of 32.6 The Groups policy is to ensure that it has expand its worldwide footprint.
This includes per cent 2017: 19.0 million.
Within this: sufficient funding and facilities in place to expanding trading operations into new Board expenses and related public meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing geographic locations, both within our company costs were 3.2 million 2017: requirements.
The Groups positive net cash 3.7 million : 63 Group Finance Directors review continued and cash equivalents position was In 2018, the Group recognised a loss of 3.2 holders had their CREST accounts credited on maintained throughout 2018, and at the year million 2017: gain of 0.2 million through 14 February 2018.
3 end was 200.4 million, with net funds of other comprehensive income in relation to 57.3 million after including the Groups two the changes in fair value of related forward Further details are available at the specific borrowing facilities and CSF.
Due to currency contracts, where the cash flow Companys website, investors.
strong cash generation over the past three hedges relating to firm commitments were computacenter.
com, and in the 2017 Annual years, the Group can currently finance its assessed to be highly effective.
Capitalised terms used operational requirements from its cash in this section have the same meaning as balance, and it operates an informal cash The Group reports its results in pound ascribed to them in the Circular.
pooling arrangement for the majority of sterling.
The ongoing weakness in the value Group entities.
During 2015, we extended an of sterling against most currencies during Planning for the United Kingdom exiting the existing specific committed facility of 40.0 2018, in particular the euro, continued to European Union million for a three-year term through to benefit our revenues and profitability as a Computacenters target clients are large February 2018.
In January 2018, we extended result of the conversion of our foreign corporate customers and large government the facility to 60.0 million for a further three earnings.
However, the exchange rates seen departments.
We operate in four principal years.
The Group has never had to draw on in 2018 are not materially dissimilar to those geographies, the UK, Germany, France and this committed facility.
The impact of restating 2018 at the USA.
This allows us to manage European 2017 exchange rates would be an increase of Union EU requirements from our EU The Group has a Board-monitored policy to approximately 18.8 million in 2017 revenue locations and we have a long history of 1 manage its counterparty risk.
This ensures and no change in 2017 adjusted profit trading with the subsidiaries of large global that cash is placed on deposit across a range before tax.
Western European headquartered of reputable banking institutions.
CSF organisations, in many diverse locations facilities are committed.
Credit risk across the world.
Therefore, the concept of The Group principally manages credit risk exporting to and importing from multiple Foreign currency risk through customer credit limits.
The credit countries with the related systems The Group operates primarily in the United limit is set for each customer based on its requirements is already functioning across Kingdom, Germany, France and the United creditworthiness, assessed by using credit the business.
States of America, with smaller operations rating agencies, and the anticipated levels in Belgium, China, Hungary, India, Malaysia, of business activity.
These limits are There remains, even at this late stage, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, South Africa, determined when the customer account is considerable uncertainty around the exact Spain and Switzerland.
first setup and are regularly monitored nature and timing of the UKs exit from the thereafter.
EU, which makes it difficult to develop The Group uses an informal cash pooling specific plans for the various potential facility to ensure that its operations outside There are no significant concentrations of outcomes.
However, we established a the UK are adequately funded, where credit risk within the Group.
The Groups Committee for Planning for the United principal receipts and payments are major customer, disclosed in note 4 to the Kingdom exiting the European Union the denominated in euros and US dollars.
For Consolidated Financial Statements, consists Committee in 2017, to consider the key risks those countries within the Eurozone, the of entities under the control of the UK and changes that may be required.
level of non-euro denominated sales is small Government.
The maximum credit risk and, if material, the Groups policy is to exposure relating to financial assets is This Committee is led by the Group Finance eliminate currency exposure through represented by their carrying value as at Director and includes senior staff from the forward currency contracts.
For our US the balance sheet date.
key areas that may be affected including: operations, most transactions are Finance, including Group Tax & Treasury denominated in US dollars.
For the UK, the Results of the Tender Offer and Group Commercial Finance: majority of sales and purchases are On 23 January 2018, the Company published Group Human Resources, for employment denominated in sterling and any material details of the timing and structure of a and related matters: trading exposures are eliminated through Return of Value by way of a shareholder Group Legal & Contracting, including forward currency contracts.
On 13 February 2018, intellectual property, data protection and the Company announced the results of the supplier contracting: The Group has been successful in winning Tender Offer set out in the Circular, which Group Information Services, including IT international Services contracts, where closed on 9 February 2018. systems, location of IT infrastructure and Services are provided in multiple countries.
location of data: and A total of 8,546,861 ordinary shares were Group Technology Sourcing, including We aim to minimise currency exposure by purchased at a price per ordinary share of Export Import, Supply Chain Services, invoicing the customer in the same currency 1,170 pence, for a total cost of Commercial Operations, Vendor Relations in which the costs are incurred.
The Company holds the and the potential impact of Waste contracts, the Groups committed contract ordinary shares purchased pursuant to the Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE.
costs are not denominated in the same Tender Offer in treasury.
This represented currency as its sales.
In such circumstances, approximately 6.97 per cent of the issued The Committee meets regularly to review for example where contract costs are share capital of the Company as at papers submitted by the subject matter denominated in South African rand, we 31 December 2017.
Proceeds payable to the experts and monitors an action list, to eliminate currency exposure for a Companys shareholders for the certificated identify ways to minimise the impact of this foreseeable period on these future cash ordinary shares purchased under the Tender change.
The Committee monitors flows, through forward currency contracts.
Offer were despatched by 19 February 2018 negotiation developments, actively in the form of a cheque.
CREST account considers the possible impacts of the United 64 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 Kingdoms departure from the EU on our information technology companies the continued smooth transfer of data post business and plans for changes to our worldwide.
We have over 30 years of IT the UKs departure from the EU.
processes and procedures that may be product supply experience and routinely required.
The Committee, through its trade with manufacturers, distributors and People members, liaises with our customers and our customers located both inside and outside Whilst we do not employ a significant number IT product and service partners, and is the EU.
of EU27 citizens in the UK or UK citizens in the supported in its work by specialist external EU, and all indications suggest that the UK advisors.
The Committee has issued a series Any trade barriers created as a result of Government and the EU have agreed that EU of briefing notes and FAQs to customerthe UKs departure from the EU have the citizens living and working in the UK will be facing employees, so they can respond to potential to increase cross-border supply able to carry on doing so with undiminished customer queries.
The minutes of the complexity and cause delivery delays.
We rights after the UKs departure from the EU, meetings and the subject-matter papers are have been in regular dialogue with our there is still uncertainty.
We will continue to reviewed at the Group Risk Committee and suppliers to understand their strategies closely support employees throughout the updates have been provided to both the Audit to deal with these, and to put in place process of the UKs departure from the EU, Committee and the Board.
appropriate mitigation strategies to reduce including helping them to be fully aware of the risk to us and our customers.
Additionally, the applicable status registration processes Initial position and preparation we have been closely examining the as they become known.
We are committed to operating our business countries of origin and destination of the and serving our customers in a way that deliveries we make to customers from each Opportunities properly manages and mitigates the effects Integration Center.
The vast majority of We are not alone in our sector in facing these of the UK leaving the EU.
We will continue to current customer Technology Sourcing challenges.
A number of our European work with our customers and partners to product supply is transacted on a country to competitors have strong presences within deliver leading IT infrastructure products country basis.
There are some instances the EU and sell from this base into the UK.
and services before, during and after the where our UK business ships to Germany and Equally, a number of our global competitors UKs departure from the EU, including any our German business ships to the UK.
This is have their European headquarters in the UK period of transition.
primarily due to local customer ordering and address the EU market from there.
We have established a the details of the UKs departure from EU are While Computacenter advocates barrier-free process where EU27 requirements of our known, we will work with our major vendors trade in products, services and data UK customers will be shipped from Germany to address any concerns they may have between the UK and the EU, there remains and vice versa.
about end-customers currently serviced by considerable uncertainty about what form other resellers with single country the UKs departure from the EU will take and, While the precise outcome of the UKs operations or those stranded on either side therefore, the changes to trade departure from the EU is not yet clear, we of the UK-EU border.
This makes it are confident the imposition of new trade difficult to take specific action and barriers will not require Computacenter to It is likely that there will be additional communicate specific plans.
Computacenter develop fundamentally new Technology investment required in IT systems to manage believes however, that it is well placed to deal Sourcing systems and processes.
Whilst this will be a cost to us, effectively with any likely eventuality.
The confident that adapting existing systems it will also be an opportunity, as our Company, led by the Committee, has taken a and processes to cope with an additional customers, in some cases, may need to number of preparatory steps and assessed non-EU trading country, along with our increase investment in a similar manner.
what we currently consider could be the multinational Integration Centers and our main impacts on the Company of exiting the experience of international trade, will mean Wider economic impact EU and our initial views on managing those that we are well positioned in this regard.
There is significant uncertainty in relation impacts, so as to cause minimal disruption In anticipation of a new customs regime to the UKs departure from the EU and the to our customers.
following the UKs departure from the EU, impact that this can have on business and to mitigate the risk of delays from a confidence and investment plans and Due to the already global nature of potential EU hard border, we have applied therefore the marketplaces in which we Computacenters business, its in-house for the Authorised Economic Operator AEO operate.
Whilst the UKs departure from the logistics and service capabilities in the UK, certification that should facilitate smoother EU is frequently seen as only a risk or a Germany, France, Belgium and the customs clearance.
negative event, it may also create new Netherlands, and its placement in the IT opportunities and we remain well positioned infrastructure industry, the Committee does Data transfer regulation to support our customers whatever the not currently consider that we will be By incorporating the EU Commission outcome.
materially impacted by the UKs departure approved Standard Contractual Clauses, the from the EU.
All the same, the Committee is Group has built data transfer adequacy into Going Concern paying particular attention to our IT product its intra-Group agreements, to which all of Computacenters business activities, supply business, where products routinely its relevant UK and EU legal entities are party.
business model, its strategic goals and its cross between continental Europe and the In this regard, the Company establishes performance are set out within this Strategic UK, and our IT Services business, where data appropriate safeguards for the purposes of Report from the inside front cover to page 66. can flow across borders, especially within General Data Protection Regulation Article The financial position of the Group, its cash the EU.
46, when transferring personal data to third flows, liquidity position and borrowing countries not considered adequate by EU facilities are set out within this Group Technology Sourcing data protection standards.
Computacenter Finance Directors review on pages 60 to 65.
Computacenter does not manufacture has a strong desire for both the UK and EU In addition, notes 26 and 27 to the products, and instead sources and resells Governments to agree an adequacy Consolidated Financial Statements include products manufactured by leading agreement on data protection, to ensure Computacenters objectives, policies and 65 Group Finance Directors review continued processes for managing its capital, its Group continues to provide a valuable service includes only those risks and uncertainties financial risk management objectives, to customers and vendors alike, as described that, individually or in plausible combination, details of its financial instruments and its on pages 14 to 17. would threaten the Groups business model, exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
future performance, solvency or liquidity Prospects of the Group assessment over the assessment period and which are The Directors have, after due consideration, process and key assumptions considered to be severe, but reasonable a reasonable expectation that the Group has The assessment of the Groups prospects scenarios.
It also takes into account an adequate resources to continue in operational derives from the annual strategic planning assessment of how the risks are managed existence for a period of 12 months from the and review process.
This begins with an and the effectiveness of any mitigating date of approval of the Consolidated annual away day for the Board, where actions.
The combined effect of the potential Financial Statements, as set out on pages Management presents the strategic review occurrence of several of the most impactful 116 to 169 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
for discussion against the Groups current risks and uncertainties is then compared to Thus, they continue to adopt the going and future operating environments.
the cash position generated throughout the concern basis of accounting in preparing High-level expectations for the following year sensitised three-year plan, to assess the Consolidated Financial Statements.
are set with the Boards full involvement and whether the business will be able to continue are delivered to Management, who prepare in operation.
Viability Statement the detailed bottom-up financial target for In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK the following year.
This financial target is For the current period, the risk related to an Corporate Governance Code, the Directors reviewed and agreed by Management before immediate no-deal departure of the UK from have assessed the Groups prospects over presentation to the Board for approval.
the EU on 29 March 2019 has been added to a longer period than the 12 months required the sensitivity analysis.
The analysis now by the Going Concern statement.
On a rolling annual basis, the Board considers includes assumptions of limited short-term a three-year business plan consisting of the one-off costs required to adapt systems and Viability timeframe detailed bottom-up financial target for the processes to changes in cross-border selling The Directors have assessed the Groups following year 2019 and forecast and customs regimes, in order to avoid viability over a period of three years from information for two further years 2020 Technology Sourcing friction and to 31 December 2018.
This period was selected and 2021, which is driven by top-down remediate any concerns over data storage as an appropriate timeframe for the assumptions overlaid on the detailed target and transfer.
These cost assumptions have following reasons: year.
Key assumptions used in formulating been aggregated into existing sensitivities, The Groups rolling strategic review, as the forecast information include organic which already model a general prolonged considered by the Board, covers a revenue growth, margin improvement and market downturn scenario that represents three-year period: cost control, continued strategic the worst-case impact from the UK leaving The period is aligned to the length of the investments through the Consolidated the EU under an immediate no-deal basis on Groups Managed Services contracts, Income Statement, and forecast Group 29 March 2019. which are typically three to five years long: effective tax rates, with no changes to The short lifecycle and constantly dividend policy or capital structure beyond Conclusion evolving nature of the technology what is known at the time of the forecast.
Based on the period and assessment above, industry lends itself to a period not the Directors have a reasonable expectation materially longer than three years: and The three-year plan was last considered and that the Group will be able to continue in The continuing macroeconomic and approved by the Board on 13 December 2018, operation and meets its liabilities as they political environment following the with amendments and enhancements fall due over the three-year period to Referendum on leaving the European considered and approved by the Board on 31 December 2021.
Union introduces greater uncertainty 4 February 2019. into a forecasting period longer than Fair, balanced and understandable three years.
Impact of risks and assessment of viability The UK Corporate Governance Code requires The three-year business plan is subject to the Board to consider whether the Annual Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe sensitivity analysis which involves flexing a Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are the Group will not be viable over a longer number of the main assumptions underlying fair, balanced and understandable and period than three years, we believe that a the forecast.
The forecast cash flows from provide the information necessary for three-year period presents shareholders the three-year plan are aggregated with the shareholders to assess the Groups position with a reasonable degree of confidence, current position, to provide a total three-year and performance, business model and while providing a longer-term perspective.
cash position against which the impact of strategy.
potential risks and uncertainties can be With regard to the principal risks set out on assessed.
In the absence of significant Management undertakes a formal process pages 40 to 45, the Directors remain assured external debt, the analysis also considers through which it can provide comfort to the that the business model will be valid beyond access to available committed and Board in making this statement.
the period of this Viability Statement.
There uncommitted finance facilities, ability to will continue to be demand for both our raise new finance in most foreseeable This Strategic Report was approved by the Professional and Managed Services market conditions and the ability to restrict Board on 11 March 2019 and signed on its businesses, and it is up to Management to dividend payments as an instrument of behalf by: ensure that the Group remains able to meet last resort.
that demand at an appropriate cost to our MJ Norris customers.
The Groups value-added product The potential impact of the principal risks Chief Executive Officer reselling Technology Sourcing business only and uncertainties, as set out on pages 40 appears vulnerable to disintermediation at to 45, is then applied to the sensitised FA Conophy the low end of the product range, as the three-year business plan.
This assessment Group Finance Director 66 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 THIS SECTION DESCRIBES HOW WE RUN COMPUTACENTER.
GOVERNANCE OUR JOB, ON YOUR BEHALF, IS TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE GOVERNANCE REPORT PRACTICES WHICH ARE FUNDAMENTAL TO THE GROUPS ABILITY TO DELIVER LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
Governance Report 68 C hairmans governance overview 70 Board of Directors 72 Corporate Governance Report 72 Leadership 73 Effectiveness 74 Nomination Committee Report 76 Accountability 78 Audit Committee Report 84 Remuneration 84 Directors Remuneration Report 101 Relations with shareholders 102 Directors Report 108 Directors Responsibilities More online: investors.
