Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and Performance Maximum Purpose and Performance Maximum link to strategy Operation metrics entitlement link to strategy Operation metrics entitlement Benefits LTIP To provide market Market competitive benefits principally comprise N A Whilst the Committee has not set an Long Term incentive The LTIP awards may take the form of Performance The normal maximum award level under the competitive benefits health insurance which may include coverage absolute maximum on the level of benefits LTIP awards provide nil or nominal cost share options or measures for LTIP LTIP in respect of any financial year is 200% as part of the for the directors spouse and dependent children, Executive Directors may receive, the value a clear link between conditional awards.
awards are typically of base salary.
In exceptional circumstances remuneration personal tax advice, pension advice and Company is set at a level which the Committee the remuneration of assessed over a period this can be increased to 250% of base salary.
car allowance or the provision of a Company car considers to be appropriately positioned, Executive Directors The Committee may at its discretion structure of three years and will and running costs.
taking into account relevant market levels and the creation of awards as qualifying LTIP awards, consisting of be based on financial If a qualifying LTIP award is granted, the based on the nature and location of the value for Shareholders a tax qualifying CSOP option with an exercise measures, which may value of shares subject to the CSOP option Additional benefits might be provided from time role and individual circumstances.
by rewarding the price equal to the market value of a share at include but are not will not count towards the limits referred to time if the Committee decides payment of achievement of the date of grant and an ordinary nil-cost LTIP limited to EPS growth to above, reflecting the provisions for scale such benefits is appropriate.
longer term strategic award, with the ordinary award scaled back at and relative TSR.
back of the ordinary LTIP award.
priorities aligned to exercise to take account of any gain made on Where more than Benefits are not pensionable.
exercise of the CSOP option.
one measure is used, the weightings will be Annual bonus Awards will usually vest following assessment of the determined by the To incentivise and Measures and targets are reviewed annually and The bonus will The maximum opportunity is 150% of achievement of demanding targets relating to total Committee taking reward Executive any pay-out is determined by the Committee be based on the base salary.
Shareholder return TSR and earnings per share into account the Directors and senior after the year end, based on performance against achievement of EPS.
Awards held by Executive Directors are then Companys key executives for targets set for the financial period.
targets with stretching The bonus for achieving threshold subject to a two year holding period which may be strategic priorities.
performance in the performance performance is 20% of the maximum structured as either: 1 the Executive Director being The Committee has discretion to amend the year against targets measures and opportunity.
entitled to acquire the shares once vested, but, Threshold vesting will pay-out should any formulaic outcome not linked to the delivery respective weightings other than as regards sales to cover tax, being not be at more than reflect the Committees assessment of overall of the Companys where more than one prevented from selling shares until the end of 41.25% of salary used business performance.
measure is used set the holding period: or 2 the Executive Director to determine the value each year dependent being prevented from acquiring shares until the of the award at grant.
Where a bonus opportunity is offered in excess of on the Groups end of the holding period.
If a holding period is The award vests in 100% of salary to an Executive Director appointed strategic priorities.
structured on the latter basis, the participant may full for maximum on or after the date on which this policy becomes be entitled to an additional payment in cash or performance.
effective, any bonus earned in excess of 100% of shares in respect of vested shares to reflect the salary will be deferred into shares for up to two value of dividends paid on shares from the start years until the Executive Director has satisfied the of the holding period until the date on which the shareholding guidelines.
Deferral of any bonus is Executive Director is entitled to acquire shares.
subject to a fide minimis limit of 10,000.
The Committee may make an additional payment There is a clawback and malus arrangement in in cash or shares in respect of deferred shares place should the need arise, for misstatement, to reflect the value of dividends which would have performance error and misconduct by a been paid on those shares during the period from participant.
Clawback may be applied for up to grant to release this payment may assume that two years following vesting, and may be effected dividends had been reinvested in shares on a in relation to any award during a holding period cumulative basis.
by the cancellation of that award before the participant becomes entitled to acquire shares.
Clawback and malus may be applied to any CSOP option granted under the LTIP to the extent There is a clawback and malus arrangement in permitted by the applicable tax legislation.
place should the need arise, for misstatement, Fees and benefits payable to Non-Executive Directors performance error and misconduct by a participant.
Clawback may be applied for up To pay fees at a level The fees of the Non-Executive Directors N A Fees are set taking into account the to two years following the payment of the cash that reflects market are determined by the Board and responsibilities of the role and the element of the bonus, and may be effected in conditions and are reviewed periodically.
relation to any deferred share award by the sufficient to attract cancellation of that award before it vests.
and retain individuals On appointment a non-executive Chairmans, of the appropriate fees would be determined by the Committee.
A Save As You Earn Subject to approval by the Board, SAYE options N A The limit on monthly savings and maximum Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with SAYE share scheme are made available to eligible staff, including discount that may be applied in setting additional fees paid for chairing Committees and is available to all Executive Directors, in accordance with the the exercise price will be determined for the role of Senior Independent Director.
scheme rules which reflect the applicable in accordance with the applicable tax legislation with an option exercise price which legislation from time to time and will be Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to may be set at a discount of up to 20% to the the same for the Executive Directors as participate in any of the Groups share schemes, share price when the option is offered.
At the date incentive schemes or pension schemes.
of approval of this Policy the maximum saving is 500 per month and the Non-Executive Directors may be eligible to maximum discount is 20%.
receive benefits such as travel costs and other reasonable expenses.
72 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 73 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED DIFFERENCES IN POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FROM POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF EMPLOYEES GENERALLY The Committee may make payments or awards in respect of appointing an Executive Director to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited The Company aims to provide a remuneration package that is market competitive and which reflects responsibility and role scope.
Accordingly on leaving their previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take into account relevant factors including any performance conditions Executive Directors have a greater weighting towards long-term and performance based remuneration.
attached to the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have vested.
The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards or payments on a comparable basis to the remuneration arrangements forfeited.
Any such payments or awards are excluded from SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above.
Buyout awards will ordinarily be granted on the basis that they are subject To promote alignment between Executive Directors and Shareholders interests, the Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines for to forfeiture or clawback in the event of departure within 12 months of joining Cranswick, although the Committee will retain discretion not Executive Directors.
Each Executive Director is required to hold shares acquired through the LTIP and any deferred bonus award after sales to to apply forfeiture or clawback in appropriate circumstances.
cover tax and costs until the value of their total shareholding is equal to 200 per cent of their annual base salary.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under Cranswicks existing share plans.
If necessary and subject to Where an LTIP or deferred bonus award is subject to a holding period on the basis that the Executive Director is prevented from acquiring shares the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules which will allow for until the end of the holding period, the vested shares count towards the shareholding guidelines, on a net of assumed tax basis.
the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Shares subject to a deferred bonus award count towards the shareholding guidelines, on a net of assumed tax basis.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue in accordance with their terms.
ANNUAL BONUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS The structure of the performance targets applicable to annual bonus awards to be made in a particular year will be set out in the implementation Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in line with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
section of the Annual Report on Remuneration which precedes that year rather than in this remuneration policy report.
The actual targets will not be disclosed in advance as they are considered to be commercially sensitive information: however, the details will be disclosed retrospectively, POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE provided they are not considered commercially sensitive at that time.
Individual Directors eligibility for the various elements of remuneration is set out below: Provision Treatment upon loss of office Historically, Group profit before tax, as adjusted for acquisitions, disposals and other non-trading items, was the sole metric against which the annual bonus award was assessed.
Although there is currently no intention to move away from PBT, the policy has been amended to allow Fixed remuneration Salary fees, benefits and pension contributions salary supplement will be paid to the date of termination.
flexibility for the Committee to introduce other financial and or strategic measures, if deemed necessary, to provide an appropriately balanced The Company may make a payment in lieu of notice at any time after notice has been given by either the Company or the and stretching incentive.
Again, such metrics will be disclosed in the implementation section.
This payment would include basic salary for the unexpired period of notice and may also include benefits including pension contributions or applicable salary supplement or contribution in lieu of salary for that period.
The Committee may vary or substitute any performance measure if an event occurs which causes it to determine that it would be appropriate to Under the terms of his service agreement, if Martin Daveys employment is terminated by the Company without giving 12 do so, provided that any such variation is fair and reasonable and, in the opinion of the Committee, would not make the measure materially less months notice other than for circumstances justifying summary dismissal liquidated damages are payable calculated demanding.
If the Committee was to make such a variation or substitution, an explanation would be given in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
based on Martin Daveys annual salary, benefits and pro rata bonus entitlement.
Annual Bonus This will be reviewed on an individual basis and the decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be LTIP PERFORMANCE TARGETS dependent upon a number of factors including the circumstances of their departure and their contribution to the Performance measures for LTIP awards will be based on financial measures, with the chosen measures determined by the Committee taking into business during the bonus period in question.
Any bonus payment would typically be pro-rated from time in service account strategic priorities.
Our current use of EPS and relative TSR, weighted equally, ensures an appropriate link to our financial KPIs along with to termination and paid at the usual time although the Committee retains discretion to pay the bonus earlier in a link to our performance relative to that of peer companies.
appropriate circumstances and to vary the application of or disapply time based prorating.
If bonus deferral would otherwise apply to any bonus for the year of termination or prior year, the Remuneration Committee The Committee may vary or substitute any performance measure if an event occurs which causes it to determine that it would be appropriate to may pay the full bonus earned in cash.
do so, provided that any such variation is fair and reasonable and, in the opinion of the Committee, would not make the measure materially less Any outstanding deferred bonus awards would typically continue other than in the event of summary dismissal where demanding.
the entitlement would lapse and vest at the originally anticipated date, although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to release any such award at the date of cessation or at an alternative date before the originally anticipated date.
OPERATION OF SHARE PLANS LTIP Unvested LTIP awards will vest on cessation of employment, unless cessation is as a result of death, injury, ill health, The Committee retains discretion to operate the Companys share plans in accordance with the plan rules, including the ability to adjust the disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the Company or other circumstances at the discretion of the number of shares subject to awards in the event of a variation in share capital, or other relevant event and to settle awards in cash or to grant Committee.
In these good leaver scenarios, awards will usually vest at the normal vesting date subject to the satisfaction awards as rights to cash payments calculated by reference to a notional number of shares.
of the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed at the date of cessation.
The Committee retains discretion to vest awards RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY early and to assess performance conditions early where relevant and to waive the time based pro-rating reduction.
The When appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above Policy.
holding period would typically apply for the two year period following vesting, although the Committee has discretion to vary the application of the holding period.
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee may include other elements of pay which it considers are If an Executive Director ceases employment during the holding period relating to an LTIP award, the holding period will appropriate.
However, this discretion is capped and is subject to the limits referred to below.
ordinarily continue to apply, unless cessation is due to the death of the Executive Director, although the Committee has discretion to bring it to an end earlier.
In the event of death, the holding period would come to an end.
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Executive Director being appointed.
This may include agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased experience and or responsibilities, subject to good performance, Other payments In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of accrued holiday pay, and outplacement where it is considered appropriate.
Pension will only be provided in line with the above Policy.
Options under the SAYE scheme will vest on cessation in accordance with the plan rules, which do not allow for The Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive payments for example a guaranteed sign-on bonus.
Other elements may be included in the following circumstances: Change of control In the event of a change of control, unvested awards under the LTIP will be released to the extent determined by the an interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis: Committee taking into account the relevant performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis: the extent of vesting so determined shall be reduced to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
In if an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term incentive award the event of a change of control during the holding period relating to an award under the LTIP, that holding period shall for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance.
Subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below, come to an end.
the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided Deferred bonus awards will vest in full on a change of control.
on a fair and appropriate basis: if the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the position, it is the Companys policy to allow reasonable relocation, travel and subsistence payments.
Any such payments will be at the discretion of the Committee.
Options under the SAYE scheme will vest on a change of control.
The Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period, vesting period, deferral period and holding period of the bonus or LTIP, subject to the plan rules, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
The Where appropriate the Committee would have regard to the departing Executive Directors duty to mitigate loss.
Other than as described above, rationale will be clearly explained in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
there are no express provisions within the Directors service contracts for the payment of compensation or liquidated damages on termination The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted excluding buyout awards as referred to below is 400 per cent of salary.
74 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 75 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Where a buyout or other award is made, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
ANNUAL REPORT ON The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation on termination of their appointment in excess of their outstanding fee entitlement.
SERVICE CONTRACTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AUDITED The Remuneration Committees current policy is not to enter into employment contracts with any element of notice period in excess of one year.
The table below sets out the single figure remuneration details of the Directors for the reporting year: Accordingly, the following Executive Directors have a one year rolling contract: Adam Couch commencing 1 May 2006 revised 1 August 2012, Mark Bottomley from 1 June 2009 and Jim Brisby from 26 July 2010.
Salary and fees Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension SAYE Total 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 The service contract for Martin Davey includes a one year notice period from 1 May 2006 except in the case of a change in control of the Company when the notice period is two years from the employer and three months from the employee for the first six months following the change of Executive Directors control, thereafter it reverts back to a one year notice period from either party.
The contract also has special provisions relating to liquidated Mark Bottomley 407 396 31 30 611 594 1,096 906 81 79 51 2,226 2,056 damages requiring that the notice period stipulated in the contract will be paid in full, which has been described above in the policy on termination.
Jim Brisby 407 396 30 32 611 594 1,086 814 81 79 14 2,215 1,929 These conditions were incorporated into new contracts several years ago when the Directors changed from contracts that had notice periods of Adam Couch 616 599 32 31 925 898 1,654 1,341 123 120 3,350 2,989 up to three years.
Whilst these contractual terms differ from the current policy, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that it would not be Martin Davey 313 304 31 34 470 457 861 900 63 61 13 1,751 1,756 appropriate, in the circumstances, to seek to further amend the contractual terms agreed with this individual in 2006.
1,743 1,695 124 127 2,617 2,543 4,697 3,961 348 339 13 65 9,542 8,730 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-Executive Directors Each Non-Executive Director has an appointment letter Steven Esom for one year from 12 November 2017, Kate Allum for three years from 1 July Kate Allum 48 48 48 48 2016, Mark Reckitt for three years from 1 May 2017, and Pam Powell and Tim Smith for three years from 1 April 2018.
The continuing appointments Steven Esom 56 56 56 56 are subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Mark Reckitt 56 56 56 56 160 160 160 160 Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment are held at the Companys Registered Office and will be available for inspection at the Total 1,903 1,855 124 127 2,617 2,543 4,697 3,961 348 339 13 65 9,702 8,890 Annual General Meeting.
LEGACY REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS The values of the LTIP awards which vested in June 2017 have been updated for the actual share price on the date of vesting.
In line with the regulations the values for 2018 are based on the average share price over the three month period to 31 March 2018 as these awards will not vest until August 2018 see tables on page 78.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of As reported last year the Executive Directors had pay awards in the year effective from 1 May 2017 of: the payment were agreed: i before 27 July 2015 the date the Companys existing remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out in this 2018 Annual Report came into effect, provided that the terms of payment were consistent with the Shareholder approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed, or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company Adam Couch 3.1% In line with change in RPI and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these Jim Brisby 3.1% In line with change in RPI purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Mark Bottomley 3.1% In line with change in RPI Martin Davey 3.1% In line with change in RPI These legacy remuneration arrangements include the arrangements for Martin Davey referred to above in relation to the terms of his service agreement agreed in 2006.
Benefits principally comprise health insurance, personal tax advice, pension advice and Company car allowance.
PAY AND CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP Pension consists of contributions of up to 20 per cent of base salary which are either paid into a defined contribution pension scheme or are received The Committee does not directly consult with employees regarding the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
However, when considering as a cash allowance in lieu of the pension contribution, or, as a combination of both.
No Director has any entitlement or prospective entitlement remuneration levels to apply, the Committee will take into account base pay increases, bonus payments and share awards made to the under any defined benefit pension scheme.
The number of Directors who were active members of the money purchase pension scheme in the year was two 2017: two.
The following are the key aspects of how pay and employment conditions across the Group are taken into account when setting the remuneration of employees, including the Executive Directors: ANNUAL BONUS ARRANGEMENT AUDITED The bonus scheme in operation is based on the achievement of Group profit targets which are set with regard to the Companys budget, historical the Group operates within the UK food sector and has many employees who carry out demanding tasks within the business: performance and market outlook for the year.
There are four bonus profit targets triggering awards of 20 per cent, 50 per cent, 100 per cent and all employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate: 150 per cent of base salary with a straight line, pro-rata award for profits falling between the targets.
There is a modest fixed sum paid out at the performance is measured and rewarded through a number of performance related bonus schemes across the Group including LTIP share half year stage based on the achievement of the half year target.
options for Executive Directors and senior executives: performance measures are cascaded down through the organisation to individual businesses: The performance in the year, before charging bonus awards made to the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officer, was 96.4 million.
the Group offers employment conditions that are commensurate with a medium-sized quoted company, including high standards of health This exceeded the maximum profit target resulting in a bonus award of 150 per cent of salary as shown below.
and safety and equal opportunities: and the Group operates Save As You Earn share schemes which are open to all eligible employees including Executive Directors.
Approximately 20 Threshold On Target Maximum Actual per cent of the workforce participate in the SAYE scheme.
Adjusted profit targets 82.1m 85.3m 88.3m 90.3m 96.4m CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS Bonus payable 20% 50% 100% 150% 150% The Committee believes that ongoing dialogue with major Shareholders is of key importance.
During the 2017 18 financial year, the Committee consulted with Shareholders in relation to the new Policy, and our proposals have been finalised having regard to feedback received.
This award is reflected in the table above.
76 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 77 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information REMUNERATION ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AUDITED PERFORMANCE GRAPH TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN UNAUDITED The Remuneration Committee awards nil-cost options under the LTIP scheme in order to ensure that Executive Directors and senior management are The graph below shows the percentage change from a base of 100 in March 2009 in the Total Shareholder Return with dividends reinvested for involved in the longer term success of the Group.
Options can only be exercised if certain performance criteria are achieved by the Group as follows: each of the last nine years on a holding of the Companys shares against the corresponding change in a hypothetical holding in the shares of the FTSE 350 Food Producers and Processors Price Index FTSE FPP and the FTSE All Share Index FTSE All Share.
The FTSE FPP and the FTSE All Share were 50 per cent of each award is subject to an earnings per share EPS target measured against average annual increases in the Retail Price Index chosen as representative benchmarks of the sector and the market as a whole for the business.
RPI over a three year period.
The EPS target allows 25 per cent of the shares subject to the target to vest at an average annual outperformance 700 above RPI of 3 per cent and 100 per cent of the shares to vest at an average annual outperformance of 7 per cent with outperformance between 3 and 7 per cent rewarded pro-rata.
600 50 per cent is aligned to a total Shareholder return TSR target measured against a comparable group of companies over a three year period.
The TSR target allows 30 per cent of the shares subject to the target to vest at the 50th percentile and 100 per cent at the 75th percentile with 500 performance between the 50th and 75th percentiles rewarded pro-rata.
400 The comparison companies used are: Associated British Foods plc, AG Barr plc, Britvic plc, Carrs Milling Industries plc, Dairy Crest Group plc, Devro 300 plc, Greencore Group plc, Hilton Food Group plc, Kerry Group plc, McBride plc, Premier Foods plc, and Tate and Lyle plc.
200 The Remuneration Committee, which decides whether performance conditions have been met, considers EPS and TSR to be the most appropriate measures of the long-term performance of the Group.
100 0 The value of the LTIP for the year ended 31 March 2018 relates to awards made in 2015 with a performance criteria based on the three years ended 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 31 March 2018 that will vest in August 2018 calculated at the average price for the three months ending on 31 March 2018 of 3,052 pence.
Over the three year performance period the EPS element of the award, based on the criteria set above, gave an outperformance of 16.4 per cent over the Cranswick FTSE All Share FTSE 350 Food Producers average increase in RPI so achieving a 100 per cent award.
For the TSR element of the award, measured against a comparable group of companies, the business achieved an increase of 120.4 per cent and put the Company at the top of its comparative group which was at the 100th percentile so The table below illustrates the change in the total CEO remuneration over a period of nine years, with the bonus awards in those years and the LTIP again an award of 100 per cent was achieved.
The total award of 100 per cent is reflected in the table on page 77, and below.
vesting awards set against a percentage of the maximum available.
The EPS element of the award achieved 100 per cent of its LTIP vesting against maximum opportunity 85% 100% 93% 43% 25% 87% 100% 100% 100% performance target and 100 per cent was achieved under the TSR measure giving an overall award of 100 per cent and this is reflected in the 2017 column of the table on page 77 and in the table below.
Bernard Hoggarth was the Chief Executive up to August 2012 and from that date Adam Couch has fulfilled that role.
The 2013 figures are the sum of Value of award as at 31 March Value of award when vested the remuneration received by both Directors in that year.
2017 based on an average in June 2017 at the market Date of grant Options awarded price of 2,379p price of 2,960p CHANGE IN TOTAL REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMPARED TO EMPLOYEES UNAUDITED Mark Bottomley 1 June 2014 30,600 727,974 905,760 The table below shows the percentage change from 2017 to 2018 in the Chief Executives salary compared to the change for all permanent employees Jim Brisby 1 June 2014 27,500 654,225 814,000 of the business excluding all Board Directors.
Adam Couch 1 June 2014 45,300 1,077,687 1,340,880 Martin Davey 1 June 2014 30,400 723,216 899,840 Total pay Salary Benefits Bonus Chief executive 12% 3% 3% 3% The value of the SAYE options relates to awards granted 3, 5 or 7 years ago that have had their full contribution paid by the Executive and have been All other employees excluding all Board Directors 15% 14% 2% 41% exercised in the year.
The awards in 2018 exercised by Martin Davey had an exercise price of 1,187 pence and a market value of 2,960 pence.
The notional gains are shown in the 2018 column of the table on page 77.
Includes the impact of pay awards, growth in employee numbers and corporate activity.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON PAY UNAUDITED There have been no payments made to past Directors or payments made for loss of office in the year.
The table below shows the total remuneration paid across the Group together with the total dividend paid in respect of 2018 and the preceding financial year.
2018 2017 Change Pay against distributions m m % Remuneration paid to all employees 177.6 153.4 15.8% Total dividends paid in the year 23.4 19.6 19.4% Includes the impact of pay awards, growth in employee numbers and corporate activity.
78 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 79
