Directors Report Corporate Governance continued External auditors effectiveness External audit tendering External auditor reappointment Significant financial statement reporting items During the year, the Committee We are in compliance with the Statutory As noted above, the Committee assessedthe effectiveness of KPMG as Audit Services Order 2014.
As we reported recommended to the Board that With support from the external auditors, Provisions: The Committee Goodwill: The strategy of the Group Group external auditor.
To assist in the in detail last year, we undertook an audit KPMGbeoffered for re-election at the Committee reviewed those items in reviewedwhether certain environmental, includes acquiring new technologies assessment, the Committee considered tender in 2017 and the Board appointed theforthcoming AGM.
the Groups financial statements which restructuring, litigation and other legal andbusinesses operating in adjacent the quality of reports from KPMG, the KPMG as external auditor with Chris Hearld have the potential to significantly impact provisions were sufficient to cover markets.
Goodwill represents a additional insights provided by the audit as the Lead Audit Partner.
The first year I will be available at the AGM to respond reporting.
estimated costs of potential and significant asset value on the balance team, particularly at partner level, and tobe audited by KPMG is the year to toany questions shareholders may raise actualclaims and decided that they sheet 354.0m out of total net assets theirdetailed reviews on areas such as 31December 2018. onthe Committees activities in the year.
Pensions: The Committee monitored werereasonable and appropriate.
It took account of the theGroups pension arrangements, larger areas of exposure, the Committee TheCommittee completed its annual views of the Group Finance Director and Audit quality was at the forefront of inparticular the funding of the defined was reassured by legal opinions and impairment review of the carrying value Group Financial Controller, who had met theCommittees mind during the tender benefit plans in the UK, the US and insurance coverage.
We also reviewed ofgoodwill, as prepared by management, local audit partners when visiting some process, as well as auditor independence.
theNetherlands, which are sensitive thecontingent liability note.
including the sensitivity to a number of ofthe Groups sites, to gauge the quality toassumptions made in respect of underlying assumptions.
After challenge, ofthe team and their knowledge and Alan Ferguson External auditors independence discount rates, salary increases and Taxation: The global footprint of the the Committee was satisfied that the understanding of the business.
The Chair of the Audit Committee The Committee and the Board place inflation.
The Committee reviewed Group necessitates an understanding assumptions were reasonable, no Committee considered how well the greatemphasis on the objectivity of the theactuarial assumptions used, of, and compliance with, complex tax impairments were necessary and auditors assessed key accounting and Groups external auditors in reporting compared them with those used regulations.
The Committee reviewed the thatdisclosure was appropriate.
audit judgements and the way they applied toshareholders.
byothercompanies, considered basis of calculation of the effective tax Looking ahead to 2019 constructive challenge and professional theviewsof the external auditors rate, including the impact of the recent In addition to the ongoing issues, the scepticism in dealing with management.
Our Group policy on the provision of andfoundthem to be reasonable.
USA legislative changes, the status of Committee reviewed and discussed the In addition to our routine business, non-audit services by external auditors, theGroups tax compliance, details of alternative performance measures being theCommittee has three focus areas The Committee also reviewed the output which is on our website www.
com, potentially significant challenges from used p37 and the associated disclosures.
We will: from a questionnaire completed by senior sets out prohibited non-audit services and taxauthorities, the level of accruals and members of the finance team to obtain the controls over assignments awarded to the relevant disclosures.
The Committee Continue to review the their views on KPMGs effectiveness the external auditor to ensure that audit concurred with managements views.
implementation of our Data Privacy incarrying out the 2018 audit.
The independence is not compromised.
policies and procedures globally questionnaire covered: During the year, the Committee Consider the implications of the theself-assessment questionnaire, In February, the Committee conducted Internal audit and Quality of planning, delivery and undertooka detailed review of the Groups digital strategy on cyber completed annually by each business itsannual review of the internal auditor, riskmanagement execution of the audit provision of non-audit services by KPMG security risk unit.
In these instances the Committee including the approach to audit planning In 2018 I met with the Vice President and compliance with the FRCs Revised Quality and knowledge of the audit team challenged management as to what actions and risk assessment, communication Review in detail the HR system Riskand Assurance several times outside Ethical Standard for auditors the Standard.
it was taking to minimise the chances of within the business and with the implementation planned for 2019.
Effectiveness of communications of the formal meetings to discuss the KPMG have terminated any services that divergences arising in the future.
The Committee and its relationship with the between management and the performance and output of the internal would not be permissible under the Committee looked at recurring themes external auditors.
Senior management auditteam audit function and aspects of risk Standard.
The use of the derogation where issues were identified across a feedback from sites included in the 2018 management.
The Vice President Risk forcertain tax services in respect of Robustness of the audit, number of locations: these will inform programme is used in this process.
This andAssurance attended each Committee 2017R&Dtax claims and tax compliance includingtheaudit teams ability thescope of the work undertaken in did not highlight any significant areas for meeting and presented an internal audit wasconsidered and approved by the  as well as the2019 audit plan.
development and the Committee was report that was fully reviewed and Committee 58k as the work spanned demonstrate professional scepticism pleased with the progress made in the discussed, highlighting any major the31 December 2017 year end.
In addition to the extended use of data firstyear following the tender, with deviations from the annual plan analytics across 100% of data to identify notablebenefits being seen around agreedwith the Committee.
In 2018, non-audit fees were 0.1m, We reviewed the FRCs 2017 2018 Audit business process inconsistencies and dataanalytics and the development significantly less than the total audit fees Quality Inspection report of KPMG UK.
specific exceptions for follow up at sites, of a risk and control portal.
At each meeting, the Committee of0.9m: the non-audit to audit fees ratio Theresults were disappointing although aprogramme of Croda peer reviews was considered the results of the audits stands at 0.1:1. given our focus on data analytics it was implemented within each region as part of Details on how the Business implements its undertaken and the adequacy of encouraging to see that audit work relating the internal audit plan, under the direction risk management framework and monitors managements response to matters raised, The Committee undertook its annual to the understanding and evaluation of of the Vice President Risk and Assurance, controls on a Group-wide basis are set out including the time taken to resolve such reviewof the Groups policies relating to systems and information flows was an reporting back to the Audit Committee.
Particular focus was addressed external audit, including the policy that areahighlighted as an example of good This revised approach ensured that the tothose areas where there was a major governs how and when employees and practice.
The main areas identified by the internal audit resource added the greatest divergence between the outcome of former employees of the Groups auditors FRC as requiring action by KPMG were value to the internal control environment theinternal audit and the scoring of can be employed by the Company.
No discussed by the Committee with a focus byfocusing in the right areas.
The Committee on the remedial actions being taken.
We alsoreviewed and accepted KPMGs will follow up on these matters again in Independence letter.
A review of effectiveness also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality In 2018, external and internal audit Internal audit used data to inform Case study: Data analytics In conclusion the Committee agreed that control and this was discussed with the co-ordinated their planning to identify fourareas of review including process Amongst the key selection criteria KPMG were independent.
Committee during the presentation of keydata tables for download from SAP, mining to visually reconstruct end-to-end considered for the external and internal the2018 audit plan.
and independently analysed this data business processes, providing insight to audit tender processes undertaken in using their proprietary tools.
the business and facilitating continuous 2017 was the requirement that the audit Following the review, the Committee improvement through cross site learning, approach use data analytics to leverage concluded that the audit was effective External audit analysis focused on and identification of SAP business control the best value from Crodas single andthe Committee was pleased with financial risks and system access.
exceptions for follow up at sites.
theperformance of KPMG in the first yearsince the tender.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee Roberto Cirillo and Jacqui Ferguson joined One recommendation of the HamptonReport of the Routine business Dear fellow shareholder the Board in April and September 2018 Alexander Review, an independent, Looking ahead to 2019 Nomination Committee As well as considering Board I have pleasure in presenting the respectively, and we have announced that business led review supported by the UK appointments, succession and diversity, for the year ended Nomination Committee report for In addition to our routine business, Steve Williams will retire from the Board Government, is that all FTSE 350 boards 31December 2018 the Committee undertook its routine theyearended 31 December 2018. during the year the Committee will: atthe AGM on 24 April 2019.
Jacqui and should target 33% female membership.
business including reviewing the Roberto are in the process of undertaking Weachieved this milestone in 2018 and timecommitment of the Non-Executive Main activities and Monitor the outcome and consider their induction programme for further areparticularly proud that our Board Chair Directors.
It was satisfied that all the prioritiesin2018 the effectiveness of interventions details of their induction see page 54. and Chair of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Directors remain able to intended to increase diversity, in are both female.
Our Board Diversity Policy Board appointments and commit the required time for the proper particular continuing to review the Looking ahead, an updated version of the now reflects our commitment to maintain succession planning performance of their duties.
The Committee number of women on the Board skills and experiences analysis will guide the 33% female membership and our During the year the Committee carried considered and concluded that, except for and Executive Committee and the Committee as we start to consider aspiration to move towards a gender outa review of the size and composition Keith Layden, all Non-Executive Directors insenior roles in the Company succession planning for Alan Ferguson, balanced Board.
This policy will continue ofthe Board and the collective skills and continue to fulfil the criteria of independence.
who will have served nine years on the toguide our future appointments.
We will experiences of the Directors to ensure we As Keith was formerly an Executive Review and implement the relevant Board in 2020. do this by ensuring that the specification have the strongest leadership to deliver the Director of the Company, he is not requirements of the Financial for any new Director role is equally suited Diversity throughout Companys strategy both now and for currently considered to be independent.
Reporting Councils revised UK The Committee considered a talent to applicants of any gender and that no thelong term.
The Committee focused on Corporate Governance Code 2018 the Company not only succession development profile for each discrimination occurs at any stage in several areas that were identified from the I will be available at the AGM to respond to Consider succession planning helps generate a diverse member of the Executive Committee, theselection process on any applicant most recent Board evaluations, against any questions shareholders may raise on forAlan Ferguson, who will have ensuring that a healthy talent pipeline characteristic.
A copy of our Board talent pipeline for the which the Committee assessed existing the Committees activities.
served nine years on the Board exists for future Board roles.
In 2018 this Diversity Policy, which is regularly Board expertise and experience.
The Executive Committee, in2020 included an external assessment of the reviewedby the Board, is available at results of this analysis recognised the need and ultimately the Executive Committee to identify further www.
For more information to strengthen the Boards experience and areas for development and to benchmark onour Board diversity see Governance Board, italso leads knowledge of digital technology, emerging our leaders externally.
As part of this at a Glance on page 48. markets and general management.
These directly tomore assessment, the development profiles opportunities informed the candidate brief Anita Frew balanced decision wereoverlaid against the Board expertise It is also vital that we have diversity for the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Chair of the Nomination Committee analysis described above.
Our leaders throughout the Company, as this leads making.
Director to succeed Nigel Turner, as he benchmarked well against an external lens directly to more balanced decision retired from the Board at the 2018 AGM, and individual development plans are in makingand helps generate a diverse Anita Frew having served nine years as a Director.
place to further enhance our Executive talentpipeline for the Executive Committee, Responsibilities Chair of the Nomination Committee Committees development.
The Committee and ultimately the Board.
It was gratifying The recruitment process also focused on The Committee is responsible knowledge, experience and Members and attendance will regularly review the progress of these that over 40% of attendees at our Senior further improving the diversity of the Board fornominating candidates for diversityon the Board, and eligibility at meetings held during development plans over the coming year.
Leadership Conference held in February and we required our external search firm appointment to the Board for approval prepareadescription of the the year ended 31 December 2018 2018 were non-UK nationals, reflecting toproduce a gender balanced shortlist of by the Board, and for succession roleandcapabilities required The Committee also considered thediversity of our operations and markets.
candidates for interview by the selection planning.
It evaluates the balance for the  Anita Frew emergency CEO succession, should panel consisting of the Chair, Chief ofskills, knowledge, experience Chair 3 3 theBoard need to appoint a temporary We are intensifying our efforts across the To identify and nominate candidates Executive and Senior Independent anddiversity on the Board.
Alan Ferguson CEO due to unforeseen circumstances.
Company to increase the diversity of our Director.
The selection panel put forward to fill Board vacancies, for the Independent Non-Executive 3 3 leaders, particularly focusing on gender approval of the Board, as and two outstanding candidates, Jacqui Key responsibilities and nationality.
In 2018 we established a Helena Ganczakowski Diversity Ferguson and Roberto Cirillo, both of whenopenings arise Diversity and Inclusion Steering Committee To regularly review the structure, Independent Non-Executive 3 3 The Committee considers diversity on whom met with each Board Director.
To keep the organisations to create a global network of Diversity and sizeand composition, including the Keith Layden Theviews of all Directors were provided theBoard and throughout the Company to leadershipneeds, both Executive Inclusion Champions and appointed a full skills, knowledge, experience and Non-Executive 2 3 be a key factor in the Companys strategic tothe Committee and a recommendation andNon-Executive, under review to time Diversity and Inclusion Manager to diversity, of the Board and make Nigel Turner was made to the Board by the Committee and financial success.
We see diversity ensure that the Company continues to promote and drive our initiatives in this recommendations for any changes ofthought, skills, knowledge, experience, Independent Non-Executive 1 1 to appoint both candidates to the Board.
compete effectively in the marketplace area.
Examples of initiatives include a tothe Board Inmaking this recommendation, the gender and ethnicity as critical to our Steve Williams mentoring programme for high potential sustainable future.
Diversity was a To review annually the time required Committee had regard to the tenure Independent Non-Executive 3 3 To give full consideration to female employees on executive succession from a Non-Executive Director and ofSteve Williams, who will have served centralconsideration for the new succession planning for Directors Roberto Cirillo plans, unconscious bias training amongst Boardappointments made in 2018. theChair nine years on the Board in 2019.
Independent Non-Executive 2 2 andother senior Executives, taking management populations, greater internal into account the challenges and Jacqui Ferguson To make recommendations on promotion of flexible working approaches opportunities facing the Company Independent Non-Executive 2 2 succession planning for the Board.
and female friendly job adverts and and, consequently, what skills and gender balanced shortlists in our expertise the Board will need in Detailed responsibilities are set out recruitment processes.
Roberto Cirillo joined the Committee upon Keith Layden was unable to attend the January thefuture inthe Committees terms of reference, hisappointment as a Non-Executive Director Committee meeting due to unforeseen on24April 2018.
com Where a Board vacancy is identified, theCommittee upon her appointment as a Responsibilities to evaluate the balance of skills, Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2018.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Directors report Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Report Other Committees Remuneration Report The operational management of the Ourannual bonus targets are based on a Risk Management Committee Routine Business Committee Report of the A.
Chairs letter Business is delegated by the Board to single operating profit metric with the key Remuneration Committee The Committee meets quarterly to The Committee comprises the Group On behalf of the Board and the theGroup Chief Executive, who uses requirement that no bonus can be paid evaluateand propose policies and ChiefExecutive and Group Finance for the year ended Remuneration Committee, I have the several Committees to assist him in unless and until the previous years monitorprocesses to control business, Director, with the Group General Counsel 31December 2018 pleasure of presenting the Directors thistask.
These Committees and their operating profit is exceeded.
operational and compliance risks faced by and Company Secretary and Group Remuneration Report for the year ended membership at the date of the Annual the Group, and to assess emerging risks.
Financial Controller acting as alternates.
This is my first report Report and Accounts are shown in the For our longer term Performance Share The Committee attends to business of a as Chair, having been a member of the tablebelow.
Plan PSP, 40% of the award is based Group SHEQ Steering Committee routine nature and to the administration Remuneration Committee for five years.
onEarnings Per Share EPS growth, and ofcertain matters, the principles of which The Committee meets quarterly to monitor Iwould like to thank Steve Williams for Group Executive Committee 40% is based on relative Total Shareholder have been agreed by the Board or the progress against the Group safety, health, allhis work as Committee Chair prior to Return TSR performance amongst a The Committee meets eight times a year Group Executive Committee.
environment and quality objectives and myappointment, and welcome Jacqui bespoke group of our most relevant and is responsible for: developing and targets, review safety performance and Ferguson and Roberto Cirillo as new competitors.
Driving Innovation is also implementing strategy, operational plans, audits, and determine the requirement for members of the Committee.
anobjective that is directly aligned with policies, procedures and budgets: new or revised SHEQ policies, procedures performance measures: 20% of our PSP monitoring operational and financial and objectives.
The Committee believes that Crodas award is based on the performance of performance: assessing and controlling risk: We strongly believe approach to remuneration plays a key Newand Protected Products NPP and prioritising and allocating resources.
Group Ethics Committee that pay should be rolein the achievement of the Groups products that will drive our future growth.
strategic objectives and in the delivery The Committee meets quarterly in support aligned to company Group Finance Committee of our culture of integrity, honesty and ofsustainable growth.
Sustainable solutions continue to be key performance and The Committee meets every month to openness, and to promote the importance toour growth plans.
We consider progress review monthly operating results and thedelivery of of ethics and compliance across the Group I am very grateful for the continued against a range of metrics here including examine capital expenditure projects.
supportand engagement of our and amongst our supply chain partners.
safety, health and the environment, as a shareholders, whilst recognising the key underpin to our annual bonus plan.
ongoing need for proportionality, reform Dr Helena Ganczakowski and responsiveness as outlined in the new Chair of the Remuneration Performance is always considered UK Corporate Governance Code.
As you Committee holistically: each year the Committee Group Group Risk Group SHEQ Group Routine Committee membership as at the date of thisreport will see in this report, we have already Executive Finance Management Steering Ethics Business satisfies itself that the result in terms Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee responded in part to the new Code see ofprimary incentive plan performance page 72 for a summary, and we continue measures has not been to the detriment Steve Foots Group Chief Executive to review the need for further changes on ofother measures of corporate A.
Chairs Letter 69 an ongoing basis, and as part of the policy Stuart Arnott President Global Operations performance.
It does this by reviewing B.
2018 Remuneration at a review that is due next year.
arange of financial and non-financial glance including single Sandra Breene President Personal Care measures at the time that the bonus figure remuneration at We strongly believe that pay should be outcome is determined.
Tom Brophy Group General Counsel and aglance 71 aligned to company performance and the Company Secretary C. Our response to the new delivery of our strategy.
During 2018, we Executive Directors, Executive Committee UKCorporate Governance continued to deliver consistent sales and Nick Challoner President Life Sciences members and other senior leaders all Code including new profit growth and made progress against sharethe same performance metrics for Discretion Framework 72 Anthony Fitzpatrick President Corporate Development each of our strategic objectives, as the global annual bonus plan and the PSP, D. Report of the Remuneration outlinedbelow.
in line with our One Croda culture: in Maarten Heybroek President Performance Technologies Committee for year ended 2018around 400 leaders benefited from &Industrial Chemicals 31 December 2018 74 Alignment to key participation in the bonus plan with 65 of a Remuneration Policy links strategicobjectives Jez Maiden Group Finance Director these also benefiting from participation to strategy and to reward The objectives of our business inthe PSP.
We believe that this focuses Graham Myers Group Financial Controller across our wider workforce 74 remainconsistent with previous years: everyone on working together to deliver b Remuneration delivering growth, driving innovation and thebest overall result for our customers Committeeyear 2018 77 providing sustainable solutions to meet and, in turn, our shareholders.
c Summary of Remuneration Chair Member ourcustomers needs.
In addition, we Policy adopted 2017 78 payclose attention to the business Responding to shareholder d Executive Directors culturewhen assessing and operating feedback and expectations remuneration for ourRemuneration Policy, as we At the 2018 Annual General Meeting theyearending 2019 80 believethisis also a strong driver AGM, our Remuneration Report ofbusiness performance.
e Report of the receivedsupport from 91% of the  81 69%ofshareholders that voted.
As the Delivering growth is an objective that is E. Summary components of new Committee Chair, I have spent time directly aligned with our performance theRemuneration Policy 88 meeting with shareholders to understand measures and ambitious targets.
Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Directors Report B.
2018 Remuneration at a glance Remuneration Report continued How we performed in 2018 their different perspectives and we will On pensions, I am pleased to confirm that, Salaries for 2019 Adjusted Operating Profit Adjusted EPS NPP as a % of Group Sales input this feedback, some of which has with the changes made last year, we were In 2019 the general increase set for the been on alternative performance measures, already in line with the Code guidance for UKworkforce was 3%.
The Committee 3.1% to 342.5m 6.3% to 190.2p 0.6% pts to 28.2% to our policy review next year.
Notwithstanding considered the salaries of the Executive this, in light of recent investor guidance, we Directors in the context of positioning Remuneration out-turn for 2018 plan to review pension provisions further against market benchmarks, as well as How was our policy implemented in 2018?
aspart of next years policy review.
The Group delivered another strong theperformance of the Company.
The Key component Feature Metrics and results How we implemented in 2018 performance in 2018, with sales increasing Committee determined that the salary Holding periods for Executive Directors and timeline by 2.9% and adjusted operating profit by increase for Executive Directors would Chief Executive Group Finance were also in line.
We have now formalised 5.8%, on a constant currency basis.
bein line with that of the UK workforce.
Officer CEO Director GFD our existing policy for post-employment shareholding requirements, although we Competitive package to attract and N A Pay rise of 3% awarded to This 2018 adjusted operating profit Basic salary Board Chair fees intend to revisit this as part of the policy retain high calibre Executives.
UK workforce outcome translates to a 3.6% increase in and core During 2018, the Committee also was awarded a 3% increase.
As a Committee we have the income growth metric for the annual benefits reviewedthe Board Chairs fee.
As part developed a rigorous framework for the bonus, on a constant currency basis.
643,046 443,480 ofthis process the Committee considered application of judgement and discretion in Theannual bonus is subject to an overall the expanded scope and growth of the reviewing awards, which we have already Incentivise delivery of strategic plan, Income growth 349,078 200,619 Annual bonus performance underpin, including safety, Company over recent years.
Croda is targets set in line with Group KPIs.
see page 80 for definition of income put to use.
We have also agreed an health and environment, and this received nowan established international FTSE 100 approach for reviewing wider workforce explicit consideration by the Committee Threshold 2017 actual company, and consequently the scope of remuneration on an ongoing basis and aspart of its overall discretion review.
I am the Board Chair role has changed.
As part Maximum 2017 actual plus 10% have voluntarily disclosed our CEO pleased to confirm that the performance of of the review it was found that Anita Frews PayRatio a year early.
the Company in respect to these underpins Actual 2017 actual plus 3.6% fee for the role was significantly below was good and in line with our internal thefees paid to other FTSE 100 Chairs.
36.19% of maximum bonus paid Targets for 2019 have been set in line objectives.
This overall performance Against the background of the expanded with2018, and we are confident that our delivers an annual bonus outcome of Compulsory deferral of one third of N A 116,359 66,873 Deferred element scope and growth of the Company, the policy will continue to serve us well over 36.19% of the maximum potential for 2018. bonus into shares with three year deferred deferred Committee felt that the Board Chairs fee of bonus the coming year.
We will continue to take holding period to align with long out of 349,078 out of 200,619 should be subject to a one-off adjustment, on board the implications of the Code, termbusiness performance.
With regard to PSP, 2018 was the year and determined that her fee would be together with input from all relevant inwhich grants made in 2016 concluded increased from 245,140 to 295,000. stakeholders as we formally review their three year period, and the Committee andupdate our Remuneration Policy reviewed performance against the EPS and Sharing success with our through the course of 2019, for delivery TSR targets that had been set then.
Over Incentivise execution of the business Vesting of the 1,974,985 1,021,554 PSP employees toshareholders at the 2020 AGM.
strategy over long term measuring 2016PSPaward the performance period, EPS growth was We have a high take-up for our employee profit and shareholder value.
40.9%, resulting in 100% of this part of EPS TSR share schemes.
Around 82% of our We remain committed to ensuring theaward vesting.
Our three year TSR UKworkforce participate in our Share thatourremuneration policies reflect Threshold 6% p. a.
Median performance was 89.4% which placed us Investment Plan SIP and Sharesave and theevolving needs and expectations in the upper quartile against our FTSE 350 Maximum 12% p. a.
Upper quartile therefore share in the rewards enjoyed by ofourshareholders, stakeholders and group, the relevant comparator for grants all shareholders.
For example, an employee thesocieties in which we operate.
Actual over 40.9% 89.4% under the old policy, and resulted in 100% saving 250 per month in the 2015 3 years of the TSR part of the award vesting.
Sharesave plan would have been awarded Yours sincerely 100% of maximum PSP vesting 403 shares.
If they chose to sell those The PSP award is dependent on shares at the end of January, they would EPS growth p. a. is calculated on a simple satisfactory underlying financial average basis over the three-year period have made in excess of 10,428 profit performance of the Group over the based on the recent share price.
Pension benefits are either a capped N A 195,386 110,870 Dr Helena Ganczakowski Pension performance period.
The Committee career averaged defined benefit Chair of the Remuneration Committee considered all factors, including the Looking ahead to 2019 pension plan with a cash supplement modest decline of ROIC over the past above the cap, or a cash supplement.
Going forward, we continue to look for threeyears, and concluded that given Cash allowance of up to 25% of opportunities to develop and improve theincreased capital investment and salary: for future appointments this theremuneration approach at Croda.
technology acquisition over the period, will be reduced to up to 15% of Asmentioned earlier, during 2018 your theunderlying performance met the salaryaligned to the UK workforce.
Committee actively engaged in and underpin requirements.
Therefore an Share ownership guideline to ensure CEO 200% of salary 200% 150% Shareholding focused on the implications of the overall vesting of 100% of the total material personal stake in business.
of target of target requirements newUKCorporate Governance Code.
After due consideration, including GFD 150% of salary application of its new Discretion Framework see page 73 it is the Committees view that these awards areconsistent with and reflective of Single figure remuneration at a glance theoverall performance of the business Salary over the relevant time periods.
Steve Foots total 3,195,815 Bene ts Pension incl supplement Bonus Jez Maiden total 1,792,578 LTIPs 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Croda International Plc Croda International Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71
