GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Robert Walker Marisa Cassoni Chairman of the Board Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Chair of the Audit Committee Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015.
Committee Appointed to the Board on 9 February 2012.
Marisa, 66, is a chartered accountant and finance professional with over 40 years of Robert, 73, spent over 30 years with Procter experience.
She was previously Finance & Gamble, McKinsey and, finally, PepsiCo, Director of the UK Division of Prudential where he was responsible for the companys Group, the Post Office subsequently Royal beverage operations in Europe, the Middle Mail, and the John Lewis Partnership.
He is currently Chairman Marisa is currently a non-executive director of Eagle TopCo Limited and Deputy Chairman of AO World plc, Skipton Group Holdings and Senior Independent Director of Camelot Limited, where she chairs the Audit UK Lotteries Limited.
He was previously Committees, and a non-executive director Chairman of Travis Perkins plc, WH Smith PLC, of Galliford Try plc: she also previously sat Williams Lea Group Limited, BCA Europe on the Economics Affairs Committee of the Limited and Americana International Holdings CBI, as a panel member of the Competition Limited.
He was also Group Chief Executive and Markets Authority and on the Accounting of Severn Trent Plc and has held a number of Standards Board.
FTSE 100 250 Board appointments with Tate & Lyle, BAA, Signet Group, Thomson Travel and Wolseley.
Peter Baguley Independent Non-Executive Director Simon Townsend Chairman of the Remuneration Chief Executive Officer Committee Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2000 Appointed to the Board on 31 January 2013. and to CEO on 6 February 2014.
Peter, 65, is a chartered surveyor and an Simon, 56, joined the Company in February independent consultant providing strategic 1999, was appointed to the Board in October property advice to retailers and private equity 2000 and appointed as Chief Executive companies.
He has held a number of senior Officer on 6 February 2014.
He has worked in management positions in the UK retail sector the pub and leisure industry for over 25 years with a strong focus upon property.
He was in various sales, marketing, commercial and the leader of the group property functions operational roles, previously with Whitbread at both J Sainsbury plc and Boots plc, was PLC, Allied Domecq PLC, The Rank Group Plc Director of Investor Relations at Boots and Marston, Thompson & Evershed PLC.
He plc and a non-executive director at Atrium is currently Vice Chairman of the BBPA.
European Real Estate, a company listed in Amsterdam.
Neil Smith Jane Bednall Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board on 20 January 2011.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board on 2 July 2018.
Neil, 53, a chartered accountant, joined the Company in January 2011.
He was previously Jane, 51, is currently Chief Marketing Officer Finance Director of Compass Group UK & for SSE plc and has previously held senior Ireland and Chief Financial Officer of Telewest marketing positions with Intercontinental Global Inc.
He has held senior finance Hotels Group, British Gas and British positions with Virgin Media and Somerfield plc.
Until June 2018 Jane served as a non-executive director of Smart Energy GB, the body responsible for engagement in Adam Fowle smart metering for domestic and commercial Senior Independent Director customers.
Appointed to the Board on 6 February 2014.
Adam, 59, has over 25 years licensed retail experience.
He was previously occupying the role of Chief Executive at Tesco Hospitality and prior to that held roles including Chairman of Bramwell Pub Company, Chief Executive Officer of Mitchells & Butlers plc and retail director at Sainsburys Supermarkets Limited.
Adam has also held senior positions at Bass Leisure.
40 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 41 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors report The directors submit the statutory financial statements for the Purchase of own shares by the Company Material shareholdings Group for the year ended 30 September 2018.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM held As at 30 September 2018, the Company was aware of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys ordinary share capital: on 8 February 2018 to purchase up to a maximum of 14.99% of The governance report on pages 46 to 50, and the corporate Percentage of voting its ordinary shares in the market.
The price per ordinary share that social responsibility report with regard to information about the Number of rights of the issued the Company may pay is set at a minimum amount excluding ordinary shares share capital employment of disabled persons, employee involvement, share expenses of 2.5 pence and a maximum amount excluding Standard Life Aberdeen plc holdings 65,439,928 14.02 schemes and greenhouse gas emissions are also incorporated into expenses of the higher of: i 5% over the average of the previous Prudential plc group of companies 60,608,966 12.98 this report by reference.
five business days middle market prices: and ii the higher of Blackrock Inc 21,731,766 4.65 the price of the last independent trade and the highest current The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C 11 of Majedie Asset Management Ltd 21,728,141 4.65 independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried the Companies Act 2006 to include the disclosure of likely future Morgan Stanley 15,434,215 3.31 out.
In March 2018 the Company completed a share buyback developments in the strategic report see pages 1 to 39.
Aberforth Partners 14,965,873 3.21 programme and 15 million shares were purchased for cancellation Norges Bank Investment Management 14,890,080 3.19 under this authority during the period under review for 20 million, Results and dividends representing 3.2% of issued share capital.
This authority will expire Dimensional Fund Advisors 14,711,879 3.15 The Groups profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to 72 at the 2019 AGM and the directors will be seeking a new authority Societe Generale SA 14,508,299 3.11 million 2017: 54 million.
for the Company to purchase its ordinary shares, which will only be exercised if market and financial conditions make it advantageous The directors are not recommending the payment of any dividend Subsequent to the year end and up to the date of this report, there Financial instruments and treasury to do so.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes to the on its ordinary shares for the year ended 30 September 2018 2017: have been the following significant changes: The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, debt and Notice convening the AGM on pages 152 to 154. nil but will consider future dividend policy in the light of results The holding of Norges Bank Investment Management borrowing facilities are set out in the strategic report on pages 1 from the business going forward.
decreased on 29 October 2018 to below 3% to 39 and in the financial statements and notes to the accounts on Treasury shares and the Employee Benefit Trust pages 84 to 137.
In addition, details of the factors likely to affect The holding of Societe Generale SA increased to 16,779,142 Share capital As at 30 September 2018, the Company held 50,000,000 shares in the Groups future development and performance are set out in being 3.59% Treasury as set out in note 29 to the accounts on page 129.
There As at 30 September 2018, the Companys issued share capital was the risks and uncertainties section on pages 34 to 38.
Further has been no change to the number of shares held in Treasury during 516,793,318 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each as set out in note 29 details of our policy on financial instruments and capital risks and Directors the period under review.
to the accounts on page 129. management are set out in notes 23 and 24 to the accounts on Biographical details of the directors currently serving on the Board pages 117 to 124.
In addition, 1,134,828 shares are held by the Companys Employee are given on pages 40 and 41.
The interests of the directors in the Authority of the directors to allot shares Benefit Trust and movements during the year are set out in note Companys shares, along with details of directors share options The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual Annual General Meeting 29 to the accounts on page 129.
These shares are held to satisfy are contained in the directors remuneration report on pages 58 to General Meeting held on 8 February 2018 to allot shares and to awards made under the various incentive and employee share The AGM will be held on 7 February 2019 at 11.00 a. m. at the 82.
There have been no changes in the interests of the directors grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities into, shares up to schemes, details of which are set out in note 30 to the accounts on registered office of the Company at 3 Monkspath Hall Road, between the balance sheet date and the date of approval of the a maximum nominal amount of 8,013,743.76. pages 129 to 132. accounts.
The Notice convening the AGM, and an explanation of the resolutions to be put to the meeting, are This authority will expire at the 2019 AGM and the directors will Issue of shares set out on pages 148 to 157.
A copy is also available on the website.
Audit information be seeking a new authority for the directors to allot shares, and The directors consider that all of the proposed resolutions are in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is to grant subscription and conversion rights, to ensure that the the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
authority to allot shares and pre-emption rights, and any resolution no relevant audit information as defined in section 418 of the directors continue to have the flexibility to act in the best interests It is the directors recommendation that you support the proposed of the Company in a general meeting, all unissued shares of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Groups auditor is unaware of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares or resolutions and vote in favour of them, as each of the directors Company shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot and that all directors have taken all the steps they ought to have granting such rights.
There are no current plans to issue new shares intend to do.
with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit except in connection with incentive and employee share schemes.
over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times information and to establish that the Groups auditor is aware of that Additional information and on such terms as they think proper.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and Act 2006. applicable provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
More detailed information can be found in the Articles and the Political donations Companies Act.
During the year the Group has not made any political donations and intends to continue its policy of not doing so for the Articles of Association foreseeable future.
The Articles adopted in substitution for and to the exclusion of all existing articles by a special resolution passed on 20 January 2011 Going concern may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of The directors have adopted the going concern basis of accounting the shareholders.
A copy of the Articles is available on our website.
in preparing the financial statements, and their going concern considerations are included within the strategic report on page 39.
42 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 43 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Directors report Significant agreements: change of control Shares in uncertificated form Appointment and replacement of directors Directors indemnities The agreements in relation to bank borrowings and corporate Directors may determine that shares may be held in uncertificated Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the The Articles permit the Board to grant the directors indemnities in bonds, to which the Company is party, contain provisions that allow form and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a number of directors shall not be less than two but is not subject relation to their duties as directors, including third party indemnity the counterparties to terminate funding to the Company in certain relevant system or that shares should cease to be so held and to a maximum number.
While a director is not required to hold provisions within the meaning of the Companies Act in respect of circumstances where there has been a change of control of the transferred.
any shares in the Company by way of qualification, the Company any liabilities incurred by them in connection with any negligence, Company or contain provision for repurchase.
These are detailed has adopted shareholding guidelines for executive directors which default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company.
within the financial instruments note to the accounts on pages 117 require them to build up and retain a holding of shares.
Further No such indemnities have been granted.
Variation of rights attaching to shares to 124. details on directors shareholdings are contained in the directors The Articles provide that rights attached to any class of shares remuneration report on page 76.
Compensation for loss of office may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less Rights and obligations attaching to shares than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares, or with There are no agreements between the Company and its directors The Board may appoint any person to be a director and such The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or director shall hold office only until the next AGM, when he or she out in the Articles.
general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such employment that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
Details shall then be eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
The separate general meeting, the quorum shall be two persons holding regarding change of control provisions in respect of share plan Articles provide that, at each AGM, all those directors who have or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the awards and other related agreements are included within the Voting rights attaching to shares been in office for three years or more since their election or last issued shares calculated excluding any shares held in treasury.
Further details of the directors On a show of hands, every member who is present in person or by re-election shall retire from office.
However, in accordance with the The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, service contracts can be found in the directors remuneration report proxy shall have one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors of the Company are unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those on page 80. in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which subject to annual re-election.
shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further they are the holder.
By order of the Board shares ranking pari passu with them.
Further details of the directors service contracts can be found in Where shares are held by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit the directors remuneration report on page 80.
L Togher Transfer of shares Trust and the voting rights attached to such shares are not directly Company Secretary exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Powers of directors 19 November 2018 such rights are not exercised by the Trustee.
Shares purchased Company other than: Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by employees, along with matching shares, held in a SIP Trust are restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws Registered Company name: Ei Group plc by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed capable of being voted through a direction to the Trustee by the and regulations for example, insider trading laws : by the Board who may exercise all of the powers of the Company Registered Company number: 2562808 relevant employee.
to, for example: borrow money: mortgage or charge any of its restrictions pursuant to the Companys share dealing code undertaking, property and uncalled capital: and issue debentures Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a which apply to all staff and which encompass the requirements and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for of the Market Abuse Regulations: proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all any debt, liability or obligation of the Company.
or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote at a general whereby the directors and employees require approval of the meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to Company to deal in the Companys shares: and The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM held a general meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise where a person with an interest of at least 0.25% in the on 8 February 2018 to allot, issue and make market purchases of the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that Companys certificated shares has been served with a the Companys ordinary shares.
These authorities will expire at member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with the 2019 AGM and the directors will be seeking new authorities individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting as a corporate information concerning interests in those shares.
for the Company to allot, issue and make market purchases of representative.
Further details are set out in the The Company is not aware of any arrangements between explanatory notes to the Notice convening the AGM on pages 152 Restrictions on voting rights shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer of to 154. attaching to shares ordinary shares.
No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, Dividends and distributions exercise any voting rights either personally or by proxy at a general meeting if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may the Company in respect of any share or shares remains unpaid.
by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not Otherwise, the Company is not aware of any arrangements exceeding an amount recommended by the directors.
The directors between shareholders that may result in a restriction on voting may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the rights attaching to shares.
Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend or Deadlines for exercising voting rights other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with an interest of at least 0.25% if such a person has attaching to shares been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in Company with information concerning interests in those shares respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
required to be provided by the Companies Act.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or by corporate representatives in relation to corporate members.
The Articles provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms electronically or by paper of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
44 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
com 45 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 26212 12 December 2018 11:39 AM Proof 9 GOVERNANCE Governance report The Board conducted an internal board Letter from the Chairman of Compliance with the UK Corporate Board Committees evaluation in the year but welcomed input Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board has the Board of Directors Governance Code in that process and its conclusions from delegated to its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees The UK Corporate Governance Code Code sets out guidance Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting, certain authorities.
The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Dear Shareholders, in the form of main principles and specific provisions on how who had carried out an external Board Nomination and Remuneration Committees are reviewed regularly Once again, and on behalf of the Board, I am companies should be directed and controlled to follow good evaluation in 2015.
Key conclusions were and published on the Companys website.
Separate reports for governance practice.
The rules of the Financial Conduct Authority pleased to present our Governance Report that the Board continues to function well.
each of these Committees are included in this Annual Report and for the year ended 30 September 2018.
FCA require listed companies incorporated in the UK to disclose, Accounts from page 51. in relation to the Code, how they have applied those principles and Scheduled Board meetings are held either In this report, we explain our approach whether they have complied with the provisions throughout the at the head office, regionally or in new Role of the Chairman to Corporate Governance, together with financial year.
business areas and provide the opportunity The Chairman, Robert Walker, is responsible for the leadership information that is required by the UK for the whole Board to meet key suppliers, and effectiveness of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all The Company reviews its compliance with the Code regularly Corporate Governance Code.
Included on the aspects of its role as well as being responsible for its governance, and considers that it has fully complied with the provisions of agenda at each scheduled Board meeting taking into account the interests of stakeholders and promoting the The Board continues to have the appropriate the Code that are applicable to it for the whole of the year ended is an update from a member of the senior highest standards.
A summary of the Chairmans responsibilities experience and skills to challenge and 30 September 2018. management team on the delivery of the has been agreed by the Board, is set out in writing and is available support the execution of the Companys key platforms of the strategic plan and on the Companys website.
In accordance with the Code, the ambitious strategy, unveiled in May 2015.
The Audit Committee report on pages 51 to 55, the Nomination this practice continues as the execution Chairman met with the non-executive directors six times during the Committee report on pages 56 and 57, and the directors Jane Bednall replaced David Maloney accelerates.
year, without the executive directors being present, to discuss in on the Board in July 2018.
With Janes remuneration report on pages 58 to 82 are also incorporated into detail matters which they believed to be relevant for the purposes this report by reference.
For further details on the Companys appointment, the Boards line up is We are now well over half way in our The Board continues to of the strategic business review, including key operational and complete.
Adam Fowle brings a careers compliance with the Code and the terms of reference for each of its transformational strategy to change the financial issues and the performance of the CEO.
In 2018 the Committees, see the Companys website www.
monitor, challenge, and knowledge of the pub and beer sectors profile of the estate.
The Board continues Chairman conducted the internal Board evaluation and feedback as past CEO of Mitchells and Butlers.
to monitor, challenge, and encourage the encourage the successful arising from the evaluation process.
Peter Baguley has wide-spread experience Leadership successful execution of the strategic plan.
execution of the in retail property with both Boots and We will continue to address topics through Role of the Board Role of the Senior Independent Director SID strategic plan.
Sainsbury: and Jane Bednall brings insights the year to challenge and focus the team The Board has a collective responsibility to provide leadership and The SID, Adam Fowle, provides a sounding board to the Chairman, into consumer and customer behaviour to continue to deliver on our strategic challenge and for the overall control and effective oversight of the serves as an intermediary for the other directors if necessary and from British Airways, Intercontinental Robert Walker ambition.
Group and its business and to promote the long-term success for is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
The SIDs role Hotels and SSE.
As Chair of Audit and Risk, Chairman its shareholders.
The Board has the ultimate responsibility to ensure includes responsibility for the Chairmans appraisal and succession.
Marisa Cassoni brings great knowledge Robert Walker that the business is managed effectively and in the best interest A summary of the responsibilities of the SID has been agreed by as a former CFO at Royal Mail and John Chairman of the shareholders and all other stakeholders.
Its role includes the Board, is set out in writing and is available on the Companys Lewis Group, and a former member of the reviewing and approving key policies and decisions of the Group, website.
In compliance with the Code, the SID met with the other CMA.
My own background is mainly in fast particularly in relation to strategy and operating plans, governance non-executive directors during the year in a forum that did not moving consumer goods and retail.
and compliance with laws and regulations, business development, include the Chairman or the executive directors.
major investments and disposals and, through its Committees, In terms of the Codes new requirement to financial reporting and risk management.
Role of the Chief Executive Officer CEO more closely engage with colleagues in the The CEO, Simon Townsend, is responsible for the day-tobusiness, Jane Bednall has kindly agreed The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for Board decision.
day running of the business, the preparation, evaluation and to undertake this responsibility and will be This schedule details key aspects of the affairs of the Group which implementation of the Companys strategic goals and leading the reporting on progress in next years report.
the Board does not delegate, including key strategic, operational senior management team.
He is accountable to the Board for the and financial issues.
This schedule is reviewed annually and can be In other respects, the Board continues to operational and financial performance of the business and together found on the Companys website.
with the Chairman provides leadership of the Group.
The role is distinct and separate to that of the Chairman and clear divisions of The Board delegates to management the day-to-day operation Individual non-executive directors, including accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board, of the business, subject to appropriate risk parameters.
Board myself, participate in a partnering initiative which are set out in writing and are available on the Companys meetings are scheduled to coincide with key events in the Groups with different business units and individual website.
financial calendar, including interim and final results and the AGM.
This process Other meetings during the year will review the Groups strategy ensures our non-executives are close to the Role of the Company Secretary and budgets for the next financial year and the Groups key risks as evolution of the strategy and helps support Loretta Togher is the Company Secretary.
The role of the Company well as reviewing each of the main operating functions including: the development of senior management as Secretary is to develop, implement and sustain good governance financial, commercial, operational, managed businesses and leaders of the future.
This includes supporting the Chairman and non-executive commercial property.
directors as necessary, managing Board and Committee meetings, facilitating the induction of new directors, ensuring appropriate directors and officers insurance is in place and that the Group is compliant with statutory and regulatory governance requirements.
The written responsibilities of the Company Secretary have been agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and are available on the Companys website.
46 Ei Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2018 Stock code: EIG www.
