Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Audit and Risk Nomination and Governance Committee report continued Committee report The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for the oversight Performance of the Committee Role of the Committee ofthe external audit plan.
This includes monitoring the independence The performance of the Audit & Risk Committee was assessed by The Nomination and Governance Committee assists the Board in and objectivity of EY, the quality of the audit services and their way of an internal process in 2018 and will undergo a similar internal reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, including effectiveness, the level of fees paid, approval of non-audit services assessment during 2019. providing advice to the Board on the retirement and appointment of provided by EY and re-appointment.
additional and or replacement Directors.
Our priorities for 2019 The Committee concluded that EY are objective, and operate It is also responsible for reviewing succession plans for the Directors, During 2019, the Committee will continue to oversee the at ahighstandard and have recommended to the Board that including the Chairman and Chief Executive and other senior implementation of systems, including SAP.
The Committee the External Auditor be re-appointed at this years AGM for the executives.
Formore information and the Committees terms of willcontinue to review the effectiveness of the risk management financialyear ending 31 December 2019. reference please visit the Companys website www.
process and controls put in place by management.
Furthermore Non-audit services theCommittee will undertake an internal review of the effectiveness Diversity In order to safeguard the auditors independence and objectivity, of the internal and external auditor.
The Committees key area of responsibility is to ensure the theGroup has in place a policy setting out the circumstances in composition of the Board is appropriate for oversight of the which the auditor may be engaged to provide services other than Approval Simon Heale strategic direction of the Group and this includes reviewing the those covered by the Group audit.
The policy complies with the This report in its entirety has been approved by the Board of Directors, Chairman of Nomination and Governance balance of skills and knowledge.
The Nomination and Governance FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors, published in September 2015, following recommendation by the Committee, and signed on its Committee Committee recognises the benefits of diversity in the boardroom which implemented the EUs revised Statutory Audit Directive.
behalf by: and believes that a wide range of experience, backgrounds, The Policy sets out those types of services that are strictly prohibited perspectives and skills generates effective decision-making.
Andrew Bartlett It is my pleasure to introduce the and those that are allowable in principle permissible services.
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman The Board included one woman who represented 11% of the Board.
Anyservice types that do not fall within either list are considered by Nomination and Governance Committee the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman on a case by case basis, 17 April 2019 Board effectiveness Report for 2018, which sets out the supported by a risk assessment prepared by management.
As reported earlier on page 72, an evaluation of Board effectiveness composition and role of the Committee Fees payable to the Auditor for the year ended 31 December 2018 are took place during 2018.
The Company Secretary facilitated a formal detailed in note 8 to the financial statements.
and rigorous annual evaluation of the Boards performance which and the areas of focus for 2019. was done via a survey and one to one meetings.
Whistleblowing policy Membership Time commitment of the chairman The Group has a Whistleblowing policy in place and the Committee is The other members of the Nomination and Governance Committee responsible for overseeing the arrangements and the effectiveness of During the year Simon Heale was appointed Deputy Chairman are Andrew Bartlett and Efstathios Topouzoglou.
The policy exists to enable employees to raise of BPGIC.
He also served as Chairman of Marex Spectrom until any concerns in confidence about wrongdoing or impropriety within The Code recommends that a majority of the members of the December 31 2018 and as Chairman of Gulf Marine Services for the Group.
Nomination and Governance Committee be Independent Nonthe full year although he stepped down from that position on March Executive Directors and that the Chairman other than where the 31 2019.
The Board believes that he has adequate time available to Committee is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the devote to the company.
chairmanship or an Independent Non-Executive Director should Performance of the Committee chair the Committee.
As I was considered to be independent upon appointment as Chairman and Andrew Bartlett is considered The performance of the Nomination and Governance Committee to be an Independent Non-Executive Director, we believe that was assessed by way of an internal process in 2018 and it was the Company complies with the requirements of the Code in concluded that the committee continued to be effective.
TheCompany Secretary acts as secretary to the Our priorities for 2019 Committee.
In 2019, the Nomination and Governance Committee will focus on Meetings succession planning to ensure the Group retains senior executives The Nomination and Governance Committee became effective with the necessary skills and knowledge to remain effective and the upon Admission in March 2018.
Committee will work alongside the Board to prepare and implement the board diversity policy.
Number of meetings Meetings attended Simon Heale Simon Heale 1 1 Nomination and Governance Committee Chairman Andrew Bartlett 1 1 Stathis Topouzoglou 1 1 17 April 2019 76Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201877 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Health, Safety and Environment Remuneration Committee report Committee report Annual bonus LTIP Financial KPIs Adjusted EBITDAX 2018 & 2019 Cost of oil production perboe 2018 & 2019 Role of the Committee Operational Average production 2018 Average production The Health, Safety and Environment Committee evaluates the KPIs & 2019 2019 award effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems for identifying and Growth in 2P reserves 2018 & 2019 managing environmental, health, safety and security risks as well as matters relating to equality, diversity, business ethics and corporate Strategic goals Karish Tanin related Karish Tanin related measure 2018 & measure 2018 & 2019 2019 awards see below social responsibility.
Additionally, the Committee assesses the see below performance of the Group with regard to the impact of decisions ShareholderRelative Total Shareholder Return and related actions in these areas upon employees, communities aligned TSR 2018 & 2019 awards and other third parties, as well as upon the reputation of the Group.
metrics Absolute TSR 2018 & 2019 awards The Committee receives regular reports from the HSEmanager.
The Karish & Tanin development project is of critical importance to Activities Energean and accordingly the Remuneration Committee has directly aligned executive pay with successful delivery of this strategic project: During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups policies and systems for identifying the risk of major X An element of the 2018 annual bonus was linked to first steel cut Robert Peck accidents and for providing conduct assurance on the key, health, on the Karish & Tanin project before the end of 2018 a major Ohad Marani Chairman of Health, Safety and safety and environmental controls to prevent occurrence of milestone to meet the target date of first production in 2021.
Environment Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee accidents.
TheCommittee also reviewed the Groups plans for an X An element of the 2018 and 2019 LTIPs is based on successfully enhanced Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy.
meeting the key 2021 deadline for delivery of first gas from the As Chairman of the Health, Safety I am pleased to present the Directors Karish & Tanin development project.
Performance of the Committee andEnvironment Committee, it is my remuneration report for the year ended The performance of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee Performance in 2018 was assessed by way of an internal process in 2018 and will responsibility to ensure that the 31December 2018.
The report is split As outlined in the Chairmans statement, it has been another year of undergo a similar internal assessment during 2019.
Committee is rigorous and effective intotwo sections in line with legislative robust financial and operational performance with revenue growth Our priorities for 2019 of 56% whilst simultaneously reducing unit cost of production by incarrying out its role.
Strong progress was also made in advancing our Karish and In 2019 the Committee will continue to review the effectiveness Tanin project.
ofthe Groups Health and Safety policies, the Groups sustainability X Remuneration Policy contains details of our Directors Membership report and will review the findings from the Internal Audit Report on Remuneration Policy, which will be subject to a binding As a result of these key targets being met the bonus out-turn for The other members of the Health, Safety and Environment Health and Safety.
shareholder vote at our 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM Committee are Karen Simon and Ohad Marani.
The Company 2018 was 82.1%, with four of the five metrics paying out in full.
and which will have effect from the date on which it is approved.
Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Approval Details are set out on pages 80 - 88.
Key remuneration decisions for 2019 This report in its entirety has been approved by the Board of Meetings X The Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of Key decisions made by the Remuneration Committee in relation to Directors, following recommendation by the Committee, and signed remuneration received by Directors in 2018 and also details of how 2019 include: The Health, Safety and Environment Committee became effective on its behalf by: we intend to implement the Remuneration Policy during 2019.
The upon Admission in March 2018, during the year two meetings were X Executive Director salaries and annual bonus potential will be Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote held, the details of the attendance at which are detailed below.
LTIP awards will be granted over shares at at the 2019 AGM.
Details are set out on pages 89 - 94.
Anymember of the Committee may however request a meeting Health, Safety and Environment Committee Chairman the following levels CEO: 200% of salary 2018: 200% : CFO: ifhe she considers that one is necessary or expedient.
This report is compliant with Schedule 8 of The Large and 17 April 2019 Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports X In recognition of our evolving strategic priorities, average Director Number of meetings Meetings attended Amendment Regulations 2013, the UK Listing Authority Listing production has been added as a LTIP performance measure Robert Peck 2 2 Rules and the Companies Act 2006 and is consistent with the forthe 2019 award.
Karen Simon 2 2 UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
X From 2019, an Executive Directors 200% of salary shareholding Ohad Marani 2 2 requirement will, unless the Remuneration Committee determines Aligning remuneration with Company strategy otherwise, continue to apply for a period of two years following We measure our performance against a range of key performance cessation of employment with the Group.
indicators KPIs, set out on pages 34 - 35, to ensure we are managing our long-term success in a sustainable way and in line I will be available to answer questions on the Remuneration Policy with our strategic objectives.
Our variable pay arrangements reward and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM on13June2019.
executives against a balanced scorecard containing financial and Ihope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding operational KPIs as well as strategic goals and shareholder-aligned our remuneration practices and that you will be supportive of the metrics.
The table on this page summarises these variable pay resolutions relating to remuneration at theAGM.
arrangements in 2018 and 2019: Ohad Marani Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 17 April 2019 78Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201879 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Remuneration policy Policy table Executive Directors This part of the report sets out our Our Group-wide remuneration strategy is to provide remuneration 1 firstDirectors Remuneration Policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions packages that will: Fixed pay theRemuneration Policy following X Motivate and retain our industry leading employees: Base salary Generally reviewed annually with any increase No absolute maximum has been set for No performance conditions.
This Remuneration Policy X Attract high quality individuals to join the Group: normally taking effect from 1 January Executive Director base salaries.
To appropriately recognise although the Remuneration Committee may skills, experience and Any annual increase in salaries is at the willbe subject to a binding shareholder X Encourage and support a high performance culture: award increases at other times of the year if it responsibilities and attract and discretion of the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate.
X Reward delivery of the Groups business plan and our key retain talent by ensuring salaries taking into account the factors stated in this vote at the 2019 AGM and will apply are market competitive.
The review takes into consideration a number of table and the following principles: strategic and operational goals: and factors, including but not limited to : topayments made from the date of X Salaries would typically be increased at X Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and other X The individual Directors role, experience a rate no greater than the average salary approval.
The information provided external stakeholders.
increase for other Group employees.
inthis section of the Remuneration X Larger increases may be considered Consistent with this remuneration strategy, the Remuneration appropriate in certain circumstances X Market data for comparable roles in Committee has agreed a Remuneration Policy for Executive Reportis not subject toaudit.
including, but not limited to, a change in appropriate comparator businesses.
Directors whereby: anindividuals responsibilities or in the scale X Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
of their role or in the size and complexity of X salaries will be set at competitive, but not excessive, levels the Group.
compared to peers and other companies of an equivalent size X Larger increases may also be considered and complexity: appropriate if a Director has been initially X performance-related pay, based on stretching targets, will form appointed to the Board at a lower than typicalsalary.
asignificant part of remuneration packages: Benefits No performance conditions.
X there will be an appropriate balance between rewards for delivery Benefits currently include private medical cover, For the current Executive Directors, the life assurance and a benefits allowance in lieu of maximum annual value of benefits is 75,000 of short-term and longer-term performance targets: and To provide market competitive other benefits and pension allowance.
Mathios Rigas and 50,000 Panos Benos.
benefits including X development and long-term retention of a significant holding of retirementbenefits The Remuneration Committee has discretion For any future Executive Director appointed Company shares will be encouraged.
toadd to or remove benefits provided to during the lifetime of this Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors.
the value of their benefits package would not exceed 75,000.
The remuneration framework intended to deliver this policy will be Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
Executive These totals exclude any expenses treated a combination of base salary, benefits, annual bonus and awards Directors also have the benefit of a qualifying astaxable benefits by tax authorities or any under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The following table sets third party indemnity from the Company and one-off costs relating to recruitment, loss of out details of each of these remuneration components.
Variable pay 2, 3, 4 Annual bonus The bonus is based on The Executive Directors are participants in the The maximum award that can be made to an performance against financial, annual bonus plan which is reviewed annually Executive Director under the annual bonus plan To link reward to key financial strategic or operational to ensure bonus opportunity, performance is 150% of salary.
and operational targets for the measures appropriate to the measures and targets are appropriate and forthcoming year.
individual Executive Director supportive of the business plan.
Additional alignment with assessed over one year.
No more than two-thirds of an Executive shareholders interests through The precise measures and Directors annual bonus is delivered in cash the operation of bonus deferral.
weighting of the measures following the release of audited results and the are determined by the remaining amount is deferred into an award Remuneration Committee over Company shares under the Deferred Bonus ahead of each award to ensure Plan DBP.
they are aligned with strategic X Deferred awards are usually granted in the priorities.
form of conditional share awards or nil-cost A sliding scale of targets is options or, exceptionally, as cash-settled set for each measure, where equivalents.
appropriate, with payout X Deferred awards usually vest two years usually at zero for threshold performance increasing after award although may vest early on to 100% for maximum leaving employment or on a change of performance.
Any bonus payout is ultimately X An additional payment may be made in at the discretion of the respect of shares which vest under deferred Remuneration Committee.
awards to reflect the value of dividends including special dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period this payment may assume that dividends had been reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
80Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201881 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Remuneration policy continued 6.
If a one-off share award is granted on recruitment to buy out compensation Notes to table 1 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, it may be granted 1.
The Remuneration Committee may amend or substitute any performance Long-Term All LTIP awards granted to Awards are usually granted annually under the The maximum award permitted to be granted to either in the form of a LTIP award or alternatively in the form of an award condition s if one or more events occur which cause it to determine that an 3, 4, 5, 6 IncentivePlan LTIP Executive Directors must be LTIP to selected senior executives.
an Executive Director in respect of any one year under a separate arrangement as permitted by Listing Rule 9.4.
If such amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate, subject to a performance under the LTIP is shares with a market value as To link reward to key strategic an award were to be granted in the form of a LTIP award, then it would not Individual award levels and performance provided that any such amended or substituted performance condition condition.
determined by the Remuneration Committee of and business targets for conditions on which vesting will be dependent be subject to or form part of the calculation of the maximum award limit would not be materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in 200% of salary.
the longer term and to align The precise measures and are reviewed annually by the Remuneration outlined in the Policy Table opposite.
If awarded as compensation for a forfeited its opinion.
The Remuneration Committee may also adjust the calculation executives with shareholders weighting of the measures Committee.
share award which is not subject to performance conditions, it would also of performance targets and vesting outcomes for instance for material interests.
are determined by the LTIP awards are usually granted as conditional not be subject to the requirement for the LTIP award to be subject to a acquisitions, disposals or investments and events not foreseen at the time Remuneration Committee awards of shares or nil-cost options or, performance condition.
Full requirements that would apply to any buy-out the targets were set to ensure they remain a fair reflection of performance ahead of each award to ensure exceptionally, as cash-settled equivalents.
award granted under the LTIP are set out in the Recruitment Remuneration over the relevant period.
In the event that the Remuneration Committee were they are aligned with strategic Awards granted to Executive Directors normally Policy section of this report.
to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the vest or become exercisable at the end of a 7.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration next Remuneration Report.
Performance will usually be period of at least three years following grant payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any 2.
The annual bonus measures measured over a performance and are normally released no earlier than five discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding period of at least three years.
are reviewed annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery years following grant.
Awards may vest early on For achieving a threshold that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the of key financial targets for the forthcoming year as well as key strategic leaving employment or on a change of control level of performance against a payment were agreed i before the 2019 AGM the date the Companys first or operational goals relevant to an individual.
Specific targets for bonus see later sections.
performance measure, no more shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : or measures are set at the start of each year by the Remuneration Committee An additional payment may be made in respect than 25% of the portion of the ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company based on a range of relevant reference points, including, for Group financial of shares which vest under LTIP awards to LTIP award determined by that and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not targets, the Companys business plan and are designed to be appropriately reflect the value of dividends including special measure will vest.
Vesting then in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For dividends which would have been paid on those stretching.
increases on a sliding scale to shares during the vesting and, if relevant, holding these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying 3.
The Remuneration Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the 100% for achieving a maximum period this payment may assume that dividends awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the performance target.
Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or dividend in specie or had been reinvested in Company shares on a terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
any other corporate event which it reasonably determines justifies such an Any LTIP vesting is ultimately cumulative basis.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted under the share at the discretion of the Remuneration Policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative Remuneration Committee.
schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation, without obtaining Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the transfer of Share Ownership Guidelines Not applicable.
Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding of 200% of salary in shareholder approval for thatamendment.
Any issuance of new shares is limited to 10% of share capital Companyshares.
To create alignment between over a rolling ten-year period in relation to all employee share schemes.
As the long-term interests of Until an Executive Director is compliant with this guideline, they are required to retain at least 50% outlined in the IPO Prospectus, shares issued pursuant to awards granted Executive Directors and ofvested post-tax shares.
before or in respect of Admission do not count towards this limit.
Unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, this guideline will continue to apply 4.
The cash bonus will be subject to recovery and or deferred shares will be fortwo years after an Executive Director ceases employment with theGroup.
subject to withholding at the Remuneration Committees discretion where within three years of the bonus determination a material misstatement or miscalculation comes to light which resulted in an overpayment under the annual bonus plan or if evidence comes to light of serious misconduct by an individual, serious reputational damage to the Group or a material failure of risk management or following a corporate failure.
LTIP awards will be subject to withholding or recovery at the Remuneration Committees discretion where before the fifth anniversary of grant a material misstatement or miscalculation comes to light which resulted in an overpayment under the LTIP or if evidence comes tolight of serious misconduct by an individual, serious reputational damage to the Group or a material failure of risk management or following acorporate failure.
The LTIP performance measures will bechosen to provide alignment with our longer-term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable manner that will be in the best interests ofshareholders and other key stakeholders in the Company.
Targets areconsidered ahead of each grant of LTIP awards by the Remuneration Committee taking into account relevant external and internal reference pointsand aredesigned to be appropriately stretching.
82Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201883 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Remuneration policy continued Non-Executive Directors Assumed performance Assumptions used Minimum performance X No pay-out under the annual bonus Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity link to strategy X No vesting under the LTIP Non-Executive Director NED fees NED fees comprise payment of an annual basic fee and additional fees for Fees are set at an appropriate level that is market Performance in line with X 50% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus further Board responsibilities such as: competitive and reflective of the responsibilities and expectations To appropriately recognise X 50% vesting under the LTIP time commitment associated with specific roles.
responsibilities, skills and experience X Senior Independent Director by ensuring fees are market No absolute maximum has been set for individual Maximum performance X 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus X Audit & Risk Committee Chairman competitive.
X 100% vesting under the LTIP X Remuneration Committee Chairman The Companys Articles of Association provide that the total aggregate fees paid to the Chairman and X Health, Safety and Environment Committee Chairman Recruitment remuneration policy NEDs will not exceed 2,000,000.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.
Principles No NED participates in the Groups incentive arrangements or pension In determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments to the Board including internal promotions, the Remuneration plan or receives any other benefits other than where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which Committee will apply the following principles: case a NED may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
NonExecutive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
X The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including the experience of the individual, market data Fees are reviewed annually and are paid in cash or shares.
forthe UK and local market as appropriate and existing arrangements for other Executive Directors, with a view that any arrangements Non-Executive Directors also have the benefit of a qualifying third should be in the best interests of both the Company and our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary.
party indemnity from the Company and directors and officers liability X Typically, the new appointment will have or be transitioned onto the same package structure as the other Executive Directors, in line insurance.
X Upon appointment, the Remuneration Committee may consider it appropriate to offer additional remuneration arrangements in order Illustrations of application of remuneration policy to secure the appointment.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out terms or remuneration The implementation of remuneration policy in 2019 section of the Annual Report on Remuneration details how the Remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer discussed below.
Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy during 2019.
X The Remuneration Committee may provide costs and support if the recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
The charts below illustrate, in three assumed performance scenarios, the total value of the remuneration package potentially receivable by X Instead of including an all-inclusive benefits allowance in a new appointments remuneration package, the Remuneration Committee Mathios Rigas and Panos Benos in relation to 2019.
This comprises salary and benefits for 2019 Mathios Rigas: 675,000 and 75,000: may alternatively provide separate pension and benefits allowances although, in this scenario, the total value of these two allowances Panos Benos 450,000 and 50,000 plus an annual bonus of up to a maximum of 150% of salary and a LTIP award of 200% of salary for would not exceed the maximum benefits cap outlined in the Policy Table on pages 81 - 82.
Mathios Rigas and 180% of salary for Panos Benos.
X Where an Executive Director is an internal promotion, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director is appointed following the Companys acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 3250 3,113k Maximum level of variable remuneration 3000 The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted to new Executive Directors in respect of recruitment shall be limited to the 2750 maximum permitted under the Remuneration Policy, namely 350% of their annual salary.
This limit excludes any payments or awards that may 2500 be made to buy out the Director for terms, awards or other compensation forfeited from their previous employer discussed below.
43% 2250 Buyouts 1,985k 2000 1,931k To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may make a one-off award to buy out compensation arrangements forfeited on 1750 leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will take account of all relevant factors, including any performance 35% 41% 1500 conditions attached to incentive awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance period 1,243k 1250 33% remaining and the form of the award e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding principle will be that any replacement buyout award should be 1000 33% of comparable commercial value to the compensation which has been forfeited.
However, such buyout awards would only be considered 26% 750k 34% 750 where there is a strong commercial rationale to do so.
27% 500k 500 100% 39% 24% 250 100% 40% 25% 0 Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Minimum In line with expectations Maximum LTIP Annual bonus Fixed pay Note: LTIP awards have been shown in these charts at grant date face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
If Energeans share price was to increase by 50% over the vesting period, the value of the LTIP included in the single figure at vesting in the maximum scenario would be 675,000 CEO 405,000 CFO higher than illustrated in the above charts.
Total potential remuneration in this maximum scenario would increase commensurately to 3,788,000 CEO 2,390,000 CFO.
84Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201885 000s Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance continued Remuneration policy continued Components and approach LTIP awards Policy on payment of variable remuneration following The remuneration package offered to new appointments may include any element within the Remuneration Policy.
In considering which X If an individual ceases to hold employment as a result of death, loss of office elements to include, and in determining the approach for all relevant elements, the Remuneration Committee will take into account a ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, transfer of a business Annual bonus plan number of different factors, including but not limited to market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive Directors and internal out of the Group or any other reason at the Remuneration If the Executive Directors employment terminates or notice is relativities.
If appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied to a new appointments annual bonus or LTIP award in their year Committees discretion except where an individual is served to terminate their employment prior to the payment of of joining.
dismissed for gross misconduct, their unvested LTIP awards an annual bonus, the Director has no contractual entitlement to will be permitted to vest on a time pro-rated basis unless the The Remuneration Committee would seek to structure buyout and variable remuneration awards on recruitment to be in line with the that bonus.
At its discretion, the Remuneration Committee may Remuneration Committee determines otherwise and subject to Companys remuneration framework so far as practical but, if necessary, the Remuneration Committee may also grant such awards determine that the Executive Director is eligible to receive a bonus performance assessed over the original performance period or outside of that framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 subject to the limits on variable remuneration set out above.
The exact in respect of the financial year in which they cease employment a shortened performance period where appropriate, for example terms of any such awards e. g. the form of the award, time frame, performance conditions, and leaver provisions would vary depending and or the financial year in which notice is served to terminate following an individuals death.
The release date for vested upon the specific commercial circumstances.
This bonus would usually be time apportioned LTIP awards will remain the original release date unless the and may, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, be settled Remuneration Committee in its discretion elects to accelerate Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors wholly in cash.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with the Remuneration the release date to cessation of employment or such other Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, take into account intermediate date as is deemed appropriate.
However, the Remuneration Committee or the Board as appropriate may include any element within performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial the Policy Table which the Remuneration Committee considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances, with due regard to the X In all other circumstances, unvested LTIP shares will lapse upon year as a whole based on appropriate performance measures as best interests of shareholders.
In particular, if the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short term cessation of employment.
determined by the Remuneration Committee.
basis, they would be able to receive any of the standard elements of Executive Director pay.
X LTIP shares that have vested but remain subject to a holding The treatment of outstanding share awards held by an Executive period at the time that an individual ceases employment Service contracts Director upon cessation of employment is governed by the relevant will lapse in the event that cessation of employment is as Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are summarised in share plan rules as summarised below.
Otherwise, these shares will be the table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless otherwise stated in released onthe original release date unless the Remuneration Deferred Bonus Plan DBP share awards this Report.
X If an individual ceases to hold employment as a result of death, Committeein its discretion elects to accelerate the release date to cessation of employment or such other intermediate date as ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, transfer of a business Provision Policy out of the Group or any other reason at the Remuneration is deemed appropriate.
Notice period Executive Directors termination of the current Executive Directors service agreements would require six months notice by either Committees discretion except where an individual is dismissed X On a change of control, unless they are exchanged for new the Company or the Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to include a notice period of up to 12 for gross misconduct, their unvested DBP share awards will months in an Executive Directors service agreement.
awards, unvested LTIP awards will vest immediately to an extent be permitted to vest.
The vesting date will be accelerated Non-Executive Directors at the Companys discretion, Non-Executive Directors may have a notice period of up to three months.
that takes into account the performance condition assessed at All current Non-Executive Directors have a three month notice period.
to cessation of employment following an individuals death.
the change of control and, unless the Remuneration Committee Termination payment Following the serving of notice by either party, the Company may terminate employment of an Executive Director with immediate Otherwise, unvested shares will vest at the normal vesting date determines otherwise, on a time pro-rated basis.
LTIP shares effect by paying a sum equal to salary and benefits in respect of their notice period.
unless the Remuneration Committee, in its discretion, elects to that have vested but remain subject to a holding period at the Non-Executive Directors are only entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of their period up to termination.
vest the shares following cessation of employment.
time of the change of control will be released immediately unless Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling six months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
X In all other circumstances, unvested DBP shares will lapse upon they are exchanged for new awards.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment have no fixed expiry date.
X If other corporate events occur such as a demerger, delisting, special dividend, voluntary winding-up or other event which in the X On a change of control, unvested DBP shares will immediately In accordance with the Code, each Director will retire annually and put themselves forward for re-election at each AGM of the Company.
opinion of the Remuneration Committee may affect the current vest in full unless they are exchanged for new awards.
All Executive Directors service agreements and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the or future value of shares, the Remuneration Committee will X If other corporate events occur such as a demerger, delisting, Companys registered office.
determine whether outstanding LTIP awards should be treated special dividend, voluntary winding-up or other event which in on the same basis as following a change of control.
the opinion of the Remuneration Committee may affect the current or future value of shares, the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any will determine whether unvested DBP shares should vest.
other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his or her cessation of office or employment.
86Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 2018 Energean Oil & Gas plcAnnual Report 201887
