Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 32 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2018 Governance Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the annual financial report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and websites, so far as it relates to the Company, is the Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the responsibility of the AIFM.
The work carried out by the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance regulation.
and integrity of these websites and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors these websites.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that have prepared the financial statements in accordance with legislation in the UK governing the preparation and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 dissemination of financial statements may differ from The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and legislation in other jurisdictions.
Republic of Ireland, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under company law the Directors must not approve the information necessary for shareholders to assess the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a Companys position and performance, business model and true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of strategy.
the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have: Each of the Directors, who are listed on page 19 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: selected suitable accounting policies and then applied them consistently: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted made judgements and accounting estimates that are Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting reasonable and prudent: Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting followed applicable UK Accounting Standards, subject to Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, any material departures disclosed and explained in the and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the financial statements respectively: and assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the Company: and prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate position of the Company, together with a description of accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors On behalf of the Board Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Financial Statements are published on the Companys Anthony Townsend Chairman website www.
com and via the website of the AIFM www.
The maintenance and integrity of these 17 December 2018
