38 GSK Annual Report 2018 CFOs statement We continued to make progress in delivering against our strategy and the financial goals we have set out in our financial architecture I am pleased to report that the Groups results for 2018 demonstrate Operating profit continued operational execution of our key strategic objectives with Total operating profit was 5,483 million, up 34% AER, 43% CER, strong performances from all three businesses.
and showed strong progression on 2017.
Higher charges for Sales the re-measurement of the contingent consideration liability related to ViiV Healthcare were more than offset by a stronger operating Group turnover was up 2% AER, 5% CER to 30,821 million.
performance, lower restructuring costs, lower asset impairment Pharmaceuticals sales were flat at AER but up 2% CER, driven charges and a favourable comparison with the charges taken in primarily by growth in HIV sales and further progress by the new 2017 related to US tax reform of 0.7 billion.
Respiratory products, Nucala and the Ellipta portfolio.
This was Adjusted operating profit was 8,745 million, up 2% AER, 6% CER, partly offset by lower sales of Seretide Advair and Established driven by margin growth in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
Overall Respiratory sales declined 1% AER Pharmaceuticals operating profit was down 3% AER, but flat at but grew 1% CER.
CER, reflecting continued investment in our new products and Vaccines sales were up 14% AER, 16% CER, primarily driven by a weaker gross margin in the face of ongoing pricing pressures.
sales of Shingrix in the US and growth in influenza and Hepatitis vaccines, which also benefited from a competitor supply shortage, Earnings per share partly offset by declines in some Established Vaccines.
Our stronger operational performance helped to deliver improved Consumer Healthcare sales declined 1% AER but grew 2% CER earnings per share EPS for the Group.
Total EPS more than with broad-based growth in Oral health and Wellness partly offset doubled to 73.7 pence.
Adjusted EPS was 119.4 pence up 7% AER, by increased competitive pressures in Europe, the divestments of and up 12% CER.
some smaller brands, including Horlicks and MaxiNutrition in the UK, Total EPS also benefited from a favourable comparison with as well as the impact of the implementation of the Goods & Services charges in 2017 arising from the impact of US tax reform and Tax GST in India.
a lower non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare Cost of sales profits following the acquisition of Novartis interest in our Consumer Healthcare business in June 2018.
Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover was 33.2%, down These factors were partly offset by higher transaction-related 1.0 percentage points AER and 1.4 percentage points CER.
This charges arising from increases in the valuation of the liabilities for primarily reflected a favourable comparison with the write-downs contingent consideration, put options and preferential dividends.
of assets in 2017 related to the decision to withdraw Tanzeum, together with a more favourable product mix in Vaccines and The Adjusted EPS growth of 12% CER was well ahead of the 6% Consumer Healthcare, partly offset by adverse pricing pressure CER increase in Adjusted operating profit, primarily as a result of the in Pharmaceuticals, particularly in Respiratory, and in Established reduced non-controlling interest allocation of Consumer Healthcare Vaccines.
profits and a lower Adjusted tax rate.
Selling, general and administration Cash generation SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover were 32.2%, up We have continued to drive a strong focus on greater cash discipline 0.1 percentage points at both AER and CER, reflecting growth across the Group and I am pleased to report we made significant of 3% AER, 5% CER.
The increase primarily reflected higher further progress this year, resulting in a net cash inflow from restructuring costs and investment in promotional product support, operations of 8,421 million 2017 6,918 million and free particularly for new launches in Respiratory, HIV and Vaccines.
cash flow of 5,692 million 2017 3,485 million.
This increase was particularly driven by progress on working capital, despite the Research and development growth in the business, especially in inventory control and stronger collections.
Reductions in capital expenditure, lower legal costs R&D expenditure was lower in 2018 compared with 2017 at and higher proceeds from intangible divestments also contributed.
3,893 million on a Total basis and 3,735 million on an Adjusted Cash conversion remains a key focus for 2019. basis.
This reflected a favourable comparison with the impact of the Priority Review Voucher, purchased and used to accelerate Net debt was 21.6 billion at 31 December 2018, compared registration of our first HIV two-drug regimen dolutegravir and with 13.2 billion at 31 December 2017, comprising gross debt lamivudine in 2017, as well as benefits from recent R&D of 26.1 billion and cash and liquid investments of 4.5 billion, prioritisation initiatives.
including 0.5 billion reported within Assets held for sale.
The increase in net debt from last year was primarily driven Savings from these initiatives are being used to build investments by our decision to buy-in the minority stake held by Novartis in a number of mid and late-stage clinical development programmes, in our Consumer Healthcare business for 9.3 billion and an particularly in oncology and functional genomics.
adverse currency translation impact of 0.8 billion.
39 GSK Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Capital allocation Viability statement We have pursued a disciplined approach to capital allocation, Our viability statement sets out our assessment of the prospects reflected in the investment choices we made in 2018 and in the of the Group over the next three years and is presented on page 44. transactions we initiated to strengthen our business and improve Outlook our financial flexibility to support GSKs key strategic priorities.
This culminated in the agreement announced in December last year In 2019, we expect Adjusted EPS to decline in the range of -5 to establish a new world-leading Consumer Healthcare Joint Venture to -9% at CER.
This guidance reflects the expected impact of the that we intend to separate from the Group within three years of Tesaro acquisition and the significant investments we are making the transaction closing.
This will give us a unique value creating behind its products and pipeline.
It also reflects the completion of opportunity to establish two leading global companies, each with the other recently announced transactions, as well as the approval appropriate balance sheets better able to support their respective of a substitutable generic competitor to Advair in the US.
future investment requirements, while continuing to offer 2018 was a strong year of operational performance, with good shareholders attractive distributions.
progress made in commercial delivery of our new products, which Given the improvements in cash conversion and free cash flow together with continued focus on costs, has led to improved generation across the Group over the last few years, we remain operating margins.
The business is showing good momentum and, comfortable that we can support our future investment requirements.
together with the important strategic moves we have made through However, this new pathway for the Group gives us additional the different transactions initiated in 2018, I am confident in the confidence and visibility in our ability to invest behind our first outlook and prospects for GSK.
Finally, this is my last report to shareholders as CFO, and I would like Delivering cash returns to shareholders through dividends is also to thank them and our many partners for their support in my time with a priority.
Dividends paid to shareholders in 2018 were 3.9 billion the company.
and we have delivered on the expectations we laid out, with a dividend of 80p per share for the year.
We expect to maintain the dividend at the same level of 80p for 2019.
Simon Dingemans Chief Financial Officer Capital allocation framework Key priorities for capital Pharmaceuticals pipeline Invest in the business Vaccines capacity Innovation Improved 80p per share dividend expected for 2019 cash Shareholder returns Focus on rebuilding free cash flow over time Performance generation Target 1.25x to 1.5x cover before returning dividend to growth Trust Strict discipline on returns Other transactions M&A
