Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CREATING VALUE reating long-term value by balancing growth, investment in our strategy and providing an attractive dividend stream to shareholders.
e nder dinirain and e e ine Year ended Year ended ne une n bn Opening AUA.
U nderlying net new business excludes the transfer off the Vantage platform of million of Hargreaves ansdown plc shares and the withdrawal of million of Hargreaves ansdown plc placing proceeds that were held by a founder.
The diversified nature of Hargreaves During the year to 0 une 2018 we ansdown, the breadth of our product introduced 1,000 net new clients to offering and the provision of high quality our services and grew our active client services tailored to the needs of our base a further 1 to 1,01,000.
This clients has allowed us to deliver another increased client sie underpins future strong year for NNB and significant growth as clients add new money to their growth in AUA.
We believe the Groups accounts, particularly through the use of focus on client service is core to our annual tax allowances in the SIPP and ISA.
success as a business and positions us Over a period of time, clients also typically well for the structural growth opportunity consolidate their investments through in the UK savings and investments market.
Net new business for the year totalled Total AUA increased by 1 to a record.
This was driven by 1. billion as at 0 une 20 18 increased client numbers and continued.
This was wealth consolidation onto our platform.
billion of NNB, higher market We also benefited from significant levels which added a further 5. billion transfer activity relating to operational and offset by 1.1 billion of transfers off issues on competitor platforms, which our platform by one of our founders.
shows the benefit of our strong reputation This growth was supported by our for client service.
Our increased focus on continued high retention rates.
Our focus digital marketing has been key in winning on service and the value our clients place new clients and engaging with existing on our offering is evidenced by client and ones, ensuring we become integral to asset retention rates remaining strong at their lives in terms of saving and investing.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 33 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Financial performance Income statement Year ended Year ended ne une m Net revenue.
Fair value gains on derivatives.
Finance costs - Profit before tax.
2018 was another strong year as profit before tax grew by a further 10 to 22. million.
Net revenue Total net revenue for the year was.
5 million, up 1 201 85. million, driven by higher asset levels and increased client share dealing activity.
Within this, the proportion of recurring revenue remained stable at 201.
The table below breaks down net revenue, average AUA and margins earned across the main asset classes which our clients hold with us.
Year ended Year ended ne une Net Net Net erae revenue Net Average revenue revenue AUA arin revenue AUA margin n bps m bn bps 1 Funds.. Shares.. Cash.. H Funds.. Other.
Total.. P latform fees and renewal commission.
St ockbroking commission and equity holding charges.
N et interest earned on client money.
A nnual management charge on H Funds, i. e. excluding the platform fee, which is included in revenue on funds.
A dvisory fees, Funds ibrary revenues and ancillary services e. g. annuity broking, distribution of VCTs and Hargreaves ansdown Currency and Market Services.
H Funds AUM included in Funds AUA for platform fee and in H Funds for annual management charge.
Total average AUA excludes H Fund AUM to avoid double-counting.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Net revenue on Funds increased by 1 to 18.0 million 201 1.2m due to AUA growth from net new business and higher market levels.
Funds remain our largest client asset class at 5 of average AUA 201 5, and the net revenue margin earned on these this year was 1bps 201 1bps.
Net revenue margins on Funds have been broadly stable following the completion of RDR and we continue to expect them to remain at similar levels over the next 12 months.
Funds AUA at the end of 2018 was 51.0 billion 201 5. bn.
Net revenue on Shares increased by 1 to 8. million 201. m and the net revenue margin was 2bps 201 bps, within our expected range of 2bps to bps.
The impact of higher equity dealing volumes, up 8 on the prior year, has been offset by a marginally slower rate of growth in management fees versus stockbroking revenue leading to a slight margin decline.
Management fees for shares charged in the SIPP and Stocks and Share ISA accounts are capped once holdings are above, in the SIPP and 10,000 in the ISA.
This also causes some dilution to the margin over time as clients grow their portfolio of shares.
Shares account for of the average AUA 201 2.
Following a foreign exchange transaction cost reduction in overseas trading we continue to expect the margin on Shares to be centred around 0bps over the next 12 months, with a range around this depending on actual dealing volume levels.
Shares AUA at the end of 2018 was 1.0 billion 201 25. bn.
Net revenue on Cash increased by 15 to 2.1million 201. m as increased cash levels offset a slight decline in the net interest margin to 8bps 201 bps.
This was in line with our communicated expectations at the Interim results announced in February 2018 that margins would be within a 0bps to 50bps range.
Cash accounts for 10 of the average AUA 201 11.
At the start of the year the Bank of England base rate was 0.25 before being increased to 0.50 in November 201.
With the maority of clients SIPP money placed on rolling 1month term deposits, and non-SIPP money on terms of up to 5 days, the full impact of the rate rise takes over a year to flow through.
Following the base rate change to 0.5 on 2 August 2018 and assuming no further rate changes, we anticipate the cash interest margin for the 201 financial year will be in the range of 0bps to 0bps.
H Funds consist of ten Multi-Manager funds, on which the management fee is 5bps per annum, and two Select equity funds launched in December 201 and March 201, on which the management fee is 0bps.
Net revenue from these funds has grown by 1 this year to.
2 million 201 5.5m thanks to higher market levels and continued net inflows.
These fees are collected on a daily basis whereas the Group calculates average AUM on a month end basis, resulting in a headline margin for the period of bps 201 bps.
Note that the platform fees on these assets are included in the Funds line and hence total average AUA of 85.5 billion 201 1. billion excludes H Funds AUM to avoid double-counting.
H Funds AUM at the end of 2018 was.
Other revenues are made up of advisory fees, our Funds ibrary data services and ancillary services such as annuity broking, distribution of VCTs and the Hargreaves ansdown Currency and Market Services.
These revenues are primarily transactional and grew by.
Year ended Year ended ne une m Net recurring revenue.
The Groups revenues are largely recurring in nature, as shown in the table above, with the proportion of net recurring revenues remaining constant at 201.
Net recurring revenue is primarily comprised of platform fees, Hargreaves ansdown fund management fees, interest on client money, equity holding charges and ongoing advisory fees.
million 201 2. million due to increased average AUA from higher market levels and continued net new business.
Recurring revenues provide greater profit resilience and hence we believe they are of higher quality than non-recurring revenues.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 35 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Transactional revenue is primarily made up of stockbroking commission and advisory event-driven fees.
0 million 201 81.2 million with an 8 increase in equity deal volumes being the key driver.
Other revenue is derived from the provision of funds data services and research to external parties through Funds ibrary.
5 million to 8. million driven by new MiFID II services, additional contract wins and targeted price increases.
erain c Year ended Year ended ne une m Staff costs.
Other costs.. Total FSCS levy.
Operating costs increased by 25 to 158. million 201 12. million to support higher client activity levels, maintain client service andinvest in the significant growth opportunities we see ahead for Hargreaves ansdown.
As highlighted in last years results, we consciously and significantly increased our investment in people, digital marketing and technology during the 201 financial year.
We believe the Groups focus on client service is core to our success and necessary to capture the structural growth opportunity in the UK savings and investments market.
This investment has continued throughout this year and has been validated by the strong net new business levels and net new clients we have seen across the past 12 months, high client retention rates and continued development of our product set and growth capabilities during the period.
We have also had to cope with an unprecedented level of regulatory changes whilst investing to increase efficiency and maintain the future scalability of our platform.
Staff costs remain our largest expense and rose by 2 to 8. million 201 8. million.
Average staff numbers increased by from1,0 in 201 to 1,8 in 2018 with the key increases being in Technology, including the build out of H Tech in Warsaw, on the Helpdesk and in Operations, in line with higher client activity levels, and Marketing.
Hargreaves ansdown is a growing business and higher client numbers and associated activity levels will continue to require investment in our servicing functions as we look forward.
Technology and efficiency programmes improve our scalability, thereby allowing us to invest productivity gains into extending our proposition and our platform functionality.
We believe this reinvestment cycle underpins our future growth.
Marketing and distribution costs increased by 1 to 1. million 201 1. million as we continued to invest in our digital marketing presence and targeted marketing campaigns for tax year end, cash back mailings, the ifetime ISA, Active Savings, and our Retirement Services.
Use of mobile and digital media remains a key strategic focus of how we engage with existing and potential new clients and as wegain a deeper understanding of client segmentation and our proposition we have refined and improved the effectiveness of the spend.
Following significant research and testing, we launched our updated brand and new visual identity on 10 February 2018 and took the opportunity to expand and develop our tone of voice to complement our broader reach at the same time.
Feedback has been positive andthis should help to improve client engagement and drive the profile of Hargreaves ansdown.
Depreciation, amortisation and financial costs increased by 1. million as a result of higher capital spend in recent years, primarily on our core in-house IT systems, hardware and software for increased employee numbers and the Active Savings platform.
Total capitalised expenditure was 1.1 million this year 201 1.1 million.
This expenditure was from cyclical replacement of IT hardware, the continued proect to enhance the capacity and capability of our key administration systems, the ongoing development ofActive Savings and the fit out of the office for H Tech in Warsaw.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT Other costs rose by 10. million to 1.2 million 201 0. million.
The key drivers of this were additional dealing costs resulting from higher share dealing transaction volumes, increased computer maintenance and office costs driven by higher employee numbers, increased professional fees relating to strategic initiatives and regulatory proects and irrecoverable VAT on non-staff expenses.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS levy decreased by 1 to.
5 million, however, it should be noted that last year benefited from 1. million of rebate received relating to the previous years charge.
The FSCS is the compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
All authorised firms are required to contribute to the running of the scheme and thelevy reflects the cost of compensation payments paid by the industry in proportion to the amount of each participants relevant eligibleincome.
rfi ere a Year ended Year ended ne une m Operating profit.
Hargreaves ansdowns success is built around the service we provide to our clients.
This resulted in record net new business levels of.
billion, a 1 increase in revenues and AUA reaching new highs of 1. billion.
This has allowed us to consciously increase headcount to ensure we deliver the expected high service standards, while dealing with record volumes of business and investing in further growth opportunities.
This investment is key to driving future growth andensuring we have a scalable operating platform which we believe will be to the benefit of both clients and shareholders across the market cycle.
As a result, the Group has grown profit before tax by 10 to 22. million 201 25.8m and profits after tax grew by 12 to 2. million due to the reduction in the headline statutory corporation tax rate.
a The effective tax rate for the year was 1.0 201 20.2, in line with the standard rate of UK corporation tax.
The Groups tax strategy ispublished on our website at www.
EPS Year ended Year ended ne une m Profit after tax.
Diluted EPS pence per share.
Diluted EPS increased by 11 from.
pence, reflecting the Groups growth in profit after tax.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 37 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED iidiy and caial anaeen Hargreaves ansdown looks to create long-term value for shareholders by balancing our desire to deliver profit growth, capital appreciation and an attractive dividend stream to shareholders with the need to maintain a market-leading offering and high service standards for our clients.
The Group seeks to maintain a strong net cash position and a robust balance sheet with sufficient capital and liquidity to fund ongoing trading and future growth, in line with our strategy of offering a lifelong, secure home for peoples savings and investments.
The Group has a high conversion rate of operating profits to cash and its net cash position at 0 une 2018 was.
5 million 201 255. million ascash generated through trading offset the payments of the 201 final dividend and the 2018 interim dividend.
This includes cash on longer-term deposit and is before funding the 2018 final dividend of 10. million and special dividend of.
During the period, the Group entered into a Revolving Credit Facility agreement with Barclays Bank to provide access to a further 5million of liquidity.
This is currently undrawn and was put in place to further strengthen the Groups liquidity position and increase ourcash management flexibility.
The Group also funds a share purchase programme to ensure we avoid any dilution from operating our share-based compensation schemes.
The healthy net cash position provides both a source of competitive advantage and support to our client offering.
It provides security to our clients, giving them confidence to manage their money through us over many years, and allows us to provide them with an incredible service, for example through using surplus liquidity to allow same day switching between products that have mismatched settlement dates.
Capital ne une m Shareholder funds ess goodwill, intangibles and other deductions Tangible capital ess provision for dividend ualifying regulatory capital ess estimated capital requirement Surplus capital Total attributable shareholders equity, as at 0 une 2018, made up of share capital, share premium, retained earnings and other reserves increased to 0.0 million 201 0. million as continued profitability and the Boards decision to retain additional capital resources following the reassessment of the Groups regulatory capital requirements by the FCA in August 201 more than offset payment of the 201 final dividend and the 2018 interim dividend.
After having made appropriate deductions as shown in the table above, surplus capital amounts to million.
The Group has five subsidiary companies authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
These firms have capital resources at a level which satisfies both their regulatory capital requirements and their working capital requirements and, as a group, we maintain arobust balance sheet retaining a capital base over and above regulatory capital requirements.
Further disclosures are published in the Pillar document on the Groups website at www.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT iidend licy and declarain Hargreaves ansdown has a progressive ordinary dividend policy.
The Board considers the dividend on a total basis, with the intention of maintaining the ordinary dividend payout ratio at around 5 across the market cycle and looking to return excess cash to shareholders in the form of a special dividend after the year-end.
Any such return will be determined according to market conditions and after taking account of the Groups growth, investment and regulatory capital requirements at the time.
iidend ence er are First interim dividend paid.
p Reflecting this policy the Board has declared a 2018 total ordinary dividend of 2.2 pence per share 201 2.0p, 11 ahead of last year.
This is in line with EPS growth and maintains the ordinary dividend payout ratio at 5.
In addition the Board has declared a special dividend of.
The 2018 total dividend of 0.0 pence per share 201 2.0p is up 8 and results in a total dividend payout ratio of 80.
Subect to shareholder approval of the final dividend at the 2018 AGM, the final and special dividends willbe paid on 1 October 2018 to all shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 September 2018.
The Board is confident that Hargreaves ansdown has sufficiently strong financial, liquidity and capital positions to execute its strategy without constraints and can operate a sustainable and progressive ordinary dividend policy going forward.
The Board remains committed to paying special dividends in future years should sufficient excess cash and capital exist after taking account of market conditions and the Groups growth, investment and regulatory capital requirements at the time.
Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer August 2018 Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 39
