18 Strategic report Performance and financial review Hilton saw strong growth in volumes, sales, profitability and basic earnings per share.
Nigel Majewski Chief Financial Officer Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 19 Summary of Group performance Operating profit and margin Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation This performance and financial review Adjusted operating profit of 48.7m EBITDA covers the main highlights of the 2017: 38.3m was 27.1% higher than Groups financial performance and last year and 28.2% higher on a constant EBITDA, which is used by the Group as position in 2018.
Hiltons overall financial currency basis driven by a full year trading anindicator of cash generation, increased performance saw strong growth in at Seachill.
IFRS operating profit was by 18.9% to 70.7m 2017: 59.5m volumes, sales, profitability and basic 31.9% higher at 46.3m 2017: 35.1m.
excluding exceptional acquisition costs earnings per share.
Cash flow generation The adjusted operating profit margin in and IFRS 56.7m mainly reflecting the was strong with significant investment 2018 increased to 3.0% 2017: 2.8%, increase in operating profits together in facilities.
and the operating profit perkilogram withhigher depreciation charges.
of packed food sold increased to The Board uses adjusted profit, before Free cash flow and net cash position 14.1p 2017: 12.5p.
acquired intangibles amortisation Cash flow was strong in 2018 with and exceptional items, to measure Net finance costs cash flows from operating activities performance and considers this Net finance costs increased to of 53.5m 2017: 46.5m.
Free cash metric better reflects the underlying 3.0m 2017: 0.9m reflecting higher outflow after capital expenditure of 99m performance of the business.
borrowings following our Seachill before dividends and financing was Adjustments made to reported IFRS acquisition and increased investments 35.5m 2017: 47.3m including Seachill metrics comprise adding back acquisition in our facilities.
Interest cover in 2018 acquisition costs.
intangibles amortisation of 2.4m decreased to 16 times 2017: 39 times Group borrowings were 114.8m at the 2017: 0.4m and exceptional acquisition accordingly.
end of 2018 and, with net cash balances of costs nil 2017: 2.8m in connection Taxation 88.0m including the other financial asset with the 2017 Seachill acquisition.
comprising a treasury deposit, resulted in The taxation charge for the period was Basis of preparation a closing net debt position of 26.8m, as 8.6m 2017: 7.2m.
The effective The Group is presenting its results for the compared with net cash of 25.4m at the taxation rate was 19.9% 2017: 19.3% end of 2017.
At the end of 2018 the Group 52 week period ended 30 December 2018, excluding exceptional items reflecting had undrawn committed loan facilities with comparative information for the a change in the mix of profits taxed at under its syndicated banking facilities 52week period ended 31 December 2017. different rates in overseas countries, of201.0m 2017: 160.0m.
The financial statements of the Group are particularly Australia.
prepared in accordance with International Dividends Net income Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The Board aims to maintain a dividend adopted by the European Union EU.
Adjusted net income, representing profit policy that provides a dividend level for the year attributable to owners of 2018 Financial performance that grows broadly in line with the the parent of 34.5m 2017: 28.0m Volume and revenue underlying earnings of the Group before exceptional items was 23.0% andhasrecommended a final dividend Volumes, which include 50% share of the higher than last year.
IFRS net income of 15.8p per ordinary share in respect Australian and Portuguese joint venture after exceptional items was 32.5m of 2018.
This, together with the interim activities, grew by 13.5% in the year 2017: 24.9m.
dividend of 5.6p per ordinary share including a full year contribution from Earnings per share paid in November 2018, represents a Seachill as well as higher volumes in 12.6% increase in the full year dividend, Adjusted basic earnings per share UK, Ireland, Central Europe and Australia as compared with last year.
The final beforeexceptional items of 42.3p offset by lower volumes in Holland, dividend, if approved by shareholders, will 2017: 37.4p was 13.1% higher than Sweden and Denmark.
Additional details be paid on 28 June2019 to shareholders last year.
Reported basic earnings of volume growth by business segment on the register on 31 May2019 and the per share were 39.9p 2017: 33.2p.
are set out in the Chief Executives shares will be exdividend on 30 May 2019.
Diluted earnings pershare were summary.
and 21.9% on a constant currency basis boosted by higher raw material prices.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 20 Strategic report Performance and financial review continued Key performance Financial indicators KPIs: How we measure our performance Revenue growth EBITDA against our strategic objectives % m The Board monitors a range of financial andnon-financial key performance 21.5% 70.7 indicators KPIs to measure the Groupsperformance over time 2017: 10.1% 2017: 56.7m in buildingshareholder value and Definition, method of calculation Definition, method of calculation achievingthe Groups strategic priorities.
andanalysis: Year on year revenue andanalysis: Operating profit The nine headline KPI metrics used by growth expressed as a percentage.
theBoard for this purpose, together with The 2018 increase mainly reflected The increase reflected higher operating our performance over the past two years, volumegrowth including the first full profits less the 2017 exceptional item, is set out opposite: yearof Seachill and related higher unit together with higher depreciation charges.
Adjusted operating Free cash flow profit margin m % 3.0% 35.5 2017: 2.8% 2017: 47.3 m Definition, method of calculation Definition, method of calculation andanalysis: Adjusted operating profit andanalysis: Cash outflow before expressed as a percentage of turnover.
The operating profit margin % in 2018 Cash flow generation from operating wasboosted by contributions from activities was strong at 53m 2017: 46m Seachilland Portugal.
before spend on facilities capex spend of 99m 2017: 12m.
2017 also included 84m spend on acquisitions.
Adjusted operating Gearing ratio profit margin % pence per kg 14.1 pence per kg 37.9% 2017: 12.5 pence per kg 2017: N A Definition, method of calculation Definition, method of calculation andanalysis: Adjusted operating profit andanalysis: Year end net debt as per kilogram processed and sold in pence.
The Group The increase in 2018 is attributable wasungeared at the end of 2017 tohigher unit fish raw material pricing beinginanetcash position.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 21 Non-financial KPIs: Growth in sales volumes % 13.5% 2017: 10.4% Definition, method of calculation andanalysis: Year on year volume growth.
Volume growth was seen principally in the UK including the firstfullyear of Seachill plus Australia.
Employee and labour agency costs pence per kg 48.1 pence per kg 2017: 38.7 pence per kg Definition, method of calculation andanalysis: Labour cost of producing food products as a proportion of volume.
The increase primarily reflects a mix change with higher costs per kg for additional proteins and categories particularly fish.
Customer service level % 98.1% 2017: 98.7% Definition, method of calculation andanalysis: Packs of product deliveredas a % of the orders placed.
In addition, a much wider range of financial and operating KPIs are continuously tracked at business unit level.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 22 Strategic report Performance and financial review continued The Group has to date decided not to Treasury management Customer credit and pricing risks hedge its foreign exchange rate exposures, Hilton does not engage in any speculative As Hiltons customers comprise a small but this policy is kept under continuing trading in financial instruments and number of successful and credit worthy review and may be reappraised over transacts only in relation to its underlying major multiple retailers, the level of credit time as the Groups geographic spread business requirements.
The Groups risk is considered to be insignificant.
The Groups overseas policy is designed to ensure adequate Historically the incidence of bad debts subsidiaries all have natural hedges in financial resources are made available as has been immaterial.
Hiltons pricing is place as they, for the most part, buy raw required for the continuing development based predominately either on cost plus materials, employ people, source services, and growth of its businesses, whilst taking agreements or agreed packing rates with sell products and arrange funding in their practical steps to reduce exposures to its customers.
As a result the Groups foreign exchange, interest rate fluctuation, Liquidity risk exposure is in the main limited to its equity credit, pricing and liquidity risks, investment in each overseas subsidiary Hilton Food Group remains strongly cash asdescribed below.
and its joint ventures, and in the translation generative, has a robust balance sheet Foreign exchange rate movements of overseas earnings.
and has committed banking facilities for and country specific risks the medium term, sufficient to support The level of country specific risk currently Whilst the presentational currency of the its existing business.
All bank positions remains material for many businesses, Group is Sterling, most of its earnings are are monitored on a daily basis and capital interms of the impact of macroeconomic generated in other currencies, principally expenditure above set levels, together with developments, including the impact of the Euro, Swedish Krona, Danish Krone decisions on intra group dividends, are all austerity programmes and commodity and Australian Dollar.
The earnings of approved at Board meetings.
All long term price movements in some countries.
the Groups overseas subsidiaries are debt is arranged centrally and is subject to The Group sells high quality basic food translated into Sterling at the average Board approval.
products, for which there will always exchange rates for the year and their becontinuing demand, to successful Going concern statement assets and liabilities at the year end blue chip retailers in developed countries.
The Directors have performed a detailed closing rates.
Changes in relevant currency Hilton has not to date been materially assessment, including a review of the parities are monitored on a continuing adversely affected by the lengthy Groups budget for the 2019 financial basis, with the timing of the repatriation recessionary environments seen in year and its longer term plans, including of overseas profits by dividend payments some countries, but will keep any future consideration of the principal risks faced and the repayment of any intra group identified country specific risks under by the Group.
Following this review, the loans to UK holding companies paying due continuing review.
Directors are satisfied that the Company regard to actual and forecast exchange and the Group have adequate resources to Interest rate fluctuation risk rate movements.
continue to operate and meet its liabilities This risk stems from the fact that the as they fall due for the foreseeable interest rates on the Groups borrowings future, a period considered to be at least are variable, being at set margins over 12 months from the date of signing these LIBOR and other interbank rates which financial statements.
For this reason they fluctuate over time.
The Boards policy is continue to adopt the going concern basis to have an interest rate cap on a proportion for preparing the financial statements.
The Board will review hedging costs and options should the current low interest rate environment change materially.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 23 The Groups bank borrowings are detailed The Directors assessment has been made in the financial statements and the with reference to the Groups current principal banking facilities, which support position and strategy taking into account the Groups existing and contracted new the Groups principal risks and how these business, are committed.
The strategy and associated is in full compliance with all its banking principal risks, which the Directors review covenants and based on forecasts is at least annually, are incorporated in the expected to remain in compliance.
three year plan and such related scenario Future geographical expansion which is testing as is required.
The three year plan not yet contracted, and which is not built makes reasoned assumptions in relation into our internal budgets and forecasts, to volume growth based on the position may require additional or extended banking of our customers and expected changes facilities and such future geographical in the macroeconomic environment and expansion will depend on our ability retail market conditions, expected changes to negotiate appropriate additional or in food raw material, packaging and other extended facilities, as and when they costs, together with the anticipated level are required.
of capital investment required to maintain our facilities at state of the art levels.
The Groups internal budgets and The achievement of the three year plan is forward forecasts, which incorporate all not dependent on any new or expanded reasonably foreseeable changes in trading financing facilities.
performance, are regularly reviewed in detail by the Board and show that it will be Cautionary statement able to operate within its current banking This Strategic report contains forward facilities, taking into account available cash looking statements.
Such statements balances, for the foreseeable future.
are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risk factors Viability statement and uncertainties which we believe are In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the reasonable.
Accordingly Hiltons actual 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, future results may differ materially from the Directors confirm that they have a the results expressed or implied in these reasonable expectation that the Group will forward looking statements.
We do continue to operate and meet its liabilities, not undertake to update or revise any as they fall due, for the three years ending forward looking statements, whether as in December 2021.
A period of three years a result of new information, future events has been chosen for the purpose of this or otherwise.
viability statement as it is aligned with the Groups three year plan, which is based Nigel Majewski on the Groups current customers and Chief Financial Officer does not incorporate the benefits from 26 March 2019 any potential new contract gains over this period.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
