50 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 51 Our people continued Case Study: Safe to Trade Simple, scalable, effective, engaging Staying Safe to Trade booklet Introduction Safe to Work, Safe to Trade, Safe Home We give every member of depot staff a summary booklet that Weve got nearly 700 depots across the UK, and we continue to open How do we encourage the same high standards of safety across includes a safety message from the divisional COO, together new ones.
Our depots are busy hubs of activity.
Some staff might be nearly 700 depots?
How do we embed our health & safety with a simple and engaging overview of what being Safe to working at the trade counter or in the offices, and warehouse staff culture and standards across the depot network, making it Trade means for every member of staff.
The booklet goes will be picking orders ready for despatch.
Product is being delivered effective, engaging and consistent?
2018 saw us take another on to highlight the most prominent hazards that could be by lorry and unloaded by fork lift truck, builders are buying and big step towards these aims as we rolled out our unique and encountered at a trade depot location, and most importantly loading into their vans, and end users are visiting to see product, talk innovative Safe to Trade packs to all the UK depots, and how to avoid them!
to our designers and discuss kitchen plans.
We need to make and began to roll them out to our European depots.
This case study maintain an environment that keeps all these people safe.
highlights some of the main elements of the packs.
Safe to Trade Online Safe to Trade Online is our new safety management software.
Safe to Trade It has two main functions: it makes managing safety in the depot a film books lot easier, and it also gives our central and regional safety teams the ability to monitor compliance and to analyse trends and root causes.
Our unique film books are a For the depot staff, Safe to Trade Online contains all our key safety cornerstone of the Safe to Trade standards and makes them easily accessible.
It also gives reminders programme.
The books contain a of key tasks that need to be done on a recurring basis.
It also allows collection of short films, covering the key the regional and central teams to monitor what is being done, and to safety messages and safe systems of work in a see the findings and any follow-up actions.
The first film is a personal introduction from Andy Witts, the Chief Operating Officer of the Trade division, where he emphasises his personal commitment to safety as a cornerstone of the depot culture: This business is a family: our people mean a lot to us... look after your colleagues and customersmake sure youre Safe to Trade.
We have found that the film books are an effective way to emphasise the safety message.
They replace a hard copy safety manual and are much more attractive and engaging.
The films are loaded on a memory card so it is easy to update and add to them as needed.
Every new employee works through the film book as part of their induction, and after each film they have to demonstrate their understanding by successfully completing a questionnaire.
If existing employees need refresher training, they can easily repeat modules as required.
Our insurers were so impressed by the potential of the video books to reduce accidents that they contributed some funding to their development.
Risk Assessment and training folder As well as the risks that are common across the depot network, there will also be things which Safe Systems of Work folder are specific to individual depots.
These risks, together To support the film books, weve developed a one page with details of how to mitigate them, will be recorded in the summary of each film for easy reference.
The folder folder, along with details of each individuals training and any containing these summaries is available for ad-hoc safety-related qualifications.
Each summary sheet has It means that each depot has material that is tailored to their individual risk a QR code that leads to supporting online content.
It also means that when staff transfer between depots they can easily see any additional risks that they need to be aware of at the new depot, and can take their own training records with them.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 52 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 53 Sustainable supply chain Sustainable product Sustainable sourcing, actively monitoring our suppliers Safe and traceable, efficient and durable Safety and traceability Sustainable sourcing Safety by design, fire safety, registering products for traceability Timber management and chain of custody, shared values throughout the supply chain We design safety features into the products we make ourselves, In 2018 weve rolled out an initiative to help our builder-customers In 2018 we used 239,000 cubic metres of chipboard and 43,000 We only want to work with suppliers who share our ethical values.
we carefully select bought-in product from reputable sources make sure that they have the right fittings every time they buy a cubic metres of MDF in our factories thats enough to fill the We are clear about our expectations and we aim to align them and then we carry out additional safety testing before we sell it fire door.
We have been working with the British Woodworking Royal Albert Hall more than three times.
All of this came from FSC through our whole supply chain.
Federation, whose Certifire fire door certification scheme is the the Forest Stewardship Council certified sources and all of the Every year we bring our main suppliers together at a forum to talk leading authority on fire door safety.
We have developed guidance products that we manufacture ourselves hold the FSC chain of As an example of safe bought-in product, our Lamona tumble about shared issues.
This benefits both us and our suppliers, for our depots which identifies the six most common situations in custody certification license code FSC-C019676.
dryers have always been designed so that the heating element and is an example of the principle that our business needs to be which a builder would be fitting a fire door, and which automatically and the main airflow are separated.
This is to prevent excess fluff This means that the wood comes from responsibly managed forests worthwhile for all concerned.
selects the right fittings for each situation.
coming into contact with the heating element and potentially and that we have independent documented evidence of an unbroken The forum gives our suppliers an opportunity to get valuable catching fire.
Its important to us to do as much as we can to trace the chain of ownership all the way from the forest to us, via the mill, the feedback thats unique to our trade-only environment.
We can pass ownership of our appliances, in case we ever have a product recall.
on comments from over 1,600 trained Howdens kitchen designers, Our Lamona fridge-freezers and fridges have also been designed We use scanners at all of our depots, so that we know which items We are also a member of the Timber Trade Federation which as well as from our builder-customers and end users.
Because of the to reduce the risk from fire.
The electronic circuit boards are have been sold to which builder-customer.
Weve briefed our depot requires our commitment to implementing an environmental huge scale of our Lamona own-brand appliances, and because we isolated in a fire-retardant, self-extinguishing box.
The top, back staff on the importance of encouraging product registration and due diligence system to fulfil the Federations responsible manage any repairs that are needed, we can also pass on comments and base of each unit is enclosed in fire-retardant material, and put reminders in our product catalogues.
from the service engineers, allowing our suppliers to quickly make they use the latest capacitor technology which is designed to any improvements that might be needed.
remain safe in the event of a failure.
Were working hard to encourage the domestic end user to register We continually look to improve our processes and our awareness of their products so that we can support them if the need ever arises.
This includes attending workshops run by The As well as talking to our suppliers about product development, we We sell 700,000 fire doors per year, and we recognise that only a Our product website and the document pack that comes with each Office for Product Safety and Standards who monitor and enforce use the supplier forum as an opportunity to repeat and reinforce correctly fitted fire door offers the protection it is designed for.
If appliance include links to the Register my appliance website.
the Timber Regulations, so that we can keep up to date with the our expectations for sustainability and ethical behaviour.
We tell it isnt fitted with the correct hinges, frame, intumescent strip, or Weve put a sticker on each instruction manual with the unique latest developments.
our suppliers what we need from them and we work together to door closer, for example, it wont function properly.
serial number of each appliance, so that its easier for end users to come up with solutions.
Active monitoring Sustainable product Supplier assessments, risk-based testing, training our people Energy efficiency, durability, FSC certification We know that there will always be potential ethical, social and We encourage all our suppliers to become members of Sedex.
Our appliances are made by third party suppliers to our environmental risks in our supply chain, and we are committed For those who are not, we use a combination of specific specifications.
We have always worked in partnership with KPI to understanding, identifying, and minimising them as much as questionnaires and targeted verification processes which may our suppliers to improve the energy performance of our possible.
We will only trade with a supplier when we have carried include us commissioning an independent sustainability audit.
appliances, and each year this brings improvements in different 100% of out a thorough risk assessment and are satisfied that we have productcategories.
chipboard & We need our people to understand and demonstrate best credible evidence that they meet our high standards.
One of the highlights in 2018 is that all of our Lamona extractors practice and integrity, so weve given them training to support MDF used in our 100% now use LED lights, which reduces energy consumption by 80%.
In 2018 we have continued to strengthen our approach to them in their dealings with suppliers.
All of our buyers and our manufacturing They also have more efficient motor technology, reducing energy reducing supply chain risks.
We have made our expectations even compliance team have taken and passed the Chartered Institute processes from consumption even further.
clearer by modifying our supplier contract terms and conditions of Procurement and Supplys Ethical Procurement & Supply FSC certified to include specific ethics and sustainability clauses.
We have training, and we have a rolling programme of refresher training on Offering our customers no-call-back quality kitchen and joinery is sources also issued a Supplier Code of Conduct where we set out what we Modern Slavery and Anti-Bribery.
part of our mission statement.
We manufacture all of our cabinets expect and how we will monitor that they are complying.
ourselves, which means that we have direct control of their quality There is more information about the work we do to safeguard and can be confident in offering a 25 year guarantee on them.
After clearly setting out our standards and expectations, we then against human rights violations, in both our own business and our work to understand the specific risk profile of each supplier.
In supply chain, in our modern slavery statement.
You can find this We test the durability of our manufactured products by subjecting 100% of our  timber products are made 2018, we have started to use Sedex, a leading worldwide platform in the Sustainability section of our investor relations website.
them to a range of tests intended to represent the challenges of a from FSC certified materials, and we aim to source our boughtfor sharing responsible sourcing data, to help us assess supplier real kitchen.
For example, we test the durability of their surfaces by in products to the same standards.
A typical kitchen range is a risk and to verify any specific mitigations which may be in place.
covering them with everyday household products, from bleach to combination of items which we have manufactured ourselves and Sedex is used by over 50,000 members in over 150 countries.
It curry powder, nail varnish and red wine.
We slam test doors and other items which we have bought in.
A range is only entirely FSCis a place where suppliers can share a wide range of sustainability drawers up to 10,000 times, and we put half-tonne weights on the compliant if every individual wooden component is FSC certified.
data and accreditation information for their companies and their shelves of our tall cabinets.
We subject products to heat, humidity, Each of the 18 new kitchen ranges that we introduced in 2018 met individual operating sites, as well as the results of independent ultraviolet light, and steam.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 54 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 55 Our environment Lowering emissions Reducing waste, responsible operations, lowering emissions Efficient operations lead to reduced emissions GREENHOUSE GAS AND EMISSIONS REPORTING Reducing waste Total CO Total CO 2 2 Turning production waste into energy, reducing amounts to landfill, reuse recycle Emissions Emissions Tonnes Tonnes 2018 2017 KPI 1 KPI 2 Scope 1 Direct: Gas 3,472 3,314 Total % of Scope 1 Direct: Diesel 26,683 26,548 100% of all packaging 100% waste recycled used in our Scope 1 Direct: Other fuels 898 999 or reused manufacturing is from SCOPE 1 DIRECT: TOTAL 31,053 30,861 recycled sources Scope 2 Indirect: Electricity 21,130 25,989 SCOPE 2 INDIRECT: TOTAL 21,130 25,989 98.5% TOTAL Scope 1 and 2 52,183 56,850 Turnover m 1,511.3 1,403.8 Turnover ratio tCO e per m 34.5 40.5 2 Inflation adjusted turnover ratio tCO e per m 37.0 45.7 2 Highly-efficient production is one of our strategic aims as it gives In 2018, we converted 12,000 tonnes of sawdust into energy at us a competitive cost advantage.
Over the years weve invested our Howden and Runcorn sites.
This is enough sawdust to fill 15 We are pleased to report that our total emissions have reduced in 2018 despite in efficient production machinery and in software that takes the Olympic swimming pools.
Burning it onsite means that it doesnt an increase inturnover.
constantly-changing production mix, and maximises the number have to be transported elsewhere to be reused.
It also saves us Turnover increased by 7.7% in 2018, whilst the turnover ratio decreased by 14.7% and of panels that we can get from each sheet of chipboard.
We generated 46,000 MWh of energy from our biomass the inflation adjusted turnover ratio decreased by 12.9%.
We will continue to look for worked with our chipboard supplier to develop a new size of board boilers in 2018, equivalent to the average annual electricity further improvements.
Our record over the past five years is shown on the chart below.
that allows us to minimise cutting waste even further.
Emission source data is converted to carbon tonnes using the conversion factors published by Defra.
Nevertheless, the sheer scale of our manufacturing operations Over ten years ago, an employee-led energy efficiency initiative Source data includes meter readings for electricity and gas and purchasing records for other fuels.
means that we still generate a lot of sawdust waste.
At both of our came up with the idea of repairing broken pallets rather than factories, we have invested in biomass boilers which burn this scrapping them.
We put these pallets back into use, which waste to produce heat.
They allow us to reuse waste, they reduce cuts down our waste and saves us money.
In 2018 we repaired our emissions and they save us the cost of the equivalent boughtover 160,000 pallets, making a total of 1.6 million since this in fuel.
Responsible operations Total Carbon emissions 000s tCO e 2 Turnover ratio tCO e per m Energy-efficient facilities, efficient transport 2 Turnover ratio inflation adjusted tCO e per m 2 All our factories, warehouses and transport sites meet the ISO In the factory where we implemented these energy-saving 60.0 14001 standard for Environmental Management.
This assures initiatives, we achieved a 12% year-on-year reduction in the us that we have good processes in place.
It also encourages us electricity consumed to make one finished product.
Despite an to look for further improvements in areas such as sustainable increase in production volume, the overall electricity use at that energy, waste and material management.
factory reduced by 6% compared to the previous year.
50.0 We have invested in a number of energy-saving projects in our We are very proud of our award-winning sustainable road production facilities in 2018.
The most significant of these transport fleet which combines efficient modern trucks with a involved replacing old compressed air management systems focus on encouraging and monitoring safe and sustainable driver and technology with modern energy-efficient versions.
Our fleet drives over 15 million miles per year, so its 40.0 initiatives should give us an aggregate energy saving of around very important to us that its both efficient and safe.
For more 2.4 million kWh per year, the equivalent of the annual energy details of the specific features that help us to achieve these use of 140 average homes.
objectives, please see the extended case study on pages 46 and 47 of our 2017 report.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 56 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 57 Our communities Most kitchens are for residents everyday use, but some are specific Can Do aims to build young peoples confidence, so that they can Local community projects, Leonard Cheshire training kitchens, used to pass on cooking skills which help people get out and about, learn a range of skills, build their support and increase their ability to live independently.
friendship networks, and where possible get ready for the world of work.
Some comments from users of the kitchens have been: Now Ill be Local community projects able to prepare my own meals and eat when I want to, and The 95% of participants said that they had learnt new skills which would Local involvement on a nationwide basis, thousands of donations, 1.4m contributed new kitchen will enable me to cook like I did when I was at home help them in the future.
Typical feedback comments were that before my stroke.
participation in Can Do has been great at supporting me to make Each of our depots, and every one of our manufacturing, distribution donating cash to local air ambulance charities, helping some important changes to my life.
This experience had really and support sites, has an important role in the life of its local them to keep on providing essential emergency services Can Do helped me to improve my self-confidence and something really community.
Each site depends on the local community for its buying kit for a local childrens sports team great to put on my CV and a huge confidence boost.
success and growth: for customers and staff.
We began to support the Can Do programme in 2010.
Can Do is a donating cash to a local hospitals appeal for vital equipment skills development activity-based programme for young people with Our culture is based on personal relationships and individual donating stock to help renovate facilities at a local community Employability workshops additional needs.
It gives these young adults the chance to develop accountability, and we encourage our people to support and centre or scout hut important life and work skills, and boost their self-confidence.
In 2018 we have started working with Leonard Cheshire on a engage with local activities and charities.
programme of employability workshops, designed to equip people In 2018, weve made over 3,600 separate donations which have It does this by supporting them to devise and take part in a range with skills that they will need to succeed in the jobs market, such We make our products, time and cash available for staff to get involved us giving cash or products worth 1.4m.
of projects in their local community.
These projects are designed as job search and CV writing skills, interview practice and sessions involved in all sorts of ways.
This year we have donated 38 kitchens in conjunction with the specific needs and interests of their on different ways of finding employment and an introduction to Our culture of giving back to the local community also shows in the to local good causes, and paid for them to be fitted.
These kitchens participants, and they cover a wide range of activities.
what the world of work looks like.
Feedback from participants was actions our people take as individuals.
Every year, we support our go into places like village halls and community centres, as well as very positive, with 95% of participants saying that they felt more people as they take the Howdens culture and make it personal.
to charities which collect surplus food from hotels, restaurants and In 2018, for example, projects have ranged from gardening to confident about applying for jobs and navigating the recruitment They give up their time and put themselves to the test to raise supermarkets and share it with vulnerable people who need it most.
sailing to wildlife projects: from delivering care and share bags to process, and one participant saying that it had enabled me to money for all sorts of local and national causes.
We hold the It helps them to continue to serve their neighbourhoods.
homeless people around the UK at Christmas to visiting residents regain the focus that I had lost towards my aspirations.
Charities Aid Foundation Gold Award in recognition of the high in care homes, and learning woodworking skills.
It provides We also support thousands of small local projects with cash level of employee participation in payroll giving.
individual mentoring, group support and a social network, as There is more information about Leonard Cheshire at www.
Typical donations may be just a few hundred pounds, well as an opportunity to gain a City & Guilds qualification.
org, and information on the Can Do programme See the case study on the opposite page for details of how four but they will make a big difference.
They might cover things like: here: https: leonardcheshire.
org  lifeof our employees raised over 20,000 for Leonard Cheshire by Howdens support has helped Can Do expand from four locations and-work-skills can-do.
helping local hospices to fund vital care for patients or successfully completing a 100 mile cycle ride.
when we began our involvement to 18 locations in 2018, counselling for bereaved families supporting 2,000 young people per year through meaningful projects in their local community.
Leonard Cheshire 750,000 donated, 31 inclusive kitchens installed, Can Do projects, employability workshops Weve had a successful partnership with Leonard Cheshire since helping young people living with disabilities to play an active 2004 and were pleased to say that it continues to grow.
In 2018 role in their communities through Howdens sponsorship of Case Study: we have donated cash and goods worth 0.75m.
the Can Do volunteering programme Ride London employee fundraising for Leonard Cheshire offering support and skills training through employability Leonard Cheshires aim is to support individuals to live, learn workshops and mentoring In July 2018, a team of four Howdens employees took on the and work as independently as they choose, whatever their ability.
Prudential RideLondon-Surrey 100 mile bike challenge to raise They work for a fairer, more inclusive society that recognises the Inclusive kitchens awareness and funds for Leonard Cheshire.
contributions that we all make and where we can all play our part.
Howdens are experts at designing inclusive and democratic They support people with a wide range of additional needs, all On a rainy and windy day, they completed the course and kitchens that can help a wide range of people with different needs.
raised over 20,000 in sponsorship between them.
Despite This could range from features that help the youngest and oldest being a little saddle sore, they collected their well-deserved Like Howdens, they value local relationships, and their work members of multi-generational families, to features that can help commemorative medals and wore them with the pride of a supports people to be active and proud members of their people with limited mobility, sight or other additional needs.
our kitchen ranges are available with a variety of inclusive features such as easy access cabinets, pull-down shelves and pull-out Howdens was proud to support these exceptional individual They support people to live in their own homes and in residential storage, variable-height worktops for sinks and preparation areas, efforts in aid of Leonard Cheshire.
To prepare them for the care, as well as providing skills and employment programmes which high-contrast work surfaces and cupboards to help with limited tough course, we arranged for them to have professional can help people to develop themselves and take an active role in sight, and raised plinths to allow wheelchairs to pass below.
mentoring and practical training advice from presenter contributing to their communities.
and cycling expert, Rebecca Charlton.
We also provided There is an obvious fit between our skills in inclusive kitchen design fundraising support by commissioning and publishing a series Our work with Leonard Cheshire is currently focused in three and the needs of Leonard Cheshires residents.
We have pledged to of video blogs from the riders to showcase their stories and try mainareas: supply and fit inclusive kitchens from our range wherever they are to help them reach their target.
needed in any of Leonard Cheshires homes across the country, and designing and fitting inclusive kitchens in their care homes and we have been doing this for some years.
In 2018 we fitted a further day centres so that disabled people can live more independently 31 kitchens nationwide.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 6 6 4 2 6 6 6 100% 2 100% 6 6 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 58 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 59 Corporate Governance Report Governance INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Corporate governance has continued to attract attention We recognise that there will always be more that the Board can throughout 2018.
This is always true when there are high profile do on governance matters and we will be increasing our focus on corporate failures and when the interests of stakeholders be diversity and stakeholder engagement throughout 2019. they employees, pensioners, suppliers or shareholders are CEO Transition compromised.
There has been continued focus on executive Change in leadership at any point has particular governance remuneration, abuse of position, external audit quality and 59 Corporate Governance Report challenges.
Managing the transition from a founder CEO to their diversity.
We welcome the updated Corporate Governance Code successor is particularly hard given their passion and natural and its principles-based approach.
Ensuring that directors, 59 Introduction from the Chairman affinity for the business.
However, as will be detailed later in Boards and senior management are responsible for their actions these reports, this is a process that had been successfully and that they can demonstrate that they have understood the 60 Board of Directors and Executive Committee executed by the Board and Executive team.
impact of their decision making on all stakeholders, can only be 63 Corporate Governance Framework positive for the interests of all.
In 2018, the Board approved a number of strategic and 68 UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance Table directional investments.
The Company has invested heavily Howdens was founded on the principle that it is worthwhile for all in previous years in supply capacity and capability and we concerned and we will demonstrate throughout this Annual Report 72 Nominations Committee Report have continued to do so in 2018.
In addition, there was also not just in the governance sections that Howdens remains a investment in digital programmes which we anticipate will values-driven business with a deeply embedded culture of doing 80 Remuneration Committee Report make the way we do business with our customers easier and the right thing in respect of all our stakeholders.
The Board also agreed to extend the roll out of for all concerned means providing a safe environment in which our 102 Audit Committee Report depots in France.
All of these initiatives are intended to grow the employees work, offering them secure employment with prospects business for the long-term benefit of our stakeholders.
for progression, selling great products to our trade account 113 Directors Report holders, having long-term strategic relationships with our key We will continue our strategic review in 2019.
We will do so suppliers, generating value for our shareholders, contributing to the against a backdrop of extreme political uncertainty and the communities in which we operate and ensuring that the business Board will be rigorous in its assessment of risk as well as its remains in robust financial health so that we can continue to meet consideration of opportunities.
MEETING ATTENDANCE The figures below show the number of meetings individual Directors Although members of the Executive Committee have also that served during the year could have attended taking account of attended at the invitation of the Chairman and Chief Executive eligibility, appointment and retirement dates during the year and Officer their attendance is not shown below.
the percentage of those meetings they actually attended.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Non-Executive If a Director is unable to attend a Board meeting, they are Directors met four times during the year without the Executive nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relating Directors present.
to the meeting and encouraged to discuss the issues arising directly with the Chairman and Executive Directors.
Richard Mark Karen Andrew Geoff Tiffany Matthew Andrew Mark Debbie 1 2 3 Pennycook Allen Caddick Cripps Drabble Hall Ingle Livingston Robson White No.
of meetings Attendance 1 Karen was appointed to the Board on 7 September 2018.
2 Matthew retired from the Board on 2 April 2018.
3 Andrew was appointed to the Board on 2 April 2018.
Denotes Chairman of the Board Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board www.
com investors governance schedule-matters index.
asp Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
