Strategic Report Operating and PerformanceReview ITV has continued to deliver a strong operating performance in 2018 with fantastic viewing gures both on-screen and online.
Key highlights Group external revenue Total advertising revenue Total non-advertising revenue Adjusted EBITA Adjusted EPS Statutory EPS Net debt Dividend per share ordinary 3,211m 1,795m 1,971m 810m 15.4p 11.7p 927m 8.0p 2017: 3,130m 2017: 1,781m 2017: 1,874m 2017: 842m 2017: 16.0p 2017: 10.2p 2017: 912m 2017: 7.8p Overview Total advertising revenue grew 1%, Total ITV revenue increased 3% to ITV has delivered a strong operating outperforming expectations, with online 3,766million 2017: 3,655 million, performance in an uncertain economic revenue growth of 36% more than with external revenue up 3% at and political environment.
In 2018 offsetting the decline in spot advertising.
welaunched our new strategy with Direct to Consumer revenues increased Total non-advertising revenue grew 5% clear priorities and initiatives which 25% to 81 million driven by competitions, to 1,971 million 2017: 1,874 million, we believe, following investment, will ITV Hub subscription growth and pay now accounting for 52% of total revenue.
deliver growth in the medium term per view events.
ITV Studios total revenue and strengthen ITV, ensuring it is well increased 6% driven by Rest of World Adjusted EBITA declined 4% to 810 million positioned to address the opportunities and Global Entertainment, including 2017: 842 million and adjusted EPS and challenges of an increasingly the 11million unfavourable impact declined 4% to 15.4p 2017: 16.0p with the competitive media landscape.
We have a strong creative 5% growth in ITV Studios adjusted EBITA pipeline of high-quality programmes, offset by the 7% decline in Broadcast & On-screen, our ITV Family SOV has particularly drama and entertainment, Online adjusted EBITA.
Broadcast & Online again grown, increasing for the third and we continue to perform well across total revenue grew 1% year-on-year, consecutive year up 7% to 23.2% with the key genres that return and travel.
however, EBITA was impacted by investment strength across the schedule and in the schedule for the World Cup and the outstanding contributions from the We measure performance through a range closure of Encore.
World Cup, Im a Celebrity Get Me of metrics, particularly through our Out of Here!
The ITV Hub alternative performance measures and Adjusted nancing costs remain broadly flat continues to deliver strong viewing, KPIs, as well as statutory results, all of year-on-year at 36 million and our adjusted up 32%.
Total ITV viewing combining which are set out in this report.
tax rate remained unchanged at 19%.
ITV channels live, recorded and VOD, increased by 3% year-on-year.
32 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and PerformanceReview Key highlights Group external revenue Total advertising revenue Total non-advertising revenue Adjusted EBITA Adjusted EPS Statutory EPS Net debt Dividend per share ordinary 3,211m 1,795m 1,971m 810m 15.4p 11.7p 927m 8.0p 2017: 3,130m 2017: 1,781m 2017: 1,874m 2017: 842m 2017: 16.0p 2017: 10.2p 2017: 912m 2017: 7.8p Statutory profit before tax grew by 13% This allows us to continue to invest in relationships.
We have a clear vision, to567 million 2017: 500 million and growing a more robust business with priorities and initiatives for how we can statutory EPS increased by 15% to 11.7p the implementation of our strategy, compete in a changing environment.
2017: 10.2p primarily due to a reduction whilst continuing to deliver sustainable Implementing the strategy and creating inoperating exceptional items and lower returns toour shareholders.
value requires a relentless focus on amortisation and impairment on acquired delivery.
We are clear about what we assets, which is explained in further detail Reflecting the Boards confidence in the need to do and how we will measure inthe Finance Review.
business and its strategy, as well as the success, and ITV is strong on delivery.
continued strong cash generation, it has Statutory nancing costs were 43 million proposed a full year dividend of 8.0p, The Company continues to keep the over the period which was down year-onup 3% year-on-year 2017: 7.8p.
This is in potential implications of Brexit under year 2017: 50 million and our reported line with the Boards intention to pay at review.
Workstreams are in place across tax rate remains unchanged at 17%.
least an 8.0p dividend per year in 2018 the business to identify, manage and and 2019.
The Board expects that over mitigate the impact across advertising, We have a solid balance sheet, healthy the medium term the dividend will grow broadcast licensing, tax, data, copyright liquidity, and the business continues to be broadly in line with earnings.
The most significant risk is the highly cash generative.
Our profit to cash likely impact on thewider advertising conversion remains high at 88% and we ITV is More than TV.
We are a business built market.
Further detail is included in ended the yearwith net debt of 927 million on hugely talented, creative and passionate the Risks and Uncertainties section 2017: 912 million after the effect of people.
We are focused on strengthening on page56.
dividend payments of 315 million and the integrated producer broadcaster, pension contributions of 82 million.
1.1x net growing our UK and global content and debt toadjusted EBITDA provides headroom distribution business, and developing against our investment grade rating.
andnurturing strong direct consumer 33 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued 2018 2017 Change Change Twelve months to 31 December m m m % Broadcast Total advertising revenue 1,795 1,781 14 1 & Online Direct to Consumer 81 65 16 25 SDN 73 70 3 4 Other revenue 147 160 13 8 The media market environment in which Broadcast non-advertising we operate is dynamic.
It is changing and revenue 301 295 6 2 evolving rapidly, becoming increasingly Total Broadcast & Online competitive.
Our Broadcast & Online revenue 2,096 2,076 20 1 business is constantly adapting, and Network schedule costs 1,055 1,025 30 3 therefore well positioned to address Variable costs 123 104 19 18 the challenges and capitalise on the Broadcast infrastructure and significant opportunities presented by overheads 363 348 15 4 the changing environment.
Total Broadcast & Online ITV, through our family of free-to-air adjusted EBITA 555 599 44 7 channels and platforms, offers unique Adjusted EBITA margin 26% 29% audience scale and reach, as well as more I FRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was effective from 1 January 2018.
2017 comparatives have been targeted demographics demanded by restated.
Please see Section 1 of the Notes to the accounts for further details.
The ITV Hub and ITV Hub, the online home for our family of channels and content, is growing rapidly, driven by Financial Performance strategy.
Growth was driven by interactive viewers appetite for our content on catch Broadcast & Online total revenue was up with the success ofdaytime competitions, up, VOD and simulcast.
Through our Direct 1% in the year at 2,096 million 2017: an increase in ITVHub subscriptions, and to Consumer business we are increasingly 2,076million.
We delivered a 1% growth pay per view boxing events.
engaging with our audiences who have in total advertising revenue, with VOD a growing willingness to pay to engage revenue up 36%, more than offsetting Spot and VOD advertising categories have with our brands, content and IP, whether the decline in NAR, which is impacted by shown different trends in spend across that is through SVOD, competitions, political and economic uncertainty with the year.
On a combined basis advertising voting, live events, gaming, merchandise the lack of confidence meaning some categories such as Retail, FMCG, and or pay per view.
Data and technology are corporations are not investing in spot Airlines, Travel and Holidays continued key to evolving operations and driving advertising.
Direct to Consumer revenue to see declines in advertising spend due revenue growth.
grew 25% to 81 million 2017: 65 million, to the uncertain economic outlook, leading on track to achieve the targeted 100 advertisers to reduce spend in order to million revenue by 2021 as set out in the maintain margins.
Within Retail, we have seen Emmerdale performed strongly in 2018, with an average of 6.4 million viewers and a 33% share, increasing half a share point on 2017.
Girlfriends arrived on our screens in January 2018 for a new six-part series.
34 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review Good Morning Britain had a strong performance throughout 2018 and the show continues to see share gains and has done so every year since launch back in 2014. Who Wants to be a Millionaire?
returned after a four year break with new host, Jeremy Clarkson.
The 2018 series averaged 4.9 million viewers and 22% share.
recent history and never before has ITV spending decline from both supermarkets delivered three years of consecutive share and the high street.
Our ITV Family SOV is now the was up, particularly around the World Cup, highest it has been for ten years.
Main telecommunication grew with spend around channel SOV grew 9% to 16.9%, showing product launches and Government spending the most growth of all broadcast channels.
increased with both national and regional including Gino, Gordon and Fred: Road Trip The main channel was the biggest channel campaigns.
Digital disrupter brands continue andThe Queens Green Planet.
We continue for 16-34s for the first time since 2004 to spendheavily on television, up 10% on to drive significant audiences with our with SOV forthe demographic up 18% 2017, to build brand awareness and having returning brands such as Vera which year-on-year to 15.7%.
witnessed the immediate response from hadits most successful series to date, customers to spot advertising.
Unforgotten, Endeavour, The Durrells, Within digital channels, ITV2 was the most Ant & Decs Saturday Night Takeaway, watched digital channel for the 16-34s Total costs were up 4%, around half of Britains Got Talent, The Voice UK, for the second year in a row, growing 10% this driven by higher schedule costs, up The Real Full Monty and Im a Celebrity to a SOV of 6.0% for the demographic.
30million to 1,055 million, with coverage Get Me Out of Here!
with its most For the second time ever at year end for of the Football World Cup.
Variable costs watched series ever averaging 11.8 million 16-34s and16-24s, ITV2 is ahead of E4.
increased with the significant growth in viewers and 45% share, achieving the It is also ahead of Channel 4, Channel 5 online impacting bandwidth costs and accolade as the biggest show on TV in and BBC Two for 16-24s.
rights payments, and investment in the 2018 outside of some Football World Cup ITVHub, ITV Hub and ITV Box Ofce matches.
Our news programming continues Daytime shows grew their audiences, our pay per view channel used in 2018 to perform well with positive share growth including The Chase, Good Morning to show boxing matches.
Broadcast across all programmes against a picture Britain with its highest share ever, and infrastructure and overhead costs of falling news audiences across our ThisMorning and Lorraine both achieving increased with foreign exchange movements competition.
Our sporting schedule had theirhighest share in five years.
Our soaps, on our euro denominated transmission an outstanding year with the Football Coronation Street and Emmerdale, have contracts and higher property costs from World Cup, the Six Nations Rugby enjoyed success in 2018 with both holding our new London ofces.
Championship, the Tour fide France, and a steady audience volume and managing horse racing.
ITVs coverage of Englands to increase share year-on-year, maintaining Viewing semi-final against Croatia hit a peak of their position as the UKs two largest soaps.
On-screen, we performed strongly with 26.6million viewers.
The match average We launched the sixth weekly episode of total ITV viewing up 3% to 17.1 billion of 24.3 million was bigger than the Coronation Street in September 2017, hours with growth in both linear and audiences for the Olympic Opening and which has further strengthened its online viewing, and SOV up for the third Closing ceremonies in 2012.
We successfully aired a range consecutive year.
our schedule is performing strongly, not of new dramasincluding Innocent, all ofour programmes performed as well Trauma, Girlfriends and Butterfly: new ITV Family SOV grew 7% to 23.2% with as we had hoped, for example Change entertainment shows, including Britains a strong performance across the schedule.
Your Tune, Our Shirley Valentine Summer, Brightest Family: and successful factual, This level of growth is the biggest in ITVs and The Big Audition, willnot return.
35 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued ITV commercial audiences We continue to target the demographics ITV Hub most highly demanded by advertisers The ITV Hub, the online home for all of particularly young and male audiences our channels and content, continues to through our digital channels and online, grow rapidly.
This is driven by our viewers andhave seen a strong performance in appetite to watch our content whenever ourtarget demographics on ITV2, ITV4 and wherever they want, be it catch up or, and the ITV Hub.
The ITV Hub is available on 28 platforms and is pre- 2018 On ITV2, Love Island was the most watched installed on over 90% of all connected 96% programme on any digital channel in 2018 televisions sold in the UK.
98% 15 16 17 18 with the best performing series yet with an Over 3 million average of 4.0 million viewers and a share Long-form video requests are up 23% Over 5 million of17.0%.
It was up on series three by two andonline viewing, which measures how million viewers and 6.4 share points.
long viewers are spending online, was up For 16-34s it averaged 2.0 million viewers 32% driven by viewing on mobile devices, with a 46.2% share.
Together with Ibiza connected TV and streaming media players.
Weekender, Celebrity Juice, Family Guy, The ITV Hub now has 28 million registered American Dad and Im a Celebrity Extra users 2017: 21 million.
This growth is driven Camp, the performance ofLove Island by the great content and good user helped ITV2 to achieve a SOV of 6.0% and experience, supported and enhanced by SOCI of 9.2% for the 16-34s demographic, a process of continued improvement up 10% and 11% respectively.
ITV3s viewing and investment, including a revamp of performance improved in the period due the home pages on website and mobile to the strong slate of dramas such as devices to present a wider variety of content Midsomer Murders, Vera, Lewis, Poirot to viewers and the soft introduction of and Endeavour.
Following the closure personalised content suggestions to of ITV Encore at the end of April 2018 the connected TVs and iOS, which will be content has moved back to ITV3, adding amplied in 2019. to the strength of the schedule.
ABC1 adults SOV and SOCI on ITV3 up 11% and 10% The ITV Hub helps ITV reach valuable respectively.
Male SOCI on ITV4 was younger audiences around 79% of the marginally up year-on-year with the UKs 16-34 year olds are registered.
continued strength of the sport schedule, Younger viewers increasingly use the including horse racing, the French Open ITVHub for simulcast viewing, as well as tennis, and the Tour fide France.
catch up, with programmes such as the World Cup delivering record viewing with 0.9 million simulcast viewers for Englands semi-final against Croatia.
Love Island achieved an average of 0.3 million viewers via simulcast per episode, which is greater than linear audiences on most digital channels.
Simulcast requests were up 34% year-on-year driven by great content and supported by the increasing robustness of the platform.
Growth in ITV Hub allows us to collect more data.
We are consolidating and unifying data from across the business to drive our ambitions.
Innocent was ITVs best performing new drama of 2018 and the third best performing new drama on TV, averaging 7.0 million viewers and a 29% share.
36 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 98 95 99 96 99 96 98 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review Strong advertising proposition engaging in programme and podcast While political and economic uncertainty sponsorship, brand licences, instore has led advertisers to reduce their current branding, exclusive product lines and spend in order to maintain margins, merchandise, and product placement.
television remains one of the most efficient and effective mediums for advertisers Responsive to a changing media toachieve mass simultaneous reach.
environment Asviewing and advertising becomes Linear television viewing remains resilient more fragmented, the scale and reach of despite significant changes in the advertising that television, and particularly availability and delivery of content.
ITV, delivers becomes increasingly valuable.
On average the number of minutes of We provide a safe, trusted and transparent television viewers watched per day in environment in which to advertise, and 2018 was 192 minutes, down 5% from television generates the highest return 203minutes in 2017.
ITV has countered on investment of any media.
this trend showing growth in the hours Our SVOD & pay offerings of linear television viewing.
The majority SOV provides an overall measure of viewing of viewing remains live at over 70% as ITV is well positioned to take advantage performance, however, because advertisers television continues to have the power of the opportunities that arise from the are buying scale and breadth of audiences, to bring audiences together.
changes we are seeing in digital media SOV is not necessarily a direct indicator of and consumer behaviour.
ITV offers scale, VOD viewing continues to grow rapidly delivering 98% of all commercial audiences while PVR recorded viewing has remained over five million and 96% of all commercial relatively constant over the last few years at audiences over three million in 2018. around 13%.
Younger viewers are watching less linear television than they used to, but Online advertising is growing rapidly and through delivering great content such as we have seen double digital growth in our the World Cup, The Voice UK, Love Island, VOD advertising on the ITV Hub, which Im a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here!
and delivers more targeted demographics Saturday Night Takeaway, ITV Family SOV in a high-quality, trusted and measured for 16-34s has increased by 13% to 23.9% environment for online advertisers.
Online and accounted for 77 of the top 100 shows advertising can deliver a more targeted for this demographic in 2018.
Television still advertising proposition and ITV is making reaches 85% of young people each week good progress on developing a scaled, and remains their dominant choice of media.
programmatic addressable advertising proposition on the ITV Hub.
This will enable Increasingly homes are supplementing their our Commercial business to offer our free, pay television and advertising video on clients the best of both worlds with mass demand AVOD platforms with SVOD audiences and addressable advertising.
ITV aims to maximise further the value of its airtime and drive new revenue streams Endeavour returned for another successful series in 2018, averaging through sponsorship, brand extension and 6.0 million viewers and a 22% share.
ITV utilises the core assets of its strong brand and reputation, unique commercial relationships and quality production capability to deliver a wide variety of innovative marketing solutions.
Toenhance our offering to advertisers and fulll the full potential we have scaled up the creative solutions team to provide original, engaging and brand-dening marketing propositions.
John Lewis engaged ITV to launch their 2018 Christmas 32 campaign with our creative solutions team devising a piano-themed teaser campaign ITV managed YouTube to build anticipation for the full-length channels driving significant advert featuring Elton John.
In 2018 we growth in viewer engagement attracted an unprecedented number of commercial partners for Love Island, 37 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued services.
SVOD has seen strong growth ITV Hub offers an ad-free subscription app saw over two million downloads, and in the UK over the last few years with version of the ITV Hub with content over ten million votes cast via the app.
approximately 41% of UK householders download capability and EU portability.
The Love Island game was downloaded over subscribing to at least one of Netflix, While it remains relatively small, the four million times.
We hosted a number of Amazon or NowTV.
As a creator, owner number of subscribers has more than tripled live events throughout 2018 based around and distributor of sought after content, in 2018 to 265,000.
The subscriber growth our key brands, including the Coronation ITV is well positioned to take advantage has been driven by increased marketing, Street tour: Emmerdale village tour and of the opportunities from the changes great content, and viewer recognition of studio experience which showcases the we are seeing in the media environment the benets offered.
The number of process of creating an episode: the Ninja and consumer behaviour.
subscribers is seasonal, witha 2018 peak Warrior UK aqua park: Love Island Live, of over 350,000 subscribers in July due to offering passionate fans the opportunity Direct to Consumer Love Island and the Football World Cup, to meet the Islanders: and ThisMorning Live, Direct to Consumer generates revenue and viewers demand for content when a shopping and lifestyle festival.
These directly from the customer, and includes overseas.
In 2018 we introduced a free trial events build relationships directly with our SVOD, competitions, live events and pay to the ITV Hub allowing viewers to sample viewers.
In 2018 we ran a number of trial pay per view events.
In 2018, total revenue has the ad-free content service prior to a paid per view boxing events on ITV Box Ofce.
commitment, and enabled EU portability.
Although low margin, we see a further opportunity for this, and in December 2018 We are in the concluding phase of talks with Our joint venture with the BBC, BritBox US, we announced the agreement signed with the BBC to establish a strategic partnership provides an ad-free SVOD service offering Haymon Sports Ltd, which grants us the to bring BritBox, an exciting new SVOD service, the most comprehensive collection of rights to a number of future bouts.
This will provide an British content available in the US and unrivalled collection of British boxsets and Canada.
Subscribers have continued to SDN original series.
Research has demonstrated grow steadily, exceeding 500,000 in 2018.
SDN generates revenue by licencing there is high demand for British content We will continue to explore opportunities multiplex capacity to broadcast channels, and ITV is well positioned to deliver this.
for BritBox US on other platforms and in radio stations and data providers on Research has also shown the willingness other territories internationally.
digital terrestrial television or Freeview.
to pay for an additional service by those Currently, the SDN platform utilises the who already subscribe to an SVOD platform.
Elsewhere in Direct to Consumer our radio spectrum licenced to it to provide See Chief Executives Report for more details.
competitions have performed well across capacity for 16 broadcast channels and the schedule with continued growth, and a number of data and radio services.
Our existing SVOD propositions include development of the competition portal.
SDN customers include ITV and third parties, ITV Hub in the UK, BritBox US in the US Programme related app downloads have with external revenue non-ITV growing and Canada, and Cirkus in the Nordics, been strong, encouraging viewer 4% in the period.
SDNs multiplex licence Germany, Austria and Switzerland, engagement.
App downloads have both expires in 2022.
We are fully engaged with demonstrates our ability and ambition to benefited from, and contributed to, the both Government and Ofcom in relation compete in this market internationally.
The Love Island to the possible renewal or extension of the licence.
Other revenue This Morning Live has another successful Other revenue includes revenue from year with over 30,000 attendees.
platforms, such as Sky and Virgin, and third-party commissions, e. g. for services The Ninja Warrior UK Aqua Park launched we provide to STV.
This is down year-on-year in May 2018. due to the closure of Encore at the end of April 2018.
ITV continues to license its channels and content across multiple platforms, including our HD digital channels and catch up VOD on Sky and Virgin Media set top boxes and all our live channels and catch up VOD across their connected platforms.
In 2018 we signed a new deal with Virgin Media providing Virgin TV customers with an enhanced viewing experience across all of ITVs channels andservices.
38 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review 2018 2017 Change Change Twelve months to 31 December m m m % ITV Studios Studios UK 695 692 3 - ITV America 245 310 65 21 Studios RoW 516 390 126 32 Global Entertainment 214 187 27 14 ITV Studios is a scaled business delivering Total ITV Studios revenue 1,670 1,579 91 6 growth at a stable margin.
Growing UK Total ITV Studios costs 1,415 1,336 79 6 and global production is central to Total ITV Studios adjusted ITVs strategy asanintegrated producer EBITA 255 243 12 5 broadcaster and our aim is to be aleading ITV Studios adjusted EBITA margin 15% 15% creative force in global content production.
AsITV creates and owns more content, I FRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was effective from 1 January 2018.
2017 comparatives have been ourchannels in the UK provide a platform restated.
toshowcase our programmes before Includes the benefit of production tax credits.
distributing them across multiple platforms in the UK and internationally.
2018 2017 Change Change Twelve months to 31 December m m m % Financial Performance Sales from ITV Studios ITV Studios total revenue grew 6% to to Broadcast & Online 551 523 28 5 1,670million 2017: 1,579 million, driven External revenue 1,119 1,056 63 6 by Studios Rest of World RoW and Global Total ITV Studios revenue 1,670 1,579 91 6 Entertainment, which more than offset the decline in ITV America.
This performance 2018 2017 Change Change includes an unfavourable currency impact Twelve months to 31 December m m m % of 11 million.
Revenue grew across each Scripted 380 347 33 10 genre: scripted: unscripted: and core ITV Unscripted 997 963 34 4 and other.
Total organic revenue, which Core ITV and Other 293 269 24 9 excludes our 2017 acquisitions and adjusts for currency, was up 4%.
Revenue growth Total ITV Studios revenue 1,670 1,579 91 6 was driven by a significant increase in hours Core ITV includes the soaps and daytime shows produced by ITV for the ITV main channel delivered, up 5% to over 8,900 hours.
Vera had its best performing series ever in 2018, averaging 8.4 million viewers and a 30% share.
It was up by over 1.0 million viewers on the previous series, including 0.7million ABC1 Adults.
Balthazar produced by Beaubourg, part of Tetra Media Studio, for TF1 was one of the most watched programmes in France in 2018.
39 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued Reflecting our growth in key global production Building scale in key creative markets Tomorrow Studios with Marty Adelstein, markets, 56% of Studios revenue was ITV Studios has three production divisions with delivery across 2018 and 2019 of generated outside of the UK 2017: 54%.
Studios UK, ITV America and Studios original commission Cowboy Bebop to ITV is the number one commercial Rest of World RoW, with RoW achieving Netflix, and co-production Snowpiercer producer in the UK and a leading producer significant growth year-on-year.
Across for TNT in the US and Netflix internationally.
As our Studios the divisions ITV Studios produced over We also acquired a 49% stake in Circle of business grows internationally, foreign 8,900hours of programming compared Confusion, which is building its development currency movements could have a larger to around 8,400 in2017, and secured slate, including the co-development of impact on our results.
249 new commissions and 210 recommissions Thirteen with Amazon Studios in 2019. in the year.
Overall a strong performance, Europe is a growing creative market, with Adjusted EBITA was up 5% year-on-year however, performance in different particular demand for foreign language at 255 million.
Adjusted EBITA margin territories is impacted by phasing, with drama internationally and local scripted was stable at 15%.
Foreign exchange had the risk managed through theportfolio.
content from broadcasters and OTT platforms.
an unfavourable 1 million impact on In recent years we have strengthened our Studios adjusted EBITA.
The US and UK are the dominant creative position in the European market through markets, with the US the largest exporter the acquisitions of Tetra Media Studio in Growing demand for content of scripted content globally and the UK France and Cattleya in Italy.
The strong global demand for content from the world leader in exported formats.
broadcasters and platform owners provides Over the last few years we have built scale The UKs revenue was broadly flat at significant opportunity for ITV Studios.
in these key markets, both organically and 695 million 2017: 692 million.
Sales to We estimate that the global content market through acquisitions, and we now have ITV Network grew 5% in 2018 driven by the is growing at around 4-5% per annum, with a significant portfolio of successful series extra weekly episode of Coronation Street, some genres, such as drama, growing more and formats.
Inrecent years in the US, the successful return of Dancing on Ice and rapidly.
A key driver of this change over we have invested inbacking talent and IP, an extended series of Love Island.
Drama recent years has been the evolution in the rather than large scale acquisitions.
This deliveries to ITVNetwork declined in 2018 delivery and availability of content with allows us to attract and collaborate with due to the schedule commitment to the a substantial increase in the number of innovative and entrepreneurial creatives, Football World Cup.
ITV Studios UK share ways to consume content.
To capitalise on with minimal risks and attractive returns.
of original content on ITV main channel this growth, we continue to develop, own In2017 we took a 45% stake in Blumhouse increased to 67% 2017: 66%.
and manage rights in genres that return Television, the TV division of the company and travel internationally, namely drama, founded by prodigious lm producer Jason Our off-ITV revenues in the UK declined 7% entertainment and factual entertainment, Blum, which in 2018, produced Into the Dark with growth in drama offset by a decline and we have built a healthy pipeline of new for Hulu, and co-produced The Purge for in entertainment and comedy deliveries.
and returning programmes, which we will USA Network and Sharp Objects for HBO.
New drama commissions Bodyguard, continue to nurture and develop.
Previous investments include a 75% stake in Age Before Beauty and the part delivery of War of the Worlds offset the adverse timing of Shetland and non-return of The City and The City.
Comedy deliveries in 2018 were impacted by Motherland, Back and Mum not returning until 2019, and the non-return of Bliss.
Entertainment was impacted by the loss of The Jump only partly offset by new commission This Time Next Year US, produced by Twofour Group.
ITV America total revenue declined 21% to 245 million 2017: 310 million, and 18% to 255 million 2017: 310 million when adjusted for the unfavourable foreign exchange impact.
We have delivered a lower volume of programmes from our The ABC Murders was produced by Mammoth Screen part of ITV Studios UK for the BBC.
40 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review Scripted Unscripted What Would Your Kid Do created and distributed by Twofour, has been commissioned in eight territories including Belgium, Turkey, Hungary and Serbia.
entertainment portfolio with Duck Dynasty deliveries included Im A Celebrity... Get Me and American Grit not returning, a reduction Out of Here!, The Voice, Love Island and in the volume of Pawn Stars episodes The Chase in Australia, Im A Celebrity... Get Me delivered, and no Hells Kitchen delivered Out of Here!, Come Dine With Me, The Chase following the delivery of two series in 2017. and Quizduell in Germany, and Love Island, There is growing pressure in the US cable The Chase and Four Weddings inFinland.
Core ITV market with significant external competition.
This volume decline was partly offset by The business also benefited from the 2017 new series, The Four and Knife or Death, acquisitions of Tetra Media Studio, Cattleya and a higher volume of Emmy award and Elk.
Demand for drama is growing winning Queer Eye delivered, and a higher strongly and we have made real progress number of Good Witch episodes.
Snowpiercer in building a European scripted business and the remainder of the fifth series of with the acquisition of Cattleya and Tetra Good Witch will deliver in 2019.
These, along with our existing European businesses, enable us to benefit Studios RoW has production bases in from the increasing demand for locally Australia, Germany, France, the Netherlands, produced content with global appeal.
the Nordics, Italy and the Middle East Cattleya is very much at the vanguard of where we produce original content as well the growth of Netflixs push into nonas local versions of ITV Studios UK and Talpa English language drama, with the delivery of formats.
Revenue grew 32% to 516 million the second series of Suburra in 2018.
In 2019, 2017: 390 million, driven particularly by Cattleya is set to deliver new drama Zero, good growth in France due to The Voice Zero, Zero to Sky, Canal and Amazon, and of France and The Voice Kids.
Across the Gomorrah returns for a fourth series to Sky.
territories our entertainment and format In 2018, Beaubourg, part of Tetra Media 41 Strategic Report Operating and Performance Review continued Studio, produced Balthazar, one of the years top ten most watched dramas in France.
2019 is set to be another strong year for Tetra Media Studio, with Vernon Subutex for Canal and the delivery of Prolage to TF1.
Talpa continues to develop its formats including The Voice Senior, Dansing, The Wishing Tree, Around the World with 80 Year Olds and House of Talent.
Our international scale now enables ITV to make these other formats, and in particular The Voice, in all our international production territories and therefore earn the production revenue as well as the format fee.
global OTTs and new and emerging digital Suburra is produced by Cattleya for Netflix.
The second series was released platforms, such as FilmRise.
Expanding our global distribution for2019 is healthy with the international business distribution of War of the Worlds pre-sold Global Entertainment, the distribution to over 80 territories, Wild Bill, The Bay, arm within ITV Studios, reported revenue World on Fire, and Snowpiercer.
growth of 14% to 214 million 2017: cashflows or through co-productions and 187million as our content continues Investing in content with partnerships with broadcasters and OTT to sell well internationally to both international appeal platforms.
The production costs are broadcasters and OTT platforms.
Polarisation of content demand remains partly funded by the initial sale of the series Excluding the unfavourable impact of afeature of the market.
This is driven by to a broadcaster, while the deficit is currency movements, revenue grew 16%.
the growth of viewing platforms looking recovered through distribution revenue for channel dening content with demand from selling the nished product globally 2018 growth is driven by a strong slate for both local adaptations of proven to other broadcasters and platforms.
of drama deliveries with multiple deals entertainment formats and standout Doing more scripted deals and deals with with Netflix including global distribution original scripted content.
OTT platforms will impact our working of Bodyguard, Good Witch, Somewhere capital going forward.
Between, and the delivery of Robozuna.
We are continuing to expand our portfolio 2018 also saw the delivery of period dramas of successful formats and series that return We balance our financial exposure through Vanity Fair and Harlots to OTT platforms, and can be distributed internationally.
building a portfolio of programmes across Amazon and Hulu.
Across the business we have grown a robust genres and across their content life cycle, portfolio of high volume and high margin with successful international dramas Over 15 of our scripted programmes have formats that travel internationally and that offsetting the risk that we will not recover been sold to more than 100 countries.
For example, in 2018 the full deficit on every show.
This efficiently entertainment and factual entertainment weproduced Love Island in seven of the uses the rights windows of our content to formats are highly demanded and include eight countries in which the format had maximise monetisation opportunities.
programmes such asThe Voice, Love Island, been sold, The Voice in seven countries, We are seeing increasing demand from The Graham Norton Show, Judge Rinder, The Chase in four countries, and Im OTT platforms for original long-form The Chase, This Time Next Year, Come Dine a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here!
in four content and secondary rights.
As well With Me and Four Weddings.
In 2019, ITV America will produce as distributing library content to OTT Love Island for CBS.
platforms through Global Entertainment, In 2018 we sold 57 2017: 62 different in 2018 we produced and jointly commissioned formats internationally, five of which are Demand for drama is growing strongly a number of scripted and unscripted being produced by ourselves in three or asprominent unique content becomes programmes with OTT platforms, including more countries.
As well as funding and brand-dening for both broadcasters and Vanity Fair with Amazon, Queer Eye with creating new content from ITV Studios, OTT players.
To capitalise on this, we are Netflix and Harlots for Hulu, and original we also invest in third-party producers investing in our global scripted business.
commission, Cowboy Bebop, for Netflix.
and their content from all over the world.
Weare strengthening our development We are in development on a number of and creative capabilities, growing our shows for Quibi, the new platform set up Global Entertainment continues to be a European business and investing in a number by Meg Whitman and Jeffrey Katzenberg, strong and expanding business driven by of development relationships in the US.
and in which we are an investor, which is set our strong pipeline of high-end scripted to launch in 2019 with bite-size original programmes and our valuable library, which We finance our large-scale scripted projects, programming designed for smartphones.
we sell to our vast network of long-standing and to a limited degree some unscripted Original hours supplied to OTTs increased existing traditional linear broadcasters, the projects, through our strong underlying over 35% in 2018.
42 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Operating and Performance Review Broadcast and content technology Production facilities One of the key initiatives in our Broadcast Following last years investments in Productivity business is to improve our processes Manchester for Coronation Street and around our content supply chain, which Belfast for UTV, during 2018 we relocated includes how we store our content and our Daytime studios to White City where how our content is managed and ultimately we invested in a new state-of-the-art We consistently seek to drive played out via our transmission centres.
facility as part of our London property productivity across the Group by This project has continued in 2018 and we move.
Further, we invested in a large investing in our people, new have sought to reduce the time taken from production facility for our key entertainment broadcast and production technology live transmission to content being available brands such as Dancing onIce.
as well as up-to-date office facilities.
for catch up on the ITV Hub.
This year the productivity investments meant that We also seek to use established and By investing in these areas, we aim Love Island was available immediately emerging technology to drive productivity, totransmit our content and after the linear episode aired on ITV2.
where it makes commercial sense to do so.
advertisements more efficiently, In our Studios business, we installed a suite increase our production output and IP We are in the process of upgrading our of new high end cameras at Emmerdale rights while improving the user advertising sales system and launched and continued to roll-out our bespoke experience for viewers.
a new audience forecasting system which artist payment system, which has helped improve productivity by allowing signicantly reduced duplication of effort us to be more efficient.
We also continued across the business.
Further, we reviewed to investigate how robotic process our end-to-end freelancer contracting People automation may benefit ITV in the future.
process and reduced complexity and We continued to invest in our people and Based on the proofs of concepts we did administration where it waspossible have made significant investments in new last year, we are now launching three trials to do so.
properties and technology to provide staff across our Broadcast business to test if with upgraded workplace facilities enabling our current robots can improve productivity better collaboration and communication in these specic test cases.
During the year we started a number of Our approach to performance management initiatives in our Direct to Consumer engages managers and colleagues in business, with a focus on data.
We intend regular reviews of performance and to unify our first-party data by consolidating objective setting.
We continue to invest our multiple datasets across ITV, instead in our management development capability of relying on manual processes across to ensure all managers have the skills and multiple teams thereby improving the tools required to sustain high performance productivity of the teams.
ITV Feel Good offers colleagues support and advice on having a balanced and in their teams.
Following the results from our last engagement survey, we launched our wellbeing programme, ITV Feel Good, to offer colleagues support and advice on having a balanced and healthy working lifestyle.
ITV Feel Good offers one-off activities and experiences to inform and inspire everyone to take control of their ownhealth and wellbeing, both inside and outside of the workplace.
