Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Information Basis of reporting non-financial data This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: This report has been developed to incorporate the groups significant Core option.
It covers the period from 1st April 2017 to 31st March economic, environmental and social impacts and is set within the context 2018.
Our last annual report was published in June 2017. of the United Nations Brundtland definition of sustainability 1987 and Johnson Matthey compiles, assesses and discloses non-financial our own sustainable business goals to 2025.
The principles of inclusivity, information for a number of reasons: materiality and responsiveness help to shape the structure of the report and in setting priorities for reporting.
The report also explains how we where there is a legal obligation UK Companies Act, mandatory are continuing to build sustainability into our business planning and carbon reporting, UK Modern Slavery Act : decision making processes and how, through our governance processes, to help drive improved business performance: we manage social, environmental and ethical matters across the group.
Performance data covers all sites which are under the financial to demonstrate to institutional investors that Johnson Mattheys control of the group, including all manufacturing, research and business approach is responsible, ethical, sustainable and offers warehousing operations of the parent company and its subsidiaries.
a sound value proposition: For the purposes of reporting, separate business units resident to demonstrate to our customers that Johnson Mattheys at the same location are counted as separate sites.
Data from 70 sites business conduct meets or exceeds all of the required standards was included in this report, 57 of which are manufacturing sites.
and expectations: Data from new facilities is included from the point at which the facility becomes owned by the company and operational.
All to demonstrate to other stakeholders that Johnson Matthey conducts its business in an ethical, responsible and sustainable non-financial performance data is reported on a financial year basis unless otherwise stated.
manner: and Baseline year data has been restated, where necessary, to to benchmark our corporate performance against peer account for changes in best practice methodologies for reporting.
The processes in place to internally and externally verify the reported non-financial data are described on page 203.
Certain employee data is included in the financial accounts and is also subject to separate external audit.
Calculation methodologies for KPIs relating to six sustainable business goals to 2025 Definition of employees and contractors A standard definition of employees and contractors has been implemented in 2017 18 across the group for all reporting of people-related goals: Contractors Employees Agency workers Outsourced function Specialist service Projects Continuously site based.
Continuously or One-off project or regularly One-off project.
Contract signed directly Person employed by an Facility management Smallscale building or Construction work, capital between JM and individual agency performing tasks catering, cleaning or ground works: repairing project work, major and paid regular salary that would be expected grounds maintenance: specialist plant or maintenance activities.
to be undertaken by a IT and occupational health equipment: low level JM employee.
maintenance: small scale repairs to offices or other buildings: stack monitoring.
Work is directly Work is directly Work is supervised Work is supervised Work is supervised supervised by JM.
by contractor and by contractor and by contractor and monitored by JM.
Reported as: Reported as: Reported as: Reported as: Reported as: employees temporary worker contractor contractor contractor 200 Health and Our safety people 1 2 Goal 1: Health and safety: Goal 2: Our people: Aspire to zero harm Employee engagement and enablement Lost time injury and illness rate LTIIR is defined as the number of Johnson Matthey invites all its permanent and fixed term contract lost workday cases per 200,000 hours worked in a rolling year.
employees to voluntarily complete its employee survey once every A lost workday case is defined as an incident where an employee two years to determine the wellbeing of its staff using a standard or contractor is unable to work for more than one scheduled working methodology defined and audited by the Korn Ferry Hay Group.
day as a result of a work-related injury or illness.
All responses are submitted confidentially to a third party and results Total recordable injury and illness rate TRIIR is defined as the are independently analysed and reported back to JM management.
number of recordable cases per 200,000 hours worked in a rolling year.
Through the survey we measure attributes on a scale of 0 to 100%: A recordable case as defined under the US Occupational Safety and employee engagement how committed and motivated Health Administration OSHA Regulations is defined as a work related employees are to give their best to Johnson Matthey: accident or illness that results in one or more of the following: absence employee enablement how well employees jobs and work of more than one day: medical treatment beyond first aid: death: loss of environment support peak performance in Johnson Matthey.
consciousness and restricted work or transfer to another job.
The OSHA severity rate is a calculation that gives a company an average of the number of lost days per recordable incident.
Diversity and Inclusion D&I plan progress OSHA severity rate [total lost days in the year x 200,000] A detailed roadmap of activities to be completed on JMs journey total hours worked during the year.
to D&I excellence out to 2025 has been approved.
A measurement Occupational illness incidence rate in the year number of tracker has been deployed at both the site and group level to ensure new occupational illnesses diagnosed in the year x 1,000 average a consistent methodology to record progress on this journey.
number of employees in the year.
Progress is tracked against the D&I plan using Johnson Mattheys 200,000 hours represents 100 full time equivalent workers in-house methodology.
working 40 hours per week for 50 weeks per year.
Low carbon operations LTIIR by event type definitions 3 Slip, trip or fall: Goal 3: Low carbon operations: A slip injury occurs where there is too little friction or traction Operational carbon footprint reduction between an individuals footwear and the walking surface.
Our operational carbon footprint, reported in tonnes of carbon A trip injury occurs when the foot hits an object causing a person dioxide CO equivalent, includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
We report Scope 1 greenhouse gas GHG emissions from processes A fall injury is recorded when someone falls from an elevated and energy use and convert the total group energy use to tonnes CO 2 surface e. g. roof, object or temporary work platform equivalent using conversion factors for each emissions source as e. g. ladder or into an opening in a floor or a hole in the ground.
published by Defra in July 2017.
For the first time in 2017 18 we Struck against is an injury occurring as a result of coming into have included nitrous oxide N O, refrigerant and methane process 2 emissions to air in our Scope 1 calculations.
In this report we have contact with a surface or object in which the action was initiated by the person e. g. when a screwdriver slips.
restated our 2016 17 emissions using this new methodology.
Our Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the dual reporting methodology outlined in the GHG Protocol corporate standard 2015 Process safety rate definition revision, www.
For the location based method of Scope 2 accounting, for all facilities outside of the US, we use national Johnson Matthey has adopted International Council of Chemical carbon intensity factors related to the consumption of grid electricity Associations ICCA process safety metric.
The metric first requires a in 2015 made available in the 2017 edition of the world CO emissions determination that the event is to be included in the process safety 2 database of the International Energy Agency.
They were purchased event severity rate PSESR calculation and then determining the under licence in February 2018 for sole use in company reporting.
severity using the severity table.
For US facilities we use regional carbon factors published by the In determining this rate, 1 point is assigned for each Level 4 Environmental Protection Agency in January 2017, eGRID data 2016. incident attribute, 3 points for each Level 3 attribute, 9 points for each For the market based method of Scope 2 accounting, we have applied Level 2 attribute, and 27 points for each Level 1 attribute.
the hierarchy of sources for determination of appropriate carbon The PSESR is recorded as a 12 month rolling number.
Total worker intensity factors, as outlined in Table 6.3 on page 48 of the GHG hours include employees, temporary employees and contractors.
We have successfully obtained carbon Process safety performance indicator PSPI 2 intensity factors directly from our grid electricity suppliers in the EU, Process safety event severity rate PSESR Level 1 to 4 USA and Australia.
However, it has not been possible to obtain this from suppliers in China, India, South Africa and non-OECD Europe.
Total severity score for all events x 200,000 Under the UK mandatory GHG reporting requirements, we are Total worker hours required to ensure that the quantification of GHG emissions and data reliability are sufficient to meet our obligation under the UK Theoretically, a process safety event could be assigned a minimum Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations of 1 point i. e. the incident meets the attributes of a Level 4 incident 2013.
The data we have presented for our carbon footprint in this in only one category or a maximum of 135 points i. e. the incident report contains all Johnson Mattheys material GHG emissions and meets the attributes of a Level 1 incident in each of the five categories.
therefore meets the requirements of this legislation.
We have included a mandatory GHG report in the table on page 45.
201 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Information Community engagement 6 In 2018 we introduced a new methodology for normalising our Goal 6: Community engagement: carbon emissions based on production output.
The denominator is Employee volunteering defined as tonnes of manufactured product sold externally.
Only sold This KPI is an annual record of the total number of employee products manufactured on JM premises are included.
For sales of volunteering days undertaken by permanent employees within their precious metal containing solutions from our Pgm Services only the local communities, in accordance with JMs global Employee weight of the precious metal is included in the calculation.
other products, the total shipped weight of product is included.
The volunteering is recorded in periods of half days.
Shorter periods Carbon intensity of JM operations total JM group Scope 1 Scope 2 of volunteering are not included in the data.
The recorded volunteering GHG emissions days may have been completed either on company time or on paid company leave.
Volunteering done on unpaid leave, or outside normal Tonnes of manufactured products working hours, is not included in the reported numbers.
sold externally by JM The length of a standard day varies slightly from location to location, between seven and eight hours.
Responsible In determining the in-kind contribution of employees volunteering sourcing we take the number of volunteering days reported in the year and 4 multiply it by the group average cost of one day of employee time.
Goal 4: Responsible sourcing: Average cost of one day of total employee benefits Sustainable supplier assessment and compliance employee time expense in year We will ensure supplier awareness, understanding and acceptance of Number of working days in year the JM Supplier Code of Conduct.
We will seek evidence of adherence to the mandatory requirements of the JM Supplier Code of Conduct Number of working days in a year is five days per week for 50 weeks demonstrated by assessment and, where necessary, audit of suppliers.
These will be quantified on an annual basis.
A strategic supplier is defined using JM in-house criteria.
Sustainable products 5 Goal 5: Sustainable products: Sustainability impacts of our products a We will measure the correlation and classification of annualised sales of Johnson Mattheys products, services and technologies against the 169 specific targets of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals UN SDGs.
b We have set quantitive targets that focus on the UN SDGs that are most material to our stakeholders or most relevant to our business impact.
We will measure our progress towards these targets annually.
Both a and b are calculated using Johnson Mattheys in-house methodology.
