"30 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Financial Review Asia Regional highlights Revenue Continued improvement in profitability in Australia across all categories of Personal Care, Home Care 212.0m and Food & Nutrition 2017: 222.7m Good mix improvement in Indonesia driven by successful new product launches across Cussons Baby, Cussons Kids and Imperial Leather Cussons Baby for every baby's life stage Cussons Baby understands the different life stages that every baby goes through and aims to be by the side of mothers as Regional update In Indonesia, whilst consumer ""a friend or partner"" to rely on in their discretionary spending is under pressure, In Australia, profitability has continued journey of motherhood."
To consistently profitability has been good with mix grow the business, Cussons Baby will to improve with new product launches improvement across both the core introduce two ranges in the beginning and margin improvement initiatives Cussons Baby range as well as from of FY19 to fulfil different needs within across the key categories of Personal every baby's life stage: Newborn recent new product launches under Care, Home Care, Beauty and Food Range and Happy Fresh Range for Imperial Leather and Cussons Kids.
The products are equipped development of the non-baby brands has developments have been delivered with unique selling points such as 0% successfully contributed to a broadening across the portfolio including new ranges soap, 0% alcohol and 0% colourant of the overall portfolio.
under the Raffertys Garden brand and claims and a 12 hour freshness claim new packaging and flavours under the with Freshboost technology.
The new Overall profitability in our smaller Asian five:am brand.
ranges will be supported by integrated markets of Thailand and the Middle communications and activities under East was ahead of the prior year.
the campaign strategy Sense of a Mother.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 31 Fudge capturing strong growth in hair care Cussons Baby Fudge Shampoo and Conditioner NaturalHair Oil has made significant market gains.
Our strong growth in Australia Dark, thick, healthy hair is what every has improved brand presence by mother in Asia wants for her baby.
37% compared to prior year and is Embracing a strong consumer insight significantly outpacing category passed down from grandmothers and competition.
Driving this growth is mothers and settling on the wellour focus on the blonde segment established beliefs of the goodness with Fudge Clean Blonde Shampoo of natural ingredients, Cussons Baby and Conditioner, which continues to introduced Natural Hair Oil with command a premium price position.
100% natural candlenut oil and 100% natural coconut oil to complete the Throughout the year, the brand has baby haircare regime.
The launch been fuelled by best-in-class retailer has been supported by integrated partnerships in the communications and activities such Pharmacy Channel as TV commercials, digital media, and acontinued focus sampling and visibility in orderto onkeyinfluencers to introduce Natural Hair Oil as a drive productpreference.
prewashtreatment, followed by shampoo and finished by using hair lotion as a complete hair regime.
