28 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Financial Review Africa Regional highlights Revenue Significantly lower profits in Nigeria due to market contraction as a result of lack of liquidity in the trade 275.6m and reduced consumer disposable income 2017: 305.6m Market shares remain strong in all categories of Personal Care, Home Care, Food & Nutrition andElectricals Regional update In Personal Care and Home Care, pack either been held or grown.
A new range resizing and new product launches of energy efficient models has been In Nigeria, whilst higher oil prices have taken place across the portfolio of launched with technology that is a first have contributed to increased foreign brands which in Personal Care include to the Nigerian market and will offer exchange reserves for the country and a Premier, Joy and Imperial Leather in consumers significant savings on their relatively stable exchange rate regime, soaps, Cussons Baby in baby care, Robb energy consumption.
liquidity has not flowed down into the in medicaments and Stella and Venus economy.
In addition, wage inflation in skincare and haircare.
In Home Care, Revenue and profitability in the has continued to remain well behind the these include Canoe, Zip and Tempo in PZWilmar joint venture were slightly significant cost inflation of recent years, laundry and Morning Fresh in dish care.
lower than the prior year mainly due resulting in consumer discretionary tocontinued restrictions on the import income under pressure with subdued In Nutricima, aggressive competitor of palm oil into the country.
discounting throughout most of the is now diversifying its portfolio into financial year resulted in significantly adjacent product categories with a This produced extremely challenging lower revenue and the business moving range of consumer margarine and trading conditions throughout the from an operating profit to an operating spreads products launched in the year with volumes, prices and margins loss.
A full reassessment of the business newfinancial year.
being impacted across most areas of model has taken place with greater focus the Nigerian portfolio.
The Nutricima now being placed on consumer pack Overall profitability for our smaller milk business was hardest hit by these innovation.
African businesses in Ghana and Kenya conditions resulting in an operating loss was ahead of the prior year.
In Electricals, lower discretionary spend levels for the consumer led to reduced There has been no structural change in revenue and profitability, although the landscape of the categories in which market shares across refrigerators, we operate with No.
2 brand freezers and air conditioners have shares remaining strong.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 29 Joy range relaunch The iconic Joy brand has been relaunched in Nigeria and Kenya.
We have refreshed the entire pack design Premier soap relaunch and identity with a new model to drive New Premier Cool appeal and relevance for younger In Nigeria we relaunched Premier, our female consumers.
We have also flagship brand and Nigerias No.
1 toilet deodorant sprays expanded the range, leveraging the soap.
The new pack design comes with androll-ons equity and heritage of the Joy brand, a new Masterbrand logo and stronger including the addition of an exfoliating call-out of key consumer benefits and We recently launched the Premier Cool soap variant and the introduction product claims.
The move ensures that deodorant sprays and anti-perspirant of a range of moisturising lotions.
Premier continues to innovate and lead roll-ons in Nigeria.
"We are leveraging These are all uniquely formulated the soap category in the market, with the success and equity of Premier with natural ingredients and inspiring sustained consumer and trade loyalty, Cool soap to drive the wash-to-care fragrances for the new generation while continuing to deliver strong strategy, using the unique Cooling of""Joy girls"" who are on a growth and improved year-on-year proposition to deliver freshness and journey of self-discovery performance."
Tied in to this launch is confidence and meet the evolving and seek the social the migration of our Antiseptic Liquid needs of middle-class consumers confidence to stand out into the Premier brand as we continue seeking a complete solution for and be noticed.
to develop their body care needs.
Our plans the Premier are supported by a fully integrated Masterbrand promotional campaign, anchored on franchise the partnership with Manchester City to become Football Club.
Nigerias truly This campaign No.
1 Washing willensure that and Bathing we continue to solution.
drive the right association for our target audience with requisite brand support thatcontinues to drive awareness and loyalty.
