32 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 Financial Review Europe Regional highlights Revenue UK Washing and Bathing performance lower than the prior year due to tighter UK retail landscape 275.0m Good performance in Beauty division across all 2017: 280.9m brands and in both UK and US markets A sprinkle of unicornmagic We win by keeping our brands fresh and relevant for consumers, by keeping close to what matters to consumers and delivering moments of excitement to their daily routine.
When the unicorn trend started in early 2017, we engaged our loyal fans on Facebook to get their Regional update The Beauty division has performed well thoughts on launching an Imperial across all brands of St. Tropez, Sanctuary, Leather Foamburst Unicorn variant.
Revenue and profitability in the UK Theresponse was so overwhelmingly Charles Worthington and Fudge.
New Washing and Bathing division have yes that we extended the concept to product launches have played a key role been affected by the tightening UK Carex Fun Editions.
Our unique Unicorn in demonstrating that all four brands retail landscape, with consumers Marshmallow Foamburst Body Wash have significant potential from portfolio shopping more cautiously as a result launch was supported by Imperial expansion.
In addition, expanding of economic uncertainty and inflation Leather's #MakeMondaysMagic distribution both in store and online outstripping wage growth.
Whilst campaign to introduce a new, continues to play an important part in new product launches have been well youngerconsumer group to our the growth strategy, both in the UK and Imperial Leather brand.
Meanwhile received during the year, these were in the US market.
Carex launched Unicorn Magic Hand not sufficient to compensate for the Wash andBody Wash products wider volume and margin shortfall, through a channel-exclusive retail with volumes remaining very sensitive partnership, supported on social to price points and discounting.
By being relevant initiatives were accelerated in the and on-trend, second half of the year across Imperial these products Leather, Carex and Original Source offer something with innovation increasingly important distinctive, are to secure distribution, deliver standattractive to a younger consumer out on shelf and to attract and retain group and create consumers.
Initiatives included the a great deal of launch of Original Source Foamburst, the organic social introduction of special edition Unicorn media coverage.
packs and partnerships with the Merlin Entertainment Group and Skinny Dip.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2018 33 Decadent shower experiences Sanctuary Spa elevates the shower moment with two new super-foamy Escape to paradise with body washes, both with unique added St. Tropez benefits and the classic signature fragrance.
The Long Lasting Moisture No.
1 global tanning brand St. Tropez Shower Burst contains a nourishing introduced two new vegan-friendly blend of gold of pleasure oil and bronzing waters to the category this sweet almond oil, enveloping the year, to great acclaim.
Featuring a skin in luscious peaks of whipped new tropical fragrance with green foam.
This cloud of cleansing lather mandarin water and hibiscus extract will leave skin moisturised for up to to refresh and revive skin, the already 3 days.
Alternatively the Charcoal award-winning Self Tan Purity range is Detox Shower Burst awakens and designed to transport you to paradise refreshes the senses with a deeply in just one application.
With no need cleansing duo of charcoal and menthol.
to rinse off, the clear It dramatically water-to-foam Bronzing transforms Mousse and lightweight from a black Face Mist allow users to gel into simply apply and glow white, fluffy for a natural-looking, foam to leave long-lasting golden tan, skin feeling and that holiday feeling super clean, all year round.
refreshed and purified of dailygrime.
