Savills plc Report and Accounts 2018 Chief Financial Officer's review Simon Shaw Group Chief Financial Officer A resilient performance throughout the Group, The underlying effective tax rate at 25.7% 2017: 25.8% remains broadly in line with against a backdrop of the prior year.
Restructuring and  uncertainty related costs During the year the Group recognised a across the Globe, total of 29.1m in restructuring and acquisition-related costs 2019: 27.0m.
delivered revenue and These comprised an aggregate restructuring charge of 8.4m primarily in underlying profit relation to the integration of Aguirre Newman and Cluttons Middle East 2017: growth: which 7.7m and acquisition-related costs of 20.7m 2017: 21.3m.
These costs consist supports 3% growth of 3.3m 2017: 2.1m of transaction related costs and 2.2m in respect of in the annual dividend Savills Investment Managements 2014 acquisition of Merchant Capital 2017: to shareholders for 1.4m.
In addition, there was a 14.2m 2017: 17.2m charge for future the year.
consideration payments which are subject to a future service condition.
The largest component of this charge relates to the 2018 acquisition of Aguirre Newman.
Underlying profit margin These charges have been excluded from the calculation of underlying profit in line Underlying profit margin decreased to 8.2% with Group policy.
2017: 8.8%, reflecting business mix, the expected reduction in transaction fees in the Investment Earnings per share Management business and the cost of business Basic earnings per share decreased 4% to development in a number of regions.
In terms of 56.2p 2017: 58.8p, reflecting a 5% business mix, the reduction in activity in some of decrease in statutory profit after tax.
higher margin commercial transaction markets was Adjusted on a consistent basis for mitigated by growth in the lower margin Property exceptional pension charges, restructuring, Management business globally.
acquisition-related costs, impairment Taxation charges, profits and losses on disposals, The tax charge for the year increased certain share-based payment adjustments to 32.2m 2017: 31.3m, reflecting an effective tax and amortisation of acquired intangible rate on statutory profit before tax of 29.4% 2017: assets excluding software, underlying 27.8%.
The increased effective tax rate is primarily basic earnings per share increased by 3% due to the effect of higher foreign tax rates.
years, the Groups effective reported tax rate is Fully diluted earnings per share decreased higher than the UK effective rate of tax of 19% 2017: by 5% to 54.6p 2017: 57.5p.
The 19.25%, reflecting the effect of higher foreign rates underlying fully diluted earnings per share of tax and permanently disallowed charges, increased by 2% to 75.6p 2017: 74.1p.
22 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Cash resources, borrowings Savills Pension Scheme Interest rate risk and liquidity The funding level of the defined benefit The Group finances its operations through Gross cash and cash equivalents at year end Savills Pension Scheme in the UK, which is a mixture of retained profits and increased 7% to 223.9m 2017: 208.8m.
closed to future service-based accrual, borrowings, at both fixed and floating This primarily reflected the profits made in improved during the year primarily as a interest rates.
Borrowings issued at variable the period and currency gains on cash result of an increase in the yield on rates expose the Group cash flow to balances held in non-sterling currencies, AA-rated corporate bonds, reducing the interest rate risk, which is partially offset partially off-set by cash out-flows value of the liabilities, together with the by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings associated with investment activities.
Companys contributions made during the issued at fixed rates expose the Group to year.
During the year the Group incurred an fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is Gross borrowings at year end increased to additional exceptional charge of 3.1m to maintain at least 70% of its borrowings 150.0m 2017: 110.2m.
These principally 2017: nil in respect of the equalisation of in fixed rate instruments.
comprise 150.0m of 7, 10 and 12 year the Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP private placement fixed rate notes which Liquidity risk on the UK defined benefit pension plan.
The This plan was in a surplus position of 2.8m The Group prepares an annual funding implementation of IFRS 16 Leases will at the year-end 2017: 19.5m liability.
plan which is approved by the Board and have an impact on the Group Statement of sets out the Groups expected financing Financial Position and Income Statement Net assets requirements for the next 12 months.
An analysis of the impact is set Net assets as at 31 December 2018 were requirements are ordinarily expected to out in Note 2.26 to the financial statements.
This movement be met through existing cash balances, reflects the Groups profitable trading loan facilities and expected cash flows Cash is typically retained in a number performance and the effect of acquisitions, for the year.
of subsidiaries in order to meet the alongside actuarial gains on the UK defined requirements of commercial contracts Foreign currency benefit pension plan.
In addition, cash in The Group operates internationally and is certain territories is retained to meet Key performance indicators KPIs exposed to foreign exchange risks.
As both future growth requirements.
The Group uses a number of KPIs to revenue and costs in each location are measure its performance and review generally denominated in the same The Groups net inflow of cash is typically the impact of management strategies.
currency, transaction related risks are greater in the second half of the year.
This These KPIs are detailed under the Key relatively low and generally associated with is as a result of seasonality in trading and Performance Indicators section on pages intra group activities.
Consequently, the the major cash outflows associated with 14 and 15.
The Group continues to review overriding foreign currency risk relates to dividends, profit related remuneration the mix of KPIs to ensure that these best the translation of overseas profits and payments and related payroll taxes in the measure its performance against its losses into sterling on consolidation.
The Group cash inflow for the strategic objectives, in both financial Group does not actively seek to hedge year from operating activities was 112.3m and non-financial areas.
risks arising from foreign currency 2017: 111.7m reflecting the Groups 2% translations due to their non-cash nature.
With a large Financial policies and risk The net impact of foreign exchange rate proportion of the Groups revenue being management movements represented a 20.7m transactional in nature, the Boards strategy The Group has financial risk management decrease in revenue 2017: 48.4m is to maintain low levels of gearing, but policies which cover financial risks increase and a decrease of 1.3m in retain sufficient credit facilities to enable considered material to the Groups underlying profit 2017: 3.9m increase.
it to meet cash requirements during the operations and results.
These policies are Refer to Note 3.2 to the financial year and finance the majority of business subject to continuous review in light of statements for further information on development opportunities as they arise.
developing regulation, accounting foreign exchange risk.
In addition to the 150.0m of private standards and practice.
Compliance with placement fixed rate notes, the Group has these policies is mandatory for all Group a 360.0m multi-currency revolving credit companies and is reviewed regularly by the facility RCF, which expires on 15 Board.
Refer to Note 3 to the financial December 2020, and was undrawn at the statements for further information on Simon Shaw year end.
At the year end, net cash was financial risk management.
Group Chief Financial Officer Treasury policies and objectives Capital and shareholders interests The Group Treasury policy is designed to During the year 0.2m shares 2017: 0.2m reduce the financial risks faced by the were issued to participants under the Group, which primarily relate to funding and Performance Share Plan and 0.8m 2017: liquidity, interest rate exposure and currency nil new shares were issued to participants rate exposures.
The Group does not engage on exercise of options under the UK SAYE in trades of a speculative nature and only Scheme.
In the prior year, 1.9m new shares uses derivative financial instruments to were also issued in the final instalment of hedge certain risk exposures.
The Groups deferred consideration for the acquisition financial instruments comprise borrowings, of Studley.
The total number of ordinary cash and liquid resources and various other shares in issue at 31 December 2018 was items such as trade receivables and trade 142.9m 2017: 141.9m.
payables that arise directly from its operations.
Surplus cash balances are generally held with A rated banks or better.
